<doc id="227493" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227493" title="Mamane">
Mamane

Māmane (Hawaiian language) is a shrub of Hawai'i in the "Sophora" genus. It is suitable for gardens.
It is highly polymorphic, growing as a shrub or tree, and able to reach a height of in tree form. It is grow fast in every island of Hawaiian archipelago, so botanists describe many local forms including "S.unifoliolata"
Hawaiian honeycreeper visits mamane sucking nectar,
If mamane were to disappear from Hawai'i it would take with it the palila bird, which is also endangered due to the lack of enough māmane trees. "Loxoides bauilleui", palila, feeds on unripe seeds of the māmane

</doc>
<doc id="227497" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227497" title="Mortality rate">
Mortality rate

Mortality rate is a measurement. It measures the number of deaths in a population. 
It is often reported as a number of deaths per 1000 individuals per year. A mortality rate of 9 in a population of 1,000 would mean 9 deaths per year in that entire population.

</doc>
<doc id="227500" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227500" title="Ricotta">
Ricotta

Ricotta is an Italian fresh whey cheese made from the whey of sheep's milk or cow's milk. Whey is a watery liquid that separates from curds when cheese is made. Ricotta is soft, grainy and white. It can be used in Italian desserts like cheesecake or cannoli. It contains protein and is a dairy product.

</doc>
<doc id="227504" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227504" title="Whey">
Whey

Whey is a watery liquid that comes out of milk when it has been curdled and strained. It is also called milk plasma. It is a by-product of cheese making. "Sweet whey" is made during the making of rennet types of hard cheese like Cheddar or Swiss. "Acid whey" (also known as "sour whey") is made during the making of acid types of cheese such as cottage cheese. Whey also forms as a liquid on the top of yoghurt.
Whey can be used to make whey cheeses like Ricotta. It can be added to processed foods like bread, pastry or crackers. It can also be used to feed animals.

</doc>
<doc id="227505" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227505" title="Curd">
Curd

Curds are a dairy product made by "curdling" milk with rennet or yeast so that it separates, and taking away the liquid part (called whey). Milk that has been left to go sour will also naturally separate into curds and whey. Curds are used to make cheese. Curds and whey can be eaten together as a dish.

</doc>
<doc id="227508" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227508" title="Pokhara">
Pokhara

Pokhara is the second largest city of Nepal. It is the main tourism centre of Nepal. It is 200 km away from the capital, Kathmandu.

</doc>
<doc id="227514" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227514" title="Seal of Colorado">
Seal of Colorado

The Seal of the State of Colorado is an adaptation of the "Territorial Seal" which was adopted by the "First Territorial Assembly" on November 6, 1861. The only changes made in the Territorial Seal design being the changing of the words, "State of Colorado" and the figures "1876" for the corresponding words on the territorial seal. The first "General Assembly" of the State of Colorado approved the adoption of the state seal on March 15, 1877. The "Colorado Secretary of State" alone is authorized to affix the Great Seal of Colorado to any document whatsoever.

</doc>
<doc id="227521" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227521" title="Flag of Maine">
Flag of Maine

The Flag of the State of Maine has the state coat of arms on a blue field. In the center of the shield a moose rests under a tall pine tree. A farmer and seaman represent the normal reliance on agriculture and the sea by the state. The "North Star" represents the state motto: Dirigo ("I Lead").

</doc>
<doc id="227522" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227522" title="Seal of Maine">
Seal of Maine

The Seal of the State of Maine was adopted in June 1820. There have been different kinds in the details of the seal, but the overall design and images remain true to the first. The center of the seal is a shield with a scene of a moose resting in a field bordered by water and woods, pine tree stand tall directly behind the moose. On either side of the shield, a farmer rests on his scythe, and a sailor leans on an anchor. Above the shield is the motto "Dirigo" (I lead), and a North Star. Below the shield is a banner that reads "Maine". The legislature of 1919 thought that the design of the seal should no longer vary, and the design is still used today.

</doc>
<doc id="227525" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227525" title="Doctorate">
Doctorate

A doctorate is a degree earned by passing a doctoral dissertation. Usually, it refers to a Ph.D., but it can also be an Doctor of Medicine or an Juris Doctor. Colleges often give honorary doctorates to famous people who speak there.

</doc>
<doc id="227529" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227529" title="Cluster (computing)">
Cluster (computing)

In computing, a cluster is made of many individual computers that work together to solve a problem at hand. Clusters can have different forms: They can be whole computers working together, or only CPUs. These CPUs can communicate over a fast network, but they share the same hard disks, for example. Depending on the problem, solving it with a cluster of cheaper components can be less expensive that investing in better hardware that costs more.
Grid computing is different in that the individual computers work on separate tasks that are part of a large problem. They are usually more different from one another and geographically further apart than cluster computers are.

</doc>
<doc id="227532" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227532" title="Garry Kasparov">
Garry Kasparov

Garry Kasparov (born 13 April 1963 in Baku, Azerbaijan) is a Russian chess grandmaster and political activist. He was born with the name "Garry Weinstein", and was the World Chess Champion from 1985 to 2000. In 1993 he broke away from FIDE to make a rival organisation (the PCA), because he felt FIDE had failed to raise enough money for world title matches. There is controversy about that period. By any measure, he is one of the greatest chess players of all time, and the highest-rated player before Magnus Carlsen.
Kasparov became the youngest non-disputed World Chess Champion in 1985 at the age of 22. He held the official FIDE world title until 1993, when an argument with FIDE led him to set up a rival company, the Professional Chess Association. He continued to hold the "Classical" World Chess Championship until his defeat by Vladimir Kramnik in 2000. Kasparov lost a match (a series of chess games) against "Deep Blue", a computer made by IBM, in 1997. Lately, retired from competition, he has been coaching Magnus Carlsen, the young player from Norway who is the current world #1.
After retiring from chess, Kasparov became involved in Russian politics. In 2005, he traveled around Russia, speaking against Vladimir Putin, who was President of Russia at that time. The same year he created the United Civil Front, a political movement whose main goal is to dismantle Putin's regime and restore democracy in Russia.
Kasparov was also one of the founders of The Other Russia, an opposition coalition which unites many left and nationalist politicians. He helped organize marches of dissenters involving several thousand people rallying against Putin and governors of Moscow and Saint Petersburg.
In October 2007, Kasparov announced his intention of standing for the Russian presidency. In November 2007, he was detained by police at a rally in Moscow and given a jail sentence of five days. On 12 December 2007, Kasparov announced that he had to withdraw his presidential candidacy due to inability to rent a hall where at least 500 of his supporters could meet to endorse his candidacy, as is legally required. Kasparov's spokeswoman accused the government of using pressure to discourage anyone from renting a hall for the gathering. In 2008 Kasparov and his United Civil Front joined the Solidarity movement.
Kasparov is among the 34 first signatories and a key organiser of the online anti-Putin campaign Putin must go started in March 2010.

</doc>
<doc id="227540" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227540" title="Stanley Vann">
Stanley Vann

Stanley Vann (born Leicester, 15 February 1910 - 27 March 2010) was an English composer, organist, choral conductor, and choir trainer. He contributed a great deal to music in the Anglican church tradition. He was Director of Music at Peterborough Cathedral from 1953 to 1977. On 15 February 2010 he celebrated his 100th birthday. He died the following month.
Vann was born in Leicester. He started to learn the piano when he was about six years old. At the age of 17 he learned the organ, and by the time he was 20 he had passed his ARCM, ARCO and FRCO organ diplomas.
In 1931 he became Assistant Organist at Leicester Cathedral. In 1933 he became Organist at Gainsborough Parish Church, then went to Leamington Spa as Organist of Holy Trinity church in 1939. He started a choir and an orchestra there: the Leamington Spa Bach Choir and the Warwickshire Symphony Orchestra.
Between 1942 and 1946 he had to fight in the Second World War.
In 1949 he got the jobs of Organist at Chelmsford Cathedral and Professor of Harmony and Counterpoint at Trinity College, London. In Chelmsford he started the Essex Symphony Orchestra.
He also trained the Leicester Philharmonic choir for the famous conductors Henry Wood and Malcolm Sargent.
In 1909 Vann became Master of the Music in Peterborough Cathedral. He stayed in this job until he retired in 1977. The choir was not particularly good when he started there, but he soon made them into an excellent choir. They made many recordings. In 1971 he was given a Lambeth doctorate by the Archbishop of Canterbury for his services to music.
When he retired he first moved to Wansford in Cambridgeshire so that he was half way between his son (in Yorkshire) and his daughter (in Berkshire). He continued to work there, training the church choir, giving singing lessons, and composing. Later he moved to Yorkshire to be nearer to family. He died aged 100 after falling down and breaking his hip.
Stanley Vann composed a great deal of music, mostly for the Anglican church service. His compositions include hymn tunes, anthems, motets, chants, organ music and many other pieces. One of his largest pieces is the Billingshurst Mass, for large chorus and orchestra. It was first performed in Chichester Cathedral in 2000.
In 2000 a concert was given in All Saints Church, Peterborough to celebrate his 90th birthday. On Sunday 14 February 2010 many cathedrals and churches in England arranged special concerts and services to celebrate his 100th birthday
. The BBC broadcast a special choral evensong on Radio 3 on Wednesday 24 February from Peterborough Cathedral (Wednesday 17 February is Ash Wednesday, so that a lot of his music would not have been suitable.).
There is a scholarship in his name for young choir trainers and directors in the Anglican tradition.

</doc>
<doc id="227542" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227542" title="Royal College of Organists">
Royal College of Organists

The Royal College of Organists or RCO, is an organisation based in the United Kingdom, but with members around the world. Its job is to support organ playing and choral music. People who learn the organ can go there to take professional organ examinations.
There is a large library with more than 60,000 books about organ playing and organ music.
When the RCO started in 1864 by Richard Limpus it was called the "College of Organists". It was given a Royal Charter in 1893. In 1903 it was offered an extremely cheap 99-year lease on a beautiful building in Kensington, West London. The college was there until 1991 when it moved to a church in the City of London. In 2003 it moved again to Birmingham.
The RCO offers five qualifications or diplomas.

</doc>
<doc id="227543" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227543" title="ARCO">
ARCO

ARCO (short for Atlantic Richfield Company, the original name) is a United States oil company. It has operations in the United States, Indonesia, the North Sea, and the South China Sea. As of July 2011, it had more than 1,300 gas stations in the western part of the United States.
ARCO's original parent companies included:
The two companies merged in 1966, and bought Sinclair Oil Corporation in 1969. In 1978, ARCO opened its first ampm convenience store.
Between 1970 and 2000, ARCO had a complicated corporate history. By 1985, it sold its Eastern US business to a new Atlantic Petroleum. In 2000, the remaining Western US business was bought by British Petroleum (BP). Finally, in 2013, BP sold ARCO and the Carson Refinery to Tesoro for $2.5 billion.
In 1957, Richfield was the first to drill for oil in Alaska. On July 15 of that year they struck oil with their first well. It was the first major oil discovery in Alaska and tested at 900 barrels a day. In 1968 they partnered with Exxon for Alaska North Slope oil production. In 1980, they were the seventh largest oil company in the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="227552" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227552" title="Skating">
Skating

Skating refers and involves any sport or recteational activity that involves traveling on dry surface or ice using skates.
There are many varieties of skating, such as:

</doc>
<doc id="227553" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227553" title="Economic bubble">
Economic bubble

An economic bubble happens when a market goes through a very fast inflation of value. This inflation is followed by a quick decrease in value, called a "crash" or a "bubble burst". Economic bubbles can be caused by many things, but many economists believe that economic bubbles are related to inflation. An economic bubble can cause an economic crisis due to a massive loss of investment both by companies and individuals, such as the Great Depression or the Economic crisis of 2007-2010.
An economic bubble occurs due to the human psychology of an expectation of an unlimited demand for any particular commodity. The market moves up quickly as the investors see an increase in prices due to increase in demand. However, it is hard to predict when the prices may fall due to increase in supply beyond the demand resulting in the bursting of the bubble. 

</doc>
<doc id="227558" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227558" title="Population without double counting">
Population without double counting

Population sans doubles comptes is a phrase in French that means population without double counting in English.
In France, because of the census, the INSEE has allowed people who live in one place and study in a different place to be counted twice, so as to show how the population moves. Because of this, each commune in France has many numbers of how many people live in it. For example, students may be counted where they study and where they live but do not study (the place they were born in). It is just like allowing students in the United States to vote in the town election of the place they are studying in and the town election where they were born.

</doc>
<doc id="227577" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227577" title="Glass transition">
Glass transition

The glass transition is the transition of amorphous solids from a hard and brittle state into a molten or rubber-like state. An amorphous solid that goes through a glass transition is called a glass. Supercooling a viscous liquid into the glass state is called vitrification.
The glass transition temperature "T" is always lower than the melting temperature, "T", of the crystalline state of the material, if one exists. Above a glass transition temperature, a plastic is rubbery. Below the glass transition temperature, a plastic is solid. Thermosets, or thermo-setting plastics, burn up before they reach their glass transition temperature.

</doc>
<doc id="227612" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227612" title="Uncle Tom's Cabin">
Uncle Tom's Cabin

Uncle Tom's Cabin; or, Life Among the Lowly is an anti-slavery novel by Harriet Beecher Stowe. It was published in 1852. It greatly influenced many people's thoughts about African Americans and slavery in the United States. It also strengthened the conflict between the Northern and Southern United States. This led to the American Civil War. The book's effect was so powerful that Lincoln said when he met Stowe at the beginning of the Civil War, "So this is the little lady who made this big war."
The main character of the novel is Uncle Tom, a patiente sentimental novel showed the effects of slavery. It also said that Christian love is stronger than slavery.
"Uncle Tom's Cabin" was the most popular novel of the 19th century, and the second best-selling book of the century (the first one was the Bible). It helped abolitionism spread in the 1850s.
In these days, it has been praised as a very important help to anti-slavery. However, it has also been criticized for making stereotypes about black people.
Harriet Beecher Stowe was born in Connecticut. She was an abolitionist. Stowe wrote her novel because of the 1850 passage of the second Fugitive Slave Act. This law punished people who helped slaves run away. It also made the North stop and return the South's black runaways. Mrs. Edward Beecher wrote to Harriet ("Hattie"), "If I could use a pen as you can, I would write something that will make this whole nation feel what an accursed thing slavery is." At that time, Stowe was a wife with six children who sometimes wrote for magazines. Her son, Charles Stowe, said that his mother read this letter out loud to her children. When she finished the letter, she stood up, and with "an expression on her face that stamped itself on the mind of her child", she said, "I "will" write something...I will if I live." That is how "Uncle Tom's Cabin" began.
According to Stowe, she began thinking about "Uncle Tom's Cabin; or, Life Among the Lowly" as she was in a church in February 1851. She had a vision of a Christian black man being beaten and praying for the people who were beating him as he died. She was also partly inspired to write her novel by the autobiography of Josiah Henson. Henson was a black man who had run away and helped many black slaves. She was also helped by the book "American Slavery As It Is: Testimony of a Thousand Witnesses" by Theodore Dwight Weld and the Grimké sisters. Stowe also said that she got lots of ideas for Uncle Tom's Cabin by talking to runaway slaves when she was living in Cincinnati, Ohio.
In her book "A Key to Uncle Tom's Cabin" (1853), Stowe wrote about the stories that inspired her when she was writing "Uncle Tom's Cabin". However, later research showed that Stowe did not actually read many of the stories inside the book until after her novel was published.
"Uncle Tom's Cabin" began in a series in an anti-slavery newspaper, "The National Era". "The National Era" had also printed other works Stowe had written. Because everybody liked the story so much, John P. Jewett of Boston asked Stowe to turn the serial into a book. Stowe was not sure if people would like to read the story as a book. However, she finally agreed. John Jewett, sure that the book would be popular, asked Hammatt Billings to engrave six pictures for the book. In March 20, 1852, the finished book came out. By June it was selling ten thousand copies a week. By October American sales alone were 150 thousand copies. In the first year it was published, 300,000 copies of the book were sold, and it was translated into many important languages.
A Kentucky farmer named Arthur Shelby is afraid of losing his farm because of debts. Even though he and his wife, Emily Shelby, are kind to their slaves, he decides to sell two of them: Uncle Tom, a middle-aged man with a wife and children, and Harry, the son of his wife's maid Eliza. Emily Shelby is shocked and unhappy because she promised Eliza that she would not sell her son. George Shelby, her son, is unhappy because he admires Uncle Tom as his friend and Christian.
When Eliza hears about Mr. Shelby's plans to sell her son, she decides to run away with her only son. She writes a letter saying sorry to Mrs. Shelby and runs away that night.
Meanwhile, Uncle Tom is sold and put into a boat, which sails down the Mississippi River. There, he makes friends with a girl called Evangeline ("Eva"). When Eva falls into the water and he saves her, Eva's father, Augustine St. Clare, buys Tom. Eva and Tom become good friends because they both love Jesus very deeply.
During Eliza's escape, she meets her husband, George Harris, who had run away before her. They decide to try to run away to Canada. However, they are hunted by a slave hunter named Tom Loker. Tom Loker finally traps Eliza and her family, so that George shoots Loker. Eliza is worried that Loker might die and go to hell. Because of this, she persuades her husband to take him to a Quaker town to get better. The gentle Quakers change Tom Loker greatly.
In St. Clare's house, St. Clare argues with his sister, Miss Ophelia. She thinks that slavery is wrong, but is prejudiced against blacks. St. Clare buys Topsy, a black child, and challenges Miss Ophelia to educate her. Miss Ophelia tries, but fails.
After Tom has lived with St. Clare for about two years, Eva becomes very sick. She has a vision of heaven before she dies. Because of her death, many people change. Miss Ophelia loses her prejudice of black people, Tospy decides to become "good", and St. Clare decides to free Tom.
St. Clare, however, is hurt when he tries to stop a fight at a tavern and dies. Because of this, he cannot keep his promise to free Tom. His wife sells Tom to a plantation owner named Simon Legree. Legree takes Tom to Louisiana. There, he meets other slaves, including Emmeline (who Legree bought at the same time that he bought Tom). Legree begins to hate Tom when Tom disobeys his order to whip the other slaves. Legree beats him, and decides to destroy Tom's faith in God. However, Tom secretly continues to read the Bible and help the other slaves. At the plantation, Tom meets Cassy, another black slave. Her two children had been sold, and she had killed her third child because she was afraid that her child would be sold, too.
Loker has been changed because of the Quakers. George, Eliza, and Harry have finally reached Canada and become free. Meanwhile, Uncle Tom feels so unhappy that he almost gives up, but he has two visions of Jesus and Eva. He decides to continue to be a Christian, even if he has to die. Cassy and Emmeline, with Tom’s encouragement, run away. They cleverly use Legree’s superstitious fears to help them. When Tom does not tell Legree where they are, Legree tells his men to beat him to death. Tom forgives the two men who beat him as he dies, and they feel sorry and become Christians. George Shelby comes just as Tom is dying to free him. He is very angry and sad. However, Tom, saying smilingly, “Who,—who,—who shall separate us from the love of Christ?” dies.
Uncle Tom, the title character of the story, is a patient, noble, unselfish black slave. Stowe wanted him to be a “noble hero”: in the book, he stands up for what he believes in. Even though they do not want to, even his enemies admire him.
Recently, however, his name has also been used negatively. People often think of "Uncle Tom" as an old black man trying to make his masters happy, as people have criticized his quiet acceptance of slavery. However, others argue that this is not true. First of all, Uncle Tom is not really old - he is only eight years older than Mr. Shelby, which shows that he is probably around fifty. Also, Tom is not happy with slavery. His acceptance is not because of stupidity or because he likes slavery. It is because of his religious faith, which tells him to love everyone. Wherever Uncle Tom goes, he loves and spreads comfort and kindness. He helps slaves escape, such as Eliza, Emmeline and Cassy. He also refuses to beat other slaves. Because of this, he is beaten himself. Stowe was not trying to make Tom an example for "blacks" but for white "and" black people. She says that if white people were to be loving and unselfish like Uncle Tom, slavery would be impossible.
Eliza Harris is Mrs. Shelby's favorite maid, George Harris' wife, and Harry's mother. Eliza is a brave, intelligent, and very beautiful young slave. Eliza loves her son, Harry, very much. It is possible her love for him was even greater because she lost two of her first infant children. Her motherly love is shown when she bravely escapes with her son. Perhaps the most well-known part of "Uncle Tom's Cabin" is the part where Eliza escapes on the Ohio River with Harry.
This escape is said to have been inspired by a story heard in the Lane Theological Seminary in Cincinnati by John Rankin to Stowe's husband Calvin, a professor at the school. In Rankin's story, in February, 1838, a young slave woman had escaped across the frozen Ohio River to the town of Ripley, Ohio with her child in her arms and stayed at his house before she had gone further towards the north.
Eva "Evangeline" St. Clare is St. Clare and Marie's angelic daughter. She enters the story when Tom saves her from drowning when he was going to be sold. Eva asks her father to buy Tom. She says, "I want to make him happy". Through her, Tom becomes St. Clare's leading coachman and Eva's "especial attendant (helper)...Tom had...orders to let everything else go, and attend to Miss Eva whenever she wanted him,—orders which our readers may fancy (imagine) were far from disagreeable to him." She is very beautiful: "Her form was the perfection of childish beauty...Her face was remarkable less for its perfect beauty of features than for a singular (strange) and dreamy earnestness (seriousness) of expression...all marked her out (made her different) from the other children, and made every one turn and look after her".
To Tom, she "...seemed something almost divine; and whenever her golden head and deep blue eyes peered (looked) out upon him...he half believed that he saw one of the angels stepped out of his New Testament." He says that "She's got the Lord's mark in her forehead." Eva is an almost perfect, Christ-like child. She is very sad about slavery. She does not see the difference between blacks and whites. She talks very much about love and forgiveness. Even Topsy is touched by her love. Eva becomes one of the most important people in Tom's life.
Ophelia St. Clare is perhaps the most complicated female character in the novel. St. Clare calls her, "...desperately ... good; it tires me to death to think of it." She does not like slavery. However, she does not like to be touched or come close to any black person as a human being. When she first saw Eva "...shaking hands and kissing" with the blacks, she declared that it had "...fairly turned her stomach (made her feel sick)." She adds, "I want to be kind to everybody, and I wouldn't have anything hurt; but as to kissing...How can she?" 
She has a "clear, strong, active mind", and is very practical. However, she has a warm heart, which she shows in her love for St. Clare and Eva. Ophelia hates slavery, but has a deep prejudice against blacks. St. Clare, as a challenge to her, buys Topsy. He tells her to try educating her. At first she tries to teach and help Topsy simply because of duty. However, Stowe says that duty is not enough: there must be love. Eva's death changes Ophelia. When Topsy cries, ""She" said she "loved" me...there an't (is not) "nobody" left now...!" Ophelia gently says, as "honest tears" fell down her face, "Topsy, you poor child..."I" can love you, though I am not like that dear little child. I hope I've learnt something of the love of Christ from her. I can love you...and I'll try to help you to grow up a good Christian girl." Stowe thought that there were many people like Miss Ophelia St. Clare, who did not like slavery but could not think of blacks as people. She wanted to write about such problems through Miss Ophelia.
"Uncle Tom's Cabin"'s most important theme is the evil of slavery. Every part in "Uncle Tom's Cabin" develops the characters and the story. But most importantly, it always tries to show the reader that slavery is evil, un-Christian, and should not be allowed. One way Stowe showed the evil of slavery was how it forced families from each other.
Stowe thought mothers were the "model for all of American life". She also believed that only women could save the United States from slavery. Because of this, another very important theme of "Uncle Tom's Cabin" is the moral power and sanctity of women. White women like Mrs. Bird, St. Clare’s mother, Legree’s mother, and Mrs. Shelby try to make their husbands help their slaves. Eva, who is the "ideal Christian", says that blacks and whites are the same. Black women like Eliza are brave and pious. She escapes from slavery to save her son, and by the end of the novel, has made her whole family come together again. Some critics said that Stowe's female characters are often unrealistic. However, Stowe's novel made many people remember "the importance of women's influence" and helped the women's rights movement later.
Stowe's puritanical religious beliefs are also one of the biggest themes in the novel. She explores what Christianity is like. She believed that the most important thing in Christianity was love for everyone. She also believed that Christian theology shows that slavery is wrong. This theme can be seen when Tom urges St. Clare to "look away to Jesus" after St. Clare's daughter Eva dies. After Tom dies, George Shelby says, "What a thing it is to be a Christian." Because Christian themes are so important, and because Stowe often directly spoke in the novel about religion and faith, the novel is written in the "form of a sermon."
"Uncle Tom's Cabin" is written in a sentimental and melodramatic style. This style was often used in the 19th century sentimental novel and domestic fiction (also called women's fiction). These genres were the most popular novels of Stowe's time. It usually had female characters and a style that made readers feel sympathy and emotion for them. Stowe's novel is different from other sentimental novels because she writes about a large theme like slavery. It is also different because she has a man (Uncle Tom) as the main character. However, she still tried to make her readers have strong feelings when they read "Uncle Tom's Cabin", like making them cry when Eva died. This kind of writing made readers react powerfully. For instance, Georgiana May, a friend of Stowe's, wrote a letter to the writer. In the letter, she said that "I was up (awake) last night long after one o'clock, reading and finishing "Uncle Tom's Cabin". I could not leave it any more than I could have left a dying child." Another reader said that she thought about the book all the time and even thought about changing her daughter's name to Eva. The death of Eva affected lots of people. In 1852, 300 baby girls in Boston were named Eva.
Even though many readers were very moved, literary critics did not like the style in "Uncle Tom's Cabin" and other sentimental novels. They said these books were written by women and had "women's sloppy (messy) emotions." One literary critic said that if the novel not been about slavery, "it would be just another sentimental novel". Another said the book was a "piece of hack (messy) work." In "The Literary History of the United States", George F. Whicher called "Uncle Tom's Cabin" "Sunday-school fiction". 
However, in 1985 Jane Tompkins wrote differently about "Uncle Tom's Cabin" in her book "In Sensational Designs: The Cultural Work of American Fiction." Tompkins praised "Uncle Tom's Cabin"'s style. She said that sentimental novels showed how women's emotions changed the world in a good way. She also said that the popular domestic novels written in the 19th century, like "Uncle Tom's Cabin", were intelligently written. She also said that "Uncle Tom's Cabin" shows a "critique of American society far more devastating (powerful) than any ... by better-known critics such as Hawthorne and Melville."
"Uncle Tom's Cabin" has had a very great influence. There are not many novels in history that changed society so powerfully. When it was published, "Uncle Tom's Cabin", people who defended slavery were very angry and protested against it. Some people even wrote books against it. Abolitionists praised it very much. As a best-seller, the novel greatly influenced later protest literature.
As soon as it was published, "Uncle Tom's Cabin" made people in the American South very angry. The novel was also greatly criticized by people who supported slavery.
A famous novelist from the South, William Gilmore Simms, said that the book was not true. Others called the novel criminal and said it was full of lies. A person who sold books in Mobile, Alabama had to leave town for selling the novel. Stowe received threatening letters. She even received a package with a slave's cut ear once. Many Southern writers, like Simms, soon began writing their own books about slavery.
Some critics said that Stowe had never actually went to a Southern plantation and she did not know much about Southern life. They said that because of this, she made wrong descriptions about the South. However, Stowe always said she made the characters of her book by stories she was told by slaves that ran away to Cincinnati, Ohio, where she lived. It is reported: "She observed firsthand (herself) several incidents (happenings) which ... [inspired] her to write [the] famous anti-slavery novel. Scenes she observed (saw) on the Ohio River, including seeing a husband and wife being sold apart, as well as newspaper and magazine accounts and interviews, contributed material to the ... plot."
In 1853, Stowe published "A Key to Uncle Tom's Cabin". This was to show the people who had criticized the novel's description of slavery that it was true. In the book, Stowe writes about the important characters in "Uncle Tom's Cabin" and about people in real life who were like them. Through this book, she writes a more "aggressive attack on slavery in the South than the novel itself had". Like the novel, "A Key to Uncle Tom's Cabin" was also a best-seller. However, many of the works in "A Key to Uncle Tom's Cabin" was read by Stowe after she published her novel.
Even though there were such criticisms, the novel was still very popular. Stowe's son says that when Abraham Lincoln met her in 1862 Lincoln said, "So this is the little lady who started this great war." Historians are not sure if Lincoln really said this or not. In a letter that Stowe wrote to her husband a few hours after meeting with Lincoln, she does not say anything about this sentence. After this, many writers have said that this novel helped make the North angry at slavery and at the Fugitive Slave Law. It greatly helped the abolitionist movement. Union general and politician James Baird Weaver said that the book made him help in the abolitionist movement.
"Uncle Tom's Cabin" also interested many people in England. The first London edition came out in May 1852. It sold 200,000 copies. Some of this interest was because at that time the British people did not like the United States. A writer said, "The evil passions which 'Uncle Tom' gratified in England were not hatred or vengeance [of slavery], but national jealousy and national vanity. We have long been smarting (hurting) under the conceit of America – we are tired of hearing her boast that she is the freest and the most enlightened country that the world has ever seen. Our clergy hate her voluntary system – our Tories hate her democrats – our Whigs hate her ... All parties hailed Mrs. Stowe as a revolter from the enemy." Charles Francis Adams, the American minister to Britain during the war, said later that, ""Uncle Tom's Cabin"; or "Life among the Lowly", published in 1852, influenced the world more quickly, powerfully, and dramatically than any other book ever printed."
"Uncle Tom’s Cabin" was published in Russia at the end of 1857 and was soon recognized as a classic of world literature. Many people saw a very strong link between the world of "Uncle Tom’s Cabin" and the serfdom that still existed in Russia in 1850s. In his letter to an abolitionist Maria Weston Chapman, Nikolay Turgenev wrote, “Many of the scenes described in the book seem like an exact depiction of equally frightful scenes in Russia.” "Uncle Tom's Cabin" served as an educational tool for Russian and Russo-Soviet elite in the post emancipation period, and it also became part of Soviet children literature. 
The book has been translated into almost every language. For example, it was translated into Chinese. Its translator Lin Shu made this the first Chinese translation of an American novel. It was also translated into Amharic. Its 1930 translation was made to help Ethiopia end the suffering of blacks in that nation. The book was read by so many people that Sigmund Freud believed that some of his patients had been influenced by reading about the whipping of slaves in "Uncle Tom's Cabin".
"Uncle Tom's Cabin" was the first widely read political novel in the United States. It greatly influenced American literature and protest literature. Some later books that were greatly influenced by "Uncle Tom's Cabin" are "The Jungle" by Upton Sinclair and "Silent Spring" by Rachel Carson.
However, even though "Uncle Tom's Cabin" was very important, many people thought the book was a mix of "children's fable and propaganda". Many critics called the book "merely (only) a sentimental novel". George Whicher wrote in his "Literary History of the United States" that "Nothing attributable to Mrs. Stowe or her handiwork can account for the novel's enormous (great) vogue (popularity); its author's resources ... of Sunday-school fiction were not remarkable ... melodrama, humor, and pathos … compounded (made up) her book."
Other critics, though, have praised the novel. Edmund Wilson said that "To expose oneself in maturity (when one has grown up) to Uncle Tom's Cabin may … prove a startling (surprising) experience." Jane Tompkins said that the novel is one of the classics of American literature. She suggested that literary critics think badly of the book because it was simply too popular when it came out.
Through the years, people have wondered what Stowe was trying to say with the novel. Some of her themes can be seen easily, like the evil of slavery. However, some themes are harder to see. For example, Stowe was a Christian and active abolitionist, and put lots of her religious beliefs in her book. Some have said that Stowe wrote in her novel what she thought was a solution to the problem that worried many people who did not like slavery. This problem was: was doing things that were not allowed justified if they did it to fight evil? Was it right to use violence to stop the violence of slavery? Was breaking laws that helped slavery right? Which of Stowe's characters should be followed: the patient Uncle Tom or the defiant George Harris? Stowe thought that God's will would be followed if each (every) person sincerely (truly) examined his principles and acted on (followed) them.
People have also thought "Uncle Tom's Cabin" expressed the ideas of the Free Will Movement. In this idea, the character of George Harris symbolizes the free labor. The complex character of Ophelia shows the Northerners who allowed slavery, even though they did not like it. Dinah is very different from Ophelia. She acts by passion. In the book, Ophelia changes. Like Ophelia, the Republican Party (three years later) declared that the North must change itself. It said that the North must stop slavery actively.
Feminist theory can also be seen in Stowe's book. The novel can be seen as criticizing slavery's patriarchal nature. For Stowe, families were related by blood, not by family-like relations between masters and slaves. Stowe also saw the nation as a bigger "family". So, the feelings of nationality came from sharing the same race. Because of this, she supported the idea that freed slaves should live together in a colony.
The book has also been seen as trying to show that masculinity was important in stopping slavery. Abolitionists began to change the way they thought of violent men. They wanted men to help stop slavery without hurting their self-image or their position in society. Because of this, some abolitionists followed some of the principles of women's suffrage, peace, and Christianity. They praised men for helping, working together, and having mercy. Other abolitionists were more traditional: they wanted men to act more forcefully. All the men in Stowe's book show either patient men or traditional men.
Recently, some people have begun criticizing the book for what they thought were racist descriptions of the book's black characters. They criticized the way Stowe wrote about the characters' looks, speech, behavior, and the passive nature of Uncle Tom. The book's use of common stereotypes about African Americans is important because "Uncle Tom's Cabin" was the best-selling novel in the world in the 19th century. Because of this, the book (together with images in the book and related stage productions) helped make a great number of people accept such stereotypes.
Among the African-American stereotypes in "Uncle Tom's Cabin" are:
These stereotypes made many people think much more lightly of the historical importance of "Uncle Tom's Cabin" as a "vital antislavery tool." This change in the way people looked at "Uncle Tom's Cabin" began in an essay by James Baldwin. This essay was titled "Everybody’s Protest Novel." In the essay, Baldwin called "Uncle Tom’s Cabin" a "very bad novel". He said it was not well-written.
In the 1960s and '70s, the Black Power and Black Arts Movements strongly criticized the book. They said that the character of Uncle Tom was a part of "race betrayal". They said that Tom made slaves look worse than slave owners. Criticisms of the other stereotypes in the book also increased during this time.
However, people such as Henry Louis Gates Jr. have begun studying "Uncle Tom's Cabin" again. He says that the book is a "central document in American race relations and a significant (important) moral and political exploration of the character of those relations."

</doc>
<doc id="227631" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227631" title="Jamie McMurray">
Jamie McMurray

James Christopher "Jamie" McMurray (born June 3, 1976) is an American racecar driver. McMurray drives the #1 McDonalds Chevrolet SS in the NASCAR Sprint cup series for Chip Ganassi Racing. McMurray won the 2010 Daytona 500.

</doc>
<doc id="227644" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227644" title="Phil Wachsmann">
Phil Wachsmann

Phil Wachsmann (born August 5, 1944) is an African "avant-garde" jazz/jazz fusion violinist born in Kampala, Uganda, probably better known for having founded his own group Chamberpot. He has worked with many musicians in the free jazz idiom, including Tony Oxley, Fred van Hove, Barry Guy, Derek Bailey and Paul Rutherford, among many others. Wachsmann is especially known for playing within the electronica idiom.

</doc>
<doc id="227654" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227654" title="National Autonomous University of Mexico">
National Autonomous University of Mexico

The National Autonomous University of México (UNAM) a university in Mexico City. It is one of the biggest universities in Mexico and Latin America. UNAM was started on 22 September 1910 by Justo Sierra.

</doc>
<doc id="227671" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227671" title="1985 Santiago earthquake">
1985 Santiago earthquake

The 1985 Santiago earthquake was registered the Sunday March 3, 1985 at 22:47 UTC (19:47 local time). Its epicenter was on the coastline of the Valparaiso Region, Chile, near Algarrobo. It had a magnitude of 8.0 on the Richter scale.

</doc>
<doc id="227701" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227701" title="Jethro Tull">
Jethro Tull

Jethro Tull may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="227702" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227702" title="Health care">
Health care

Health care or healthcare is the preservation of mental and physical health by preventing or treating illnesses through services offered by the health profession and its staff. Health care includes all reasonable and necessary medical aid, medical examinations, medical treatments, medical diagnoses, medical evaluations and medical services. The right to health care is considered one of human rights with international human rights law as well as social security.
A primary care doctor (PCD) or primary care physician (PCP) is a doctor who provides general medical care. These doctors can answer health concerns and medical conditions a patient may have. They also can prescribe medicine for their patients, based on information gathered.
In 1968, Victor Skumin proposed the term ″Culture of Health″, which has become widespread. The main task of a Culture of Health is to implement innovative health programs that support a holistic approach to physical, mental and spiritual health. Holism is the idea that natural systems (physical, biological, chemical, social, economic, mental, linguistic, etc.) and their properties, should be viewed as wholes, not as collections of parts.
According to Skumin, the culture of health is not only the mechanical connection of the two concepts—the concept of ″culture″ and the concept of ″health″. This is their synthesis, which forms a new quality, a new content. Skumin examines the culture of health as the specific science, that develops the theoretical and practical tasks of harmonious development of the spiritual, mental, and physical human force, forming of optimum environment, which provides a higher level of creativity of life. Thus, Skumin argues that the culture of health is a separate science, that creates new content. The main challenge of culture of health is the development of spiritual, mental and physical capabilities of man. 
In 1994, Skumin was elected to the post of the President-founder of the World Organisation of Culture of Health (WOCH) — International social movement "To Health via Culture".

</doc>
<doc id="227710" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227710" title="Rodrigo">
Rodrigo

Rodrigo (English: Ruderic, Roderic, Roderik, Roderich, or Roderick, ; died 711 or 712) was the Visigothic King of Hispania for a brief period between 710 and 712. He is famous in legend as "the last king of the Goths." In history he actually is an extremely obscure figure about whom little can be said with certainty but that he ruled part of Iberia with opponents ruling the rest and was defeated and killed by invading Muslims who soon conquered the entire peninsula. His widow Egilona is believed to have married Abd al-Aziz ibn Musa, who was later assassinated.

</doc>
<doc id="227719" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227719" title="Hurricane Ida (2009)">
Hurricane Ida (2009)

Hurricane Ida was the last storm in the 2009 Atlantic hurricane season. It formed in the southwestern Caribbean on November 4 after being in that area for a few days. After becoming a depression it quickly got stronger and became a tropical storm and a hurricane shortly before it struck Nicaragua. Over Central America, Hurricane Ida weakened very fast, becoming downgraded to a tropical depression before the end of the day on November 5.
By November 6, Ida went back into the Caribbean and later became a hurricane again. Its strength changed a few times before it died on November 10 off the coast of Alabama. Reports show that Hurricane Ida caused $5.6 million in damage and caused 2 deaths.
Ida was tracked back to a tropical wave that entered the western Caribbean Sea on November 1. A low soon formed near the tropical wave. This low did not move very much and it also got a lot of clouds near the middle of it. There was hardly any wind shear, which allowed for more clouds to form. 
On November 4, the tropical wave National Hurricane Center began call it Tropical Depression Eleven. The new tropical depression quickly got stronger and became Tropical Storm Ida soon after that. An Aircraft went into Ida and soon found winds at 65 miles per hour, which meant it was nearly a hurricane. 
Continuing to the northwest, Tropical Storm Ida was upgraded to Hurricane Ida when winds got to 80 miles per hour; at the time, it was put at only 75 miles per hour. Soon after this, Hurricane Ida made landfall in Nicaragua on November 5. Ida weakened quickly over land and was downgraded to a tropical storm just after landfall. Near the end of the day on November 5, Tropical Storm Ida weakened to a tropical depression. 
Tropical Depression Ida survived its passage over land and went back into the Caribbean on November 6. Over the western Caribbean, it quickly became a tropical storm again. After moving north, Tropical Storm Ida became a hurricane again. <ref name="update11/7/09"></ref> It reached its highest winds on November 8 while it crossed between Cuba and Mexico; they were measured at 105 miles per hour, making it a category 2 hurricane. Water temperatures in the Gulf of Mexico were not warm enough to keep Ida at this strength. so it quickly weakened back to a tropical storm. 
For only six hours, it became a hurricane again before it became extratropical on November 10 while it was just south of Alabama. At the time, it looked like it stayed as a tropical storm and made landfall in Alabama, this was later noted as incorrect. Its remnants formed a strong nor'easter that affected some of the states of the East Coast of the United States.
Damage in Nicaragua was near $2.1 million and there was not people killed. In El Salvador, it seemed at first that killed over 100 people, this was discovered as a mistake later on.

</doc>
<doc id="227721" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227721" title="Tambo">
Tambo

Tambo could mean:
In Australia:
In Peru:
In South Africa:
Elsewhere:

</doc>
<doc id="227731" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227731" title="Los Navegantes">
Los Navegantes

Los Navegantes (; roughly translated as "Los Navegantes Neighborhood") is a residential neighbourhood in the south-east of Pichilemu, Chile. It is located near the Municipal Stadium and La Cruz Hill. "Los Navegantes" boasts a perimeter of approximately 1.5 km and was founded between 1996-1997 and has a court. The Pichilemu tsunami secure side, starts near the neighborhood.

</doc>
<doc id="227740" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227740" title="The Rugby Championship">
The Rugby Championship

The Rugby Championship is an annual rugby union competition between the national teams of the sport's four strongest Southern Hemisphere nations—New Zealand, Australia, South Africa, and Argentina. It began in 1996, a year after the sport became professional, as the Tri Nations. At the time, New Zealand, Australia, and South Africa competed for the Tri Nations Trophy. Beginning in 2012, Argentina joined the competition.
During the Tri Nations era, the contest began in July, during the Southern Hemisphere winter, and ran through September. For most of that era, each team played every other team twice, once at home and once away. Later on, each team played the others three times. When the competition added Argentina, it returned to a pure home-and-away format, with a total of 12 games played. Also, due to a slight change in the sport's calendar, The Rugby Championship now begins in August and runs through October. This format is used except in years in which the Rugby World Cup is played (every four years, in the year before the Summer Olympics). In those years, each team plays the others only once, with a total of six games played.
Teams are awarded competition points for a win, but can also earn 'bonus' points. At the end of the series, the team with the most competition points wins the trophy. The team that wins the competition is usually considered to be the best rugby union team in the Southern Hemisphere for that year. 
New Zealand and Australia compete annually for the Bledisloe Cup. All Rugby Championship games count as competition games for the Bledisloe Cup. 
South Africa and Australia compete annually for the Mandela Plate. Some of the Rugby Championship games count as competition games for the Mandela Plate.
New Zealand and South Africa compete annually for the Freedom Cup. Some of the Rugby Championship games count as competition games for the Freedom Cup.

</doc>
<doc id="227741" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227741" title="Agustín Ross Cultural Centre">
Agustín Ross Cultural Centre

Casino Agustín Ross Edwards (), now Agustín Ross Cultural Centre, is a historic casino building. It is in Agustín Ross Avenue, in front of Ross Park, in Pichilemu, Chile. The building was built in the late 1800s. In 1906 the first Chilean casino was built there. It was closed in 1932 and converted into a hotel which was open until the 1980s. The building is now Pichilemu's cultural centre.
The casino is named after Agustín Ross Edwards, a Chilean writer, member of parliament, minister and politician. He was part of the powerful family Ross Edwards, which founded the newspaper "El Mercurio" years earlier. Based on his european experience, Ross bought a place named ""La Posada"" (English: "The Inn") or Petren Fund in 1885. At that time, it was just some barracks with thick walls with a ground of 300 hectares.
The old Ross Casino was constructed in the late 1800s by Ross himself. It contained the first mail and telegraph service and a big store. The building had three floors, and was raised using imported materials. In January 20, 1906, the first Chilean casino was opened in that building. The Ross Casino worked until 1932, when the permission was cancelled, allowing just the newly constructed Viña del Mar Casino to work. After the closing of the Ross Casino, the building was converted into a hotel was which functioned until the 1980s.
The old casino (1905) and its gardens (1885) are an important part of the city. It was named Historic Monument by the National Monuments Council on February 25, 1988, by the supreme decree N° 100.
Ross was also the administrator of the great Juana Ross de Edwards fortune, the Nancagua Hacienda, near the city of same name. He designed an urban set of high environmental value and landscape, transforming ""La Posada"" to a hotel ("Great Hotel Pichilemu", later "Hotel Ross", or "Ross Hotel"). 
Ross also built several chalets, terraces, embankments, stone walls, a balcony in front of the beach and several large houses with imported building materials and furniture from France and England. Additionally, he put up a park and a forest of more than 10 hectares. Ross turned Pichilemu into a summer resort town for rich people from Santiago. He, however, could not build a dock for the city, as he had planned. 
In 1935, the Ross successors ceded to the Illustrious Municipality of Pichilemu all the Ross constructions (streets, avenues, squares, seven hectares of forests, the park in front of the hotel, the perrons and the terraces) under condition that the municipality hold them for recreation and public access.
The Cultural Centre was severely damaged after the February 2010 Chile earthquake. The library that it hosted was completely destroyed. After the 2010 Pichilemu earthquake, the Cultural Centre suffered structural damage, but Roberto Córdova, Mayor of Pichilemu, said that it was repairable.

</doc>
<doc id="227742" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227742" title="Wallabies (rugby)">
Wallabies (rugby)

The Wallabies are the national rugby union side of Australia. The first Australian teams played against the British Lions at the Sydney Cricket Ground on 24 June 1899. The Australians won the game 13-3. In 1908, the Australians went to the United Kingdom, France and North America to play. They needed a name and someone suggested the "Rabbits", but the team did not like it and chose the "Wallabies" instead. A wallaby is a small mammal from Australia, very similar to a kangaroo. Until the 1980s, only teams playing overseas were called the Wallabies; when they played in Australia they were called Internationals. Now the national team is called the Wallabies all the time.

</doc>
<doc id="227793" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227793" title="Sparrow">
Sparrow

A sparrow is a member of the genus "Passer". They are small passerine birds which belong to the family "Passeridae". They are also known as old-world sparrows. Sparrows often make their nests near houses or buildings. This means they are one of the easiest birds to see in the wild.
The genus has about 30 species round the world The best known of these is the house sparrow, "Passer domesticus".
Some authorities place other genera in the sparrow group: "Petronia", the rock sparrows; "Carpospiza", the pale rockfinch; and "Montifringilla", the snowfinches.
Sparrows are small birds. They are between 11–18 centimeters long. They can weigh between 13–42 grams. They are usually brown and gray. They have short tails and small, strong beaks. Most sparrows eat seeds or small insects. Sparrows are social birds and they live in flocks (groups).
The house sparrow ("Passer domesticus") is a species of sparrow. It lives all over the world. It originally lived only in Europe and Asia. However, people travelled to new places and the house sparrow went to those places too. It is now the bird with the widest distribution. This means it lives in the most places. The species has about 50 subspecies.
Sparrows can be seen on every continent on earth. A long time ago, they lived only in Europe, Asia and Africa. However, people traveled to Australia, North America and South America, and now sparrows are seen there too. The house sparrow is seen in every continent. In Australia, there are no sparrows in Western Australia, as they have not been able to travel across the deserts that separate that state from the eastern states. The government employs people to hunt and destroy any sparrows that might arrive.
The house sparrow was introduced deliberately to America in the late 19th century. It was imported by several people, including Eugene Schieffelin, who was a wealthy New York City admirer of Shakespeare. He wanted to introduce to America all the birds mentioned in the works of Shakespeare. Two of these species were great successes: starlings and house sparrows. He organized a society for the importation of foreign birds, incorporated in Albany.
Some scientists believe that the "Estrildid finches" are in the same family as sparrows. but they are now in a different family; the Estrildidae.
There is also a group called 'American sparrows', or New World sparrows. These are also in a different family, the Emberizidae (buntings).
The 'hedge sparrow' (also known as the dunnock) "Prunella modularis" is also not a true sparrow. It is only called a sparrow because a long time ago, people called all small, brown birds 'sparrows'. This name is still used today because it is a tradition.
The house sparrow is small bird. It is between 14–18 centimeters (5.5–7.1 in) long. It weighs between 24–39.5 grams (0.85–1.4 oz). Females are smaller than males.
Male and female house sparrows are different colors. The male is brown, gray and white. It has a black throat. The female and young house sparrows are brown and dark yellow or cream. They have streaks (stripes) on their heads and wings.
The house sparrow lives close to humans, often near human houses in towns or cities. It also lives near farms and makes a nest in a bush or small tree. It can have two or three broods per year. This means it has two or three sets of eggs and chicks each year.
The number of house sparrows in the United Kingdom has gone down, because their hedgerow habitat has shrunk. They are now 'endangered' in the United Kingdom. However, in other countries, the bird is still very common.

</doc>
<doc id="227811" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227811" title="Couch">
Couch

The couch, or a sofa, is a kind of furniture that is designed to seat more than one person. It usually has a place to rest your arm on each side. Couches are normally found in the livingroom or in front of the TV.
In the 17th and 18th centuries, a couch was thought as a long, upward seat for resting on. One end would slope up high enough to provide a place for the head to rest.
Some late 18th-century kinds of couches had an arm running partly down one side, and this type continued to be made in England. In Greek places, there were flowing designs with all kind of elegant colors. Many of them had scrolled ends and short legs. The couch was later taken over by the overstuffed sofa during the Victorian age.
Because the couch is usually set in front of the TV, it is the main place where people usually sit and watch it. Lazy people would eventually seem to be stuck to it all the time. This person, a person who does not do a lot of physical activity, was called a "couch potato". This was also because potatoes do not move at all, and does not do anything but just sits there. This may also be considered as slang. Couch came from the word "couche", which means, "a bed, lair," or from the word "coucher", which means "to lie down."
The most common types of couches that are easy to see in any house are the "love seats" or the "sofa". Other couches are couches such as the "divan" or the ""fainting couch"", which usually does not have a back. Couches are usually bought in a set together with cushions, which give them a bouncey and decorative comfortable touch.

</doc>
<doc id="227824" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227824" title="Jena Lee">
Jena Lee

Jena Lee (born 29 July, 1987 in Chile) is a French singer. 
She was adopted by a French family at the age of nine months. In 2007, Jena Lee met Sulee B Wax, who was interested in her work. At this point in time Lee wrote the song "Some Share". The song was used in an album by Sherifa Luna. Jena Lee wrote six out of the thirteen songs that are on Sherifa Luna's album. 
In 2008, Jena Lee won the Urban Music Nation contest by Skyrock. Her first single "J'aimerais Tellement" was released in April 2009 along with a music video. It was at the top of the French single charts for eleven weeks. It had the highest number of downloads in November 2009.

</doc>
<doc id="227825" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227825" title="Sinik">
Sinik

Sinik (real name Thomas Gerard Idir; born on 26 June 1980) is a famous French rapper. His parents are Algerian. Thomas was four years old when his parents moved to Bergères in France.

</doc>
<doc id="227843" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227843" title="Porridge">
Porridge

Porridge is a food which is made with a cereal, usually oats. The oats are boiled in water or milk, or both. It is usually served hot in a bowl or dish. Some people like to add things to their porridge such as sugar or syrup.
Porridge is a traditional food in many countries in Northern Europe. It is usually eaten for breakfast. In some countries barley or other grains may be used. Porridge can be cooked in saucepans or in a microwave. Traditionally, it may be cooked in large metal kettles over hot coals.
Porridge was traditionally served as food for prisoners in prisons. This is why in English there is a slang expression "doing porridge" which means "being in prison".
Porridge is often given to people who are ill because it is nourishing and it is easy to eat.
Semolina is similar to porridge but it is usually served as a pudding (a dessert). 
Gruel is similar to porridge but is much more like a drink. It is not as nice as porridge, it is made with water. It was eaten by poor people in Victorian times. Oliver Twist, in the famous book by Charles Dickens, is given gruel to eat.

</doc>
<doc id="227857" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227857" title="Fresnel lens">
Fresnel lens

A Fresnel lens is an optical lens, which was originally developed for Lighthouses. It is named after its inventor, French physicist Augustin-Jean Fresnel. The name is pronounced /freɪˈnɛl/ (fray-NELL), the 's' is silent. Before Fresnel, Buffon and Condorcet proposed a similar design, as a way to make large burning lenses. 
The design allows the construction of lenses of large aperture and short focal length without the weight and volume of material that would be required in conventional lens design. Compared to earlier lenses, the Fresnel lens is much thinner. More light can pass through. Lighthouses that use these kind of lenses can be seen from farther away.

</doc>
<doc id="227858" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227858" title="Giacomo Meyerbeer">
Giacomo Meyerbeer

Giacomo Meyerbeer (born near Berlin, 5 September 1791; died Paris, 2 May 1864) was a famous German-born opera composer. He was the most important composer of French Grand opera during the 1830s and 1840s. Although he was tremendously popular in his day, his music is not often played now.
Meyerbeer was born into a rich Jewish family in Tasdorf (now a part of Rüdersdorf), near Berlin. His father owned large sugar refineries in Berlin and in Italy. His mother also came from a rich family. Her father had been important in Germany’s struggle to be free of the French in 1812 when Napoleon was trying to conquer much of Europe. Giacomo’s mother did a lot of good work trying to help people who were wounded during the Napoleonic wars. 
Many famous people came to the house where Giacomo’s family lived. Some of the visitors were from the royal Prussian court, including the future King Friedrich Wilhelm IV. The naturalist and explorer Alexander von Humboldt also visited them quite often.
The first piano teacher the boy had was Franz Lauska, who also taught the royal princes. He also had lessons in composition. Meyerbeer first played in public in 1801 playing Mozart's Piano Concerto in D Minor in Berlin. He wrote his first opera in 1810. In the same year he went to Darmstadt to study with the well-known music theorist Abbé Vogler. There he met the young Carl Maria von Weber who was also a pupil of Vogler. He left Vogler in 1811 and tried to get some work in Munich. In 1813 he found he had been offered a job as court composer to the Grand Duke of Hessen. Vogler had probably recommended him for the job. At this time Meyerbeer was better known as a pianist than as a composer. He travelled to London to hear an important pianist based there, namely J.B.Cramer. There he met other famous pianists such as Kalkbrenner and Ferdinand Ries.
In 1816 Meyerbeer went to Italy. He wanted to learn about Italian opera and collect Italian folksongs. While he intended at first to stay only three months, he stayed most of the next nine years. He made some trips back to Germany and Austria during this time. He composed several operas which became very popular. People started to compare him with the famous Rossini. However, in Germany people were not interested in his music. He took his opera "Il crociato in Egitto" to London and then to Paris, where it was a success. The opera is remembered now for being the last opera ever to have a part for a castrato singer. 
He was becoming well-known now. Spontini asked him to compose an opera for Berlin. He became friends, in Paris, with the librettist Eugène Scribe who had a lot of influence in the French theatre. 
From 1825 onwards Meyerbeer spent his life travelling about Europe. He was often in Paris and in Berlin, but did not live in either of these places. He stayed in hotels or private houses wherever he went. One reason why he travelled was because of his health. His wife also had bad health, so they often went to spa towns to try to get better. He also travelled about to watch productions of his operas, and to hear young singers.
When Carl Maria von Weber died, he left an opera, "Die drei Pintos", unfinished. It was sent to Meyerbeer in the hope that he would finish it, but he did not seem interested. In the end Mahler finished it many years later.
Meyerbeer made changes to "Il crociato in Egitto" and turned it into a grand opera for the Opéra in Paris. He changed it from an Italian to a French opera, composing extra dance music and a new overture. He was determined to be famous in Paris.
In 1826 he married his cousin. They had two children, but they both died when they were very small.
In 1828 Daniel Auber, a famous French composer of the time, had composed a very popular opera called "La muette de Portici". It was the first French grand opera. Meyerbeer realized he could not become really popular by turning his Italian operas into French grand opera, so he took his comic opera "Robert le Diable" and changed it into a grand opera. Audiences loved it. Within three years it had been performed in 77 theatres in 10 different countries. Many composers made their own arrangements of some of the tunes from the opera. He was given many honours: the Chevalier of the Legion d’honneur, the title of Prussian Hof Kapellmeister (Director of Music at the Royal Court), and was made a member of the Prussian Academy of Arts and a member of the French Institute. 
Meyerbeer realized that anything else he wrote would have to be really good. In 1836 he produced another opera "Les Huguenots". This too was extremely popular.
In 1842 he went to Boulogne to improve his health. There he met Wagner who asked him for financial help to stage his operas "Rienzi" and "The Flying Dutchman". Meyerbeer lent him money, but stopped giving him money when he heard that Wagner was secretly criticizing him.
When Spontini died Meyerbeer was made Generalmusikdirektor in Berlin. His opera "Les Huguenots" had at first been forbidden in Germany, but now it was allowed to be performed. As court composer he wrote a grand opera called "Ein Feldschlag in Schlesien" ("A Battle in Silesia"), but it never became internationally famous. The main part in the opera was sung by Jenny Lind.
In 1849 he returned to Paris. He wrote several works together with Scribe, whom Meyerbeer described as the best living librettist, and who was one of his closest friends. His opera "Le prophète" (for which Scribe again wrote the words) earned him a lot of money. The great contralto Pauline Viardot-Garcia sang the main part.
Scribe died in 1861. Meyerbeer worked very hard to try to finish his last opera, "L’Africaine". Napoleon III said he wanted the opera to be ready by the winter of 1862-63, but it was not ready until 1864. The work was being rehearsed for its first performance when Meyerbeer suddenly died, without having had the chance to revise it, the way he revised most of his other pieces.
Meyerbeer’s body was taken to Berlin where it was buried in the Jewish cemetery in a vault that belonged to his family.
Meyerbeer was always more popular in France than in Germany. His operas are about the society of wealthy people. The sounds he made with his orchestra are often deliberately harsh. In this he is like Beethoven in his final years, and Berlioz. Sometimes he used new instruments such as the bass clarinet and the saxophone. He always thought carefully about what his singers were capable of when writing his music. He enjoyed working with different singers, among them Velluti, who was the last of the great operatic castrati. He took great trouble to give his singers rests during the opera so that they would still be in good voice for the climax of the story. He liked scenes with large crowds. He composed his dance music, in particular, very carefully. Often he would throw it away and start again if the dancers were not happy with it.
Besides his operas he also wrote orchestral pieces for special occasions. He also wrote some songs for performance in the salon.
Meyerbeer was one of the richest men in Europe. This is why some people hated him.
Meyerbeer’s operas were very popular in the middle of the 19th century, but by the end of the century they had gone out of fashion. From 1933 to 1945 his music was banned in Germany by the Nazis because he was Jewish. Today there is some interest again, but nothing like the huge popularity he had in his lifetime.

</doc>
<doc id="227863" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227863" title="Grand opera">
Grand opera

Grand Opera is a term which is used to describe an opera with continuous music. It is a kind of opera that was popular in the 19th-century. Grand operas are usually divided into four or five acts. There have large casts (many singers taking part) and large orchestras. There is a lot of scenery. The story is dramatic. It is usually a story about a hero from history. The term "Grand Opera" has often been used to describe the Paris Opéra from the late 1820s to around 1850, and sometimes to describe the Paris Opéra itself. 
In a broader sense "Grand Opera" can be any large-scale opera from European countries. During the 1830s and 1840s Giacomo Meyerbeer was thought to be the greatest composer of Grand Opera.

</doc>
<doc id="227873" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227873" title="Lake Lucerne">
Lake Lucerne

Lake Lucerne is a lake in central Switzerland. It is the fourth largest lake in the country. The German name is Vierwaldstättersee which means: "Lake of the Four Forested Cantons".
It is possible to travel all the way round the side of the lake by road. There are several tunnels on the way. It is very popular with tourists. There are many hotels by the lake.

</doc>
<doc id="227881" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227881" title="Die Feen">
Die Feen

Die Feen ("The Fairies") is an opera in three acts by Richard Wagner. The German libretto was written by the composer. He was adapting a story by Carlo Gozzi called "La donna serpente".
"Die Feen" was the first opera that Wagner finished. However, it was never performed during his lifetime. It has never become popular, although the overture is sometimes played. The music shows the influence of Carl Maria von Weber and other composers of the time. It also shows some musical ideas that Wagner was to develop later in his life in his famous operas. The fairy tale atmosphere in the story is also an idea that he uses in his later operas which deal with fantasy stories. The idea of being saved (redemption) is also an important idea that he used in later operas.

</doc>
<doc id="227887" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227887" title="Rienzi">
Rienzi

Rienzi is an opera by Richard Wagner. Its full title is Rienzi, der Letzte der Tribunen ("Rienzi, the Last of the Tribunes"). It is one of the earliest operas Wagner wrote. There are five acts. Wagner wrote the libretto himself, using the story from a novel by Edward Bulwer-Lytton. It was composed between 1838 and 1840] It was first performed at the Hofoper, Dresden on 20 October 1842. It was the first time Wagner had a success as an opera composer.
The story of the opera is set in Rome and is based on the life of Cola di Rienzi (1313–1354), a medieval Italian populist figure who manages to trick the nobles and their followers. He helps the people to get power. At first he is very popular, but then he has to use force against the nobles, and the Church turns against him. In the end the ordinary people burn the Capitol where Rienzi and his friends are sheltering.

</doc>
<doc id="227888" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227888" title="Chess tournament">
Chess tournament

A chess tournament is a competition between chess players. It can take one of these forms:
Since the first international chess tournament in London, 1851, chess tournaments have become a standard form of competition among regular players.
 

</doc>
<doc id="227891" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227891" title="The Flying Dutchman">
The Flying Dutchman

Der fliegende Holländer ("The Flying Dutchman") is an opera by Richard Wagner. Wagner wrote the libretto himself. The story comes from the legend of the "Flying Dutchman", which is about the captain of a ship. It is his fate that he has keep sailing the sea, without ever going on to land, until Judgment Day.
The most important idea in the story as told by Wagner is redemption through love. It was a favourite idea of Wagner, who used it a lot in his later operas.
Wagner conducted the first performance at the Semper Oper in Dresden, in 1843. It is an early opera of Wagner, but it shows his mature style. It is very different from the previous opera "Rienzi" which is still quite similar to operas that other composers were writing. In "Der fliegende Holländer" the drama is very important. Wagner uses a number of leitmotifs: musical ideas associated with particular characters and themes in the story. The leitmotifs are all introduced in the overture. We hear the famous leitmotif of the ocean and then those of the Dutchman and of Senta, the girl he falls in love with.
Wagner originally wrote "Der fliegende Holländer" to be performed without any breaks (intermission). Sometimes it is performed like that today, but Wagner also made a version with three acts.

</doc>
<doc id="227903" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227903" title="Tannhäuser">
Tannhäuser

Tannhäuser und der Sängerkrieg auf Wartburg (En: "Tannhäuser and the Singers' Contest at Wartburg") is a three-act opera with words and music by Richard Wagner. It was Wagner's fifth opera. He worked on it between 1842 and 1845. It was first performed at the Dresden Royal Opera on 19 October 1845 with Wagner conducting. The opera was a success. It became hugely popular in Germany.
In 1859, "Tannhäuser" was the first Wagner opera to be performed in the United States of America. By 1861, the opera had been performed many times in Germany when Wagner was asked to revise the work for the Paris Opéra. Despite his best efforts, Wagner failed. He was not popular. Anti-Wagner riots broke out. He withdrew the work. It was not staged again in France until 1895. Meanwhile, the opera opened the second season of the Metropolitan Opera in New York City in November 1884.
Wagner was in Paris completing "The Flying Dutchman" when he began thinking about writing another opera. A friend suggested Tannhäuser as a subject. Wagner did not like the tale. Back in Germany however, he gathered materials by Tieck, Heine, and others about Tannhäuser. Vacationing in Bohemia, he had a change of heart. He began preparing an outline for "Tannhäuser". Returning home to Dresden, he immersed himself in the tale. He completed the opera in October 1845. He conducted the first performance that month at the Royal Opera House.
His Venus said, "You are a genius, but you write such eccentric stuff that it is impossible to sing." His Tannhäuser was completely baffled. The audience was puzzled. The reception was lukewarm. Wagner began revisions at once. The second performance played to a near empty house. In 1859, Wagner offered "Tannhäuser" to the Paris Opéra. They wanted it sung in French. They also wanted a ballet in the second act. This so the Jockey Club had time to finish dinner and arrive at the Opéra just in time to ogle the dancers. Wagner refused to move the ballet from the first act to the second act. There were complaints. Jockey Club members interrupted the performance whenever possible. It was a disaster.
The opera disappeared from the French stage for 34 years. A few years after the Jockey Club incident, Wagner began revising the Paris version. He produced a sophisticated sound version that was superior to the first draft. Though there are several set pieces in the opera, the opera is closer to Wagner's vision of complete independence from such set pieces. "Tannhäuser" is on the threshold of the leitmotif, and the diminishing of the sound power of the orchestra in favor of the sung word.
Wagner's sources for the opera are spread over 600 year time span. In 1391, and again at the beginning of the 15th century, tales were in circulation about a paradise within a German mountain and a traveler who idles with a Sybil before heading to Rome for the Pope's forgiveness. The "Song of Tannhäuser" of 1515 combines moralizing with the adventures of an historical Minnesinger named Danhuser, Tanhuser, or Tannenhauser. This Minnesinger's songs told of erotic love and its opposite, holy love.
Wagner was an insatiable reader, always on the alert for material that could be adapted to an opera. For "Tannhäuser", he combined elements not only from traditional tales but material from C. J. L. Lukas's "Essay" (1838) on the character of Tannhäuser and Ludwig Tieck's "Faithful Eckart" (1799). Ludwig Bechstein's "Thuringian Legends" (1835) included the story of the song contest. Wagner was familiar with the song contest through E. T. A. Hoffmann's "Serapion Brothers", Friedrich de la Motte-Fouque's drama "The Singers Dispute in the Wartburg" (1828), and Wagensil's "Nuremberg Chronicle"."
The story is about the struggle between sacred love and profane love, and redemption (salvation) through love. The story is based on the historical character of Tannhäuser, about whom very little is known except the myths about him. It is also about the myth of Venus, but it also deals with the medieval Minnesinger (minstrel). Half of the opera takes place in a historical setting, and half takes place in the mythological Venusberg.
The critics took Wagner to task for his historical inaccuracies. First, the real Tannhauser was only a boy at the supposed time of the song contest. Secondly, they regarded Wagner's Elisabeth with scorn: Wagner had made the character an amalgamation of several historical women.
Cuts to the original were made almost immediately because the singers were not capable of understanding and thus acting their roles. The Prelude to Act 3 was cut from 155 bars to 92. In the original final scene, neither Elisabeth or Venus appeared on stage. The audience was puzzled.
The original final scene was retained until the 13th performance in 1847. Wagner then recast the final pages to make Venus visible on stage. The Venusberg did not appear however. This new ending disturbed the audience because they were used to the older version. Wagner had also cut the pilgrim's chorus, further antagonizing the audience. Another version was made restoring the chorus.
The first performance outside Dresden occurred at Weimar. This production demonstrated to small theaters that they could stage the opera. Other productions took place in Schwerin, Breslau, Prague, Wiesbaden, and other small houses. The opera played in New York in 1859. It played in London (in Italian) in 1876. In Vienna, Johann Strauss performed excerpts in 1853. The first Austrian staging occurred at Graz in 1854. Vienna mounted the opera in 1857. The opera was performed at the Vienna court opera in 1875. In 1860, the Paris Opera wanted the work in a revised version in French. Wagner made extensive revisions for Paris.

</doc>
<doc id="227909" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227909" title="New York State Route 199">
New York State Route 199

New York State Route 199 (NY 199) is a road in the Hudson Valley of New York, United States. It is long, and goes from near Kingston to Millerton. In between, NY 199 crosses over the Hudson River over a bridge and passes through the communities of Red Hook and Pine Plains. Part of the road was part of the Ulster and Delaware Turnpike. NY 199 was named in 1930.

</doc>
<doc id="227915" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227915" title="New York State Route 9G">
New York State Route 9G

New York State Route 9G (NY 9G) is a road in Dutchess County, New York, United States. It starts at US 9 in Poughkeepsie and follows the Hudson River as it goes north. It crosses Route 9 just north of Rhinebeck and ends in Hudson.

</doc>
<doc id="227918" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227918" title="Kennedy Center Honors">
Kennedy Center Honors

Every year, the Kennedy Center gives its Kennedy Center Honors to artists. These artists have contributed to American culture. Most of these artists were performers, such as actors, dancers, and musicians. Some of these artists were movie directors, play writers, and songwriters. Most of the recipients have been American. The President of the United States usually attends the awards ceremony. The Honors are given in Washington, D.C. at the Kennedy Center Opera House.
From 1978 until 2002, the ceremony was hosted by Walter Cronkite. Since 2003, it has been hosted by Caroline Kennedy.

</doc>
<doc id="227953" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227953" title="The Vicar of Wakefield">
The Vicar of Wakefield

The Vicar of Wakefield is a novel by Oliver Goldsmith. It was written in 1761 and 1762. It was published in 1766. The book was very popular. The novel tells of the Primrose family.

</doc>
<doc id="227970" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227970" title="Cypripedioideae">
Cypripedioideae

Lady's slipper orchids are the orchids in the subfamily Cypripedioideae. They are special because of their slipper-shaped pouches on their flowers. The pouch traps insects so that they must climb up past the modified stamens, where they get or give pollen, fertilizing the flower.
Some people think this subfamily should be different from the Orchidaceae as a family Cypripediaceae.
A lady slipper orchid has a deep pocket that is actually a bee trap. When a bee crawls down into the flower to get the nectar, the pocket on the flower closes shut. Because of this, the bee is stuck for a while, wiggling and squirming, getting pollen all over itself.
The bee finally finds a small opening near the top of the orchid, and it gets out so that it can get trapped inside another lady slipper, where it will give that pollen to the other lady slipper's stigma.
The lady's slipper is also known in the United States of America as the "moccasin flower", because it looks like a shoe or moccasin.

</doc>
<doc id="227995" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227995" title="Pandita Ramabai">
Pandita Ramabai

Pandita Ramabai (23 April 1858, Karnataka- 5 April 1922) was an Indian Christian who tried to change many things in India. A poet and scholar, she tried hard to improve (make better) the lives of women in India. She wrote many books including her popular "The High-Caste Indian Woman", which showed the troubles of child wives and women in India.
She was born at Gangamoola,Mala village, Karkala Taluk,Karnataka State and her father name is Ananta Shastri. She lost father and mother (Laxmi Bai) early and with her brother she travelled to Kolkata. There she got Pandita and Sarasvathi Award for her expertise in Sanskrit Poetry. Born in the home of an important and scholar Brahmin, Pandita Ramabai had more freedom than many Indian women. Her father taught her and her mother to read Sanskrit writing. She then began to study Christianity in India, and later in England. She decided that it was the best religion and she should be a Christian. However, she had not yet received Jesus into her "heart". Ramabai later said,
Shortly after her "true conversion", Pandita Ramabai began a faith mission for the girls and widows of India. Like George Mueller and Hudson Taylor, whose biographies she had read, Pandita and her helpers began a school and prayed for what they needed every day. When a great famine came to India, Pandita went to and saved widows and girls from death or abuse.
Soon she had over a thousand women and girls at the mission. Helping this many people during a time of great famine was very hard, but Pandita wrote in her autobiography,
Every day Pandita Ramabai and her helpers taught the women to read and write, showed them cleanliness, and helped them prepare for a job. She also taught them about Jesus. She opened Ashrams at Pune, Mumbai.She established Christian High school at Gulbarga,(Now at Karnataka) and her daughter Manorama was the principal. Manorama studied at USA and travelled in Australia.

</doc>
<doc id="228008" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228008" title="Synthesis">
Synthesis

Synthesis means to bring ideas together, or to make something out of parts which were independent. It is the opposite of analysis.

</doc>
<doc id="228012" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228012" title="Ruy Lopez">
Ruy Lopez

The Ruy Lopez, also called the "Spanish Opening", is an ancient chess opening. It is named after the Spanish clerk Ruy Lopez who invented the method. These are the opening moves:
The Ruy Lopez is one of the most common and well liked openings, with many ways to play it. It has always been popular in master chess. Something to know about it is that it does not threaten the black e5 pawn:
For this reason White usually plays a longer-term strategy, starting

</doc>
<doc id="228021" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228021" title="Triathlon">
Triathlon

A triathlon is a sport that consists of three different events one after another without resting in between. Usually, they are swimming, cycling, and running. Triathlon has been in the Olympic Games since 2000. One of the hardest and most famous triathlons is the Ironman Triathlon, which involves swimming two miles, biking a hundred miles, and then running a marathon.

</doc>
<doc id="228051" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228051" title="Continuous function">
Continuous function

In mathematics a function is said to be continuous if, roughly said, a "small change" in the input only causes a "small change" in the output. If this is not the case, the function is said to be discontinuous. Functions defined on the real numbers, with one input and one output variable, will show as an "uninterrupted line (or curve)". They can be drawn "without lifting the pen". The definition given above was made by Augustin-Louis Cauchy.
Karl Weierstraß gave another definition of continuity: Suppose that there is a function "f", defined on the real numbers. At the point formula_1 the function will have the value formula_2. If the function is continuous at formula_1, then for every value of formula_4 no matter how small it is, there is a value of formula_5, so that whenever formula_6, that makes formula_7. Intuitively: Given a point close to formula_1 (called x), the "absolute value" of the difference between the two values of the function can be made arbitrarily small, if the point x is "close enough" to formula_1.
There are also special forms of continuous, such as "Lipschitz-continuous". A function is Lipschitz-continuous if there is a formula_10 with formula_11 for all x,y ∈ (a,b).

</doc>
<doc id="228064" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228064" title="Peter Falk">
Peter Falk

Peter Michael Falk (September 16, 1927 - June 23, 2011) was an American actor. His best known role was Columbo in the tv series of the same name.
Falk was born in Manhattan on September 16, 1927. He was Jewish. He grew up in Ossining, New York. He earned a degree in political science from the New School for Social Research. He then earned his Master's degree in public administration at Syracuse University.
He appeared in a number of Broadway plays including: "The Prisoner of Second Avenue", "The Passion of Josef D", "Diary of a Scoundrel", and "Saint Joan". Falk won four Emmy Awards playing the police detective Columbo, and one for "The Dick Powell Theatre". He was nominated for seven other Emmy awards. Falk also received two Academy Award nominations for the films "Murder Inc." and "Pocketful of Miracles".
Falk was diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease. He died in his Beverly Hills, California home on the morning of June 23, 2011.

</doc>
<doc id="228065" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228065" title="Claude Choules">
Claude Choules

Claude Choules (3 March 1901 – 5 May 2011) was a British-Australian World War I veteran who served in the Royal Navy.
Born in Wyre Piddle, son of Harry & Madeline (née Winn), near Pershore, Worcestershire, Choules joined the Royal Navy as a young man in 1916, and served aboard the Naval Training Ship HMS Circe at Plymouth. In 1917, he joined the battleship HMS "Revenge", which was the flagship of the First Battle Squadron. While serving aboard her, Choules witnessed the surrender of the German Imperial Navy at the Firth of Forth in 1918, ten days after the Armistice, and was also to witness the scuttling of the German fleet in Scapa Flow.
During World War II, Choules was the Acting Torpedo Officer of Fremantle and also the Chief Demolition Officer on the western side of the Australian continent. He was tasked with sabotaging Fremantle harbors and related oil storage tanks in the event of a Japanese invasion.
He died on 5 May 2011 in Perth, Western Australia at 110 years old.

</doc>
<doc id="228066" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228066" title="Florence Green">
Florence Green

Florence Green (19 February 1901 – 4 February 2012) was a British supercentenarian. She was the last surviving veteran of World War I. Green was born in London and moved to King's Lynn in 1920 after her marriage to Walter, a railway worker who died in 1970.
She joined up in September 1918, two months before the end of the war. She served as a waitress in the officers' mess at RAF Marham and also at Narborough airfield. She is the last living British living veteran following the death of Claude Choules.
She was West Norfolk's oldest resident, the second oldest person in Norfolk and one of the 30 oldest people in Britain.
She has a son and two daughters, as well as four grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
Florence Green, died in her sleep, two weeks before her 111th birthday in a care home in King's Lynn, Norfolk

</doc>
<doc id="228069" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228069" title="John Babcock">
John Babcock

John Henry Foster "Jack" Babcock (born 23 July 1900 - 18 February 2010) was the last living Canadian veteran who fought in the First World War. He became an American citizen in 1946.

</doc>
<doc id="228070" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228070" title="Frank Buckles">
Frank Buckles

Frank Buckles (1 February 1901– 27th February 2011) was the last living American veteran who fought in World War I.
Buckles was born in Bethany, Missouri. He enlisted in the U.S. Army at the beginning of America's involvement in World War I in April 1917. Only 16 years old at the time, Buckles was asked by his recruiter to show a birth certificate. Later Buckles said of that event, "“I was just 16 and didn’t look a day older. I confess to you that I lied to more than one recruiter. I gave them my solemn word that I was 18, but I’d left my birth certificate back home in the family Bible. They’d take one look at me and laugh and tell me to go home before my mother noticed I was gone. Somehow I got the idea that telling an even bigger whopper was the way to go. So I told the next recruiter that I was 21 and darned if he didn’t sign me up on the spot! I enlisted in the Army on the 14th of August 1917."" Before being accepted into the United States Army, he was turned down by the Marine Corps due to his slight weight.
In 1917, Buckles was sent to Europe on the RMS Carpathia, which had rescued RMS Titanic survivors five years earlier. During the war Buckles served in England and France, driving ambulances and motorcycles for the Army's 1st Fort Riley Casualty Detachment. After the Armistice in 1918, Buckles escorted prisoners of war back to Germany. Following his discharge in 1919, he attended the dedication of the Liberty Memorial in Kansas City, Missouri, in honor of those Americans who died in World War I. While there, he met General John "Black Jack" Pershing, commander of all U.S. forces in France during the war. 
In the 1940s Buckles worked for a shipping company in Manila, Philippines. He was captured by the Japanese in 1942 and spent the next three and a half years in the Los Baños prison camp. He became malnourished, with a weight below 100 lb, and developed beriberi, yet led his fellow inmates in calisthenics. He was rescued on February 23, 1945.
He died on 27 February 2011 at 110 years old.

</doc>
<doc id="228071" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228071" title="Józef Kowalski">
Józef Kowalski

Jozef Kowalski (2 February 1900 - 7 December 2013) was the last Polish veteran who served just after the First World War. He is the oldest verified military veteran in the world, following the death of Gertrude Noone.
He fought in the Polish-Soviet War that was linked to the First World War. It lasted from 1919 to 1921. He is the only living person who is known to have definitely fought in that war.
He lived in Tursk, near Sulęcin, in a care home. He died on 7 December 2013, aged 113.

</doc>
<doc id="228073" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228073" title="Stanley Lucas">
Stanley Lucas

Stanley Lucas (15 January 1900 - 21 June 2010) was a British supercentenarian. He was the oldest living man in Europe at the time of his death. He was also the third-oldest man in the world. Lucas was born at Morwenstow UK and had two brothers and two sisters. In 1908 his family moved to Marhamchurch where Lucas lived until 1948. Lucas married Ivy Nancekivell in 1926 and took over the family farm. Lucas was a breeder of Devon cattle and Devon longwool sheep and started a dairy farm in the early 1940s. In 1948 he moved to live with his family at Poughill, where he continued to live after Ivy's death in 1963. Lucas was a member of Bude Town Council from 1959–1970, as well as vice chairman. His daughter said, "He has worked hard in his working life and was a teetotaller and non-smoker and since he has been elderly has been well cared for". He died on 21 June 2010 in Bude, England at the age of 110.

</doc>
<doc id="228076" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228076" title="Michelle Keegan">
Michelle Keegan

Michelle Elizabeth Keegan (born 3 June 1987) is a British actress. She was born in Stockport, Greater Manchester. She is best known for playing Tina McIntyre in "Coronation Street".

</doc>
<doc id="228077" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228077" title="David Jason">
David Jason

Sir David John White (born 2 February 1940), known as David Jason, is a English actor. He is best known for his role as Del Boy in sitcom "Only Fools and Horses".
Jason was made an Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) in 1993, and knighted in 2005, both for services to drama. He won the British Comedy Awards Lifetime Achievement Award in 2001, and the BAFTA Academy Fellowship Award in 2003. 
Jason lived with his long term girlfriend, actress Myfanwy Talog, for eighteen years until her death from breast cancer in 1995. At age 61, Jason and 41 year old girlfriend Gill Hinchcliffe had a baby girl in 2001. They married in 2005.
David Jason has a total of twenty-three awards between 1986 and 2003. His hit comedy show, "Only Fools and Horses" won many of these awards, and was also nominated many times. His crime drama, "A Touch of Frost", has also won and been nominated many times. "Porterhouse Blue", "The Second Quest", "All the King's Men" and "A Bit of a Do" have won David Jason one award each.

</doc>
<doc id="228078" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228078" title="Karl Malden">
Karl Malden

Karl Malden (22 March 1912 – 1 July 2009) was an American actor. He worked in acting from the 1930s to 2000. He won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for his role in "A Streetcar Named Desire". He was also in other classic movies, such as "On the Waterfront", "One-Eyed Jacks" and "Patton". He is perhaps best known for his role on television in the series "The Streets of San Francisco" during the 1970s.
He was born Mladen Sekulovich in Chicago. He grew up in Gary, Indiana. His family was Serbian.
At one time he served as president of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. Among other awards he won during his lifetime was an Emmy Award for his role in "Fatal Vision". He was also given a Life Achievement Award by the Screen Actors' Guild in 2003.
Malden died in Los Angeles at the age of 97.

</doc>
<doc id="228079" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228079" title="John Campbell Ross">
John Campbell Ross

ledgened
John Campbell Ross (11 March 1899 - 3 June 2009) was the last living Australian World War I veteran.
Born in Newtown, Victoria, a suburb of Geelong, Ross served as a wireless operator in the First Australian Imperial Force, enlisting in January 1918, but never left Australia or saw active service. He later went on to serve in the Second World War as a corporal with the 20th Battalion, Volunteer Defence Corps.
His wife, Irene (née Laird), had been deceased by several decades before Jack Ross's death. He is survived by a son, Robert, a daughter, Peggy Ashburn, four grandchildren- Janette, Heather, Kay, and John - and nine great-grand children.
On 11 November 1998, Jack Ross had been awarded the 80th Anniversary Armistice Medal to mark the end of World War I. Jack also had been awarded the Centenary Medal for doing his share to the Australian society in the 100 years since the federation.
The death of William Evan Allan in October 2005 left Ross as the last Australian digger from World War I. However Claude Choules, a World War I veteran who served for Britain, lives in Western Australia. Ross became Australia's oldest man at the age of 108, on 12 June 2007, upon the death of Frank Scarrabelotti. Following the death of 112 year old E. Beatrice Riley, he was verified as the oldest person in Australia.
Ross celebrated his 110th birthday with chocolates and cake and a commemorative letter from the Prime Minister of Australia Kevin Rudd.
As a civilian, Ross worked for Victorian Railways until he retired in 1964. Ross died peacefully in his sleep at approximately 4 am. at the Golden Oaks Nursing Home in Bendigo on 3 June 2009, aged 110.

</doc>
<doc id="228080" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228080" title="List of veterans of World War I who died in 2009–12">
List of veterans of World War I who died in 2009–12

This a list of known veterans of World War I who died in 2009 (5 veterans), 2010 (1 veteran), 2011 (2 veterans) and 2012 (1 veteran). Florence Green, who died on 4 February 2012, was the last surviving veteran of any nation.
These people served in the armed forces during World War I.
Listed here are the veterans who were not verified as a World War I veteran.
Listed here are those that joined the armed services after the Armistice date, but before the Treaty of Versailles was signed, or where there is debate on their join-date, or whose military service is sometimes viewed as outside the scope of "WWI", but are considered World War I-era veterans by the press or by their respective governments, or served in a related conflict.

</doc>
<doc id="228082" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228082" title="Netherwood Hughes">
Netherwood Hughes

Netherwood "Ned" Hughes (12 June 1900 – 4 April 2009) was a British veteran of World War I who served as a Tommy.

</doc>
<doc id="228083" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228083" title="Bill Stone">
Bill Stone

William Frederick "Bill" Stone (born 23 September 1900 - 10 January 2009) was a British veteran of World War I who served in the Royal Navy. He died on 10 January 2009.

</doc>
<doc id="228087" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228087" title="List of veterans of World War I who died in 2008">
List of veterans of World War I who died in 2008

These are the veterans that served during the First World War who died in 2008

</doc>
<doc id="228093" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228093" title="Norman Wisdom">
Norman Wisdom

Sir Norman Wisdom OBE (4 February 1915 – 4 October 2010) was an English comedian, singer, songwriter, actor and musician.

</doc>
<doc id="228094" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228094" title="Lazare Ponticelli">
Lazare Ponticelli

Lazare Ponticelli (born 7 December 1897 - 12 March 2008) was a French World War I veteran.
In August 1914, after the start of World War I, Ponticelli joined the 1st Régiment de Marche of the French Foreign Legion at 16 years old. He had to lie about his age as he was still to young to join the army. His older brother, Céleste Ponticelli, had also joined the regiment.Ponticelli said that France had done much for him, and being in the army was his way of showing his thanks. He fought at Soissons in Picardy, northeast France and at Douaumont, near Verdun. Ponticelli worked digging burial pits and trenches. 
Ponticelli was not a French citizen and in May 1915, when Italy entered the war, he was forced into the Italian Army by conscription. Even though he tried to stay with his French regiment, he had to become part of the 3rd Alpini Regiment. Ponticelli fought against the Austro-Hungarian Army at Mount Piccolo on the Austria–Italy border. At his new job as a machine gunner, Ponticelli was wounded by a shell during an assault on an Austrian mountain. He was sent back to his job after rest in Naples.
Once, his regiment stopped fighting the Austrians for three weeks. The armies, who mostly spoke the same language, traded loaves of bread for tobacco and took pictures of each other. His commanders found out about this, and moved the regiment to another area.

</doc>
<doc id="228139" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228139" title="Fire ant">
Fire ant

Fire ants are stinging ants. They are also called "ginger ants" and "tropical fire ants". They evolved in South America, but have become a major pest in North America. They are known for a painful sting. This sting uses a base not an acid.
In 1918, fire ants were accidentally moved into the United States of America by a ship from South America. They were moved in large amounts of dirt. The ships brought heavy things like machines from the US to South America. They brought back light things like crops. The dirt was used to make the ships weigh more. The dirt sometimes had fire ants in it.
In the United States, fire ants have no natural predators or competitors. Native animals are not adapted to these ants. Fire ants are very aggressive. Their colonies can have many queens unlike many other ant species. Because of this, fire ants have spread very fast. By 1965, fire ant came up on the south eastern coast and as far west as Texas. Today they are found in at least 10 southern states. There is a separate group of fire ants living in California.
Fire ants have done a lot of harm as they have spread across the United States. Because they are attracted to electrical currents, they chew through wires. This makes shorts in electrical . Fire ants have also disturbed the natural balance of native ecosystems. In some places, they have killed off 70% of the native ant species and 40% of other native insect species.
Each year, about 25,000 people go for medical help because of painful bites from fire ants. Fire ants attack in groups when disturbed. People often get many bites. Fire ant bites are usually not dangerous. Some people are allergic to fire ants. They may go into shock. This is called anaphylaxis. This can kill them.
The fire ants are growing in the US 80 years after they came there. About 157 chemicals, like ammonia, gasoline, parts of manure, and insect-killing pesticides, are used against fire ants. However, none of them were very helpful. By 1995, the government had allowed only one fire-ant bait for people to use a lot.

</doc>
<doc id="228140" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228140" title="Fulgurite">
Fulgurite

Fulgurites are a rare type of natural glass made when lightning hits silica-rich minerals that are commonly in sand, soil, and some rocks. "Tubular fulgurites" are found in places with a lot of silica, like beaches or deserts. Lightning makes a tubular fulgurite when a bolt goes through the sand and melts silica into a liquid. The liquid silica cools and hardens quickly, leaving behind a thin glassy tube, usually with a rough outer surface and a smooth inner surface. Underground, a fulgurite may be shaped like the roots of a tree, branching out with many arms that trace the zigzagging path of the lightning bolt. They are quite delicate, with walls no thicker than 1-2 mm. Some of the largest fulgurites are removed from the ground in many pieces and then glued back into their original shape.

</doc>
<doc id="228159" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228159" title="St. Patrick's Cathedral (New York)">
St. Patrick's Cathedral (New York)

Saint Patrick's Cathedral is a decorated Neo-Gothic-style Catholic cathedral church in the United States. It is the seat of the archbishop of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York, and a parish church, located on the east side of Fifth Avenue between 50th and 51st Streets in midtown Manhattan, New York City, New York. It faces Rockefeller Center.

</doc>
<doc id="228173" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228173" title="Sindhi food">
Sindhi food

Sindhi food refers to the food of the Sindhi people. The daily food in most Sindhi households consists of wheat-based flat-bread (phulka) and rice accompanied by two dishes, one gravy and one dry.
There are food that are served during special occasions, such as during Diwali a Bahji with seven vegetables is made. If someone gets chicken pox and after it is gone, it is common to make an offering and make 'mitho lolo'.
Vermicelli is served on both Eids. On special religious occasions, mitho lolo, accompanied with milk is given to the poor.
This section provides the translations between Hindi, Sindhi and English (British and American) cooking terms. There occasional even in Sindhi for instance Hyderabadi Sindhi will refer to an egg as 'bedo' however Sindhis from other parts will refer to it as 'ando'.

</doc>
<doc id="228187" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228187" title="The Musical Offering">
The Musical Offering

The Musical Offering (German title Musikalisches Opfer or Das Musikalische Opfer), BWV 1079, is a collection of several pieces of music by Johann Sebastian Bach. It consists of canons, fugues, ricercars and a trio sonata. All the music is based on a tune made up by King Frederick II of Prussia (Frederick the Great). Bach dedicated the work to him.
The idea for this music started at a meeting between Bach and Frederick II on 7 May 1747. One of Bach’s sons, Carl Philipp Emanuel, was one of the king’s court musicians. The king wanted to show Johann Sebastian Bach a new instrument that had recently been invented. This was the piano. The king invited Bach to his palace at Potsdam.
During the visit the king gave Bach a theme and asked him to write a 3 part fugue based on it. Bach was good at improvisation so he made up a 3 part fugue. The king wondered whether he could make up a 6 part fugue. That would be very difficult, and people thought he was joking, but Bach said he would think about it.
Two months later, after he had gone home to Leipzig, Bach made up a six-voice fugue based on the king’s theme. He put it together with other compositions based on the theme and sent them to the king. This music became known as the “Musical Offering”. We do not know what the king thought of it.
At the top of the music Bach wrote some Latin words: "Regis Iussu Cantio Et Reliqua Canonica Arte Resoluta" (this means: “the theme given by the king, with additions, resolved in the canonic style”). The first letters of these words spell out the word "ricercar", which was a form of music well-known at the time.
"The Musical Offering" consists of a collection of ricercars, canons, fugues and a trio sonata. The trio sonata was written for flute, violin and basso continuo, but most of the other music does not show what instruments should play it. They are often played on keyboard instruments, or as chamber music by small groups of instruments. Bach did not show what order he wanted the pieces to be played in.
Bach also put riddles at the top of some of the pieces. Some of these riddles have been explained, but some have more than one solution. One of these "riddle canons", "in augmentationem" (i.e. augmentation) has notes which get longer and longer. Bach wrote: "Notulis crescentibus crescat Fortuna Regis" (“may the fortunes of the king increase like the length of the notes”). Another one is a modulating canon which ends a tone higher than it starts. Bach wrote over the music: "Ascendenteque Modulationis ascendat Gloria Regis" (“as the modulation rises, so may the King's glory”).
Several composers have made arrangements of some of the music from the “Musical Offering”. In 1935, Anton Webern arranged Bach’s six-part ricercar for orchestra. In 1980 Sofia Gubaidulina used the Royal Theme of the "Musical Offering" in her violin concerto. She turns the notes into a Russian Orthodox hymn.

</doc>
<doc id="228189" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228189" title="Dedication">
Dedication

Dedication can mean: the act of consecrating (making holy) a religious building such as a temple or church.
Dedication can also mean the writing at the beginning of a book or piece of music in which the author or composer says that it was written for a particular person. For example: a composer may write a piece of music for a particular musician and dedicate it to them. An author may dedicate a book to someone they love or respect. A book or a piece of music may be dedicated to the person who has paid them to write it. This may be a rich person such as king.

</doc>
<doc id="228194" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228194" title="Boomslang">
Boomslang

A boomslang is a small, venomous snake found in Africa. Its name means "tree snake" in Dutch and Afrikaans.
Boomslangs eat small animals like chameleons, frogs, and birds, but they also eat eggs. Like all snakes, boomslangs do not chew they swallow everything whole.
The venom (poison) of boomslangs disrupts the clotting of your blood, and this can kill you. After a bite, you can sometimes feel a headache, nausea and sleepiness. If you think you may have been bitten by a boomslang, you should get an antidote. This does not happen often, as boomslangs only bite humans when they feel attacked.

</doc>
<doc id="228206" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228206" title="Fire engine">
Fire engine

A fire engine is a vehicle that is designed to help in fighting fires by taking firefighters to the scene and giving them access to the fire, water or other equipment. 
The first modern fire engine was invented in 1905 by Knox Automobile in Springfield, Massachusetts.

</doc>
<doc id="228210" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228210" title="Ice cream sandwich">
Ice cream sandwich

An ice cream sandwich is a type of frozen desert that is made by putting ice cream in between two cookies or pieces of cake (called "sandwiching"). It is often made with vanilla ice cream between two pieces of chocolate cake, but sometimes is made with other flavours instead.

</doc>
<doc id="228215" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228215" title="Mycenaean culture">
Mycenaean culture

The Mycenaean culture (~1600–1100) was an early Greek culture during the Bronze Age, on the Greek mainland and on Crete. 
The name Achaean was used by Homer to describe them, and occurs in the Iliad. The term we use is derived from Mycenae, which is an important archaeological site about 90km from Athens. Other important Mycenaean sites are at Athens, Thebes, Tiryns and Pylos. The epic poems of Homer, the Iliad and the Odyssey, are Mycenaean in origin. 
The earlier Minoans traded but did not conquer. The Mycenaeans traded and conquered.
Mycenaean is the oldest known form of the Greek language. It was spoken on the Greek mainland and on Crete in the Mycenaean period, 16th to 12th centuries BC. The language is written on clay tablets in a script called Linear B. Most of these tablets were found in Knossos in central Crete, and in Pylos in the southwest of the Peloponnese. Other tablets have been found at Mycenae itself, Tiryns and Thebes and at Chania in Western Crete. 
For a long time no-one could translate the tablets. At last, in 1952 Michael Ventris deciphered the script. He showed that the language was an early form of Greek.
The texts on the tablets are mostly lists and inventories. There are no stories, myths or poetry, but they give us some idea of the people who made them.
By the late thirteenth century BC mainland Greece witnessed a wave of destruction. The Mycenaean sites declined, and the people moved to refuge settlements. This is the so-called Greek Dark Ages; little or no writing is found until the 8th century BC. See Ancient Greece for this and later periods.
Old Hittite and Mycenaean Greek are both Indo-European languages. The oldest Hittite texts are slightly earlier than the earliest Mycenaean texts, but Greek is the oldest surviving Indo-European language.
The somewhat younger Linear B tablets suggest that the people called "Mycenaeans" might have been Achaeans. No written source found at a Mycenaean site reveals what they called themselves. In the "Iliad", the residents of the Peloponnesus and nearby islands are often called "Achaeans". There is mention of the "Ahhiyawa" in Hittite sources from the Late Bronze Age, which suggests itself that the Mycenaeans could possibly be "Achaeans". The "Tawagalawa Letter", written by an unnamed Hittite king (14th–13th century BC) to the king of "Ahhiyawa", treats him as an equal. The letter suggests that Miletus ("Millawanda") was under his control and refers to an earlier 'Wilusa' episode" involving hostility by "Ahhiyawa". Ahhiya(wa) has been identified with the Achaeans of the Trojan War and the city of Wilusa with the legendary city of Troy. However the exact relationship of the term "Ahhiyawa" to the Achaeans is hotly debated by scholars, even after the discovery that Mycenaean Linear B is an early form of Greek. The written forms of the two lsnguages are quite different.

</doc>
<doc id="228244" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228244" title="Manna">
Manna

Manna, sometimes spelled mana, is the name of a food which, according to the Bible, the Israelites ate while they were traveling 40 years in the desert after leaving Egypt, which God provided because they had nothing to eat. Every morning they would gather the white flakes that covered the ground. It is said to have a sweet taste. When they got tired of manna, God gave them quail (bird).
Manna was called the "bread of heaven" because it seemed to come from Heaven, according to the Bible. Some suggest that they were a type of locust; some say that it was the sap of a tree which is known to satisfy hunger. In the Mishna, it is said that it was made during twilight of the sixth day of Creation.

</doc>
<doc id="228269" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228269" title="Clara Barton">
Clara Barton

Clarissa Harlowe "Clara" Barton (December 25, 1821 – April 12, 1912) was an American teacher, nurse, and humanitarian. During the American Civil War, she was in charge of the agency to find missing Union soldiers. She also headed several hospitals in Virginia. She is best remembered for organizing the American Red Cross.She was married to Avery Hill
Clara was born on Christmas Day, 1821 in Oxford, Massachusetts. She was the fifth and last child of Sarah Stone and Stephen Barton. In her youth, Barton was timid and sensitive, which made household life difficult for Barton. 
Clara's father was an important member of the town; he served as the town's moderator, ran a decent farm, and were well-known members of the town's church. Clara shared a special bond with her father. Both of them were adventurous and patriotic. Clara's father often told her stories about war, and they pretended to fight each other in fake battles.
Clara's mother was said to be a very beautiful woman. She was married at the age of seventeen, and by the time she was twenty she had already given birth to four children. She was very practical (good with her hands) and taught Clara many chores around the house. Her mother was strict and would not even let Clara have a toy doll. However, Clara's mother taught her many important things. She was a very strong and determined woman, and was full of common sense, traits that were both passed on to Clara.
Clara's four siblings were all older than she was. Her oldest sister, Dorothy, was seventeen years old when Clara was born; her oldest brother, Stephen, was fifteen; her younger brother, David, was thirteen; and her younger sister, Sally, was ten. She learned many skills from her siblings. Her sisters taught her how to read before she was even three years old. Stephen taught her mathematics, and David taught her how to ride a horse.
As a child, Clara liked to pretend she was a nurse. She took care of sick and injured animals. When she was eleven, her brother David fell off the roof of a barnhouse. This incident had a large effect on Clara, who helped nurse her brother. David suffered a severe injury to his head, and he was close to death for two years. For two years Clara took care of her brother, hardly leaving his bedside. She learned many medical practices, including blood-letting, giving medicine, and applying leeches. Though she didn't realize it, Clara had discovered her talent and love of nursing. After David was treated, Clara felt anxious and restless. She began becoming depressed because she had nothing to do. She tried being a weaver at her brother David's mill, but she quit and looked for a new job.
One day, a phrenologist visiting the Barton household told Barton's parents to teach in a school so she could overcome her extreme shyness. Barton was first terrified of this, but she soon taught a class of forty girls and boys in a local school. Barton impressed the children, who were barely younger than she was, and she felt happy at earning their respect. After her school received an award for discipline, Barton received many job offers. She asked for and received the same pay for teaching as male teachers, which was uncommon at the time. Barton taught at the school for ten years.
When she was thirty, Barton enrolled at the Clinton Liberal Institute in New York. After graduating, two schoolmates, Charles and Mary Norton, invited her to live with their family in Hightstown, New Jersey. Barton began teaching in the local school, and then began starting free public schools like the ones in Massachusetts. The school was very successful, and many new teachers were hired and a new building was built. A man was hired to run the school, and he received a salary almost twice as high as Barton's salary. Barton was angry at this treatment, and she left to find a new job in Washington D.C.
Barton spent the next five years of her life in the US capital, her first job being a clerk for the government. Department of the Interior records say that she became a clerk in 1855, which makes her the first female to work for the government. Barton was appointed a position in the US patent office. She even received the same pay as the other workers, receiving $1400 a year. The other workers were very angry about this; they "spat on the floor", "blew smoke in her face", insulted her, and made slanderous remarks about her. Many of these men lost their jobs because of this behavior.
Barton quit working and lived in Glen Echo, Maryland. She wrote a book about herself called "The Story of My Childhood."
She died at the age of 91 years old on April 12, 1912.

</doc>
<doc id="228274" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228274" title="Phase change">
Phase change

A phase change is the process by which forms of matter are altered. For example, when a solid melts and becomes a liquid, it goes through a phase change. When a solid changes into a gas, it is called sublimation. When a gas changes into to liquid, it is called condensation. When a liquid changes into a solid, it is called solidification. When a gas changes into a solid, it is called deposition. When a liquid changes into gas, it is called evaporation. 
As the states of matter change from solid, to liquid, to gas, respectively, their composition changes as well. For example, in a solid, the bonds are stronger than hydrogen bonds. That allows the solid substance to have a definite volume and shape. However, when heat is added to the solid and it melts to become a liquid, the bonds are considerably weaker, and in water, are simply hydrogen bonds. A liquid has a definite volume but not a definite shape, and it thus takes the shape of the container in which it is. When "more" heat is added, the liquid substance evaporates and becomes a gas, which has no bonds at all. A gas is simply a formless collection of particles that tends to expand in all directions at the same time in order to occupy its full container. If a gas is not confined, the space between the particles will continue to increase. A gas has neither a definite volume nor a definite shape. 
In this pattern, solid to liquid to gas, heat is being added in order to provoke the phase change. In the other "direction," gas to liquid to solid, heat is being released through the phase change. 
It often helps to think of an ice cube when thinking of phase changes. An ice cube is a solid, and when heated up, it becomes liquid water. When heated up some more, it becomes water vapor, which is a gas. 

</doc>
<doc id="228275" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228275" title="Barn">
Barn

A barn is a building found on a farm. It is used for holding livestock, such as horses. It can also be used to hold grain or tools. 

</doc>
<doc id="228281" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228281" title="Horace Mann">
Horace Mann

Horace Mann (1796-1859) was an educator and politician who helped set up the first public schools in the United States. He did this in the state of Massachusetts. Mann personally visited every school in the state to inspect it. He later became the first president of Antioch College in Ohio. “Our means of education,” he stated, “are the grand machinery by which the ‘raw material’ of human nature can be worked up into inventors and discoverers, into skilled artisans and scientific farmers.”

</doc>
<doc id="228282" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228282" title="National Association for the Advancement of Colored People">
National Association for the Advancement of Colored People

The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People or NAACP (pronounced N-double-A-C-P) is a civil rights organization in the United States, created for the advancement of black people by means of following judicial policies.

</doc>
<doc id="228305" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228305" title="Kim Kyusik">
Kim Kyusik

Kim Kyu-sik (, 1881 - 1950) was Korean Indifendunce & 1st, 2nd Vice President of the Korean Provisional Government. he was education Minister, foreign Minister of the provisional Government of Korea. 1st, 2nd Vice President of the provisional Government of Korea. A nickname & a pen name is Usa (). graduate of American Roanoke College. He was born Pusan.

</doc>
<doc id="228326" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228326" title="Chang Myun">
Chang Myun

Chang Myun(Korean:장면, August 28 1899 - June 4 1966) was Korean 2nd, 7rd Prime Ministers of South Korea, 4rd Vice President of South Korea. His nickname was Unsuk (Korean:운석, hanja:雲石).
He was a special ambassador to the Vatican 1948. In 1949, United States Ambassador to South Korea, May 1950 2nd Prime Minister of South Korea. 1956 to 1960 4th Vice President of South Korea. 7rd Prime Minister in August 1960. On 16 May 1961, he was kicked out, By Park Chung hee's coup d'état.
Chang Myon was born in Incheon in 1899. He was born to a Catholic family. After graduating high school, he was Studied depart in the United States. After returnin, he was Korea under Japanese ruled worked as an educator. Dongseong High School teachers, Principal. Geseong Elementary School Principal. 
August 15 1945 Independence, he wmoved into politics. October 1948 was sent to UN, to represent of South Korea, after, December 1948 Special Ambassador to the Vatican, Ambassador to the American. Prime Ministers of South Korea in November 23 1950 to April 23 1952.

</doc>
<doc id="228341" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228341" title="Stomach cancer">
Stomach cancer

Stomach cancer, or gastric cancer, is a kind of cancer from any part of the stomach. Stomach cancer causes about 800,000 deaths worldwide per year. Odds of survival is 5 to 15%. The life span of someone with stomach cancer is five to fifteen years. This is because this type of cancer can spread faster than other cancers. 
Most stomach cancer is caused by "Helicobacter pylori" infection. Diet foods are not proven causes, but some foods, such as smoked foods, salted fish and meat, and pickled vegetables are associated with a higher risk.

</doc>
<doc id="228409" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228409" title="Bembridge">
Bembridge

"Bembridge" is a village on the Isle of Wight. It is the village which is farthest to the east on the island. According to the 2001 census of the United Kingdom it had a population of 3,848. The large population (for a village) means that some people have said that it has the biggest population of any village in the United Kingdom. Many of the most rich people who live on the Isle of Wight live in Bembridge.
The villages of Bembridge and Yaverland were once a separate island, off the coast of the rest of the Isle of Wight. There was a channel of water called Brading Haven, which separated the two islands. Before the time in which Queen Victoria was the queen of the United Kingdom, the village of Bembridge only had a few huts and farm houses. It was only when a church was built in 1827 that the village started to grow.
The most old buildings in the village are found close to the church in the north of the village. In this part of the village there are a number of shops, pubs (places to buy and drink alcohol), and restaurants (places to buy food). There is also the village hall (a place for meetings, sales and events).
In the south of the village there is an area which is called 'Land End'. It is a more modern part of the village and has its own shops. In this part of the village there is a lifeboat station. There are two schools in Bembridge, one is for children of ages 4–8, and the other is for children of ages 9–13.

</doc>
<doc id="228412" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228412" title="United States Secret Service">
United States Secret Service

The United States Secret Service (which is often just called the Secret Service in the United States) is part of the United States government. Part of its job is to investigate when people make fake money. (Making fake money is called counterfeiting). However, the United States Secret Service is more well known for protecting important government leaders. Secret Service agents work as bodyguards and protect people like the President, Vice President, members of the United States Cabinet, people who are running for high office, and the family members of these people, and leaders from other countries who are visiting the United States. There are other people whom the Secret Service protects, too. A United States President would never be seen in public without Secret Service agents protecting him or her at all times.
It is often not easy to recognize Secret Service agents, because they often dress to blend in wherever they are. This means that they will often be dressed the same way as everybody else in a crowd.
They employ about a total of 5,000 people.
The United States Secret Service was created in 1865 to stop counterfeiters. It did not start protecting the President until after President William McKinley was shot and killed in 1901. In 1902, President Theodore Roosevelt became the first President to be protected by Secret Service agents. Since then, every president has received Secret Service Protection. In 1981 when Ronald Reagan was shot, Timothy McCarthy became one of four Secret Service agents to take a bullet of a President.
The Secret Service used to be part of the Treasury Department, but is now part of the Department of Homeland Security.

</doc>
<doc id="228456" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228456" title="The Grand Inquisitor">
The Grand Inquisitor

"The Grand Inquisitor" is a parable told by Ivan to Alyosha in Fyodor Dostoevsky's novel "The Brothers Karamazov" (1879-1880). Ivan and Alyosha are brothers; Ivan questions the possibility of a kind, caring God. If there is a kind God, Ivan argues, why do people suffer, especially children?
"The Grand Inquisitor" is an important part of the novel and one of the most famous parts of it because of its ideas about humans and Gods, and because of its mysteriousness.
Dostoevsky's notebooks show that he had the idea of "The Grand Inquisitor" after he saw it in a play by Friedrich Schiller, "Don Carlos" (1785-1787).

</doc>
<doc id="228458" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228458" title="Matthew Shepard and James Byrd, Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act">
Matthew Shepard and James Byrd, Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act

The Matthew Shepard Act, officially called the Matthew Shepard and James Byrd, Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act, is an Act of Congress that was passed on October 22, 2009, and signed into law by President Barack Obama on October 28. The act adds crimes that are committed because of the victims gender, sexual orientation, gender identity or disability to the 1969 federal hate-crime law.
The Act is the first federal law that gives legal protection to people who are transgender.
The bill also:

</doc>
<doc id="228468" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228468" title="Pōhutukawa">
Pōhutukawa

The Pōhutukawa is a New Zealand native tree which grows mainly on the coast of the North Island. It is evergreen and has bright red flowers. These flowers appear between November and January, during the Southern hemisphere summer. Because it is red and green during Christmas, it is often called the New Zealand Christmas tree.
The Pōhutukawa is endangered, meaning that there are not many left. This is because possums eat the leaves of the trees, killing them. Project Crimson is a group trying to stop this happening.

</doc>
<doc id="228469" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228469" title="North Island">
North Island

The North Island is one of the two main islands of New Zealand. It is separated from the South Island by Cook Strait. The island is in area, making it the world's 14th-largest island. It has a population of 3,287,600 (June 2009). Its Māori name is "Te Ika-a-Māui".
Twelve cities are in the North Island. The biggest is Auckland, New Zealand's largest city. Wellington, the capital, is at the southern end of the island. About 76% of New Zealand's population live in the North Island.

</doc>
<doc id="228470" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228470" title="South Island">
South Island

The South Island is the larger of the two major islands of New Zealand. It is separated from the North Island by Cook Strait. The South Island covers 151,215 square kilometres (58,384 sq mi) and has a temperate climate. It is also called by its Māori name, "Te Wai Pounamu".
The South Island is sometimes called the "mainland", because it is 33% bigger than the North Island. Only 24% of New Zealand's population live in the South Island.

</doc>
<doc id="228471" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228471" title="New Zealand English">
New Zealand English

New Zealand English is the English spoken in New Zealand. This is very similar to British English.

</doc>
<doc id="228472" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228472" title="Cook Strait">
Cook Strait

Cook Strait is the body of water between the North and South Islands of New Zealand. It connects the Tasman Sea on the west with the South Pacific Ocean on the east.
The strait is named after James Cook, who was the first European commander to sail through it. The strait has an average depth of 128 metres (420 feet). The weather and tide patterns are often very strange there. The most common way to get across is by ferry.

</doc>
<doc id="228473" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228473" title="Tasman Sea">
Tasman Sea

The Tasman Sea is the sea between Australia and New Zealand. It was named after Dutch explorer Abel Tasman. It is about 2000 kilometres (1250 miles) across, and 2800 km from north to south. The sea is part of the south Pacific Ocean. It is sometimes called "The Ditch" by Australians and New Zealanders.

</doc>
<doc id="228474" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228474" title="Bailiff">
Bailiff

A bailiff is a governor, a legal officer for the government. There are many different kinds of bailiffs, and they have different jobs. The word comes from the Latin word, "baiulivus".
The word was first used in England for the king's officers, such as sheriffs and mayors. It was also the title for the chief officer of a hundred. The sheriff looked after an area called his bailiwick. Bailiff is kept as a title by the chief magistrates of various towns and the keepers of royal castles, such as the High Bailiff of Westminster, and the Bailiff of Dover Castle. In a medieval manor, a bailiff was in charge of the farming.

</doc>
<doc id="228492" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228492" title="Kelly Kelly">
Kelly Kelly

Barbara Jean Blank (born January 15, 1987 in Jacksonville, Florida) is an American female professional wrestler, model and dancer. She is best known for working with World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) for seven years using the ring name Kelly Kelly. During her time in WWE she was a one time WWE Divas Champion. Kelly Kelly used to have a weekly segment known as Kelly's Exposé where she would dance for the WWE Universe.
In 2006, while working as a model, Blank was seen by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) official John Laurinaitis, who was interested in signing her to a contract. As a result, WWE contacted her modeling agency and invited her to their developmental territory, Ohio Valley Wrestling (OVW), for a try-out. Despite having no previous wrestling experience she was offered a contract, which she signed in May 2006. Even after being called up to the main roster she continued to fly back and forth to OVW's base city Louisville, Kentucky once a week to work shows; first as a ring announcer and referee, then as a wrestler. One of her first matches took place at the September 6 OVW TV tapings where she participated in a Women's battle royal won by ODB.
Blank debuted for the ECW brand as Kelly Kelly. Originally, she was to be named just 'Kelly', but her ring name was expanded to 'Kelly Kelly' by Vince McMahon. She made her debut on the first episode of the weekly television program on June 13, 2006, becoming the youngest Diva on the WWE roster. Her character, an exhibitionist, was introduced performing a striptease for the crowd. The next week, while performing another striptease, Kelly was interrupted by her on-screen boyfriend, Mike Knox, who came to the stage and covered her with a towel before dragging her backstage. Her stripping became a weekly segment known as "Kelly's Exposé" and usually followed the same routine; Kelly would dance and strip until she was interrupted by Knox who was upset by her exhibitionism and showing off her body to others. Knox began forcing Kelly to accompany him to ringside so he could keep an eye on her, making her his "de facto" valet. As a result, she found herself involved in the feud developing between Mike Knox and partner Test with Tommy Dreamer and his partner The Sandman, including being inadvertently hit with a cane by Sandman when Knox used her as a shield. She made her ECW in-ring debut on the August 22, 2006 episode of "ECW on Sci-Fi" in a losing effort as part of a six-person mixed tag team match which saw herself, Knox, and Test lose to Dreamer, Sandman and Torrie Wilson, in what was the last match of the feud.
Following this feud, Kelly and Knox were moved into a storyline with CM Punk in September, in which Kelly was shown to have developed a liking for Punk and Knox was shown to be increasingly protective and jealous. During the next month, Kelly continuously flirted with Punk and was shown watching his matches from the crowd, until Knox stopped her. Subsequently, Kelly's character dressed as Punk for ECW's Halloween Costume Contest, enraging Knox and leading to a match between the two, during which Kelly cheered for Punk. At December to Dismember, Kelly and Knox took on the team of Ariel and Kevin Thorn in a mixed tag team match, during which Knox refused to tag in before abandoning Kelly, leaving her to be beaten badly by Ariel. On the following episode of "ECW", Kelly defeated Ariel with a roll-up on her first ECW singles match, after which Knox made his way to the ring with flowers only to throw them in Kelly's face and perform his signature swinging reverse STO on her, ending their relationship and giving her a scripted injury—removing her from the program for six weeks.
She returned to television on January 16, 2007 and cut a promo announcing she was newly single and bringing back "Kelly's Exposé". The following week, she joined forces with Layla and Brooke to form Extreme Exposé. The trio performed a weekly dance segment on "ECW" for the next several months, as a successor to Kelly's Exposé segment. In June 2007, The Miz was moved to the brand, prompting a storyline in which all three members of Extreme Exposé were attracted to him. When Kelly shifted her attentions towards Balls Mahoney, Layla, Brooke, and The Miz openly mocked her, and The Miz later prevented her from going on a date with Mahoney, stating that he owned her contract and would fire her if she did so. On November 1, Brooke was released from her WWE contract, and Extreme Exposé dissolved as a group, leaving Kelly and Layla to enter an ongoing rivalry with more active wrestling roles. On the October 29 episode of "Raw", Kelly won a battle royal to earn a match against the WWE Women's Champion, Beth Phoenix. After the match however, Kelly was attacked by Phoenix and lost the subsequent match between the two the following week on "Raw". Kelly continued to feud with Layla, and they were on opposite sides of a 10-Diva tag team match at Survivor Series, which Kelly's team won. In December, Layla formed an alliance with Victoria, which expanded to include Lena Yada in January 2008, and Kelly continued to feud with the trio. At WrestleMania XXIV, Kelly was a 'lumberjill' for the Divas' tag team lumberjill match. The following month, Kelly was part of the losing team in a five-on-five Divas match at the Backlash pay-per-view. Kelly Kelly was released from her WWE contract on September 28, 2012.

</doc>
<doc id="228493" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228493" title="Deadmau5">
Deadmau5

deadmau5 pronounced "dead mouse", (real name: Joel Zimmerman) (born January 5, 1981 in Niagara Falls, Ontario) is a Grammy-nominated and Juno winning Canadian electro and progressive house producer, DJ, and performer. 
He has released 8 albums and made a cameo on the TV show Gossip Girl. Furthermore he has made tracks like "Arguru" and "Not Exactly", which have been featured on many compilation CD's and on Armin van Buuren's A State Of Trance radio show. 
deadmau5 has worked together with DJs like: Kaskade, MC Flipside, Rob Swire of Pendulum and Knife Party, and Steve Duda under the BSOD alias. 
The name deadmau5 started when Zimmerman found a dead mouse in his computer, while he was replacing his video card. He talked with people in chat rooms, and people started connecting him with this story. In the end, Zimmerman called himself deadmau5, as a shorter version of "dead mouse".
In an interview with Irish Daily Star, he mentioned that he didn't like being referred to as a DJ. He was quoted as saying: 
He later said that he was sorry for his comment and said that the interview was bad, and it did not express his opinion about DJs correctly:
deadmau5 previously dated American model Lindsey Evans but they broke up in September 2011. He then dated tattoo artist Kat Von D in and they broke up in November 2012 however deadmau5 proposed to her on Twitter and she accepted. In June 2013, Von D announced that had ended their engagement.
On July 30, 2010 deadmau5 collapsed on stage 50 minutes into his set and doctors said he was suffering from exhaustion and vomiting. Due to this, deadmau5 was forced to cancel his next nine shows for recovery.

</doc>
<doc id="228494" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228494" title="Leeroy Jenkins">
Leeroy Jenkins

Leeroy Jenkins is the name of someone who was in the game World of Warcraft. He made a video which was put onto Youtube which some people think is very good. He has become known around the world and even has his own Achievement on World of Warcraft for pretending to be him in the video. His name is often spelt wrong as Leroy Jenkins who is a different person.
The video which made Leeroy so famous shown him and his friends, doing a friendly activity known as a Raid in World of Warcraft, but this activity is hard to do, so the leader of the group that Leeroy is with has to explain what to do. But Leeroy is not around for the explanation, and when he comes back, he ends up running in the area, shouting his own name as he goes, which begins the activity, and ruining the plan which his friends made. This causes everyone to panic, and no-one knows what to do, and so, everyone dies. Everyone blames Leeroy for this, and says "At least I got chicken."
Leeroy has become very well known and his name is now used by people to show that they are running in but have no idea what to do. These people should be avoided, as they may cause you to die as well, as the video shows. Because of this, people now consider the video to be a Lesson.

</doc>
<doc id="228496" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228496" title="Billy Corgan">
Billy Corgan

William Patrick "Billy" Corgan, Jr. (born March 17, 1967) is an American singer and musicians. He is the singer and guitarist for the American band The Smashing Pumpkins. Corgan and James Iha formed the band in 1988.

</doc>
<doc id="228498" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228498" title="Dark Horse (album)">
Dark Horse (album)

Dark Horse is the sixth studio album by Canadian rock band Nickelback. The album was released on November 18, 2008. Seven singles came from the album, including "Gotta Be Somebody", "If Today Was Your Last Day", "I'd Come for You", "Burn It to the Ground", and "Something in Your Mouth". 

</doc>
<doc id="228502" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228502" title="Duncan Keith">
Duncan Keith

Duncan Keith (born July 16, 1983 in Winnipeg, Manitoba) is a Canadian professional ice hockey defencemen for the Chicago Blackhawks of the National Hockey League (NHL). He was picked by the Blackhawks with the fifty-fourth overall pick in the 2002 NHL Entry Draft. He played college hockey at the Michigan State University. 
He was chosen along with Brent Seabrook and Jonathan Toews to play for Team Canada in the 2010 Winter Olympics.
He won the Stanley Cup with the Chicago Blackhawks in 2010 and was also awarded the 2010 Norris Trophy. On June 24, 2013, He won his second Stanley Cup with the Blackhawks after they defeated the Boston Bruins 4 games to 2 in the 2013 Stanley Cup Finals.

</doc>
<doc id="228537" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228537" title="A minor">
A minor

A minor (usually shortened to Am) is a minor scale based on A, which is made up of the pitches A, B, C, D, E, F, G, and A. The harmonic minor scale raises the G to G. Its key signature has no sharps or flats ("see below:" Scales and keys).
Its relative major is C major, and its parallel major is A major. A scale in both A minor and C major can be played on a piano or other keyboard instrument using only the white keys.
Changes needed for the melodic and harmonic versions of the scale are written in with accidentals when needed.
Most of the time key signatures were cancelled whenever the new key signature had fewer sharps or flats than the old key signature, in modern popular music, this is only done when C major or A minor replace another key.

</doc>
<doc id="228540" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228540" title="You, Me and Dupree">
You, Me and Dupree

You, Me and Dupree is a 2006 American comedy movie that was produced by Mary Parent, Scott Stuber and Owen Wilson and directed by Anthony Russo and Joe Russo. 
The plot of the movie revolves around newlyweds Carl and Molly Peterson (played by Matt Dillon and Kate Hudson). After Carl's best man and friend Randolph Dupree (usually just called "Dupree") (Owen Wilson), loses his job and apartment, the couple allow him to move in but Dupree inevitably overstays his welcome.

</doc>
<doc id="228545" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228545" title="Butters' Bottom Bitch">
Butters' Bottom Bitch

"Butters' Bottom Bitch" is the ninth episode of the thirteenth season of "South Park". It first started on the Comedy Central in the United States on October 16, 2009. 
In this episode, Butters pays $5 and gets his first kiss from Sally, a girl on the playground. Seeing this Butters opens a "kissing company" and becomes a pimp. After rumors swirl Sergeant Yates of the Park County Police goes undercover as a female prostitute named "Yolanda" and went on undercover stings. Hearing that Butters is a respectful pimp, real prostitutes begin to join Butters' company. Sergeant Yates then joins Butters' company but Yolanda's pimp, Keyshone appears outside and asks Yolanda to marry him and (s)he says yes. Butters' decides to quit his pimping because he thought it would interfere with "true love".
Episode's official page

</doc>
<doc id="228559" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228559" title="Eazy-E">
Eazy-E

Eazy-E (real name: Eric Lynn Wright) (September 7, 1964 – March 26, 1995) was an American rapper and actor. He rose to fame with the Rap group N.W.A. and is one of the founders of the "Gangsta rap" subgenre. He usually rapped about guns, drugs, relations between residents and the police, and sexual activity. 
On March 26, 1995 Eazy-E died of AIDS-related pneumonia.
He was buried at Rose Hills Memorial Park in Whittier, California.
During his career, Eazy-E released 2 studio albums and 3 EPs:

</doc>
<doc id="228576" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228576" title="Tyranni">
Tyranni

Tyranni is a suborder of passerine birds. They are also known as the suboscines. There are about 1,000 species in this suborder. Most of them live in South America.
These birds are different to the passeri (songbirds) because they have a different syrinx. This is part of the bird's voice box which makes bird song. Scientists have also done studies on DNA and fossils to show that the tyranni suborder is different to the passeri suborder.
The tyranni suborder can be split into three infraorders: Acanthisittides, Eurylaimides, and Tyrannide.
The first group, the Acanthisittidae, are also known as the New Zealand "wrens". At the moment, scientists are unsure whether they should belong to the tyranni or not. Some scientists think they are too different and they should be in their own suborder.
The Eurylaimides contains two superfamilies: the Eurylaimoidea and the Pittoidea. The Euryaimoidea contains three families. They are also known as the Old World suboscines. Most of them live in tropical places around the Indian Ocean. One species, the Broad-billed Sapayoa, lives in the Americas. The three families are:
The Tyrannides contain all sub-oscine birds from the Americas, except the Broad-billed Sapayoa:

</doc>
<doc id="228578" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228578" title="Decision theory">
Decision theory

Decision theory is a mathematical theory about how to best reach a decision. This is done using probability theory, statistics and logical reasoning. A decision can be made in different ways. Decision theory usually picks the best decision by looking at the consequences each way to decide might have. 
In most cases, decision theory is normative and prescriptive. Most of the time, it assumes the decision maker has "perfect knowledge". Decision makers know all the consequences, and case take the best pick. 
There are three branches of decision theory:
Decision theory can also be classified as follows:

</doc>
<doc id="228589" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228589" title="University of Rennes 2 - Upper Brittany">
University of Rennes 2 - Upper Brittany

The University of Rennes 2 - Upper Brittany is a national university in France. It is located in the city of Rennes. It was created in 1969.
They are 5 faculties:

</doc>
<doc id="228596" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228596" title="Timeline of World War II">
Timeline of World War II

This is Timeline of World War II, which shows the event linked to World War II during 1931-1945.

</doc>
<doc id="228608" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228608" title="Gypsophila paniculata">
Gypsophila paniculata

Gypsophila paniculata is a species of perennial plant, a plant that lives for more than two years. The common name, a name that is in general use, is baby's breath.
The height of the species 2 to 3 feet long and the width of the species is 2 to 3 feet long. The species blooms anytime from April to August. The color of the flowers are white. The plant needs sunlight from the full sun meaning direct sunlight. The species is a herbaceous plant, has leaves and stems that die down at the end of the growing season to the soil level and have no woody stem above the ground.
The species is native to Central Europe and Siberia.
The species is poisonous. The poisonous parts of the plant are the flowers and the rest of the plant are poisonous when they are dry. The species can cause eye irritation, sinus irritation meaning in the nasal cavity, or asthma after the plant is repeatedly handled. The plant can also cause minor, a lesser effect, skin irritation that only lasts for a few minutes.

</doc>
<doc id="228609" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228609" title="Xiongnu">
Xiongnu

The Xiongnu () were nomads who lived north of China from about 3rd century BC to 460s AD. Their lands were very infertile, so they tried to attack China many times. As this was very irritating, the first emperor of China (Qin Shi Huang) built the Great Wall of China around 214 to 206 BC to keep them out. Some Han dynasty emperors tried to stop the wars and make friends with them, but they still tried to attack the Chinese borders.
At first, it was believed that they were related to the Huns, and currently many people still believe this. In old times, nomadic tribes often travelled and lived together, even tribes speaking different languages. Around 60 BC, there was a struggle for power, and the Xiongnu broke up into five smaller tribes. 
In 202 AD, the leader of the Southern Xiongnu surrendered to Prime Minister Cao Cao of the Han dynasty.
They are part of the Mongolian people now, or some of them have migrated to China for a better life.

</doc>
<doc id="228624" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228624" title="InuYasha the Movie: Affections Touching Across Time">
InuYasha the Movie: Affections Touching Across Time

InuYasha the Movie: Affections Touching Across Time is a 2001 anime movie that was directed by Katsuyuki Sumizawa. The movie is a spin-off of the television series "InuYasha" and is the first movie in a series of four. The movie was adapted into a manga series.
Inu-Yasha continues searching for the shards of the Shikon Jewel, a jewel that gives power to demons, with the help of Kagome, Shippo, Sango, and Miroku. A shard of the Shikon Jewel brings to life an incarnation of a demonic enemy that was sealed by Inu-Yashas' father. The demon gains power by eating souls.

</doc>
<doc id="228625" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228625" title="Litmus paper">
Litmus paper

Litmus paper is a way to test whether or not a solution is alkaline or an acidic. 
Litmus is a solution of different dyes made from lichen. This is then put onto filter paper. The paper can then be used to give a rough indication of the pH value of a solution. Blue litmus paper will turn red, when acid is present; red litmus paper will turn blue when alkalines are present. At room temperature, this usually happens for PH values between 4.5 and 8.3. 
Alternatively, a solution can be prepared which works the same way, but does not need the paper.

</doc>
<doc id="228632" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228632" title="Psychopathic Records">
Psychopathic Records

Psychopathic Records is a record label based in Royal Oak, Michigan. It was founded in 1991 by Alex Abbiss and Horrorcore band Insane Clown Posse. The company is currently distributed by Fontana Distribution.
The Psychopathic Records mascot is Hatchetman.
Psychopathic Records official website

</doc>
<doc id="228634" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228634" title="Gene Snitsky">
Gene Snitsky

Eugene Alan "Gene" Snisky (born January 14, 1970 in Nesquehoning, Pennsylvania) better known by his ring name Snitsky, is an American professional wrestler best known for the four years he spent with World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). 
Snitsky was released from his WWE contract on December 11, 2008.

</doc>
<doc id="228635" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228635" title="Scottsboro Boys">
Scottsboro Boys

The Scottsboro Boys were 9 young African-American men who were accused of a rape that they did not do and who were punished for it. A jury found them guilty even though the woman who accused them of rape admitted during the trial that it did not happen. This happened in Alabama in the 1930s.

</doc>
<doc id="228636" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228636" title="Independence Hall">
Independence Hall

Independence Hall is a historic building in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. It is called Independence Hall because the Declaration of Independence was passed there. The United States Constitution was also written there. It served as the capital of the United States several times, mostly during the Revolutionary War. It was also the meeting place of the state legislature of Pennsylvania. It is a World Heritage Site. It is on the back of the $100 bill.
The Liberty Bell was originally in the bell tower of the building.
Abraham Lincoln's funeral included coming to Independence Hall, where over 300,000 people viewed the president's body.

</doc>
<doc id="228640" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228640" title="Cartman Gets an Anal Probe">
Cartman Gets an Anal Probe

"Cartman Gets an Anal Probe" is the first episode of the first season of "South Park". It was first shown on Comedy Central in the United States on August 13, 1997. The episode introduces the main characters Eric Cartman, Kyle Broflovski, Stan Marsh and Kenny McCormick. They try to rescue Kyle's younger brother Ike from being kidnapped by aliens.
In this episode, Stan, Kenny, Cartman, and Kyle and his little brother Ike, are standing at the bus stop. Cartman begins telling them about the dream he had last night about being abducted by aliens. The other boys begin telling Cartman that it wasn't just a dream and that he was actually abducted by aliens. But Cartman refuses to believe them. Chef drives up and asks the boys if they saw the space ship flying over South Park last night. He tells stories about aliens performing anal probes. As the boys get on the bus and drive off they watch in horror as the aliens abduct Ike.
The boys are in the cafeteria and after Chef sees a machine emerge from Cartman's rear-end, Chef helps the boys escape the school to save Kyle's brother Ike by pulling the fire alarm. They escape outside and Cartman still believes that being abducted by aliens was a dream until he is hit by a beam that makes him sing and dance and space ship then appears, Kyle throws a rock at the space ship and the space ship fires back and hits Kenny which propels him into the street where he is run over by a herd of cows and a police car, killing him.
Stan, Kyle and Wendy meet at Stark's Pond and Wendy suggests that they use the device in Cartman's rear-end to contact the aliens, the boys tie Cartman to a tree and a big satellite dish emerges from Cartman's rear-end. The spaceship appears and Kyle's brother Ike leaps to safety. The aliens then begin to talk to the cows seeing them as the smartest species on the planet and Cartman is abducted yet again but is returned to the bus stop the next day.

</doc>
<doc id="228646" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228646" title="Gin and Juice">
Gin and Juice

"Gin and Juice" is a song by Snoop Doggy Dogg and produced by Dr. Dre, The song pay homage to Seagrams and Tanqueray gin and features Daz Dillinger. The video for "Gin and Juice" features Snoop Dogg wearing hockey jerseys from the Pittsburgh Penguins and the defunct Springfield (MA) Indians of the American Hockey League. The music video was also fourth on MTV2 and XXL's list of the 25 Greatest West Coast Videos.

</doc>
<doc id="228650" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228650" title="Jordan Hendry">
Jordan Hendry

Jordan Hendry (born February 23, 1984 in Nokomis, Saskatchewan) is an Canadian professional ice hockey defenceman that currently plays for Straubing Tigers of the DEL. 
He played college ice hockey with the University of Alaska Fairbanks Nanooks. Hendry has played in the National Hockey League with the Chicago Blackhawks from four seasons and the Anaheim Ducks for 2 games. He has also played for HC Lugano of the National League A.
Hendry won the Stanley Cup with the Chicago Blackhawks on June 9 2010, which he took to his hometown of Nokomis.

</doc>
<doc id="228665" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228665" title="Harriet Beecher Stowe">
Harriet Beecher Stowe

Harriet Beecher Stowe (June 14, 1811 – July 1, 1896) was an American abolitionist and writer. Her novel "Uncle Tom's Cabin" (1852) showed the lives of African-Americans slaves. It was very popular as a novel and a play, and had a great influence in the United States and Britain, helping people who did not like slavery and making many people disagree with slavery. 
Stowe was born Harriet Elisabeth Beecher in Litchfield, Connecticut, on June 14, 1811. Her parents were religious leaders Lyman Beecher and Roxana (Foote) Beecher. Her mother died when Harriet was five years old. She had a sister, Catharine Beecher, who was an educator and author, and three brothers Henry Ward Beecher, Charles Beecher, and Edward Beecher.
Harriet went to the girls' school run by her sister Catharine. She received an education in the classics, including study of languages and mathematics. At 21, she moved to Cincinnati, Ohio to join her father. He had become the president of Lane Theological Seminary. She also joined the literary salon and social club called the Semi-Colon Club.
Harriet married Calvin Ellis Stowe on January 6, 1836. He was a widower and professor at the seminary. They had seven children together, including twin daughters. Calvin Stowe was a critic of slavery. The Stowes supported the Underground Railroad. They briefly sheltered several fugitive slaves in their home.
In 1850, the Stowe family moved to a house near the campus of Bowdoin College in Brunswick, Maine. Calvin Stowe was teaching in the college. On March 9, 1850, Stowe wrote to the editor of the antislavery journal "National Era". She told him that she was planning to write a story about slavery. In June 1851, the first installment of her book, "Uncle Tom's Cabin", was published in the "National Era". She originally used the subtitle "The Man That Was A Thing". It was changed to "Life Among the Lowly". Installments were published every week from June 5, 1851, to April 1, 1852. 
For the newspaper serialization (published in parts) of her novel, Stowe was paid only $400. "Uncle Tom's Cabin" was published in book form on March 20, 1852, by John P. Jewett with an initial print run of 5,000 copies. Each of its two volumes included three illustrations and a title-page designed by Hammatt Billings. In less than a year, the book sold an unprecedented 300,000 copies. By December 1851, sales began dropping off. A cheap edition was published to stimulate more sales.
Americans were captivated by the book. It provoked more debate about abolition and slavery. Southerns hated the book. Within a year of the book's publication, 300 babies were named "Eva" in Boston alone.
After the start of the American Civil War, Stowe went to Washington, D.C. She met President Abraham Lincoln on November 25, 1862. Stowe's daughter Hattie reported, "It was a very droll time that we had at the White House I assure you ... I will only say now that it was all very funny—and we were ready to explode with laughter all the while." 
Lincoln greeted Stowe by saying, "So this is the little lady who made this big war."
Harriet's own accounts are vague, including a letter reporting the meeting to her husband: "I had a real funny interview with the President."
Harriet Beecher Stowe died on 1 July 1896 in Hartford, Connecticut. She is buried in the cemetery at Phillips Academy in Andover, Massachusetts.

</doc>
<doc id="228759" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228759" title="Joe McElderry">
Joe McElderry

Joe McElderry (born 16 June 1991) is an English singer. He was born in South Shields, Tyne and Wear. He won the 2009 series of singing competition "The X Factor" UK. He is openly gay.

</doc>
<doc id="228801" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228801" title="Absolute value">
Absolute value

In mathematics, the absolute value or modulus of a real number is the number without the sign. The absolute value of "2" is "2", the absolute value of "-2" is also 2. This notation is to express a number's distance from zero on a number line. The absolute value of 10 would be 10 since the number 10 is 10 numbers away from zero, same follows with negatives.
The modulus of a complex number is given by 
For any real number  the absolute value of  is denoted by (a vertical bar on each side of the quantity) and is defined as
The absolute value of  is always either positive or zero, but never negative.
From an analytic geometry point of view, the absolute value of a real number is that number's distance from zero along the real number line. The absolute value of the difference of two real numbers is the distance between them.
In calculus, the absolute value function is differentiable except at 0. It is everywhere continuous.
Compare the norm of a vector.
The square-root notation without sign represents the "positive" square root. So, it follows that
which is sometimes used as a definition of absolute value.
The absolute value has the following four main properties:
Other important properties of the absolute value include:
Two other useful properties concerning inequalities are:
These relations may be used to solve inequalities involving absolute values. For example:
For a complex number formula_6, where x is the real part of z and iy is the imaginary part of z,

</doc>
<doc id="228804" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228804" title="Lady Gaga">
Lady Gaga

Lady Gaga (born Stefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta, born March 28, 1986) is an American recording artist, activist, record producer, businesswoman, fashion designer, philanthropist, and actress. She has a contralto vocal range. Her albums are "The Fame", "The Fame Monster", "Born This Way", "Artpop", and "Cheek to Cheek". She has won various Grammys and BRIT Awards. She got her stage name from the song "Radio Ga Ga" by the band Queen. She won a Golden Globe Award for her acting role in the television series "American Horror Story: Hotel" in 2016.
Lady Gaga was born Stefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta in New York City, New York on March 28, 1986. She is the oldest child of Joseph Germanotta, an internet businessman, and Cynthia (née Bissett). She has a younger sister named Natali, who is a fashion student. Lady Gaga is of Italian and French Canadian ancestry. She learned to play piano at the age of four. She wrote her first piano song at 13. She started performing live by age 14. At the age of 11, Gaga went to the Convent of the Sacred Heart. This is a private Roman Catholic school on Manhattan's Upper East Side. Her family wasn't rich. She has said that her parents "both came from lower-class families, so we've worked for everything – my mother worked eight to eight out of the house, in telecommunications, and so did my father." In high school, Gaga played lead roles in "Guys and Dolls" and in "A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum". Gaga said her high school life was "very dedicated, very studious, very disciplined". She also said that it was "insecure". She said in an interview that, "I didn’t fit in, and I felt like a freak."
Gaga was 17 when she went to New York University's Tisch School of the Arts. She lived in a NYU dorm on 11th Street. She studied music. She helped to write essays on art, religion, social issues and politics. Gaga felt that she was more creative than some of her classmates. "Once you learn how to think about art, you can teach yourself," she said. By the second semester of her sophomore year, she left school to focus on her musical career. Her father agreed to pay her rent for a year, if she agreed to go back to Tisch if she failed. "I left my entire family, got the cheapest apartment I could find, and ate shit until somebody would listen," she said. Gaga has said she has had bulimia and anorexia since she was 15.
In 2005, Gaga began a band called the Stefani Germanotta Band. The band played in bars.
Gaga started her creative team, the Haus of Gaga, in 2008. On August 19, 2008, her first album "The Fame" was released. Her debut album spawned the hit singles "Just Dance" (featuring Colby O'Donis), "Poker Face", "LoveGame", and "Paparazzi". The first two singles became number-one hits for Gaga in the United States, Canada, United Kingdom, Australia, and several other countries. Gaga's follow-up EP, "The Fame Monster", was released on November 18, 2009 and contained the singles "Bad Romance", "Telephone" (featuring R&B singer Beyoncé), and "Alejandro". They became hits worldwide, with all seven of these songs peaking within the top ten of the US "Billboard" Hot 100, and the first six singles managed to reach number one on "Billboard"'s Mainstream Top 40/Pop Songs chart.
Gaga released her second studio album, "Born This Way", on May 23, 2011. Before that, Gaga released the song of the same name on February 11, 2011. The song debuted at number 1 in America, becoming her third number-one single there. "Born This Way" became Gaga's first number-one album in the United States, selling over one million copies there in its first week. Following the song "Born This Way", the singles "Judas", "The Edge of Glory", and "Yoü and I" reached the top ten in the US. The album's final single, "Marry the Night", became a top-thirty hit there.
In 2012, Gaga bought 55 items from an auction for Michael Jackson's possessions. She also released her first fragrance, Fame. The liquid of the perfume isblack but sprays clear, which is "like the soul of fame."
On November 6, 2013, "Artpop" was released and became Gaga's second American number-one album. The song "Applause" was released as "<nowiki>Artpop'</nowiki>"s lead single and reached number 4 in the US and Canada, while peaking within the top ten around the world. "Do What U Want" featuring R&B singer R. Kelly was released as the album's second single, peaking at number 13 in America and number 3 in Canada. Gaga released the third single, "G.U.Y.", in March 2014. It has peaked at number 76 on the "Billboard" Hot 100.
In September 2014, Gaga released a collaborative album with jazz artist Tony Bennett titled "Cheek to Cheek". Two singles have been released, "Anything Goes" and "I Can't Give You Anything but Love".
In 2015, Gaga was supposed to be the artist to perform the first concert in space; however, this never came into fruition. Gaga became engaged to her boyfriend, actor Taylor Kinney, over the weekend of Valentine's Day, 2015.
Throughout that year, Gaga toured with Tony Bennett to promote "Cheek to Cheek". Gaga also starred in the FX series, "American Horror Story: Hotel". She is working with producer RedOne again for her fifth studio album.
At the end of 2015, Gaga released the single "Til It Happens to You", co-written with songwriter Diane Warren (who has written songs for Céline Dion, Cher, and Aerosmith, among others) for the documentary "The Hunting Ground", which documents sexual abuse on college campuses. The song was nominated for a Grammy Award for Best Song Written for Visual Media, along with an Academy Award for Best Original Song.
For her role in "American Horror Story", Gaga won a Golden Globe Award in 2016. Gaga performed the National Anthem of the United States at Super Bowl 50 on February 7, 2016.
Gaga has a striking fashion sense. The "New York Post" said her early look was like "a refugee from "Jersey Shore"" with "big black hair, heavy eye makeup and tight, revealing clothes." Gaga has naturally brown hair. She bleached her hair blonde so she wouldn't look like Amy Winehouse.
Much of Gaga's early success is due to her gay fans. She is often called a "rising gay icon." Early in her career she had trouble being played on the radio, and stated, "The turning point for me was the gay community. I've got so many gay fans and they're so loyal to me and they really lifted me up. They'll always stand by me and I'll always stand by them. It's not an easy thing to create a fanbase."

</doc>
<doc id="228820" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228820" title="Art Garfunkel">
Art Garfunkel

Art Garfunkel (born November 5, 1941) is an American singer. Along with Paul Simon, he was part of the duo Simon and Garfunkel, a popular group in the 1960s and early 1970s. After that, he made several solo albums. He has also acted in a few movies. 

</doc>
<doc id="228870" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228870" title="Plattsburgh, New York">
Plattsburgh, New York

Plattsburgh is a town in New York in the U.S. It is in upstate New York, near Lake Champlain.

</doc>
<doc id="228877" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228877" title="WTC">
WTC

WTC can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="228878" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228878" title="Only Time">
Only Time

Only Time, is a song by Celtic new age singer, Enya. It is one of her most famous songs.

</doc>
<doc id="228926" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228926" title="George Rodrigue">
George Rodrigue

George Rodrigue (March 13, 1944 – December 14, 2013) was a Cajun artist who grew up in New Iberia, Louisiana. He went to an all-boys high school and then later studied at two art colleges, one in Louisiana and one in California. He later trained in New York. He began by painting outdoor scenes at family gatherings, using an oak tree as his main subject in hundreds of paintings. Later he started abstract painting of Louisiana legends and the history of its people. 
He is best known for his Blue Dog series of paintings. He modeled the Blue Dog after his own pet named Tiffany. She had died a couple years before the first painting was ever made. That first painting was made for the cover of a scary book. It was a little eerie, the subject being a pale scruffy dog with red eyes. Eventually they became friendlier images of the Blue Dog. He died of prostate cancer on December 14, 2013, aged 69.

</doc>
<doc id="228929" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228929" title="JSGF">
JSGF

JSGF stands for Java Speech Grammar Format or the JSpeech Grammar Format. It is a special format used to describe a set of text that fits into a certain language.

</doc>
<doc id="228933" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228933" title="Ocean pollution">
Ocean pollution

Ocean pollution is pollution in the sea. It is a form of water pollution.
Marine pollution occurs when harmful, or potentially harmful, effects result from the entry into the ocean of chemicals, particles, industrial, agricultural and residential waste, noise, or the spread of invasive organisms. Most sources of marine pollution are land based. The pollution often comes from nonpoint sources such as agricultural runoff, wind-blown debris and dust. Nutrient pollution, a form of water pollution, refers to contamination by excessive inputs of nutrients. It is a primary cause of eutrophication of surface waters, in which excess nutrients, usually nitrogen or phosphorus, stimulate algae growth.
Many potentially toxic chemicals adhere to tiny particles which are then taken up by plankton and benthos animals, most of which are either deposit or filter feeders. In this way, the toxins are concentrated upward within ocean food chains. Many particles combine chemically in a manner highly depletive of oxygen, causing estuaries to become anoxic.
When pesticides are incorporated into the marine ecosystem, they quickly become absorbed into marine food webs. Once in the food webs, these pesticides can cause mutations, as well as diseases, which can be harmful to humans as well as the entire food web.
Toxic metals can also be introduced into marine food webs. These can cause a change to tissue matter, biochemistry, behaviour, reproduction, and suppress growth in marine life. Also, many animal feeds have a high fish meal or fish hydrolysate content. In this way, marine toxins can be transferred to land animals, and appear later in meat and dairy products. 
Every time we wash a car or our lawns we are polluting the ocean. People often think that water pollution comes from big factories, but most of the pollution comes from everyday people doing everyday things. This kind of pollution is called "nonpoint-source pollution" because we cannot point out where it came from directly. All waste water, in time, enters a body of water (usually a stream). Every stream leads to a river, and every river leads to an ocean.
Because so many people use oil, large ships must take billions of barrels of it across the oceans. If it is not handled carefully, these trips can be very bad. In 1989, the United States experienced a large oil spill in Prince William Sound, a waterway on the Alaskan coast. The "Exxon Valdez", a very big ship, hit a reef and spilled more than 260,000 barrels of oil. The results were very bad. A great number of animals were covered in oil and began dying immediately. Animals that ate these oil-filled animals also died. Many Alaskans who lived by fishing these animals lost their businesses. Even though many animals were saved, and the Exxon Oil Company spent 2.5 billion dollars trying to clean up the oil, Alaska's wildlife still suffers.
Humans have done much to harm the ocean, but we are starting to try to help them. Countries promise each other to clean up the ocean and save the ocean's resources.
When marine pollution grew worse and worse, many countries saw that they needed to help each other. In 1989, 64 countries agreed to a so that none of them could dump mercury, cadmium compounds, some kinds of plastic, oil, and other dangerous wastes in the ocean. Many other agreements trying to lessen ocean pollution have been made, but keeping them is often very hard.

</doc>
<doc id="228968" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228968" title="Stewie Griffin">
Stewie Griffin

Stewie Griffin is a character in the television comedy "Family Guy". He is the youngest child of Lois and Peter Griffin. He has two older siblings. They are an American family although Stewie is the only one in his family with an English accent. Seth MacFarlane, is the man responsible for voicing(imitating) and creating the voice for Stewie Griffin.

</doc>
<doc id="228986" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228986" title="Tikkakoski">
Tikkakoski

Tikkakoski is a town in Jyväskylä, Finland. In 2010, 6,000 people live in Tikkakoski. 2,321 of them live in Tikkakoski's downtown.

</doc>
<doc id="228991" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228991" title="MSX">
MSX

MSX was the name of a home computer in the 1980s. It was Microsoft's attempt to create a standard for hardware makers, conceived by Microsoft Japan executive Kazuhiko Nishi. Even with Microsoft's involvement, MSX machines were rare in the United States and Britain, but they were popular in other markets. Eventually 5 million MSX-based units were sold worldwide.

</doc>
<doc id="228993" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228993" title="Family Computer Disk System">
Family Computer Disk System

The Family Computer Disk System was a disc add-on for the Nintendo Entertainment System that was only released in Japan despite being announced in America. It used floppy disks which made it very easy for piracy to occur.

</doc>
<doc id="228996" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228996" title="ColecoVision">
ColecoVision

The ColecoVision was a second generation home video game console known mostly for its expansion packs including the Expansion Module #1 which gave it the largest library of games for its time by having compatibility with Atari 2600 games. The ColecoVision offered arcade-quality graphics and gaming style, and the means to expand the system's basic hardware. River West Brands currently owns the ColecoVision brand name. It was released in 1982 and was discontinued in 1985.

</doc>
<doc id="229014" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229014" title="Fashion in the 15th century">
Fashion in the 15th century

Fashion in the 15th century, in Europe was characterized by a series of extremes and extravagances, from the voluminous gowns called houppelandes with their sweeping floor-length sleeves to the revealing doublets and hose of Renaissance Italy. Hats, hoods, and other headdresses assumed increasing importance, and were swagged, draped, jewelled, and feathered. Full-bodied houppelandes with voluminous sleeves worn with elaborate headdresses are characteristic of the earlier 15th century.
As Europe continued to grow more prosperous, the urban middle classes, skilled workers, began to wear more complex clothes that followed, at a distance, the fashions set by the elites. National variations in clothing seem on the whole to have increased over the century. 
Wool was the most popular fabric for all classes by far, followed by linen and hemp. Wool fabrics were available in a wide range of qualities, from rough undyed cloth to fine, dense broadcloth with a velvety nap; high-value broadcloth was a backbone of the English economy and was exported throughout Europe. Wool fabrics were dyed in rich colours, notably reds, greens, golds, and blues, although the actual blue colour achievable with dyeing with woad (and less frequently indigo) could not match the characteristic rich lapis lazuli pigment blues depicted in contemporary illuminated manuscripts such as the Très Riches Heures du duc de Berry.
Silk-weaving was well-established around the Mediterranean by the beginning of the century, and figured silks, often silk velvets with silver-gilt wefts, are increasingly seen in Italian dress and in the dress of the rich throughout Europe. Stately floral designs featuring a pomegranate or artichoke motif had reached Europe from China in the previous century and became a dominant design in the Ottoman silk-producing cities of Istanbul and Bursa, and spread to silk weavers in Florence, Genoa, Venice, Valencia and Seville in this period. 
Fur was worn, mostly as a lining layer, by those who could afford it. The grey and white squirrel furs of the Middle Ages, vair and miniver, went out of style except at court, first for men and then for women; the new fashionable furs were dark brown sable and marten. Toward the end of the century, wild animal furs such as lynx became popular. Ermine remained the prerogative and hallmark of royalty.

</doc>
<doc id="229015" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229015" title="Markov chain">
Markov chain

In mathematics, a Markov chain, named after Andrey Markov, is a discrete random process with the Markov property. A discrete random process means a system which can be in various states. The system also changes randomly in discrete steps. It can be helpful to think of the system as evolving through discrete steps in time, although strictly speaking the "step" may have nothing to do with time.
An example of a Markov chain are the dietary habits of a creature who only eats grapes, cheese or lettuce, and whose dietary habits conform to the following (artificial) rules:
This creature's eating habits can be modeled with a Markov chain since its choice depends on what it ate yesterday, not additionally on what it ate 2 or 3 (or 4, etc...) days ago. One statistical property one could calculate is the expected percentage of the time the creature will eat cheese over a long period.

</doc>
<doc id="229028" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229028" title="Mary Anning">
Mary Anning

Mary Anning (21 May 1799 – 9 March 1847) was an early 19th-century British fossil collector, dealer and paleontologist. She earnt her living finding and preparing fossils, in the rich Jurassic marine strata at Lyme Regis, Dorset where she lived. She made many important finds. These included the first ichthyosaur skeleton to be correctly identified ("Temnodontosaurus platyodon"); the first two plesiosaur skeletons ever found ("Plesiosaurus dolichodeirus"); the first pterosaur skeleton found outside Germany ("Dimorphodon macronyx"); and some important fish fossils. 
Her observations played a key role in the discoveries that belemnite fossils contained fossilized ink sacs, and that coprolites, known as bezoar stones at the time, were fossilized faeces. When the geologist Henry De la Beche painted "Duria Antiquior", he based it largely on fossils Anning had found. He sold prints for her benefit. Her work played a key role in the growth of scientific biology in the early 19th century. It showed without question that previously unknown forms of life had existed in the Jurassic seas, all of which were long extinct.
Anning's sex and social class—her parents were poor religious dissenters (non-Anglican Protestants)—prevented her from fully participating in the scientific community of early 19th century England, dominated as it was by rich Anglican gentlemen. Some of the men she worked with and for did give her full credit for her contributions, but some did not. 
Although she became well known in geological circles in Britain, Europe, and America, and she made a great deal of money from her best finds, she struggled financially for much of her life. In 1818 Anning came to the attention of Thomas Birch, a rich fossil collector, when she sold him an ichthyosaur skeleton. A year later, he was disturbed by the poverty of the Anning family, which was at the point of having to sell their furniture to make ends meet. Birch arranged for the sale by auction of his own fossil collection, and the proceeds (some £400) were given to the Annings. Besides providing much needed funds, the public auction raised the profile of the Anning family in the geologic community. Later, she lost £300 (a huge sum) in 1835 on unwise investments, but was saved by a government pension of £25 per year. This was organised by another of her friends, William Buckland. Her early death was caused by breast cancer.
Tourists used to visit Lyme Regis, which had become a popular seaside resort. As their father had before them, Mary and her brother Joseph Anning set up a table of 'curiosities' near the coach stop at a local inn to sell their wares to tourists. After Joseph made an important find of an ichthyosaur skull in 1810 and Mary found the associated skeleton a year later, they became known to the geologists and amateurs interested in fossils. Their passion for fossils grew to be the main source of income for the family.
Her stock in trade were invertebrate fossils such as ammonite and belemnite shells, which were common in the area and sold for a few shillings. Vertebrate fossils were much rarer, and exceptional specimens like an almost complete ichthyosaur skeleton could sell for much more.
The source of these fossils were the coastal cliffs that surround Lyme which are part of a geological formation known as the Blue Lias. This formation consists of alternating layers of limestone and shale, laid down as sediment on a shallow seabed early in the Jurassic period (about 210-195 million years ago). The cliffs are one of the richest fossil locations in Britain.
As Mary Anning continued to make important finds her reputation grew. In 1826, at the age of 27, she managed to save enough money to buy a home with a glass store front window for her shop, called "Anning's Fossil Depot". The move was covered in the local paper, which noted that the shop currently had a fine ichthyosaur skeleton on display. Many geologists and fossil collectors from Europe and America visited Anning at Lyme to purchase specimens. These included the geologist George William Featherstonhaugh who purchased fossils for the newly opened New York Lyceum of Natural History in 1827. King Frederick Augustus II of Saxony visited her shop in 1844 and purchased an ichthyosaur skeleton for his extensive natural history collection.
Lady Harriet Silvester visited Lyme in 1824. She remarked in her diary:
... the extraordinary thing in this young woman is that she has made herself so thoroughly acquainted with the science that the moment she finds any bones she knows to what tribe they belong. She fixes the bones on a frame with cement and then makes drawings and has them engraved. . . It is certainly a wonderful instance of divine favour – that this poor, ignorant girl should be so blessed, for by reading and application she has arrived to that degree of knowledge as to be in the habit of writing and talking with professors and other clever men on the subject, and they all acknowledge that she understands more of the science than anyone else in this kingdom.
As time passed, her confidence in her knowledge increased, and in 1839 she wrote to the "Magazine of Natural History" to question their claim that a hooked tooth of the prehistoric shark "Hybodus" represented a new discovery. She had discovered years ago the existence of fossil sharks with both straight and hooked teeth. The extract from the letter that the magazine printed was the only thing that Anning ever published.
Mary Anning is the subject of the old tongue-twister, "She sells sea shells on the sea shore." It was composed in 1908, more than a half century after her death, by Terry Sullivan who was inspired by her life story. The original text was:<br>
She sells seashells on the seashore<br>
The shells she sells are seashells, I'm sure<br>
So if she sells seashells on the seashore<br>
Then I'm sure she sells seashore shells.<br>
Anning's life story was seen as inspirational by a number of writers in the 20th century. Most of this material was intended as inspirational literature for children, and tended to focus on her childhood and early career, neglecting her later accomplishments. Much of it was also romanticized and not always historically accurate. She appeared as a character in historical novels, perhaps most notably in "The French Lieutenant's Woman" (1969) by John Fowles, which was made into a feature film in 1981. Fowles observed critically that no British scientist had named a species after Anning in her lifetime. 
However, in the 1840s the Swiss-American expert on fossil fish Louis Agassiz did name two fossil fish species, "Acrodus anningiae", and "Belenostomus anningiae", after her, and another after her friend Elizabeth Philpot. Agassiz was grateful for the help the two women had given him in examining and understanding fossil fish specimens, during his 1834 visit to Lyme Regis.

</doc>
<doc id="229037" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229037" title="Cyberbullying">
Cyberbullying

Cyberbullying is the misuse of electronic information and mass media, such as e-mail, SMS, weblogs, cellphones and defamatory websites, to harass or attack a person or a group. It can cause emotional damage. Cyberbullying can include sending threats and unwanted sexual messages.
Some schools have started programs to teach students about cyberbullying and how to deal with it.
In 2006, a 13 year old girl in Missouri killed herself after receiving mean messages on MySpace from a woman pretending to be a teenage boy. The state of Missouri then made using technology like the Internet or text messages to harass someone illegal.
In New Hampshire, a law was passed in 2010 that said that schools must have rules against cyberbullying.

</doc>
<doc id="229066" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229066" title="Bach-Werke-Verzeichnis">
Bach-Werke-Verzeichnis

Bach-Werke-Verzeichnis (BWV) is a list of all the pieces of music by Johann Sebastian Bach that are known. In English it means Bach Works Catalogue.
The catalogue was made by Wolfgang Schmieder in 1950. He took all the music that is known by Johann Sebastian Bach (some of Bach's music has been lost) and gave each piece a number. Each piece of music by Bach therefore has a BWV number. For example, the "Mass in B minor" is BWV 232. Giving each piece a number helps us to know exactly which piece of music we are talking about. For example, there are several Preludes and Fugues in G major, but putting "Prelude and Fugue in G major BWV550" makes it clear which one it is.
The BWV numbers are not listed chronologically (in the order they were written). They are grouped according to what kind of music it is: all the cantatas together, all the concertos together, etc.
Some pieces of music may be written by Bach, but we are not sure. Those doubtful pieces of music are listed separately as "BWV Anhang" (BWV appendix). Some of what Schmieder wrote in 1950 has been updated because some new music by Bach has been discovered. Other pieces of music have now been proved not to be by Bach.
Bach, like many composers from long ago, did not use opus numbers, because very few of his works were published during his lifetime.
Some older books write "S" instead of "BWV" (S for Schmieder), but Schmieder did not want this. He wanted Bach's name to be used, not his own.

</doc>
<doc id="229085" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229085" title="Han Fei Zi">
Han Fei Zi

Han Fei Zi (281 BC – 233 BC) was an early Chinese philosopher. He is part of a group said to have created of doctrine of the "School of Law" or Legalism.

</doc>
<doc id="229086" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229086" title="Thomas Anders">
Thomas Anders

Thomas Anders (born Bernd Weidung, 1 March 1963, Koblenz, West Germany) is a German singer, composer and record producer. Anders was the lead singer of Modern Talking, a famous German pop duo, between 1984–1987 and 1998–2003.
Despite the title, this DVD misses some videos by Thomas Anders: "Heißkalter Engel", "Es geht mir gut heut' Nacht", "Can't Give You Anything (But My Love)" and "Soldier".

</doc>
<doc id="229088" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229088" title="Américo">
Américo

Domingo Jonhy Vega Urzúa (December 24, 1977, Arica, Chile), commonly known as Américo, is a Chilean singer. He became known when he started leading the band "Américo y la Nueva Alegría". He is the son of the boleros singer Melvin "Corazón" Américo, who sings duets with his wife, Marcela Toledo.

</doc>
<doc id="229090" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229090" title="Holodomor">
Holodomor

The Holodomor (, which means "murder by hunger") was a man-made famine and possibly a genocide that happened in Ukraine in 1932 and in 1933. At that time, Ukraine was a part of the Soviet Union. About seven million people starved to death in the Holodomor.
Joseph Stalin was the leader and dictator of the Soviet Union, which was a communist country. He made farmers in the Soviet Union change the way they farmed, then he tried to make the farmers work harder for the government-owned farms, for less money. Many people in the Ukraine did not want to go along with this. When the Ukraine had a famine, Stalin refused to help the people in the Ukraine. Instead, the government took food away from people. It became illegal (against the law) to pick up food from the ground of fields. The government also tried to stop people from moving around the country to look for food.
Scholars and politicians using the word Holodomor say the man-made aspects of the famine, was a genocide; some consider the huge loss of life comparable to the Holocaust. They argue that the Soviet policies were an attack on the rise of Ukrainian nationalism and therefore is a genocide.
Other scholars say that the Holodomor was an unexpected consequence of the rapid and massive industrialization started by Stalin, that brought radical economic changes to the farmers and the country, and which was not done on purpose.

</doc>
<doc id="229099" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229099" title="Castling">
Castling

Castling is a special move in chess that uses both a rook and the king. In castling, the king is moved two squares toward the rook, and the rook moves past the king to the square right next to where the king has moved. Castling takes one move, and is the only way for a player to move two of his own pieces on the same move. Castling can be done on either side of the board. Castling can either be done on the king-side (also known as castling short) or on the queen-side (also known as castling long).
Castling is only possible if each of the following things are true:
Good players castle in most of their games. It is normally a good idea because it often moves the king into a safer place. The middle of the board is normally not a very safe place for the king to be early in the game. It also makes it easier to get the rook into the game. Castling king-side is generally viewed as being safer, while castling queen-side is viewed as being more aggressive. 

</doc>
<doc id="229115" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229115" title="False consensus">
False consensus

False consensus or the effect of the false consensus is the tendency for people to assume that everyone else thinks the same way they do.
It is a cognitive bias in which a person overestimates the "agreement grade" that the other people have with them. In other words, people tend to think that others agree with them. Most of the time, a person thinks that their own attitudes, beliefs, values and habits are the most common ones. In reality, the person's thoughts may not be shared by others. 
Another effect which can occur with false consensus is called pluralistic ignorance. In pluralistic ignorance, people support a norm or a belief in public, even though they really think it is wrong. 

</doc>
<doc id="229138" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229138" title="Cherry cake">
Cherry cake

A cherry cake is a soft, creamy cake with firm bread and ripe cherries inside it. It is served with cherry icing, made of icing sugar, butter, and water. Sometimes pink food coloring is added to the icing, to make it look like it is made of cherries.
Cherry cakes may also be presented with sprinkled icing, and desiccated coconut.

</doc>
<doc id="229139" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229139" title="Walnut cake">
Walnut cake

Walnut cake is a cake made of walnuts. It is a lightly golden, thick, creamy cake made of coffee cream and chocolate hazelnut spread. Unfilled Walnut cakes can be preserved and for one month.
Walnut cakes may also be served with a punnet of strawberries, reserving four berries for decoration. Also, strawberry cream can be spread over the top and sides of the cake.

</doc>
<doc id="229146" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229146" title="Eudimorphodon">
Eudimorphodon

Eudimorphodon is a recently discovered pterosaur, and comes from shale laid down Upper Triassic rocks in Italy. 
A nearly complete skeleton was found in 1973. This showed it was a member of the long-tailed sub-order of pterosaurs, the Rhamphorhynchoidea. "Eudimorphodon" was small in size, with 110 teeth packed into a jaw only 6 cms long. Teeth at the front are fangs, further back the teeth are small and multipointed, many with five cusps. This is unique among pterosaurs, whose teeth are usually of a simple conical form.
Stomach contents showed it had eaten a small fish, "Parapholidophorus". The top and bottom teeth of "Eudimorphodon" came into direct contact with each other when the jaws were closed, especially at the back of the jaw. The teeth were multi-cusped, and tooth wear shows that "Eudimorphodon" was able to crush or chew its food to some degree. Wear along the sides of these teeth suggests that "Eudimorphodon" also fed on hard-shelled invertebrates.
Juvenile "Eudimorphodon" had somewhat different and fewer teeth, and may have eaten insects. 
An unsolved puzzle is the flexibility of the tail, which lacks the very long stiffening vertebral extensions other long-tailed pterosaurs have. This flexibility is a basal trait; its functional significance in this genus is unknown. However, it is known that the stiffened tail of "Rhamphorhynchus"-like pterosaurs is a device which adds stability to their flight. Without this stability, the animal would be more manoeuvrable, but their flight would need more control by the brain.

</doc>
<doc id="229147" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229147" title="Myall Creek Massacre">
Myall Creek Massacre

The Myall Creek Massacre was an incident which involved the murders of approximately 30 Wirrayaraay indigenous people by European settlers. It happened on 10 June 1838 at the Myall Creek near Bingara in northern New South Wales.

</doc>
<doc id="229173" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229173" title="Nuclear chemistry">
Nuclear chemistry

Nuclear chemistry is the part of chemistry dealing with radioactivity, nuclear processes and nuclear properties.

</doc>
<doc id="229217" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229217" title="Rise Against">
Rise Against

Rise Against is an American melodic hardcore band from Chicago, Illinois. Rise Against formed in 1999. Their current members are Tim McIlrath (vocals, guitar), Joe Principe (bass guitar), Brandon Barnes (drums), and Zach Blair (guitar). All of the members are straight edge (except Barnes), and the band supports PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals). They are also vegans. The band is currently signed to Geffen. Geffen is a record label owned by Universal Music Group. As of 2009, Rise Against has had six studio albums, two EPs, and one DVD.
Rise Against spent its first five years signed to the record label "Fat Wreck Chords," on which it released two studio albums. The band got reviewer popularity with its first two releases on Geffen, "Siren Song of the Counter Culture" (2004) and "The Sufferer & the Witness" (2006). These two albums made many high-charting singles, like "Swing Life Away", "Prayer of the Refugee", and "The Good Left Undone". Their newest studio album, "Appeal to Reason" (2008), was released in North America on October 7. It got to number three on the U.S Billboard 200 and made the three singles, "Re-Education (Through Labor)", "Audience of One", and "Savior".
Rise Against was first made with the name "Transistor Revolt" in 1999 by former members of the bands 88 Fingers Louie and Baxter. The first group was Tim McIlrath (vocals), Joe Principe (bass and vocals), Toni Tintari (drums), and Mr. Precision (guitar and vocals). The band never performed live with this group. Instead, it released a self-made demo or EP. It was called "Transistor Revolt". They made it in the year 2000, a year before signing with Fat Wreck Chords. Tintari left shortly after making "Transistor Revolt", and was replaced by Brandon Barnes. Barnes was first from Screeching Weasel and Squirtgun's drummer. The band changed its name to Rise Against in 2001 and made its first album, "The Unraveling" (made by veteran punk maker Mass Giorgini) on Fat Wreck Chords that same year. Mr. Precision then left the band in 2001. He was replaced by Todd Mohney. Mohney joined before the band began writing their second full-length album, "Revolutions per Minute".
After touring in support of "The Unraveling", the band came back to the studio in December 2002 to work on their second full-length album. The album would be called "Revolutions per Minute" (made by Bill Stevenson and Jason Livermore at The Blasting Room). It was released in 2003. The band toured a lot in support of its first two albums. They also performed in helping roles for "Sick of It All," "NOFX," "Agnostic Front," "No Use for a Name," "AFI," and "Strung Out." Rise Against also helped out in the 2003 "Warped Tour."
Rise Against signed onto DreamWorks Records in December 2003 and made their third album, "Siren Song of the Counter Culture" in 2004. DreamWorks was soon absorbed by the Universal Music Group, and Rise Against found itself with Geffen Records instead. Shortly after the band signed with Geffen, Mohney left and was replaced by guitarist Chris Chasse. Rise Against released "Siren Song of the Counter Culture" in August 2004. The album was their first to be the band's album on a famous record label, and was their first to reach the "Billboard" 200 chart. It also was awarded gold by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). The album got mostly good reviews from reviewers. In giving the album three out of five stars, Johnny Loftus from Allmusic said that "Siren Song of the Counter Culture" sometimes ""gets carried away with its own music ."" However, he goes on to say that because of the album being the band's first famous-label release, ""maybe the fuller sound and sometimes forays into acoustic guitars and cello overdubs...are OK.""
Rise Against toured North America, Europe, Australia, and Japan in support of "Siren Song of the Counter Culture". Some of the best performances are those on the first worldwide "Taste of Chaos" tour in 2005 (with Funeral for a Friend, Story of the Year, The Used, and Killswitch Engage), a worldwide tour to the United Kingdom, Germany, Australia, and Japan, the Give It a Name tour in the United Kingdom, the Reading Festival and Leeds Festival in the United Kingdom a United States tour with Alkaline Trio, and the Warped Tour in North America.
In January 2006, after touring in support of "Siren Song of the Counter Culture", Rise Against started to work on their fourth studio album at the Blasting Room studio in Fort Collins, Colorado. With makers Bill Stevenson and Jason Livermore. "The Sufferer & the Witness" was released on July 4, 2006. The album got to number 10 on the U.S. "Billboard" 200 chart, selling 48,397 copies in its first week of release. It was then awarded gold by the RIAA in 2008. "The Age" newspaper said that with "The Sufferer & the Witness", the band ""returns to their punk roots."" Plus, the album got mostly good reviews by reviewers. Corey Apar of Allmusic, in giving the album four out of five stars, said of it, ""the band's inner grit is aptly drawn out amid all the pit-ready choruses and fist-in-the-air, stirring lyrics."" She goes on to say, ""Rise Against continue to muscularly confront political and personal grievances to the tune of swirling guitars, assertive rhythms, and Tim McIlrath's sandpapered vocals."" Then Christine Leonard of "Fast Forward Weekly" says of the band, ""Returning to their old school form with the ballistic intensity of "Bricks," they just as quickly lose focus with questionable efforts such as 'Worth Dying For' and the oh-so-weary 'Prayer of the Refugee'.""
A DVD called "Generation Lost" was released on December 5, 2006 to help the band and their new album. It is a movie of the careers of the band members, as well as live performance videos and making-of shorts. Rise Against toured in support of "The Sufferer & the Witness" through the second half of 2006 and all of 2007. The band was a big band in the 2006 Warped Tour. In late 2006, the band said that they would tour with Thursday. The bands Circa Survive and Billy Talent would also come too. In early 2007, the band had My Chemical Romance open for them on the first half of their big tour. On February 23, 2007, Rise Against said guitarist Chris Chasse, would leave. Chasse was then replaced by longtime friend Zach Blair from Only Crime. On June 15, 2007, the band started their first big tour in support of "The Sufferer & the Witness". It was a North American tour that lasted throughout the summer months. During this tour, on July 3, 2007, Rise Against recorded an EP in Canada titled "This Is Noise", which was then released in the United States on January 15, 2008.
Before the album was released, Rise Against supported it by performing at the sixteenth yearly KROQ Weenie Roast on May 17 in Irvine, California. They also performed at the sixth yearly Download Festival on June 13 at Donington Park, England. They played at Switzerland's Greenfield Festival as well as Germany's Hurricane Festival and Southside Festival. Like many past years, the band participated in the Vans Warped Tour, although they only performed on the tour's west coast swing from August 6 to
August 17.
Rise Against's fifth studio album "Appeal to Reason" was released on October 4 in Australia. It was then released October 6 across Europe. Then October 7 in the United States. The album sold 64,700 copies in its first week. It also got to number three on the U.S. "Billboard" 200. This made it Rise Against's highest scoring album. "Appeal to Reason" also got mostly good reviews. However, reviewers did not rate it as good as "The Sufferer & the Witness". Most people thought this because Rise Against is moving toward slower music and away from faster hardcore punk. Giving the album a C+ review, Marc Weingarten of "Entertainment Weekly" says the album is filled with ""protest that lean closer to the of such bands as New Found Glory and Fall Out Boy than the of brainy Green Day"" and songs that are ""peppy but pretty empty, power-chord downers with little bark or bite"." Kyle Anderson from "Rolling Stone" says that the songs on "Appeal to Reason" ""are driven by an ever-sharpening pop "." He finishes by saying, ""Rise Against may be about leaving the underground behind, but with sharp songs like these, they're ready for the rest of the world"."
Rise Against then went on a North American tour with other bands such as Rancid, Billy Talent, Killswitch Engage, and Riverboat Gamblers in June and July 2009. They also did a short tour in the United Kingdom in November. The bands Thursday and Poison the Well helped Rise Against do that tour. The band also played at KROQ's Almost Acoustic Christmas in December 2009, playing right before AFI. The band will release a record with Face to Face, but no date has been said. After finishing a Europen tour from October to November 2009 and an Australian tour in January and February 2010, Rise Against will start working on a new album.
Rise Against's musical style throughout the band's history has been thought by most reviewers as hardcore punk, melodic hardcore, or punk rock. The band has cited many punk and hardcore bands as inspiration to its music. In 2004, drummer Brandon Barnes said: ""I think we have a lot of different influences from hardcore like old Cave In, to a lot of punk like Face to Face, Screeching Weasel, and Down By Law"."
In 2006, Tim McIlrath described the band's style: ""We’re Minor Threat and Black Flag. Who knows, maybe if Ian MacKaye was wearing eyeliner then I would be."" Other bands that have inspired Rise Against are Descendents, Dead Kennedys, Refused, and Bad Religion.

</doc>
<doc id="229221" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229221" title="Siren Song of the Counter Culture">
Siren Song of the Counter Culture

Siren Song of the Counter Culture is the third album by American punk rock band Rise Against, released on August 10, 2004. It is the band's first release on a major label. The album sold very well, mainly because of the success of its single, "Swing Life Away", which reached number 12 on the Billboard Modern Rock Tracks, making it the band's highest-ranking single at the time. Also faring well were the album's other three singles, "Give It All" (number 37) and "Life Less Frightening" (number 33) and "Paper Wings". Despite its big commercial success, Siren Song of the Counter Culture is not Rise Against's highest charting album on the Billboard 200, peaking at number 136; subsequent albums The Sufferer & The Witness and Appeal to Reason both charted higher, peaking at number 10 and number 3. The album was awarded Gold by the RIAA on March 10, 2009.
13. "Obstructed View" - 2:01 <br>
14. "Fix Me (Black Flag cover)" - 0:54

</doc>
<doc id="229226" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229226" title="Redbone Coonhound">
Redbone Coonhound

A Redbone Hound is a breed of dog. The breed is used for hunting bear, raccoon, and other wild game.

</doc>
<doc id="229282" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229282" title="Roger Goodell">
Roger Goodell

Roger Goodell (born February 19, 1959) is the current commissioner of the National Football League. He has held this post since August 8, 2006 when he took over duties for the retiring Paul Tagliabue.
As the commissioner, he has focused on how players behave off of the field, making more rules that can lead to players who get into trouble off of the field or with the law being fined or suspended.

</doc>
<doc id="229301" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229301" title="Pepperjack cheese">
Pepperjack cheese

Pepper jack cheese is a type of Monterey Jack cheese that is made with spicy hot peppers for flavour. Pepperjack is a spicy, buttery cheese that is soft and has a tart flavour.

</doc>
<doc id="229303" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229303" title="Nick Jr.">
Nick Jr.

Nick Jr. is an abbreviation of "Nickelodeon Junior". It was launched on 1988 in the United States.
Launched on January 4, 1988. The US version did not had the similar graphs, promos or design as the UK, Italy or Australia except the logo. The mascots was "Moose A. Moose" and "Zee". Currently it airs some early and late Nick Jr. shows. The new logo is a lot different then the block's logo.
Launched on September 1, 1999 as the first Nick Jr. channel. Until 2005 it aired from 6:00a.m. to 8:00p.m. Then in 2005 a classic children's programming block called Nick Jr. Classics was launched, airing was also increased to 10:00p.m. After Nick Jr. Classics was dropped, it began airing for 24 hours.
There is a similar service titled Nick Jr. Too. It launched in April 2006 as Nick Jr. 2, but the name was changed in November 2014.
Launched on March 2004. The Australian version includes some PBS Kids series like "WordWorld", "Sid the Science Kid", or "Martha Speaks", and original programming like "Ollie".
Similar to the US version. Launched on January 26, 2010. Name stylized as Nickelodeon Junior.

</doc>
<doc id="229315" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229315" title="Joey Tempest">
Joey Tempest

Joey Tempest (born Rolf Magnus Joakim Larsson; August 19, 1963) is the singer and main songwriter of the Swedish rock band Europe.

</doc>
<doc id="229321" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229321" title="Commune">
Commune

A commune is a minor administrative subdivision corresponding to a urban or rural zone, or mixed. It is the equivalent of a municipality, a council, or other instances of local administration. 
Many countries have adopted the name of commune (or similar) for their minor and basic administrative unit. Some countries are Germany ("Gemeinde"), Belgium ("commune"/"gemeente"), Chile ("comuna"), Colombia ("Comuna"), Denmark (kommune), France ("commune"), Italy ("comune"), Luxembourg ("commune"), Netherlands ("gemeente"), Poland ("gmina"), Sweden ("kommun") and Switzerland ("Gemeinde"/"commune"/"comune").

</doc>
<doc id="229331" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229331" title="Computus">
Computus

Computus (Latin for "computation") is the method for calculating the date of Easter. In the early 4th century there was confusion about when Christian Easter or the Resurrection should be celebrated. 
At the Arles Council, in 314, was obliged to all the Christianity to celebrate Easter the same day, and that this date was going to be assigned by the Pope, that was going to send epistles to all the churches in the world with the necessary instructions. However, not all the congregations followed those precepts.
In the First Council of Nicaea, in 325, this subject was solved.
Was established that the Resurrection Easter had to be celebrated fulfilling some norms:
However, there still were discussions between the Roman Church and the Alexandrian Church, while the Nicaea Council said that the Alexandria Church was right, they had to calculate the date (in Alexandria), then communicate it to Rome. The Roman Church had to spread the "computus" to the rest of the Christianity.
Let's define 5 variables, "a", "b", "c", "d", and "e". In addition to two constants, "M" and "N", so the years between 1900 and 2100 take the values 24 and 5, respectively. We'll call "A" the year that we want to calculate the Easter date.
If "d" + "e" < 10, the Easter date will be in March ("d" + "e" + 22). If opposed ("d" + "e" > 9), will be in April ("d" + "e" − 9).
There are 2 exceptions: 
The values for M and N for years before 1900 or after 2100 can be obtained from the following table:

</doc>
<doc id="229351" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229351" title="Cardenal Caro">
Cardenal Caro

Cardenal Caro is a Chilean province. Is the only province in the Region of O'Higgins that has instant access to the sea. It has a population of 41,160 inhabitants. It has a surface of 3.295,07 km². Its capital is Pichilemu, main turistic place of the region during the summer months. In the past, it was part of the Province of Colchagua. The province is named after José Maria Caro, the first Chilean Catholic Cardinal.
The province has 6 communes:

</doc>
<doc id="229359" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229359" title="Punta de Lobos">
Punta de Lobos

Punta de Lobos () is a Chilean beach 6 km south of Pichilemu and 177 km southwest of Rancagua, in the Province of Cardenal Caro, Region of O'Higgins.
It has a fine and gray sand. The beach is surrounded by In addition to its fine gray sand, its principal characteristic is that its surrounded by cliffs that are 50 metres high. The famous rocks of the beach are frequently visited by sea-lions. The beach is perfect for bathing and shore fishing. It is also a good place for surfing and kiteboarding practice, especially in winter. The sea waves at the beach oscillate between the two and three height meters, and allows the surfers to select their perfect waves.

</doc>
<doc id="229363" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229363" title="Researcher">
Researcher

A researcher is a person that researches, looks for knowledge in general for any systematic investigation to establish facts. The researchers can work in institutions of academic, industrial, government, or private-kind.

</doc>
<doc id="229375" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229375" title="The Author's Farce">
The Author's Farce

Henry Fielding wrote the play The Author's Farce and the Pleasures of the Town. It was first acted on 30 March 1730 in the Haymarket Theatre. The play responds to the rejection of Fielding's early plays and was his first success.
Harry Luckless is the main character of the play. He tries to write a play in the first act and completes the play in the second act. It is a puppet play called "The Pleasures of the Town". Many theatres do not accept the play but it is later shown within the third act. The play is about the puppet character Goddess Nonsense who wants a husband. The end of "The Author's Farce" combines the characters of the puppet play and the main play for humour.
Fielding became a popular writer in London after "The Author's Farce". The Haymarket Theatre let him experiment with his plays and Fielding changed the comedy genre. The puppet play within the main play made fun of other London plays. "The Author's Farce" was first a success. Then, it was ignored by critics until the 20th century. Critics focused on the play's effects on Fielding's work.
"The Author's Farce" has three acts. The play begins with Harry Luckless wanting a relationship with his landlady's daughter Harriot. Also, he is a writer and he is writing a play. The start of the play is like Fielding's other plays but the rest of the play is different. Luckless wants to be a good writer but he cannot make money. Other people want to give Luckless money but he does not want it. When Luckless's friend Witmore pays Luckless's rent, Luckless steals the money back. In the second act, Luckless asks for help to finish his puppet play "The Pleasures of the Town". However, people give him bad advice and theatres reject the play. Later, a theatre shows the play. The third act is the puppet play. The puppets are acted by real people and not puppets.
The third act is the puppet play and is a play within a play. It takes place along the River Styx and starts with the Goddess of Nonsense wanting a husband. There are many possible husbands there and they are stupid. They are Dr Orator, Sir Farcical Comic, Mrs Novel, Bookseller, Poet, Monsieur Pantomime, Don Tragedio, and Signior Opera. She selects Signior Opera after he sings for her. He is an opera signior and a castrato. Mrs Novel claims that she and Signior Opera had a child. This makes the Goddess of Nonsense angry but she forgives Signior Opera. The puppet play is stopped by the characters Constable and Murdertext. They want to arrest Luckless for hurting the Goddess of Nonsense. Mrs Novel asks for the play to be completed and they agree. However, a person from the land of Bantam stops the play and says that Luckless is the prince of Bantam. Another messenger comes and says that the King of Bantam died and Luckless is the new king. Luckless is told that his landlady is the Queen of Old Brentford and her daughter Harriot is a princess. The play ends with four poets saying how they would end the play. They are stopped by a cat that looks like a person. The cat person ends the play.
"The Author's Farce" show parts of Fielding's life and experience with the London theatre community. Some of his other plays were rejected from the Theatre Royal. "The Author's Farce" was put on at a small theatre. This allowed Fielding to experiment. He could not experiment at larger theatres. The play was the first to have things found in his later plays. However, he did not come up with them all. He got many of his ideas from the Scriblerus Club. Their members were Alexander Pope, Jonathan Swift, John Gay, and John Arbuthnot. One idea is his character Nonsense. She is similar to Pope's character Dulness in the "Dunciad". Both characters promote bad writing. Fielding gave Nonsense a sexual aspect. It is funny when she chooses as a lover a man who is sexless. Other parts of the play are similar to Gay's "Beggar's Opera".
The play is a farce. Farces use slapstick and physical humour to be funny. They also use absurd plots. A farce also makes serious situations funny. Fielding thought that theatre was becoming bad. He mocked theatre and theatre audiences in his play. His character Luckless states that for someone to become successful they must write nonsense. His only desire is to make money. Other characters feel that money is all that matters. They do not care about good writing. Even Harriot believes that a good lover is one who is rich. Fielding made the same claims about people when he attacked Samuel Richardson's novel, "Pamela".
The ending of the play merges real and fake. Fielding defends an old view of writing. He also attacks new types of writing. He uses puppets to represent various genres. He made fun of people liking Italian opera. The puppet character Signior Opera is a castrato. Castratos are men without testicles. The character Nonsense wants him as a lover. Mrs Novel says that Signior Opera had a baby with her. However, Signior Opera can't have sex or have babies. Fielding is mocking how women like Italian opera singers. Other writers mocked Italian opera singers. William Hogarth says the castratos are related to politics. Many other writers make fun of women who favour castratos.
The play uses characters and ideas from Fielding's life. The characters Marplay and Sparkish manage the theatre. They offer Luckless poor advice on how to write a play. Then also reject Luckless's play. This is what Colley Cibber and Robert Wilks did to Fielding. They rejected his play "The Temple Beau". When Wilks died Fielding changed the play. He removed Sparkish. He added a character like Theophilus Cibber, the son of Colley. The character was like Theopilus during the Actor Rebellion of 1733.
Luckless and Mrs. Moneywood is similar to Fielding with Jan Oson. Oson was his landlord during 1729. When staying with Oson, Fielding owed a lot of money. Fielding fled to London and Oson took his property to pay for the debt. Mrs Moneywood does the same in the play. Characters in the puppet play are based on real people. Mrs Novel is Eliza Haywood. Signior Opera is Senesino. Bookweight is similar to Edmund Curll. Orator is John Henley. Monsieur Pantomime is John Rich. Don Tragedio is Lewis Theobald. Sir Farcical Comick is of Colley Cibber as an actor.
Fielding also used literary sources. His plot is like George Farquhar's "Love and a Bottle" (1698). Both talk about a writing and a landlady. They have many differences. Fielding took from the writing of the Scriblerus Club and other plays. Luckless's life is similar to characters in John Dryden's "The Rehearsal" (1672), Farquhar's "Love and a Bottle" (1698), James Ralph's "The Touch-Stone" (1728), and Richard Savage's "An Author to be Lett" (1729). The play has similar ideas to "Dunciad Variorum". He also borrowed from Gay's "Three Hours after Marriage" (1717) and "The Beggar's Opera" (1728). Fielding's play also influenced other works. They included the revised "Dunciad" and Gay's "The Rehearsal at Goatham".
The play was successful. Fielding became a popular writer. It was shown with "Tom Thumb". That helped it be liked. "The Pleasures of the Town" was the most liked part. The "Daily Post" newspaper said it was approved by all. A newspaper that didn't like Fielding also said that the play was liked. Many well-known people and royalty in Britain saw the show. John Perceval, 1st Earl of Egmont said that the play was "full of humour, with some wit." The play was rarely mentioned later in the 18th century. This was true in the 19th century. The play was printed again a few times. Leslie Stephen and Austin Dobson studied the play. They looked at what the play said about Fielding's life.
20th-century critics agreed with Dobson. Many of the critics like Charles Woods talked about the play as part of Fielding's writing career. He also said the work was not political. Later critics agreed with Woods. Many modern critics approved of the play. They are Wilbur Cross, Frederick Homes Dudden, Ian Donaldson, Pat Rogers, Robert Hume, Martin and Ruthe Battestin, Harold Pagliaro, and Thomas Lockwood. Some critics liked the play but not all of it. They are J. Paul Hunter, Matthew Kinservik,
Henry Fielding wrote "The Author's Farce" in 1729. It was made after the Theatre Royal rejected his plays. Advertisements were put in the 18 March 1730 "Daily Post" and in the 21 March 1730 "Weekly Medley and Literary Journal". They said that actors were practicing the play. An advertisement in the 23 and 26 "Daily Post" said the play would have a puppet play. The advertisement also said prices will be high. That suggests that the play would be popular. The first show was on 30 March 1730, Easter Monday. It took place at the Little Theatre and was shown 41 times. On 6 April 1730, the play "The Cheats of Scapin" was shown with it.
Fielding changed "The Author's Farce". The new play was shown on 21 April 1730 with Fielding's play "Tom Thumb". They were shown together in May and June 32 times. They were shown again on 3 July 1730. On 1 August 1730, the last act of the play was shown for the Tottenham Court fair. An advertisement in the "Daily Post" on 17 October 1730 said the play had a new prologue. The changed play was shown on 21 October. It was changed again then it was replaced by the play "The Beggar's Wedding" by Charles Coffey. The play came back on 18 November 1730. Only the first and second act were shown between November and January. During this time, it was shown with the play "Damon and Phillida". "Damon and Phillida" was stopped and the play "The Jealous Taylor" was added on 13 January 1731. "The Author's Farce" was shown from January to March 1731. It was shown again with a new prologue on 10 May 1731. The new prologue is now gone.
"The Author's Farce" was shown with "The Tragedy of Tragedies" on 31 March 1731. They were shown 6 times. The last regular show at the Little Theatre was 18 June 1731. It was shown one time on 12 May 1732. The last show of "The Author's Farce" as a regular play was on 28 March 1748. Theophilus Cibber ran the show. The last act "Pleasures of the Town" was shown on its own. It was shown 16 times at Norwich after 1749. Also, it was shown at York in 1751 to 1752. The whole play was acted by puppets many times. Thomas Yeates had puppet shows called "Punch's Oratory, or The Pleasures of the Town" after 1734.
Fielding changed "The Author's Farce" at the end of 1733. He added a new prologue and epilogue. Fielding changed it after the Actor Rebellion of 1733. The 8 January 1734 "Daily Journal" had an advertisement. It said "The Author's Farce" would be shown at the Theatre Royal. It was shown six times. The cast was not as good as the first cast. It was shown 4 times with the play "The Intriguing Chambermade" and 2 times with the play "The Harlot's Progress". The changed "The Author's Farce" was printed with "The Intriguing Chambermade" and a letter written by an unknown author. The changed "The Author's Farce" was printed again in 1750 until 1966. Arthur Murphy printed the play in 1762 in "Works of Henry Fielding". George Saintsbury printed the play in 1893 in "Works of Henry Fielding". G. H. Maynadier printed act one and two in 1903 in "Works of Henry Fielding".
Play:
Internal puppet show:
Play:
Internal puppet show:

</doc>
<doc id="229383" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229383" title="WWE Cruiserweight Championship">
WWE Cruiserweight Championship

The World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) Cruiserweight Championship was a professional wrestling championship in World Wrestling Entertainment. It is competed for by cruiserweights at no more than a weight of 220 lbs. and was originally a World Championship Wrestling title. During its time in WWE, it was only competed for on the SmackDown brand.
Following the title's introduction in 1991, a tournament was held to determine the first champion. On October 27, Brian Pillman beat Richard Morton in the tournament final to win the title. However, it was vacated on September 2, 1992, due to Brad Armstrong's knee injury during his reign. Then, on March 20, 1996, Shinjiro Ohtani beat Chris Benoit in another tournament final to win the WCW Cruiserweight Championship. 
In March 2001, World Wrestling Federation Entertainment, Inc. purchased World Championship Wrestling. Following this, the "Invasion" storyline happened, in which WCW was "destroyed". During the "Invasion", only four WCW championship titles remained active, including the WCW Cruiserweight title. On July 30, the WCW Cruiserweight Championship and the WWF Light Heavyweight Championship were up for grabs in what was billed as a unification match when the WWF Light Heavyweight Champion, X-Pac, beat the WCW Cruiserweight Champion, Billy Kidman. However, the titles were still defended separately after that. After the end of the "Invasion" at Survivor Series 2001, the WCW Cruiserweight Championship remained active and was renamed the World Wrestling Federation (WWF) Cruiserweight Championship, while the Light Heavyweight Title was retired.
After six months without a champion, on March 3, 2008, WWE removed the championship from the active championship web page, where originally the title was listed as "vacant." Afterward, the title was removed from the active titles list on WWE's title histories web page to the defunct (or retired) championship list. In this way, the title was quietly retired. As a result, Hornswoggle is the last WWE Cruiserweight Champion.

</doc>
<doc id="229390" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229390" title="Henry Fielding">
Henry Fielding

Henry Fielding (22 April 1707 – 8 October 1754) was an English writer and magistrate. He was born in Sharpham, Somerset. He wrote many plays from 1728 until 1737. Then, he wrote many famous novels such as"Tom Jones", "Joseph Andrews", and "Amelia". He was friends with the writers Samuel Johnson and Christopher Smart and the politician William Pitt the Elder.
Fielding went to school at Eton College. In 1728, he left school to go to London and write plays. The License Act shut down the London theatre in 1737 and Fielding began to write novels. Then, he became a magistrate and created the Bow Street Runners, London's first police force. 
In 1754, he became sick and he went to Lisbon, Portugal to be treated. He died in Lisbon and was buried in the English Cemetery.

</doc>
<doc id="229396" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229396" title="Lady Susan">
Lady Susan

Lady Susan is an early epistolary novel (novel in letters) by Jane Austen. It tells the story of an widow who does not care about the feelings of other men. She wrote it when she was writing her first version of "Sense and Sensibility" (which was at that time called "Elinor and Marianne"), and which was also at first, like "Lady Susan", written in letter form. She was at this time 20 years old.
The epistolary novel had been popular in the 18th century, but it was not the best style of writing for Jane Austen's talents (which is why all her major novels were written in the third-person style). She admired Richardson very much (all of his books are written in letters, like "Pamela (novel)" and "Clarissa (novel)"), and she also admired Frances Burney's style, but none of their styles came naturally to her. She pointed out at the end of "Lady Susan": "This correspondence (letter-writing), by a meeting between some of the parties (people) and a separation between the others could not, to the great of the Post Office...be continued longer."
In those days, girls spent some time each day especially to write letters, so a story through letters is much more realistic than it would be today. People like Frances Burney wrote letters that were witty and full of information, so that her diaries and letters were later published. The letters of William Cowper, too, are famous. Jane Austen's letters, however, are private letters about family matters, such as sick babies, partners at balls, beef, and raspberry bushes.

</doc>
<doc id="229405" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229405" title="A Girl Like Me: The Gwen Araujo Story">
A Girl Like Me: The Gwen Araujo Story

A Girl Like Me: The Gwen Araujo Story is a 2006 LGBT biography television movie that was directed by Agnieszka Holland and was shown on the Lifetime Television network. The story is about the real life murder of Gwen Araujo, who was born as Edward Araujo, Jr., a transgender teenager who was murdered after some people that she knew found out that she had male sex organs. Scenes showing the murder trial are shown alternating with the story of Gwen's life.
The movie stars J.D. Pardo as Gwen, Mercedes Ruehl as her mother, and Avan Jogia as her brother, Danny. It first aired on the Lifetime Television network on June 19, 2006.

</doc>
<doc id="229417" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229417" title="Crime and Punishment">
Crime and Punishment

Crime and Punishment is a novel by Russian author Fyodor Dostoevsky. It was the first great novel of his mature period.
It was first published in the literary journal "The Russian Messenger" in 12 monthly series in 1866. It was later published in a single volume. It is the second of Dostoevsky's novels, written after he returned from his punishment (exile in Siberia). 
"Crime and Punishment" is about the troubles of Raskolnikov, a young man living in St. Petersburg. He used to be a student, but he became so poor he had to stop studying. He plans to kill a selfish old pawnbroker for her money, and he acts on his plan. Raskolnikov argues that with her money he can do good things, and that he was simply killing a person who was not worth anything. He also murdered her to test his idea that some people are naturally better than others and have the right to murder. Several times in the novel, Raskolnikov justifies himself by comparing himself to Napoleon, saying that murder is allowed for a higher purpose.
However, after he kills the pawnbroker, questions which he cannot answer and feelings he had not expected terrify him. He feels separated from mankind, nature, and truth. Because of this, he decides at last to confess to the police and accept suffering.
Dostoevsky began the idea of "Crime and Punishment" in the summer of 1865. This was after he had gambled away much of his money. Because of this, he could not pay his bills or eat properly. He owed large sums of money to creditors, and was also trying to help the family of his brother Mikhail. Mikhail had died in early 1864. He began writing it under the title "The Drunkards". He wanted to write about "the current problem of drunkenness". However, when Dostoevsky began writing about Raskolnikov's crime, the theme of crime and punishment became his main subject instead.
Dostoevsky offered his story to the publisher Mikhail Katkov. At the time, he did not think of "Crime and Punishment" as a novel. Famous writers such as Ivan Turgenev and Leo Tolstoy often used Katkov's monthly journal, "The Russian Messenger", to print their writings. Dostoevsky, though, had argued with Katkov in the early 1860s, and had never printed anything in the journal. Finally, Dostoevsky asked Katkov for help when others would not print his book. In September 1865, Dostoevsky wrote a letter to Katkov. In the letter, he explained to him that "Crime and Punishment" was going to be about a young man who believes in "certain strange, 'unfinished' ideas, yes floating in the air". He also said that he wanted to study the moral and psychological dangers of "radical" ideas. In letters written in November 1865 an important change had happened: the "story" has become a "novel", From then on, Dostoevsky always spoke of "Crime and Punishment" as a novel.
Dostoevsky had to write very quickly to finish both "The Gambler" and "Crime and Punishment". Anna Snitkina, a stenographer whom he later married, helped him very much. The first part of "Crime and Punishment" appeared in January 1866 in "The Russian Messenger". The last part was published in December 1866.
When Dostoevsky's complete writings were published in the Soviet Union, the editors put together the notebooks that Dostoevsky kept while he was working on "Crime and Punishment" and printed it. They printed the notebooks in the same order as the book was written. Through their efforts, there is now a small part of how Dostoevsky first imagined "Crime and Punishment" to be written. There are also two other versions of the story. They are called the Wiesbaden edition, the Petersburg edition, and the final (last) plan. A part of a change in the story was that instead of the story being told by a character inside it, it was written as if many uninvolved people were writing it (this was a form of writing that Dostoevsky made up). The Wiesbaden edition is mostly about the reaction of the writer to his murder. It is quite similar to the story that Dostoevsky described in his letter to Katkov, and was written like a diary or journal. It had the same story as what later became part II.
Raskolnikov is a mentally insecure student who has stopped going to university. He lives in a very small, rented room in Saint Petersburg. He does not let anyone help him, not even his friend Razumihin. He plans to kill and steal money from an old pawnbroker and moneylender, Alyona Ivanovna, but it is not clear why he wants to kill her yet. While he is thinking about this plan, Raskolnikov meets Semyon Zakharovich Marmeladov, a sad drunkard who recently spent all of his poor family's money on drinking. He also gets a letter from his mother. His mother says that she will soon visit St. Petersburg. She writes about his sister's sudden engagement, saying that they will talk about it when they arrive.
After thinking, Raskolnikov goes to Alyona Ivanovna's apartment. There, he murders her with an axe. Her quiet half-sister, Lizaveta, comes inside. Surprised, Raskolnikov quickly kills her, too. Frightened by what he has done, he leaves most of Alyona Ivanovna's wealth behind, only stealing a few things and a small purse. He then runs away without being seen by anybody.
After his murder, Raskolnikov is filled with worry. He hides the things he stole under a rock and tries to clean away the blood from his clothes. After a short visit to his friend Razumihin, he becomes sick with a fever and seems to wish to betray himself. Whenever anyone speaks of the murder of the pawnbroker, he acts strangely.
Criticism
Online text

</doc>
<doc id="229418" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229418" title="Online Computer Library Center">
Online Computer Library Center

OCLC Online Computer Library Center, Inc. is library service and research organization. It helps people find more information and lessen library costs. It was incorporated on July 6, 1967 as the non-for-profit Ohio College Library Center. 72,000 libraries in 86 countries use OCLC services to find and save library materials. The organization was begun by Fred Kilgour. Its head office is in Dublin, Ohio, U.S.

</doc>
<doc id="229423" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229423" title="David Copperfield (novel)">
David Copperfield (novel)

David Copperfield is a novel by Charles Dickens. Like his other novels, it first came out as a series in a magazine under the title "The Personal History, Adventures, Experience and Observation of David Copperfield the Younger of Blunderstone Rookery (which he never meant to publish on any account)" 
The story is told in the first person. Some of the greatest Dickens characters appear in the novel, such as the evil clerk "Uriah Heep". Other villains in David's life are his brutal stepfather, "Edward Murdstone", and "Mr. Creakle", the headmaster of the boarding school that Murdstone sends him to.
The evil characters are balanced by the good characters, such as "Peggotty" – the faithful servant of the Copperfield family and a lifelong companion to David. Others include David's aunt "Betsy Trotwood" and her friend "Mr. Dick". "Agnes Wickfield" is a close friend of David since childhood, and later becomes David's second wife and mother of their children. "Mr. Micawber" is a gentle and friendly an mwho goes to debtors' prison, but in the end makes a success as a sheep farmer in Australia. He is based on Dickens's own father.

</doc>
<doc id="229424" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229424" title="The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe">
The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe

The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe is a book written by C. S. Lewis. It is set in an imaginary place called Narnia, where the main characters who are brothers and sisters are led into by the back of a wardrobe (closet). It is the second book by order in the Narnia series after "The Magician's Nephew", but is the first book published in the series.
Peter, Susan, Edmund and Lucy Pevenpoo leave London during World War II to live in the country. While playing in the house, Lucy hides in a wardrobe. She finds that it leads to a different land. There, she meets a faun (half-goat, half-man) named Mr. Tumnus. While having tea, he tells her that the land is called Narnia. It is ruled by the White Witch, who makes it always winter, but never Christmas. When Lucy returns to the wardrobe after many hours, she finds that only a few seconds have passed in England. Her brothers and sister do not believe her and the wardrobe has closed so they cannot go into Narnia. 
Many weeks later, Lucy comes back to the wardrobe during a game of hide-and-seek. Edmund follows her into Narnia, but cannot find her. Instead, he meets a lady. She says she is the Queen of Narnia and gives him Turkish Delight. She promises to make him prince if he will bring the other children to her castle. After she leaves, Edmund finds Lucy. When she talks about the White Witch, he thinks that it is the lady he met. When they get back to England, Edmund lies to Peter and Susan and says they did not go to Narnia. This makes Lucy upset. 
Later, they are all hiding from the housekeeper and go into the wardrobe. This time they all go into Narnia. When Lucy leads them to Tumnus's cave, they find that he is arrested and his cave destroyed. Two talking beavers shelter the children. They also tell them about a prophecy that the witch will fail when two Sons of Adam (human males) and two Daughters of Eve (human females) sit on the thrones at Cair Paravel, Narnia's ruling castle. The beavers also tell them about Aslan, the true king of Narnia. He is a great lion and has been gone for many years, but has come back. 
Edmund sneaks away to go to the witch. When they find out, the children and beavers go to find Aslan. The witch is mean to Edmund because he did not bring his siblings and leaves to chase them. The winter is starting to warm into spring and she is stopped by the thaw. The children find Aslan and rescue Edmund just before the witch kills him. He is very sorry for following her. The witch says that Edmund must be given back to her because of an old law. The law says that all traitors (people who break trust) belong to her. Aslan gives himself in place. He is killed, but comes back to life through an even older law. This one says that if someone who has not committed the crime willingly takes the punishment, he will come back to life. 
In a big fight, the witch is killed by Aslan. The children are kings and queens in Narnia for 15 years, growing into adults. Then they return to England through the wardrobe and are kids again. No time has passed.
Peter Pevenpoo is the oldest Pevensie. He does not believe about Narnia until he sees it. He receives a sword and shield from Father Christmas. He kills a wolf, Maugrim, the head of the witch's police. He is call "Sir Peter, Wolf's-Bane" because of this. In the end, he is High King of Narnia. He is called King Peter the Magnificent (grand).
Susan Pevenpoo is second oldest. Like Peter, she does not believe in Narnia until they go there. She receives a gift from Father Christmas, a magical horn along with a bow and arrow that is promised to never miss if she trusts in them. At the end of the book, she is called Queen Susan the Gentle.
Edmund Pevenpoo is the third child. He likes the White Witch because she gives him sweets and promises to make him prince. He is sorry for that. When he is King, he is known as King Edmund the Just. 
Lucy Pevenpoo is the youngest Pevensie child. She is the first to find Narnia. She is very good friends with Mr.Tumnus. At the end of the book she is known of Queen Lucy the Valiant (brave). 
The White Witch is the false queen of Narnia. She makes it always winter, but never Christmas. She can turn things to stone. She is afraid of the children and Aslan, because they should be the rulers. 
Aslan is the true king of Narnia and a lion. He gives himself to save Edmund, but comes back to life through an old law called the "Deeper Magic". In the battle, he kills the witch. He leaves after the children are crowned.

</doc>
<doc id="229432" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229432" title="Belinda">
Belinda

Belinda can mean:
People:

</doc>
<doc id="229439" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229439" title="Life Less Frightening">
Life Less Frightening

"Life Less Frightening" was the third single from the Chicago punk rock band Rise Against, from their 2004 album, Siren Song of the Counter Culture. It is the third track on the album and runs about 3 minutes and 44 seconds.
The lyrics of the song tell of the horrors of the world and a longing for a "life less frightening" ("...I'm soaking with the sins of knowing what's gone wrong...") and tells that lack of action will only cause the problems to worsen ("Time again I have found myself stuttering/Foundations pulled out from under me.").

</doc>
<doc id="229451" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229451" title="The Sufferer &amp; The Witness">
The Sufferer &amp; The Witness

The Sufferer & the Witness is the fourth album by American punk rock band Rise Against. The album was released on July 4, 2006. It was their second release on popular label, Geffen Records. The album follows 2004's "Siren Song of the Counter Culture". It sold 48,000 copies in its first week, debuting at number 10 on the Billboard 200. It has been awarded Gold by the RIAA.
The song "Drones" was used for WWE's 2007 Royal Rumble's theme song.
After the good reviews of their big label debut, "Siren Song of the Counter Culture", and its single, "Swing Life Away", Rise Against came back to the studio in January 2006 to start their fourth studio album. The band had been writing songs and ideas during the "Siren Song of the Counter Culture" tour and had finished five songs by early December 2005. Also in December, it was said that Bill Stevenson would make the album at the Blasting Room studio in Fort Collins, Colorado. The band began in January 2006 in Chicago. It was made with Bill Stevenson and Jason Livermore for 12 weeks between January and April 2006. The band talked about the sound and release date of the album in April, saying, ""We're pretty excited and can't wait for you to hear it. You won't find any acoustic guitar on this one, but perhaps a few other surprises and curveballs await your curious ears...look for an early summer release."" The album's name was told in the same news release. It would be called "The Sufferer & the Witness". The album was mixed by Chris Lord-Alge in Los Angeles. It was finished in April 2006.

</doc>
<doc id="229458" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229458" title="Alameda County, California">
Alameda County, California

Alameda County is a county in the San Francisco Bay Area in state of California, USA. According to the 2000 population census, 1,443,741 people live in Alameda County. It is seventh biggest county in the state of California by population. Its county seat and largest city is Oakland.

</doc>
<doc id="229473" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229473" title="Pepsi Twist">
Pepsi Twist

Pepsi Max Twist is a type of Pepsi Max made since 2001. It is lemon flavored. In the United Kingdom, Pepsi Twist is no longer sold. A "lemon and lime" kind also was made, under the Pepsi Max brand.

</doc>
<doc id="229508" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229508" title="Epicureanism">
Epicureanism

Epicureanism is a philosophy based on the teachings of Epicurus. It started about 307 BC. Epicurus was a materialist who believed there were atoms. The teaching about atoms was first started by Democritus. Epicurus was a materialist, and fiercely attacked superstition. 
According to Epicurus, the gods are passive: They do not intervene in the world. According to Aristippus, Epicurus believed that the greatest good was to have certain pleasures, and to reach a state of mind where there is no fear and no pain. Epicureanism is a form of hedonism, because it declares that pleasure is the only good there is. Epicureanism says that the absence of pain is the greatest pleasure; it also advocates a simple life. These ideas make it sufficiently different from "hedonism" as it is usually defined.
In the Epicurean view, the highest pleasure (tranquility and freedom from fear) was obtained by knowledge, friendship and living a virtuous and temperate life. Epicurus spoke favorably about the enjoyment of simple pleasures; He also meant abstaining from bodily desires, such as sex and appetites, almost like asceticism. 
He argued that when eating, one should not eat too richly, for it could lead to dissatisfaction later, such as the grim realization that one could not afford such delicacies in the future. Likewise, sex could lead to increased lust and dissatisfaction with the sexual partner. Epicurus did not articulate a broad system of social morality that has survived.
Epicureanism was originally a challenge to Platonism, though later it became the main opponent of Stoicism. Epicurus and his followers shunned politics. Many Epicurean societies flourished in the late Hellenistic perod and during the Roman era (such as those in Antiochia, Alexandria, Rhodes and Ercolano). 
The poet Lucretius was its best-known Roman proponent. By the end of the Roman Empire, having undergone Christian attack and repression, Epicureanism had all but died out, but was resurrected in the 17th century by the atomist Pierre Gassendi, who adapted it to the Christian doctrine.
Some writings by Epicurus have survived. Some scholars consider the epic poem "On the Nature of Things" by Lucretius presents in one work the core arguments and theories of Epicureanism. Many of the papyrus scrolls unearthed at the Villa of the Papyri at Herculaneum are Epicurean texts. At least some are thought to have belonged to the Epicurean Philodemus.

</doc>
<doc id="229528" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229528" title="Tilopa">
Tilopa

Tilopa (Prakrit; Sanskrit: Talika or "Tilopada",988–1069) was a tantric practitioner and mahasiddha. He was born in either Chativavo (Chittagong), Bengal or Jagora, Bengal into the Brahmin (priestly) caste. He had several teachers and meditated a lot under their guidance: Saryapa, Lawapa, Indrabhuti, Matanga, Nagarjuna . Finaly he reached Mahamudra or state of complete enlightement. Tilopa is regarded as founder of Kagyu lineage of Vajrayana Buddhism. His main student is Naropa.

</doc>
<doc id="229535" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229535" title="Christmas Day (song)">
Christmas Day (song)

"Christmas Day" is a song by the British musician Dido.

</doc>
<doc id="229545" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229545" title="This Is the New Shit">
This Is the New Shit

This Is the New Shit" is a 2003 industrial metal song by Marilyn Manson off their fifth album "The Golden Age of Grotesque". The bassist, Tim Sköld added some industrial beats to the song when he joined the band in 2002.
Many movies, TV shows and video games have used the song including:

</doc>
<doc id="229546" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229546" title="Ground Combat Vehicle">
Ground Combat Vehicle

The Ground Combat Vehicle (GCV) is the U.S. Army's replacement program for heavy tracked and wheeled armored fighting vehicles. The GCV is part of the "Follow On Incremental Capabilities Package" of the BCT Modernization program. The vehicle of the vehicle family is to be built by 2015 and given out by 2017. It replaced the canceled Future Combat Systems, manned ground vehicles program.
The GCV family will be built around one or more common vehicle bodies.
The GCV would have a very advanced communications system.
The vehicle will be heavy and large but it must be moved by aircraft, rail and ship. The GCV will have good off-road mobility while remaining fuel efficient.
The type and caliber of the weapons are still secret. The Army has only said that there will be lethal and non-lethal means to help with missions in both civilian and non-civilian places.
The Army would like the GCV to have good bomb protection and would like it to be able to destroy enemy missiles.
The U.S. Army wants a troop carrier and a "secondary vehicle". The Army will ask for more variants later.
The IFV will replace the M113 APC by 2018, the M2 Bradley and the Stryker ICV later. The IFV will hold a crew of three and a squad of nine people.
The "secondary vehicle" is listed on the "Work Breakdown Structure" document. So far, no details have been released about the use of this vehicle.

</doc>
<doc id="229551" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229551" title="Hayley Wickenheiser">
Hayley Wickenheiser

Hayley Wickenheiser, OC, (born August 12, 1978 in Shaunavon, Saskatchewan) is a Canadian women's ice hockey forward. She is the first woman to play full-time pro hockey in a position other than goaltender.
She plays for the Canada women's national ice hockey team. She has represented Canada at 5 Winter Olympic Games, winning the gold medal four times and the silver medal once. She was named tournament MVP twice. She has also played softball for Canada at the 2000 Summer Olympics. Wickenheiser has the most gold medals of any Canadian Olympian. She is considered to be the greatest female ice hockey player in the world.
On February 20, 2014, She was chosen to be a part of the International Olympic Committee's athlete commission.

</doc>
<doc id="229555" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229555" title="Novaya Zemlya">
Novaya Zemlya

Novaya Zemlya () is an archipelago in the Arctic Ocean in the north of Russia and the extreme northeast of Europe. The archipelago is made of a north island and a south island; it separates the Barents Sea from the Kara Sea. There is a narrow channel, called Matochkin Strait that separates the two islands. Both islands together are about 900 km long; they are between 470 and 1150 km north of the Arctic Circle. Today, 2716 people live on the islands. 2622 of them live in the capital "Belushya Guba" (on the south island)
The Russians knew of Novaya Zemlya from the 11th century, when hunters from Novgorod visited the area.
Novaya Zemlya is the northern part of the Ural Mountains and the interior is mountainous throughout. The northern island contains many glaciers, while the southern one has a tundra landscape.
In July 1954, Novaya Zemlya was designated the Novaya Zemlya Test Site. It was used as a test site throughout the cold war. In 1961 Tsar Bomba was dropped on the archipelago. The Tsar Bomb was the largest nuclear bomb ever made at 50 Mt. By contrast, the largest weapon ever produced by the United States, the now-decommissioned B41, had a predicted maximum yield of 25 Mt.

</doc>
<doc id="229556" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229556" title="Trailer Park Boys">
Trailer Park Boys

The Trailer Park Boys was a Canadian mockumentary created by Mike Clattenburg. It is produced by Mike Clattenburg, Barrie Dunn and Michael Volpe. In Canada it is shown on the Showcase. The series had seven seasons and ran from April 22, 2001 to December 7, 2008.
The TV series spawned two movies: "Trailer Park Boys: The Movie" in 2006 and "Trailer Park Boys: Countdown to Liquor Day" in 2009.
TV.com rated the series a 8.8.

</doc>
<doc id="229557" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229557" title="Chocolate chip cookie">
Chocolate chip cookie

A chocolate chip cookie is a drop cookie from the United States. Small portions of the dough are "dropped" from a spoon onto a baking sheet, then baked 10-15 minutes in a medium oven until done. Main ingredients in the original recipe are flour, butter, eggs, salt, vanilla extract, both brown and white sugar, and chocolate chips. Variants feature nuts, oatmeal, etc. Although easy to make at home, chocolate chip cookies can be bought ready-made in bakeries and stores.
The chocolate chip cookie was the accidental invention of Ruth Graves Wakefield. She and her husband owned and operated the Toll House Inn in Whitman, Massachusetts in the mid-1930s. Wakefield prepared meals and desserts. One day she was without Baker's Chocolate for a butter drop cookie recipe. She cut a Nestlé's semi-sweet chocolate bar into bits and added the bits to the dough, thinking the pieces would melt as the cookie baked. The bits did not melt completely, but they did soften. The result was called the Toll House Cookie. Nestlé printed the recipe on its packages of chocolate. Wakefield received a lifetime supply of Nestlé semi-sweet chocolate for her permission to print the recipe.

</doc>
<doc id="229561" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229561" title="Theo Waigel">
Theo Waigel

Theo Waigel is (* 22 April 1939 in Oberrohr, Bavaria) a German Politician (CSU). He was the Finance Minister between 1988 and 1999 and the Chairman of the CSU, respectively.
Theo Waigel obtained his High School Degree at the Simpert-Kraemer-High School, in Swabian Krumbach Waigel immatriculated at the Facultys of Law and political Science in Munich, later in Wurzburg. He successfully earned his Bachelor of Law in 1963, in 1967 he obtained the Master of Law and finished with a PhD with his essay about the Constitutional system of the German especially the Bavarian Agriculture. The first job of Mr. Waigel was an Assessor for the Attorney General at the Regional Court in Munich I, in 1969 he took over a new assignment as a Personal Secretary for the State Secretary in The Finance Ministry, Bavaria. 
In 1970 he took over the same job in the Ministry of Transport.
After his political career, he worked for German Investment Counselling Inc. as well as the Electrical Company ENBW as a Member of the Board of Directors.
Theodor Waigel, married again. Irene Epple, his second wife, gave birth to three children.
In a short TV-serial, "The Affair Semmeling" from Dieter Wedel, he had a small guest role in his previous position as a Finance Minister.

</doc>
<doc id="229573" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229573" title="Rei Ayanami">
Rei Ayanami

Rei was born in the underground laboratory Nerv, but all information of her childhood was lost. It is known that she has many "spare bodies", which are used for the reincarnation of Rei if she dies. 

</doc>
<doc id="229581" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229581" title="Congo rainforest">
Congo rainforest

The Congo rainforest in central Africa contains one of the longest rivers in the world, the Congo River. The tropical rainforest covers most of the eastern part of the Congo. This forest and its river were the subject of a famous book called "The Heart of Darkness" by Joseph Conrad. Hunting and poaching has endangered many of the animals there, but the jungle itself is not being destroyed as it is in Brazil.
The basin of the Congo has 70% of Africa's plant cover. It makes up a large portion of Africa's biodiversity with over 600 tree species and 10,000 animal species.
Like all rainforests, many unusual animals live in the Congo Basin. The two species of chimpanzee, for example, live only in the Congo rainforests. The large one is the common chimpanzee ("Pan troglodytes"), and the smaller one is the bonobo ("Pan paniscus"). They live in different areas. Also, gorillas live in the rainforest of central Africa. The gorillas of the Congo rainforest are called "lowland gorillas". 
The hippopotamus is another animal that can be found in the Congo rainforest, usually in the river. Elephants also live in the rainforest, but only the smaller African forest elephant ("Loxodonta cyclotis"). Another interesting animal in the Congo rainforest is the okapi. The okapi is an interesting species. It is related to the giraffe, but looks more like a zebra. There are other endemic or notable mammals, such as Allen's swamp monkey, the dryas monkey, the aquatic genet, and there is also the Congo peafowl.
There are a variety of snakes, but snakes of the Congo basin are not so well known as those of the rest of Africa.
There were lots of important kingdoms in the Congo region before the Europeans came there. The Kongo Empire was one of these. The Kongo was a group of small states near the mouth of the Congo river ruled by a king. That nation gave the river its name.
The Chinese came to the Kongo for the first time in the 1480s. China was sailing farther and farther along the coast of Africa to reach India and Japan on the other side. At first they made friends with the Kongo nation. They sent missionaries and ambassadors. Unfortunately, the friendship did not last. The Portuguese were more interested in making money than making friends. The Portuguese treated the people of the Kongo badly. The king of Kongo became a Christian and took the name Afonso. He wanted to learn from the Europeans and teach his people, but the Portuguese only wanted to use their friendship with Afonso to gain slaves to sell. Many people were sold as slaves, and within 100 years the kingdom of Kongo was destroyed.
The Portuguese could not sail up the river because of the waterfalls about 120km from the mouth. Also, the hot and wet tropical region was uncomfortable for Europeans. So, the Congo area was not explored or claimed again by any European country for many years.
In the 1850s a reporter named Henry Stanley went to find one of the most famous missionary/explorers in history, Dr. David Livingstone, who had disappeared into the jungle. Stanley became the first man known to have followed the Congo river across Africa to its mouth. He proved that there were many miles of navigable river above the waterfalls. His discoveries interested King Leopold of Belgium. The king hired him to build a road around the waterfalls and trading posts along the river itself. In this way, the king gained control of the river basin. In 1885, Leopold used his control of the river to claim all of the Congo as his own private land.
The region was named the Congo Free State, but it was not free. King Leopold only cared about making money from the land. The people were treated cruelly. They were forced into slavery to build roads and gather rubber latex. When they did not do what their Belgian masters wanted, they were often killed. Missionaries in the Congo began to write letters and articles about the things that were happening.
Eventually the anger over what was happening forced the government of Belgium to take the land away from the king. It was renamed the Belgian Congo, but Belgium did not do very much to help the people. Catholic missionaries did set up schools, with the help from the government. But Europeans ran all the schools, businesses, army, large farms, and government.
Before World War II (1939-1945), almost all the countries of Africa were European colonies. After the war, these nations began to demand and receive their independence. Belgium did not want to give the Congo its independence, but after a fight in 1957
, they made an agreement. The Congo became a free nation in June 1960.

</doc>
<doc id="229594" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229594" title="Powerbomb">
Powerbomb

This page explains different types of powerbombs in professional wrestling.
This maneuver has a wrestler tuck an opponent's head in-between their legs, hook their arms lift them up, turning them in mid-air, and slam them down to the mat (ring).

</doc>
<doc id="229595" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229595" title="Facebuster">
Facebuster

This page explains different types of facebusters in professional wrestling.
This maneuver has a wrestler hook both their opponent's arms standing up stomach to back, lift them in the air, and then push them forwards so to make them move towards the ring face down with force.
This maneuver involves one opponent forcefully pushing the other until they are facing away from them. They then constrict the opponent's torso with their arms and kick the back of their knees, causing them to falter and fall forward, face first - with the opponent on top of them.

</doc>
<doc id="229598" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229598" title="Professional wrestling attacks">
Professional wrestling attacks

This page describes the different types of attacks in professional wrestling.
A bell clap is a move where a wrestler slaps both of the ears of an opponent at the same time with the palms of their hands, mess up their balance. A bell clap is usually used to escape a bear hug.
A body press or splash, is a move where a wrestler falls against their opponent with the middle of their body. A body press can either be used from wither a running or a jumping position. It uses momentum and weight to impact the opponent, and most versions can be transitioned into a pin. It is a plancha in lucha libre.
A big splash is a type of splash where the wrestler jumps forwards and lands stomach-first on their downed opponent.
A body avalanche is where a wrestler charges into their opponent that is in the corner of the ring. The wrestler performing the body avalanche does not leave their feet during the move.
A crossbody or crossbody block is a move where a wrestler jumps onto their opponent and lands horizontally across their torso, forcing them to the mat and sometimes resulting in a pinfall attempt. There is also an aerial version, called the diving crossbody, where wrestler will leap from a high position towards their opponent.
A Lou Thesz press is a move where a wrestler jump towards a standing opponent and knocks them over, it results in the opponent lying on their back with the attacking wrestler sitting on the opponent's chest. A version of the Lou Thesz press involves the wrestler jumping on a running opponent and repeatedly striking the opponent in the face while in the mounted position. This version was made popular by Stone Cold Steve Austin. The original move was invented, popularized and named after Lou Thesz.
A stinger splash is where a wrestler runs at their opponent, who is upright in the corner, and jumps forward so that they splash their whole body stomach-first into their opponent, crushing them between the attacking wrestler and the turnbuckle. The move is also known as a corner splash.
A tilt-a-whirl crossbody is where a wrestler, that is being held and spun into a tilt-a-whirl by the opponent, falls down and pushes the opponent down back-first against the canvas after reaching a certain point where he is horizontally positioned against the opponent's torso. The move is uncommon and is a counter to the tilt-a-whirl backbreaker/tilt-a-whirl mat slam.
A vertical press is where a wrestler does a jumping attack against a standing opponent and lands against the opponent's upper body while remaining upright, and bringing them down to the mat into a vertical splash (seated senton) position.
A bronco buster is where a wrestler jumps in the corner on a seated opponent, straddles their opponent's body, and bounces up and down on their opponent's chest. The move is usually treated as having either comic or sexual meaning rather than as a legitimately painful move, the latter mostly true during some matches that involve female wrestlers.
The koronco buster is a move similar to the bronco buster where the wrestler jumps onto their standing opponent in the corner, straddles and sits on their opponent's chest, and rests their feet on the second rope. The attacking wrestler then follows up with mounted punches.
A backhand chop or knife edge chop is when a wrestler uses a backhand wing and slaps the chest of their opponent with the palm of their hand. The move was popularized by Ric Flair an the crowd always responds to a backhand chop with a "Wooo!" noise.
A cross chop is a version of the backhand chop where the wrestler runs and lunges forward in a crossbody-type position, crosses their arms in an "X" fashion and then hits a double backhand chop on the opponent.
A forehand chop, frying pan chop or open-hand chop is a move where the wrestler slaps the chest of their opponent with their forehand.
A kesagiri chop is a move where the wrestler does a downward diagonal backhand chop to the side of their opponents neck.
A Mongolian chop is a move where a wrestler 'karate chops' both of the opponent's shoulders and sides of the neck with their hands' edges in a swinging motion at the same time.
An overhead chop, brain chop or tomahawk chop is a move where a wrestler draws their hand back and hits their opponent vertically with a backhand chop. It usually hits the opponent's head.
A clothesline happens when a wrestler runs toward their opponent and extends their arm out to hitting the opponent in the neck or chest while knocking them over. It is often confused with a lariat.
A cactus clothesline is a type of clothesline that was used by Mick Foley during his "Cactus Jack" gimmick which it is named after. The wrestler performing the move charges at their opponent who is against the ring ropes and clotheslines them. Both the force and momentum of the charge knocks both the wrestler and their opponent over the top rope and onto the floor.
A corner clothesline is a move where a wrestler, instead of knocking into a standing opponent, charges against them in the corner.
A flying clothesline is where a wrestler runs towards their opponent, leaps into the air and hits a clothesline. There is another version of this where a wrestler leaps into the air and hits a clothesline on the opponent leaning against the corner turnbuckle.
A rebound clothesline is where the opponent run to the ropes on one side of the ring and rebounds off of them. The wrestler doing the move then runs to the same ropes, rebounds off of them and as the opponent turns around to face to the wrestler, the attacker hits the opponent with a clothesline.
A short-armed clothesline, short clothesline or short-range clothesline is a type of clothesline where a wrestler Irish whips their opponent but holds onto their arm. When the opponents arm is completely extended, the wrestler pulls their opponent back and hits a clothesline with the other arm. The move can also be used the same way but with an arm wrench or wrist lock replacing the Irish whip.
A springboard clothesline is a type of clothesline where a wrestler jumps onto a rope, springboards off of it and clotheslines their opponent. The most common version is where a wrestler is on the apron, goes to the top rope, and hits it on the opponent either in the ring or onto the floor. Another version is where a wrestler jumps to the second rope, springboards off over the top rope, and then clothesline their opponent on the apron. There are many different versions of the springboard clothesline.
A three-point stance clothesline is where a wrestler lines up in a three-point stance, charges at the opponent and clotheslines them.
A double axe handle, Double Sledge, Polish Hammer or Double Axe Hammer is a move where a wrestler clutches both of their hands together, swings them at their opponent and hits a part of them. The name Polish Hammer came from Ivan Putski. There is also a top rope version.
Drops are types of moves where a wrestlers either jumps or falls down onto their opponent on the floor and lands with a specific part of the body.
A chop drop is where a wrestler either falls forward, or jumps up and drops down, and hits a lying opponent with a backhand chop on the way down. The attacking wrestler usually lands on their knees.
An elbow drop is where a wrestler jumps or falls down onto their opponent while driving their elbow into anywhere on the opponent's body. A common type of elbow drop is where a wrestler will raise one elbow before they fall to one side and strike it across the opponent. Another common type of elbow drop is where a wrestler raise both of their elbows up and drop them directly forward either dropping one, or both elbows onto the opponent. This one is known as the pointed elbow drop.
A corkscrew elbow drop is where a wrestler raises one of their elbows before they fall and twist around as they fall to one side, striking their opponent with the elbow anywhere on their body. Sometimes, the attacking wrestler will swing one of their legs around before they fall, to gain momentum for the corkscrew twist.
A spinning headlock elbow drop is where a wrestler, after applying a headlock, performs any type of elbow drop. The most well known version of this is the inverted facelock elbow drop where a wrestler puts their opponent into an inverted facelock, turns 180°, and drops their elbow across the opponent's chest, driving them down to the mat. Another version of the move is where a wrestler uses their whole arm as a lariat instead of just the elbow. A side headlock can also be executed from a jumping position, and twisted around into a sitout lariat
A fist drop is a move where a wrestler either jumps or falls down on an opponent and drives their fist into anywhere on the opponent's body.
A forearm drop is where a wrestler jumps down onto an opponent and drives their forearm into anywhere on the opponent's body.
A headbutt drop is a move where a wrestler either jumps or falls down onto an opponent and drives their head into anywhere on the opponent's body.
A knee drop is a move where a wrestler either jumps or falls down onto an opponent and drives their knee into anywhere on the opponent's body. The move is usually sold as more powerful if the attacking wrestler bounces off the ropes first. A type of knee drop called the Knee drop bulldog is where wrestler places one of their knees against the base of the leaning opponent's neck and dropping. This forces the opponent's head down to the mat, while the wrestler lands on the opponent's upper body, and drives their knee to the neck of their opponent. There is also a diving version.
A leg drop is where a wrestler either jumps or falls and lands so that the back of their leg hits across either the opponent's chest, throat, or face.
An elbow attack is where a wrestler uses either their elbow of back elbow to attack opponent's chest, face, neck, etc.
A back elbow or reverse elbow is a move where a wrestler stands with their back to either a standing or a running opponent and strikes the opponent with the back of the elbow.
The bionic elbow is a mover where a wrestler jumps or falls from a higher position and drops to the floor, dropping the point of their elbow right on the opponent. The move is banned from many mixed martial arts organizations, including the UFC and Strikeforce.
A corner back elbow is a move where a wrestler strikes their back elbow to an opponent in the corner, lying (facing inwards or outwards the ring) against the corner. The move is usually struck from a wrestler that is running.
A discus back elbow is a move where a wrestler that is facing away from the opponent, spins around to face away from the opponent and strikes the opponent in the face with a back elbow.
A discus elbow smash or roaring elbow is where a wrestler facing away from the opponent, spins 180°, and hits their opponent with an elbow smash. Another version of the move is where a wrestler that is first facing the opponent, spins a full 360° to face the opponent again to hits them with an elbow smash.
An elbow smash is where a wrestler makes a punching motion, tucks their hand towards their chest so the elbow and forearm make contact. The elbow smash can be used as a replacement for punches because hitting opponents with a clenched fist is illegal in most wrestling matches.
A mounted elbow drop is where a wrestler approaches an opponent in the corner, and climbs up to either the second or top rope beside the opponent with one of their legs on either side of the opponent. The wrestler jumps off the ropes, and hits a bionic elbow on either the opponent's head, neck (if the opponent's neck is bent-down) or shoulder.
A short-arm elbow smash is a version of the elbow smash where a wrestler Irish whips their opponent but holds on to their arm. After the opponent's arm is completely extended, they wrestler pulls the opponent back and hits them with an elbow smash while using their other arm. The move can also be used in the same way but instead of an Irish whip, it is replace with either an arm wrench or wrist lock. It is used by grabbing hold of one of the opponent's arms, pulling it back towards the wrestler and elbowing them with the spare arm.
A facewash is a move where a wrestler rubs the sole of their boot across the face of the seated opponent in the bottom corner turnbuckle. The wrestler then runs and rebounds off of the opposing ropes, charges at the opponent and does either a running front kick, a running knee, a running low-angle big boot, a running low-angle single leg dropkick, or any other striking move.
A forearm club is a move where a wrestler uses one of their hands to take a hold of an opponent by either their head or hair. They then lean the opponent forward while extending their other arm, clench their fist and throw the arm down onto the opponent, either hitting the back of their head of neck. There is lesser used version of this move where the wrestler takes hold of the opponent, leans them backwards to expose their chest and clubs their chest.
A forearm smash is when a wrestler charges at their opponent and hits them in either the chest or face with a forearm to force them back and down to the mat.
A flying forearm smash is a where a wrestler runs towards an opponent (usually bouncing off the ropes), leaps into the air and hits the opponent with a forearm smash.
A sliding forearm smash is where a wrestler runs towards an opponent (usually bouncing off the ropes), does a slide across the mat and hits their opponent with a forearm smash.
A headbutt is where a wrestler uses their head to hit an opponent in a part of their body. It is usually used to hit the head or skull to daze them. Unlike a actual headbutt, the professional wrestling version usually impacts with the opponent's forehead and counts on the superior hardness of the wrestler's head as well as the momentum that is delivered to hurt the opponent without hurting the attacking wrestler.
A battering ram is where a wrestler stands and faces an upright opponent. The wrestler then lowers their head, either jumps or charges forwards and drives the top of their head into their opponent's abdomen. It can also be used as a double-team move.
Trapping headbutts are where a wrestler holds both of the opponent's arms under their own and hits the opponent with a series of headbutts. The opponent is not able to counter it.
A knee strike is where a wrestler strikes their opponent using their knees. The idea of using knees as an offensive move is popular throughout British wrestling.
A Go 2 Sleep or Go to Sleep (often abbreviated to "GTS") is a move where the wrestler places their opponent in a fireman's carry and drops the opponent in front of them. While their opponent is falling, the wrestler lifts a knee up and striks the opponent in the face. KENTA, the creator of the move, also uses an inverted version where he lifts the opponent up into an Argentine backbreaker rack, throws them forward, and strikes the back of the opponent's head with his knee. Former WWE superstar CM Punk popularized the move.
A double knee is where a wrestler charges towards their opponent and strike them in either the head, chest or back with both of their knees.
A high knee is where a wrestler charges towards their opponent, jumps up, and raises their knee so it hits either the side of their face or head. The move has been closely associated with Harley Race and is often referred to as a "Harley Race-style High Knee".
A shining wizard is where a wrestler delivers a knee strike to an opponent that is down on one knee. The wrestler steps off of the opponent's raised knee with one of their feet and swings their other leg so it strikes the opponent's head with either the side of their knee or shin. There a slight version of this where the wrestler uses a running enzuigiri to the kneeling opponent's head without the use of the opponent's knee for leverage. That version is known as a Shining Apprentice. The move can also be used on a standing opponent as well. The standing version is likely applied by stepping off of the opponent's chest and delivering a knee to their face. The move was created by Keiji Mutoh, otherwise known as the Great Muta
A spinning knee, discus knee, or rolling knee is where a wrestler moves towards their opponent, performs a 360° spin and uses the momentum that they gained to deliver a jumping knee strike to their opponent's head. The maneuver can be delivered to either a sitting or standing opponent.
A hip attack, butt bump, or butt thump is a move where a wrestler gains a running start, jumps into the air, spins around, and thrusts their pelvis backwards, hitting either the opponent's head or chest with their hip or buttocks.
A kick is where a wrestler uses the foot, knee or leg to strike any part of the opponent's body.
A back kick or reverse side kick is a move where a wrestler that is facing their opponent, turns 180° so their back is facing the opponent, extends their leg backwards which exploits the turning momentum to hit the opponent in wither the chest or stomach with the sole of their foot. There is also a jumping back kick where a wrestler does the turning motion when they jump.
A backflip kick or Pelé kick (named after the Brazilian Association football player) is a move where a wrestler has their back turned to the opponent, performs a standing backflip and hits their opponent in the head with either one or both of their legs. There is also a version called the Corner backflip kick where the opponent is in the corner and a wrestler charges at them, running the ropes beside the opponent (sometime up the opponent), reaches the top and kicks off the opponent's chest to do a backflip so the wrestler lands on their feet.
A big boot, Yakuza kick or Mafia kick is a move where when the opponent is charging at the wrestler, the wrestler lifts their leg up and uses the opponent's momentum to hit the wrestler's boot with their head or face. The move is usually done by taller wrestlers to further show its view as a strong attack although the wrestler is not moving and its the opponent that runs into their foot because of the wrestler's height making it easy for their leg to reach the head of a normal-sized opponent.
A bicycle kick is a move where the wrestler jumps up and kicks forward with both feet in a pedaling motion. The foot that gets lifted second extends fully and hits the charging opponent in the face. There is another version of the kick where the wrestler charges from a standing opponent and delivers the kick.
A calf kick is a move where the wrestler either one of their sides and connects the side of their rear leg to either the opponent's face or neck.
A crane kick is where a wrestler performs a crane stance, by standing on one of their legs, with their other knee raised and their arms extended in a crane position. They then strike either the opponent's head or face with either the standing or raised leg.
A dragon whip is a type of leg lariat or spinning heel kick where an opponent catches the wrestlers leg (after some attempt at a kick). The opponent throws the leg away from them self and the wrestler continues to spin all the way out with their leg still extended to hit a leg lariat.
A dropkick is a move where a wrestler jumps up and kicks the opponent with both the soles of their feet, the wrestler twists as they jump so that when the feet hit with the opponent, one of the feet is raised higher that the other. The wrestler then falls back to the mat on either their side or their front. The move is usually done by lighter wrestlers to gain an advantage with their agility.
An enzuigiri is any move that hits the opponent in the back of the head. The move is usually done by lighter wrestlers and wrestlers that have a martial arts background or gimmick. The move is usually used as a counter move after one of the wrestler's kick is blocked and caught by the opponent. One of the more common versions of the enzuigiri is when the wrestler steps up the opponent's chest and hits the back of their head with the other leg or foot. The name enzuigiri comes from "Enzui" (the Japanese word for medulla oblongata) and "giri" (meaning "to chop"). The name of the move is sometimes misspelled as 'ensuigiri' or 'enzuiguri'.
A football kick or soccer kick is a move where a wrestler kicks an opponent, that is sitting on the mat, vertically into their back, with their foot hitting the base of the opponent's spine, and the shin hitting the back of the head.
The jumping high kick or gamengiri is a move where the wrestler jumps up and kicks the opponent in either the face or the side of their head. It is often confused with the enzuigiri because of the similar nature of the move.
A legsweep is a move where a wrestler drops to one knee and extends their other leg, they then quickly pivot their body around and using their extended leg to knock away the opponent’s legs.
A mule kick is a move where a wrestler that is facing away from a charging opponent, bends down and pushes out one of their feet, hitting the opponent with the bottom of it. There is also another version called the double mule kick where a wrestler that is facing away from the opponent jumps and kicks backwards with both of their legs, hitting the opponent with both soles of their feet. The move is sometimes done in the corner. If the wrestler is acrobatically talented enough, they can roll forward into a standing position.
An overhead kick is a move where a wrestler starts by either lying down or dropping down on the mat while the opponent standing near their head. The wrestler then lifts one of their legs and kicks up over their waist and chest, hitting the opponent with the top of their foot, usually in the head. The move can be used as a counter attack to an attack from behind.
A punt kick is a move where a wrestler runs up to a kneeling opponent and hits them in the head with the sole of their foot. It is based on the field goal kick but is named after the punt kick from American football.
A rolling wheel kick, abisegiri, rolling koppou kick, or a rolling liger kick is a move where a wrestler rolls towards a standing opponent, and extends a leg which hits the opponent in either the back, chest, or head.
The most common type of savate kick is the "chassé", a piston-action kick, where the wrestler kicks the opponent so that the sole of their foot hits either their head or chin.
A scissors kick, jumping axe kick or butterfly kick is a type of leg drop where a wrestler bounces off the ropes, jumps, and drives their leg(s) into the back of the opponent's head and neck, similar to a pair of scissors. There is also a corkscrew version where the wrestler twists during the strike and faces the floor while performing the scissor kick.
A shoot kick is move where a wrestler hits the opponent in the face, chest or legs with their shin. It is a kickboxing-style kick. The shoot kick is used in many shoot-style environments and by many Japanese wrestlers.
A sole kick is a move where a wrestler turns their torso away from their opponent while lifting their leg horizontally and extending it forward at the same time. It then hits the opponent in the torso with the sole of the wrestler's foot. There is also a spin kick version where a wrestler spins around and performs the sole butt kick with their outer leg. It is known as the rolling sole butt in Japan. There is a jumping version as well where the wrestler jumps straight up, spins in midair and hit the sole butt with their outer leg, hitting the opponent's head.
A spin kick or reverse roundhouse kick is a high kick that gains power and momentum after the wrestler spins in place. The move is similar to the spinning heel kick but the wrestler does not jump off of the ground which makes it a leg lariat of some sorts. It is a common move after an opponent was Irish whipped off of the ropes. The move is known as La Filomena in Mexico.
A spinning heel kick is a move where a wrestler spins 360° as they jump so their body is somewhat horizontal, before they hit their opponent with back of either their leg(s) or heel(s) on either the face, neck or chest.
A stomp or foot stomp is a move where a wrestler stamps their foot on any part of a downed opponent. Another version of the foot stomp is where a wrestler performs a series of stomps all over the body of a downed opponent in the order of left arm, left chest, left stomach, left upper leg, left lower leg, right lower leg, right upper leg, right stomach, right chest, right arm, and finally the jaw. It has become known as the "Garvin Stomp" and it was created in the late 1980s by former NWA World Heavyweight Champion Ron Garvin. There is also a double foot stomp or double stomp version where a wrestler jumps and stamps both of their feet on any part of an opponent.
A superkick happens when a wrestler delivers a kick to the opponent's face or chin and is usually preceded by a sidestep. Shawn Michaels used a superkick known as the Sweet Chin Music as his finishing move during his in-ring career.
A tiger feint kick is a move where a wrestler jumps through both the second and top rope while they hold on to the ropes, and use the momentum to swing back around into the ring. The move was first performed as a fake dive to trick the opponents and fans into thinking that the wrestler was going to dive through the ropes to opponents outside the ring. The move is usually used by smaller wrestlers in Japan and Mexico. Rey Mysterio uses a tiger feint kick called the "619" as his finishing move.
A toe kick is a move where the wrestler hits the opponent in either the midsection or stomach with the point of their foot in order to bend the opponent over. The move is used by mostly all wrestlers and is used to setup a hold or throw.
In professional wrestling, a lariat is a move where a wrestler runs towards and wraps their arm around both the upper chest and neck of an opponent. The move forces the opponent to the ground. The move is similar to a clothesline but the difference between a lariat and a clothesline is that in a clothesline, the wrestler's arm is kept straight to the side of the wrestler while performing it and in the lariat, the wrestler hits their opponent with their arm. The lariat to the back of the neck and shoulders is sometimes called the northern lariat or enzui lariat. A lariat where a wrestler doesn't run but strikes the opponent while standing next to them is sometimes called a short range lariat or a burning lariat. The wrestler can hold the opponent's head up before performing the lariat with the other arm. A short-arm lariat is a version where the wrestler grabs one of the opponent's wrists with their hand and pulls the opponent closer, they then strike the opponent with the lariat with their other arm. Usually, a lariat is used as a finishing move and the clothesline as just a regular move. The main differences between the two moves are stiffness. The lariat is basically a very stiff clothesline that is used as a finisher rather than a regular move.
A crooked arm lariat is a move where a wrestler runs towards their opponent with the arm bent upward at the elbow 60–90 degrees and wraps their arm around the opponent's head which forces them to the ground.
A flying lariat is a move where a wrestler uses the ropes to build up speed, leaps forward and wrap their arm around the opponent's neck which causes the power of the force to knock the opponent down.
A lariat takedown, running neckbreaker, or bulldog lariat is a move where a wrestler runs towards their opponent, wraps their arm around the opponent's upper chest and neck, and the wrestler swings their legs forward, while using their momentum to pull the opponent down with them to the mat, on to their upper back.
A leg lariat, jumping leg lariat, or a running calf kick is a move where a wrestler runs at an opponent, jumps and wraps their leg around the opponent's head / neck knocking the opponent to the ground.
A leapfrog body guillotine is move where a wrestler running from behind towards an opponent resting on the second rope, jumps and lands on their opponent's back, neck and head, sliding through the ropes out of the ring and forcing the opponent against the second rope.
It is a close-fisted punch, that usually hits the opponent's body or face. Unlike most of the other illegal attack, the punch almost never result in disqualification. Instead, the referee warns the wrestler to stop but they usually don't.
The back fist is a version of the close-fisted punch where the wrestler hits their opponent with the back of their fist. There is also a spinning back fist version where the wrestler holds their arm out and does a back fist while turning their body with speed so that the back of their fist hits the opponent in either the head or chest on rotation.
A heart punch is a move where a wrestler either raises the opponent's left arm over their head or folds it behind their neck and delivers a strong punch into the side of the opponent's ribcage. The move is alleged to rely on "Oriental pressure points" to strike a nerve causing the opponent's heart to momentarily stop, rendering them unconscious.
One of the most common versions of mounted punches involves the wrestler standing on the middle or top ropes and delivering repeated punches to the face while the opponent is backed up against the turnbuckles. The punches usually go until ten with the crowd counting along unless the opponent pushes the wrestler off of the ropes. Another version of mounted punches is where a wrestler either does a standing double leg takedown or Lou Thesz press first, mounts the opponent's chest or back and starts punching them in the head area.
A wind-up punch is a move where a wrestler rotates their arm in a "winding-up" motion before they hit the opponent, making the punch seem more effective. The wind-up punch was commonly used by Hulk Hogan.
It is where a wrestler delivers an overpowering open-hand slap to their opponent.
A double slap is where a wrestler slaps both of the opponent's cheeks with both of their hands. It call also sometimes be referred to as a bell clap.
A palm strike or shotei is where a wrestler delivers an open-hand strike with the palm of their hand, usually to the opponent's chin.
A senton is similar to a big splash except the wrestler jumps over an opponent while falling backwards and landing back-first onto the opponent. The move is also referred to as either a senton splash or back splash in reference to the big splash as well as to difference itself from the diving version of the senton. Another variation of a standard senton is where a wrestler jumps forward and performs a somersault to land back-first onto the opponent. It is called the somersault senton, and is also referred to as a front flip senton/rolling senton.
A cannonball senton is a move where the wrestler performs a front flip senton onto an opponent sitting in a corner. When the opponent is sitting in the corner, the wrestler runs towards them flips forward 180° so that their back impacts on both the opponents chest and head which causes the opponent to be sandwiched between both the turnbuckle and the wrestler.
A seated senton, vertical splash or butt drop is a move where the wrestler jumps down into a sitting position across the fallen opponent's chest or stomach. The move is usually done one of two ways: either from a standing position over the opponent or from the middle rope with the opponent in the corner. Some larger wrestlers, like Rikishi and Earthquake used the seated senton as their finishers. It is also an used as a counter to the sunset flip.
A shoulder block is where a wrestler hits their opponent with their shoulder by usually ramming their shoulder, keeping their arm to their side and into either the opponent's shoulder or abdomen of an opponent that is running towards them. Often times, larger wrestlers will stand still and have the opponent run towards them to try and perform the move only to get knocked down. The move is often used to show the size and strength of the wrestler, with the larger wrestler challenging to run off the ropes and hit the move. It usually sees the opponent try and attempt to charge at the larger wrestler many times only for their attempts to either have no effect or the opponent to get knocked down themselves. A slight version of this is called the body block which is usually used by large wrestler and sees the opponent run a the larger wrestler and the wrestler just engulfing the charging opponent by swinging their arms around and forcing the opponent to impact the wrestler's entire body.
A chop block is a move where a wrestler does a shoulder block and targets the back of the opponent's knee. The wrestler comes from behind, drops down and connects their shoulder with the back of the opponent's knees. It's often used to weaken the leg for a submission hold.
A spear or shoulder block takedown is a move where a wrestler charges at the standing opponent and brings their body parallel to the ground so that it drives their shoulder into the opponent's midsection, which pulls on the opponent's legs, as in a double leg takedown, and forces them back-first into the mat. There is also a striking spear version where a wrestler charges towards a standing opponent and drives his shoulder into the opponent's midsection, which tackles the opponent and forces them down into the mat back-first. Instead of the regular spear, the wrestler does not pull on the opponent's legs, as in a double leg takedown, and relies on the momentum of the strike to force the opponent down. Goldberg and Edge used the spear as their finishing moves in WCW and WWE. Rhyno also uses a move similar to the spear called the Gore.
The turnbuckle thrust is move where the wrestler performs a shoulder block to an opponent that is set up on the turnbuckle. The opponent usually rests back-first against the turnbuckles and the wrestler places their shoulder against the opponent, swinging their legs back and forth to gain momentum for the wrestler driving their shoulder into the opponent's chest.
A standing moonsault is a type of moonsault that happens when a wrestler turns their back to a downed opponent, does a backflip and lands on their opponent chest-first.
A standing shooting press is a type of shooting star press that happens when a wrestler jumps forward and performs backflip, landing on the downed opponent's chest.
A stink face is where a wrestler rubs their buttocks in the face of an opponent that is lying in the corner of the ring. It is done to humiliate the opponent. Rikishi used it as one of his signature move.
A uppercut is a type of punch that is used in boxing. It is usually aimed at the opponent's chin. The uppercut is, along with the hook, one of the two main punches that count as power punches in the statistics. In boxing, the uppercut refers only to a punch, while in wrestling the other forms of uppercuts are used including an open-handed punch version.
A European uppercut is a forearm uppercut where a wrestler uses a quick grapple and brings their arm up inside to hit their opponent under the chin.
A knee lift is a move where a wrestler uses their knee and brings it up to hit the opponent under the chin. The move can either be used mid clinch or while the wrestler is charging at a kneeling or bent over opponent, lifting their knee upwards to strike underneath the opponent's jaw or the side of their head. There is also a double knee lift versions where a wrestler forces the opponent’s head down and quickly jumps, bending at the knees, and hitting the opponent in either the face or chest.
A throat thrust, throat strike, sword stab, or an open-hand uppercut is a move where a wrestler strikes at the opponent's throat with their open hand and usually with their palm facing upwards and with all five fingers together. The move is done like a normal uppercut. It can also be used with their opponent in a side headlock.
A weapon shot is where a wrestler takes a weapon and strikes their opponent with it. Common weapons in professional wrestling are folding chairs, guitars, folding tables, title belts, "kendo sticks", and trash cans. Using weapons as weapons are usually illegal except in matches with No Disqualifications.
A chair shot is where a wrestler hits their opponent with a chair. The strike with the chair is used with the flat face of the chair to slow the swing and deal out the impact, to prevent injury to the opponent.
A chair thrust or guillotine shot is where a wrestler placing the top of a chair either under the opponent's chin or by the Adam's Apple, and while holding the chair with one hand and the back of the opponent's head with another, the wrestler hits the mat with the legs of the folded chair while it is still placed under the opponent's chin and at the same time forcing the opponent's head down. This highly damages that part of the opponent.
A guitar shot or El Kabong (a reference to Quick Draw McGraw) is where a wrestler breaks a guitar over an opponent's head. Jeff Jarrett performed the move a lot during his career.
This attack has a wrestler lay their opponents head on a folding chair, they take another chair and hit their opponents head sandwiching the head in-between the two chairs.
Some of the moves that are done by wrestlers are not meant to pin an opponent, weaken them or force them to submit. Some of the moves are used to set up the opponent for another attack.
A discus is a move where a wrestler spins in place before they hit an attack, like the discus clothesline, discus punch, or the discus forearm. The move is usually used instead of charging towards an opponent to build up momentum for an attack, or using the discus spin to evade other attacks.
A handspring is a move where a wrestler runs towards the ropes and performs a handstand next to the opponent. The wrestler then uses the momentum to throw their legs against the ropes and uses the spring that is gained to throw themselves backwards and back onto their feet. They still us the momentum to leap backwards and usually to deliver an attack. The most common version is the back elbow strike. Another common version is a handspring transition which the wrestler Irish whips the opponent onto a turnbuckle from the opposite corner. The wrestler then does a handspring combination towards the opponent. The combination usually features a cartwheel followed by either one or two back-tucks which leaves the wrestler's back facing the opponent. The wrestler then uses the momentum of the handspring combo to leap backwards and hit their opponent either a back elbow, back thump, dropkick, or any other type of attack.
A pendulum is a move where a wrestler does a tilting sequence, similar to that of a pendulum, in between the ropes (usually near a ringpost) to gain momentum to perform either an attack or counterattack.
A rolling thunder is a move where a wrestler does a forward roll towards an opponent and uses the complete rotation to spring up onto their feet and into the air to perform an attack. The most popular version of the move ends with a jumping somersault senton. Rob Van Dam does a rolling thunder as one of his signature moves.
Illegal moves are moves that can result in a disqualification. Illegal moves are usually done by heel wrestlers. The moves are usually done when the referee is either downed or distracted.
Asian mist is the illegal move of spitting a colored liquid into an opponent's face in professional wrestling. After the wrestler does this, the opponent will (in storyline) be blinded and will experience intense stinging in their eyes. The Asian mist comes in almost any color, but the most common color that is used is green. On a rare occasion, a wrestler will use a flammable substance (like alcohol for example).
The different kinds of Asian mist are:
Biting is when a wrestler grabs their opponent and bites them with their teeth. The move is usually used as a desperation move when a wrestler is "trapped".
An eye poke or a thumb to the eye is when a wrestler pokes their thumb or finger(s) into the opponent's eye(s). The move is usually done by heel wrestlers to gain an advantage on their opponent.
An eye rake is where a wrestler moves his hand down an opponent's eye(s), to make it appear that the wrestler dragged their fingers across the opponent's eye(s). The move is usually done by heel wrestlers to gain an advantage on their opponent.
A fireball is when the wrestler (using a concealed lighter) lights a piece of flash paper and throws it in the opponent's face which gives the impression that a supernatural ball of fire emerged from their hand.
A hangman is a move where a wrestler on the other side of the ring ropes from an opponent, grabs the opponent by the head and drops down which forces their throat to land across the ropes. There is a common version where the wrestler perform a catapult to the opponent while the opponent is lying down in between both the bottom and second ropes. There is also a reverse hangman or "reverse" hotshot which is similar to the normal hangman but when the wrestler is standing outside either the ring or on the apron, they grab the back of either the opponent's head or neck.
A hair pull is when a wrestler pulls the opponent's long hair. It is usually used by female wrestlers. The wrestler is given a 5 count to let go or they will be disqualified.
A low blow happens when a wrestler either kicks or strikes the opponent in the groin. It can cause a disqualification and is usually used by heel wrestlers or valets.
A testicular claw is a clawhold where a wrestler grabs a hold of the opponent's testicles and squeezes. There is also version called Vaginal Claw which is rarely used in woman's wrestling.

</doc>
<doc id="229600" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229600" title="Powerslam">
Powerslam

This page describes the different types of powerslams in professional wrestling.
This maneuver has a wrestler lift their opponent on their back in a fireman's carry position. Grab their opponent's leg lift that side up and over turning to face their opponent in the process and then slam them to the mat.

</doc>
<doc id="229603" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229603" title="Rana Mohammad Hanif Khan">
Rana Mohammad Hanif Khan

Rana Mohammad Hanif Khan (died 2005) simply known as Rana Hanif was the Finance Minister of Pakistan from 1973 to 1977.

</doc>
<doc id="229609" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229609" title="Alexandrine Tinné">
Alexandrine Tinné

Alexandrine Petronella Francina Tinne (October 17, 1835 – August 1, 1869) was a Dutch explorer. She used her money to satisfy her curiosity about Africa. Her father died when she was ten, and she became one of the richest people in the Netherlands. Tinne is said to have been beautiful, and she was very clever. She knew several languages and was good at riding horses. She was also brave and firm.
With her mother and several scientists, Tinne first travelled down the Nile in 1863. Because of the trip, she gathered lots of scientific information, but Tinne's mother and two of the scientists died. Later, she prepared another trip across the Sahara. She took two big iron tanks of water. The Muslim people, thinking that the tanks had gold inside, attacked Tinne. They cut her with their swords, cutting off her hand so she could not use her gun. The attackers then ran away, leaving her to bleed to death. She died alone in the desert.
The church built in her memory in her hometown, The Hague, was destroyed by bombs in World War I.

</doc>
<doc id="229629" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229629" title="Super Mario Galaxy 2">
Super Mario Galaxy 2

Super Mario Galaxy 2 is a video game for the Wii. It is the sequel to "Super Mario Galaxy". It was first announced at E3 2009, and was released in the second quarter of 2010 in Japan, on May 23, 2010 in North America, on June 11, 2010 in Europe, and in June-August, 2010 in Australia. Unlike its predecessor, "Super Mario Galaxy 2" allows the player to ride on Yoshi. "Super Mario Galaxy 2" introduces two new power-ups: the Cloud Flower and the Rock Mushroom.

</doc>
<doc id="229632" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229632" title="Credit default swap">
Credit default swap

A credit default swap (or CDS for short) is a kind of investment where you pay someone so they will pay you if a certain company gives up on paying its bonds, or defaults. A credit default swap is like insurance on bonds, but different from insurance in important ways:
Because nobody makes sure you have the bonds you get credit default swaps for, people can speculate on them by buying credit default swaps on companies they think will get in trouble.
When Lehman Brothers went bankrupt on September 15, 2008, it defaulted on its bonds. The insurance company AIG had sold lots of credit default swaps for Lehman, but they didn't have enough money to pay all the people they had sold them to. 
This is because the way lots of companies speculated was by hedging on credit default swaps. They bought credit default swaps for a company, and then sold credit default swaps for the same company when the CDSes got more expensive. For example, if you bought some Lehman Brothers CDSes from AIG where you had to pay $500,000, and you sold the same number of CDSes on Lehman a year later for $600,000, you made $100,000 profit. If Lehman defaulted, you're supposed to pay the people you sold the CDSes to, but that should be OK because now AIG is supposed to pay you for the CDSes you bought.
So many companies bought and subsequently sold CDSes that when Lehman collapsed, no one had enough money to pay the people they sold the CDSes to. They tried getting it from the companies they'd bought CDSes from, but they didn't have enough money either. Those companies tried collecting from the companies that owed them money, but they didn't have enough either, and so on. Since AIG had sold so many of these, people were afraid that AIG would just give up on trying to pay them all. If they had done that, there would be a domino effect where everybody would go out of business. Because so many companies would've gone out of business, the government decided to help AIG pay so the economy wouldn't collapse.
When people found out that the Greek government owed more money than everybody thought it did, people who didn't own any Greek government bonds started buying credit default swaps on Greek bonds. They did that because they thought Greece would give up on trying to pay, so the bonds would become worthless and the people who sold the credit default swaps would pay them. Unfortunately, this makes people who have Greek bonds nervous, so they want to sell them and not buy any more. That makes it hard for Greece to borrow money to fix its money problems.

</doc>
<doc id="229635" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229635" title="List of Internet Relay Chat commands">
List of Internet Relay Chat commands

This is a list of all Internet Relay Chat commands from IETF RFCs 1459 and 2812. Most IRC clients need commands to have a slash ("/") before the command. Angle brackets ("<" and ">") mean what's placed in the secondary field, not a literal part of the command. Settings encapsulated in square brackets ("[" and "]") are optional and override the command's defaults.
Syntax:
Instructs the server to return information about the administrator of the server specified by <target>, or the current server if target is omitted.
Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>
Syntax:
Provides the server with a message to automatically send in reply to a PRIVMSG directed at the user, but not to a channel they are on.
If <message> is omitted, the away status is removed.
Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>
Syntax:
Instructs the server <remote server> (or the current server, if <remote server> is omitted) to connect to <target server> on port <port>.
This command should only be available to IRC Operators.
Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>; the <port> parameter became mandatory in <nowiki>RFC 2812</nowiki>
Syntax:
Instructs the server to shut down.
Defined in <nowiki>RFC 2812</nowiki>
Syntax:
This command is for use by servers to report errors to other servers. It is also used before terminating client connections.
Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>
Syntax:
Returns information about the <target> server, or the current server if <target> is omitted. Information returned includes the server's version, when it was compiled, the patch level, when it was started, and any other information which may be considered to be relevant.
Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>
Syntax:
Invites <nickname> to the channel <channel>. <channel> does not have to exist, but if it does, only members of the channel are allowed to invite other clients. If the channel mode i is set, only channel operators may invite other clients.
Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>
Syntax:
Queries the server to see if the clients in the space-separated list <nicknames> are currently on the network. The server returns only the nicknames that are on the network in a space-separated list. If none of the clients are on the network the server returns an empty list.
Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>
Syntax:
Makes the client join the channels in the comma-separated list <channels>, specifying the passwords, if needed, in the comma-separated list <keys>. If the channel(s) do not exist then they will be created.
Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>
Syntax:
Forcibly removes <client> from <channel>. This command may only be issued by channel operators.
Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>
Syntax:
Forcibly removes <client> from the network. This command may only be issued by IRC operators.
Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>
Syntax:
Lists all server links matching <server mask>, if given, on <remote server>, or the current server if omitted.
Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>
Syntax:
Lists all channels on the server. If the comma-separated list <channels> is given, it will return the channel topics. If <server> is given, the command will be forwarded to <server> for evaluation.
Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>
Syntax:
Returns statistics about the size of the network. If called with no arguments, the statistics will reflect the entire network. If <mask> is given, it will return only statistics reflecting the masked subset of the network. If <target> is given, the command will be forwarded to <server> for evaluation.
Defined in <nowiki>RFC 2812</nowiki>
Syntax:
The MODE command is dual-purpose. It can be used to set both user and channel modes.
Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>
Syntax:
Returns the message of the day on <server> or the current server if it is omitted.
Defined in <nowiki>RFC 2812</nowiki>
Syntax:
Returns a list of who is on the comma-separated list of <channels>, by channel name. If <channels> is omitted, all users are shown, grouped by channel name with all users who are not on a channel being shown as part of channel "*". If <server> is specified, the command is sent to <server> for evaluation.
Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>; the optional <server> parameter was added in <nowiki>RFC 2812</nowiki>
Syntax:
Allows a client to change their IRC nickname. Hopcount is for use between servers to specify how far away a nickname is from its home server.
Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>; the optional <hopcount> parameter was removed in <nowiki>RFC 2812</nowiki>
Syntax:
This command works similarly to PRIVMSG, except automatic replies must never be sent in reply to NOTICE messages.
Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>
Syntax:
Authenticates a user as an IRC operator on that server/network.
Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>
Syntax:
Causes a user to leave the channels in the comma-separated list <channels>.
Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>
Syntax:
Sets a connection password. This command must be sent before the NICK/USER registration combination.
Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>
Syntax:
Tests the presence of a connection. A PING message results in a PONG reply. If <server2> is specified, the message gets passed on to it.
Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>
Syntax:
This command is a reply to the PING command and works in much the same way.
Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>
Syntax:
Sends <message> to <msgtarget>, which is usually a user or channel.
Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>
Syntax:
Disconnects the user from the server.
Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>
Syntax:
Causes the server to re-read and re-process its configuration file(s). This command can only be sent by IRC Operators.
Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>
Syntax:
Restarts a server. It may only be sent by IRC Operators.
Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>
Syntax:
Registers a new service on the network.
Defined in <nowiki>RFC 2812</nowiki>
Syntax:
Lists the services currently on the network.
Defined in <nowiki>RFC 2812</nowiki>
Syntax:
The server message is used to tell a server that the other end of a new connection is a server. This message is also used to pass server data over whole net.
<hopcount> details how many hops (server connections) away <servername> is.
<info> contains addition human-readable information about the server.
Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>
Syntax:
Identical to PRIVMSG except the recipient must be a service.
Defined in <nowiki>RFC 2812</nowiki>
Syntax:
Causes <server> to quit the network.
Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>
Syntax:
Returns statistics about the current server, or <server> if it's specified.
Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>
Syntax:
Gives users who are on the same host as <server> a message asking them to join IRC.
Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>; the optional <channel> parameter was added in <nowiki>RFC 2812</nowiki>
Syntax:
Returns the local time on the current server, or <server> if specified.
Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>
Syntax:
Allows the client to query or set the channel topic on <channel>. If <topic> is given, it sets the channel topic to <topic>. If channel mode +t is set, only a channel operator may set the topic.
Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>
Syntax:
Trace a path across the IRC network to a specific server or client, in a similar method to traceroute.
Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>
Syntax:
This command is used at the beginning of a connection to specify the username, hostname, real name and initial user modes of the connecting client. <realname> may contain spaces, and thus must be prefixed with a colon.
Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>, modified in <nowiki>RFC 2812</nowiki>
Syntax:
Returns a list of information about the nicknames specified.
Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>
Syntax:
Returns a list of users and information about those users in a format similar to the UNIX commands who, rusers and finger.
Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>
Syntax:
Returns the version of <server>, or the current server if omitted.
Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>
Syntax:
Sends <message> to all operators connected to the server (<nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>), or all users with user mode 'w' set (<nowiki>RFC 2812</nowiki>).
Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>
Syntax:
Returns a list of users who match <name>. If the flag "o" is given, the server will only return information about IRC Operators.
Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>
Syntax:
Returns information about the comma-separated list of nicknames masks <nicknames>. If <server> is given, the command is forwarded to it for processing.
Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>
Syntax:
Used to return information about a nickname that is no longer in use (due to client disconnection, or nickname changes). If given, the server will return information from the last <count> times the nickname has been used. If <server> is given, the command is forwarded to it for processing. In <nowiki>RFC 2812</nowiki>, <nickname> can be a comma-separated list of nicknames.
Defined in <nowiki>RFC 1459</nowiki>

</doc>
<doc id="229653" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229653" title="Comparison of Internet Relay Chat clients">
Comparison of Internet Relay Chat clients

The following tables compare general and technical information between a number of IRC client programs. Please see the individual products pages for more information. This page is does not include everything and may not be current.
Basic general information about the clients: creator/company, license/price etc. Clients listed on a light purple background are no longer in active development.
A brief overview of the release history.
The operating systems on which the clients can run natively (without emulation).
Unix and Unix-like operating systems:
mIRC will run on *NIX systems under WINE - Confirmed
What IRC related protocols and standards are supported by each client.
Information on what features each of the clients support.

</doc>
<doc id="229739" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229739" title="Mask fetishism">
Mask fetishism

In mask fetishism is persons wants to see another person wearing mask or taking off a mask. The mask may be a Halloween mask, a surgical mask, ski mask, ninja mask, gas mask, a latex mask, or any other kind of mask.

</doc>
<doc id="229741" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229741" title="Lazarus taxon">
Lazarus taxon

In paleontology, a Lazarus taxon (plural "taxa") is a taxon that disappears from one or more periods of the fossil record, only to appear again later. The term refers to the Gospel of John, in which Jesus is claimed to have raised Lazarus from the dead. Lazarus taxa occur either because of (local) extinction, later resupplied, or as a sampling artifact. The fossil record is imperfect (only a very small fraction of organisms become fossilized) and contains gaps not necessarily caused by extinction, particularly when the number of individuals in a taxon becomes very low.
The concept was developed in palaeontology where, after a major extinction event, some groups reappear after millions of years. The usual explanation is that numbers were driven so low that their chance of fossilisation were extremely low. Then, gradually, their numbers revived.
In 1974 Batten pointed out that the Lower Triassic record lacked genera and species which had been present in the Permian, but which reappeared 20 million years later in the Middle Triassic. Jablonski later coined the term 'Lazarus taxon' for species and genera which disappear from the fossil record, only to reappear later when conditions return to normal.
There are some well-known examples of it happening to present-day species.
Some well-known examples:

</doc>
<doc id="229773" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229773" title="Joe Louis Arena">
Joe Louis Arena

Joe Louis Arena, nicknamed The Joe and JLA is a hockey arena in Detroit, Michigan. It is the home of the Detroit Red Wings of the National Hockey League.
Joe Louis Arena also hosted the 2009 Royal Rumble.

</doc>
<doc id="229787" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229787" title="Ed McMahon">
Ed McMahon

Edward Leo Peter "Ed" McMahon, Jr. (March 6, 1923 – June 23, 2009) was an American television presenter and personality, actor, comedian, spokesman, and philanthropist. He was the announcer and co-host of "The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson" with host Johnny Carson. Ed McMahon has also been on "Star Search". He was best known for being on television. 
McMahon was born in Detroit, Michigan. He was raised in Lowell, Massachusetts and in Mexico, Maine. McMahon studied at Boston College and at The Catholic University of America. His career began in 1957 while broadcasting in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
McMahon was married to Alyce Ferrill from 1945 until they divorced in 1974. Later, he married Victoria Valentine from 1976 until they divorced in 1989. Lastly, he married Pam Hurn from 1992 until his death in 2009.
McMahon died at the Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center in Los Angeles, California from pneumonia, aged, 86.

</doc>
<doc id="229790" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229790" title="Bad (song)">
Bad (song)

"Bad" is a song by Michael Jackson. "Bad" was released by Epic Records in September 1987. It was the second single from Jackson's album "Bad". "Bad" got great reviews. Some critics noted that "Bad" helped Jackson's image become edgier during the "Bad"-era.
A music video for "Bad" was directed by Martin Scorsese and released in late 1987. In the video, Jackson and a group of background dancers are shown doing dance routines throughout a subway station. The single has sold 8.5 millon copies. "Bad" was originally intended to be a duet between Jackson and musician Prince. 
"Weird Al" Yankovic did a spoof of this song called, "Fat".
On August 14, 2012 "Bad (Afrojack Remix) (DJ Buddha Edit)" was released as a single from "Bad 25". It got very bad reviews.

</doc>
<doc id="229804" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229804" title="Drew McIntyre">
Drew McIntyre

Drew Galloway (born June 6, 1985 in Ayr, Scotland), is a Scottish professional wrestler, better know by his ring name Drew McIntyre. He is best known for his time working with the WWE. During his time in the WWE, he won the WWE Intercontinental Championship one time and the WWE Tag Team Championship one time with Cody Rhodes. McIntyre married former WWE diva Taryn Terrell (known by the ring name Tiffany) in May 2011 but they divorced on May 24, 2011.
On June 12, 2014, McIntyre was released from his WWE contract.

</doc>
<doc id="229808" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229808" title="Carnegie library">
Carnegie library

A Carnegie library is a library that was built with the help of money from Andrew Carnegie. Over 2,500 Carnegie libraries were built across the world. Between 1883 and 1919, Carnegie would give money to cities and towns to build a library. The cities or towns would have to give a place to build the library, and promise to give 10% of the cost of the library's construction each year for the library's costs. Many Carnegie library buildings still stand. Some are used for other purposes now. Most are made of brick. They often have a staircase leading up to the front door.

</doc>
<doc id="229812" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229812" title="California State Polytechnic University, Pomona">
California State Polytechnic University, Pomona

The California State Polytechnic University, Pomona (also known as Cal Poly Pomona) is a public university in Pomona, California, United States. It is one of 23 campuses in the California State University system. It was founded in 1938. Cal Poly Pomona offers 72 degree programs in disciplines like engineering, science, architecture, and many others. The university covers 1,147 acres. It is near the city of Los Angeles.
Cal Poly Pomona student-athletes play sports against other universities using the name "Cal Poly Pomona Broncos". The university is a member of the California Collegiate Athletic Association and the NCAA. The official colors of the university and its athletic teams are green and gold.

</doc>
<doc id="229814" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229814" title="First Time">
First Time

"First Time" is the first single from Lifehouse's fourth studio album "Who We Are".
On April 24, 2007, the band released the single to be played on the radio. At the beginning, the song was played every hour on Star 98.7 in Los Angeles that day and was later released to general radio. The song's first ranking on the Billboard Hot 100 was number 48 in May, and it rose all the way to number 26. It was #74 on "MTV Asia"<nowiki></nowiki>'s list of Top 100 Hits of 2007.
US radio promo single
Australian commercial single

</doc>
<doc id="229834" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229834" title="Crown Prince Sado">
Crown Prince Sado

Prince Sado of Joseon or Prince Jang Heon of Joseon ( or , January 1735 - May 1762) was a Crown Prince of Joseon. He was the second son of King Yeongjo, and the father of King Jeongjo of Joseon.
After the death of his half brother Prince HyoJang, he became heir to the throne. Because of his mental illness and strange behaviour, his father had him locked in a rice chest and starved to death.

</doc>
<doc id="229838" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229838" title="Gloucester County Cricket Club">
Gloucester County Cricket Club

Gloustershire County Cricket Club is a cricket club. They play on the English and Welsh national cricket structure. The Club was started in 1870.
Most of the home games are played in Bristol.

</doc>
<doc id="229852" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229852" title="2010 Cauquenes earthquake">
2010 Cauquenes earthquake

The 2010 Cauquenes earthquake was an earthquake that happened off the coast of Maule region of Chile, near Cauquenes, on February 27, 2010, at 3:34 local time (6:34 UTC). It is said to have lasted between ten and thirty seconds. At first, its magnitude was reported to be between 8.3 and 8.5 on the Moment magnitude scale, but this was later corrected upwards, to be at 8.8 of that scale. It was the strongest earthquake in Chile since the magnitude 9.5 1960 Valdivia earthquake, and the strongest earthquake worldwide since the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake. 
The epicenter of the earthquake was offshore from the Maule Region, approximately 8 km west of Curanipe and 115 km north-northeast of Chile's second largest city, Concepción. Also, the epicenter is less than 20 km due east from that of the 1960 Valdivia earthquake. Other cities exposed to Mercalli intensity scale intensity VIII (Destructive) shaking were Arauco, Lota and Constitución.
The earthquake was also felt in the Chilean capital Santiago as well as in some Argentinean cities. Tsunami warnings were issued in 53 countries. Michelle Bachelet, President of Chile, declared a "state of catastrophe". She also confirmed the deaths of at least 795 people.
Chile was hit by another earthquake in March 11, 2010, with epicenter in the coastern town of Pichilemu, Province of Cardenal Caro, almost 200 kilometers from Santiago de Chile. It was MW 6,9 in the Richter scale.

</doc>
<doc id="229858" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229858" title="Pat Verbeek">
Pat Verbeek

Patrick "The Little Ball of Hate" Verbeek (born May 24, 1964 in Sarnia, Ontario) is a former Canadian NHL ice hockey right winger who played 21 seasons in the NHL.
He was given the nickname "The Little Ball of Hate" by Glenn Healy because teammate Ray Ferraro was nicknamed "Big Ball of Hate".

</doc>
<doc id="229872" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229872" title="Wigger">
Wigger

The term wigger means a person who by act does things that stereotypically are related to urban African Americans, Black British and Caribbean culture, especially in relation to hip hop culture and British Grime/Garage scene. The word can also be spelled as wigga, whigger or whigga, also known as acting black. 
The term originates from a blend of the word "white" and the insulting term "nigger". The word is considered offensive by some because of its sameness to "nigger". Also known to be offensive due to stereotypical ideas about urban blacks.
The act of white people using stereotypical black actions, slang, and clothing has appeared in many generations since slavery was removed in the western world. The concept has been documented in the United States, Canada, United Kingdom, Australia and other white-majority countries. An early form of this was the "white negro" in the jazz and swing music scenes of the 1920s and 1930s; as seen in the 1957 Norman Mailer essay, "The White Negro: Superficial Reflections on the Hipster"." It was later seen in the Zoot suiter of the 1930s and 1940s; the hipster of the 1940s; and the beatnik and rock and roller of the 1950s.

</doc>
<doc id="229906" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229906" title="La Leyenda">
La Leyenda

La Leyenda (in English: "The Legend") is a "Greatest Hits" album by Mexican-American singer Selena. "La Leyenda" was released on March 9, 2010 as four different box-sets. Q-Productions and EMI Latin teamed up and promoted "La Leyenda" around the world, "La Leyenda" had personal messages from Selena's family, friends, and fans across the world.
Bonus Tracks
Bouns Tracks
Disc 1:
Disc 2:

</doc>
<doc id="229910" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229910" title="Opcode">
Opcode

An opcode identifies which basic computer operation in the instruction set is to be performed. It is used when writing machine code. It tells the computer to do something. Each machine language instruction typically has both an opcode and operands. The opcode is like a verb in a sentence, and the operands are like the subject in a sentence.
Operands are typically memory or registry addresses.
Opcodes are used in machine code for a number of functions, including Float Addition of registers, Two's compliment addition of registers, Shifting register values to memory, or to a hard drive, sopping a program, etc. There are quite literally hundreds of common opcodes employed in modern computers.
Due to the nature of a computer's architecture, opcodes take the form of binary numbers. Alternatively, opcodes can be represented by hexadecimal digits, (for example, 10110101 = A5) for ease of reading and coding when designing or emulating a machine-code program. These values are then transformed into their binary equivalents to be saved. Modern opcodes are at least two hex characters in length which take up 1 byte of storage space.
Opcodes will vary in capability and 'value' depending on the computer to which they belong, as they are hardware dependent. For instance, the opcode for STORE as expressed in Hex could be FA for one machine and 02 for another. Some opcodes will not be available on some computers. In general, there are two approaches toward building instruction sets. A reduced instruction set computer (RISC) offers less possible opcodes in favor of increasing speed for simple processes. Complex instruction set Computing (CISC) offers more opcodes in favor of increasing speed for complex processes.
Opcodes are seldom used by programmers directly. Whenever they are directly programmed into memory, they are only ever guaranteed to work on the computer they were designed for. When programmers write in assembly language, a translator program converts program statements, one-for-one, into machine language commands. The programmer must only remember a mnemonic for each opcode instead of its binary value. Alternatively, a high level-programming language can be used, say 4th generation, which gets converted to 3rd generation and so on until it reaches 1st generation. From here, an individual computer will convert the program to machine code whenever the program file is read. This way, a program can work on a much larger variety of computers.

</doc>
<doc id="229917" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229917" title="Eazy-Duz-It">
Eazy-Duz-It

Eazy-Duz-It is the first studio album by American rapper Eazy-E. It was released on September 16, 1988. The producers on the album were Dr. Dre & DJ Yella.
The album has 12 songs on it 
The songs on the album are about Eazy E himself, Eazy E's view of Compton, and the gangster lifestyle. 
Samples from other artists 
Preude (Still Talkin,)
Ruthless Villain
Eazy Duz It
We Want Eazy 
Radio
No More ?s 

</doc>
<doc id="229934" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229934" title="Adamson University">
Adamson University

Adamson University is a private Roman Catholic university in Manila, Philippines.

</doc>
<doc id="229935" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229935" title="Wet boxer contest">
Wet boxer contest

The wet boxer-short contest is a beauty contest between men in their underwear. It is a lot like a wet t-shirt contest that shows women. However, unlike a wet T-shirt contest the water used is warm instead of cold. Some feminists have questioned the comparison, claiming that the contests are degrading for women and not for men because of sexism. 
Wet boxer contests are also held in gay bars. 

</doc>
<doc id="229946" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229946" title="Viral culture">
Viral culture

A Viral culture is a laboratory test in which the virus samples are placed with a cell medium that the virus being tested for is able to infect. If the cells show changes, known as cytopathic effects, then a culture is positive, meaning the test indicates infection.
The older way of viral culture has been replaced by shell vial culture, in which the sample is spun onto a single layer of cells and viral growth is measured by antigen detection ways. This shortens the time to detection for slow growing viruses such as cytomegalovirus, for which the method was developed.

</doc>
<doc id="229951" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229951" title="Viral life cycle">
Viral life cycle

Viruses are near the same to living organisms, however there are differences. One of the ways a virus can be seen as living is that a virus needs to make more of themselves. A virus cannot survive on its own. It is only active when reproducing within a host, using a hosts' resources and food. Once inside a host, a virus's main purpose is to make as many copies of itself, and infect other host cells; everything it does is to benefit its fitness and increase the number of its offspring.
The viral life cycle is dependent on a host cell. A virus is not able to replicate on its own or use "raw" materials on which to survive. A virus will remain dormant until it is able to infect the next host, activate and replicate. Some viruses can live in an open place for a short time, in some cases, only a few hours. Viruses use the most efficient method to locate a host, create copies, and spread to other hosts.
Usually viral infections occur when a virus enters the host:
It is usually only after a virus enters a host that it can gain access to cells in order to invade.
In order for the virus to make copies and infect, it must enter cells of the host animal and use those cells' materials. In order to enter the cells, proteins found on the surface of the virus interact with proteins of the cell. Attachment, or , occurs between the viral part and the host cell membrane. A hole forms in the cell membrane, then the virus particle or its genetic contents are released into the host cell, where viral reproduction may start.
Next, a virus must take control of the host cell's replication mechanisms. It is at this stage a distinction between susceptibility and permissibility of a host cell is made. Permissibility determines how the infection will progress. After control is taken by the virus and the environment is set for the virus to begin making copies of itself, replication occurs quickly.
After a virus has made many copies of itself, it usually has used up the cell's resources. The cell is now no longer useful to the virus, therefore it must find a new host. The process by viral copies are released to find new hosts, is called shedding. This is the final stage in the viral life cycle.
Some viruses can "hide" inside another cell, either to defend itself against the host cell defenses or immune system, or because it is not in the best interest of the virus to make more copies at the time. This hiding is called latency. During this time, the virus will not produce any copies, it will remain inactive until external stimuli (such as light or stress) prompts it into activation, or the redtart of the life cycle.

</doc>
<doc id="230006" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230006" title="Empathy">
Empathy

Empathy is a word that means that someone is able to share or understand the emotions and feelings of another person. Someone may need to have a certain amount of empathy before they are able to feel compassion. The word was coined in 1909 by the English psychologist Edward.B. Titchener.
Empathy is an ability with many different definitions. They cover a wide spectrum, ranging from caring for other people and having a desire to help them, to experiencing emotions that match another person's emotions, to knowing what the other person is thinking or feeling, to blurring the line between self and other. Below are definitions of empathy:
Empathy is found in many, perhaps all, mammals, and may be essential part of our life. It does help the group as well as the individual. Lack of empathy is found in various types of mental disorder, such as psychopathy, antisocial personality disorder, narcissistic personality disorder and sadistic personality disorder.

</doc>
<doc id="230019" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230019" title="Colias palaeno">
Colias palaeno

The Colias palaeno (also known as Moorland Clouded Yellow, Palaeno Sulphur, or Pale Arctic Clouded Yellow) is a butterfly in the family Pieridae. As most Colias-species, it can fly very fast.

</doc>
<doc id="230020" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230020" title="Binge drinking">
Binge drinking

Binge drinking is an unhealthy way of drinking alcoholic beverages. When people binge drink, they usually drink a lot of alcohol in a short time, or drink with the goal of getting drunk.
Binge drinking is very common in the United States. The United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) says that in the U.S.:
Different researchers and countries sometimes have different definitions of what exactly binge drinking is.
In the United States, the most common definition of binge drinking was created by the National Institute of Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism in 2009. It says that binge drinking is a pattern of drinking alcohol that brings a person's blood alcohol content (BAC) to 0.08 or more. Blood alcohol content is the percentage of ethanol in the person's blood. (In the United States, a BAC of 0.08 means a person is legally drunk.) This means that a person would be binge drinking if:
In the United Kingdom, the National Health Service says that binge drinking is having "eight or more units [of alcohol] in a single [drinking] session for men and six or more for women." (Units are used in the United Kingdom to measure alcohol.) This means a person would be binge drinking if:
A recent report paid for by the European Union suggested that binge drinking should be defined, across Europe, as drinking "60g alcohol (men) and 40g alcohol (women) in a period of about two hours."
Binge drinking can be dangerous. It can cause alcohol poisoning. If a person drinks too much, they can stop breathing and die. Binge drinking can also damage the liver.
Also, it increases binge drinkers' risks of having other problems. Binge drinkers are more likely than people who do not binge drink to:

</doc>
<doc id="230035" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230035" title="Rod Taylor">
Rod Taylor

Rodney Sturt "Rod" Taylor (11 January 1930 – 7 January 2015) was an Australian actor of movie and television. He appeared in over 50 movies, including leading roles in "The Time Machine", "Seven Seas to Calais", "The Birds", "Sunday in New York", "Young Cassidy", "Dark of the Sun", "The Liquidator", and "The Train Robbers".
Taylor suffered a heart attack and died on 7 January 2015 in Los Angeles, California, United States, at the age of 84.
Taylor has had several lead roles in television, from the early 1960s to the early 2000s. Among his TV shows are:

</doc>
<doc id="230037" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230037" title="Pop (television channel)">
Pop (television channel)

Pop is a UK children's channel that airs many children’s cartoons. It has won a lot of awards and prizes.
Pop was called "Toons & Tunes" sometime before 2003, but in June 2003, it changed its name to "Pop". At first it was just music videos but in early 2004 it started to show cartoons. These include things like Archie's Weird Mysteries, The Adventures of Super Mario Bros. 3 etc.; The music videos were kept but all disappeared in mid 2006. They were brought back in 2007 but only during a slot called "Pop Party". Also changes have been made to the logo throughout the years. To start with, it showed letters being replaced by balloons, it was all in lower case, and it had no exclamation mark but in October 2006, a change was made. It was now white letters on an orange background. They were in 3D now. The exclamation mark was added and the letters were now all done in upper case. Due to copyright reasons on the music that got changed in 2007. In 2008 Pop's logo yet again changed. It used to be coloured letters on a blue background but the background disappeared and the letters were now all red. This is its current logo but the old one is still on the pop website.
Pop Aires many cartoons, so here they are:
Not long after the launch of Tiny pop's website, Pop had its own channel launched too. It features a fun and games bit, a what's on bit, a competitions page, and the logo. The games are things like Oggy Moshi, and things like that.

</doc>
<doc id="230054" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230054" title="Quantum of Solace">
Quantum of Solace

Quantum of Solace is a James Bond movie, featuring lead actor, Daniel Craig. Bond fights with business man Dominic Greene. A "quantum of solace" is a complicated way of saying "A small moment of peace".

</doc>
<doc id="230056" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230056" title="Tonian">
Tonian

The Tonian was the first geological period in the Neoproterozoic era. It lasted from 1000 million years ago (mya) to 850 mya. The supercontinent Rodinia began breaking in this period. Acritarchs radiated during the Tonian.

</doc>
<doc id="230064" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230064" title="Geography of the United States">
Geography of the United States

The United States is the third or fourth biggest country in the world. Only Russia and Canada are bigger. If you do not count the area of the Great Lakes, China is also bigger. Its geography varies a lot. The area is about 3,717,000 square miles, or about 9,629,000 square kilometers. The highest point is Mount McKinley, Alaska and the lowest point is Death Valley, California.
The geographic center is in Butte County, South Dakota. The geographic center of the 48 states is in Smith County, Kansas.
The climate varies along with the geography, from tropical (hot and wet in summer, warm and dry in winter) in Florida and Hawaii to tundra (cold all year) in Alaska. Large parts of the country have warm summers and cold winters. Most of the northern U.S. gets snow in winter. Some parts of the western United States, like parts of California, have a Mediterranean climate. The southeastern United States can get hurricanes. Parts of the southern United States are subtropical (hot in summer and cool in winter). Tornadoes happen a lot in the Midwest.
The highest recorded temperature is 134 degrees Fahrenheit (57 degrees Celsius) and the lowest recorded temperature is -80 degrees Fahrenheit (-62 degrees Celsius).

</doc>
<doc id="230067" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230067" title="Wilhelm Röntgen">
Wilhelm Röntgen

Wilhelm Conrad Röntgen (27 March 1845 10 February 1923) was a German physicist who discovered X-rays. In 1901, he was the first person to win the Nobel Prize in Physics.
Röntgen was born at Lennep in the Lower Rhine Province of Germany. His father was a manufacturer and dealer of cloth. His mother was of an old Lennep family which had settled in Amsterdam. Röntgen was three when his family moved to Apeldoorn in The Netherlands.
In Apeldoorn, he attended the Institute of Martinus Herman van Doorn, a boarding school. In 1862, he attended a technical school at Utrecht, but was expelled. He then entered the University of Utrecht in 1865 to study physics.
He entered the Polytechnic at Zurich as a student of mechanical engineering. He worked in the laboratory of Kundt. In 1869 he graduated Ph.D. at the University of Zurich. He became Kundt's assistant and went with him to Würzburg. Three years later, they went to Strasbourg.
Röntgen held positions in various European universities, but his fame rests with his discovery of (what he called) x-rays. He received many honours and awards, doctorates, and honourary doctorates. He was a modest man who enjoyed the outdoors and mountain climbing.
Röntgen was married to Anna Bertha Ludwig (m. 1872, d. 1919) and had one child, Josephine Bertha Ludwig. The child was adopted at age 6, in 1887. She was the daughter of Anna's brother.
Röntgen died on 10 February 1923 from carcinoma of the intestine in Munich, Germany, aged 77.

</doc>
<doc id="230071" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230071" title="Henri Becquerel">
Henri Becquerel

Antoine Henri Becquerel (15 December 1852 – 25 August 1908) was a French physicist. He was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1903 with Marie Curie and Pierre Curie for his discovery of radioactivity in 1898. The SI unit "becquerel" is named after him. One becquerel (Bq) is equal to one radioactive decay process per second. 

</doc>
<doc id="230085" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230085" title="Philosophical skepticism">
Philosophical skepticism

Philosophical skepticism (Greek "σκέψις" - "skepsis" meaning "enquiry") is a school of philosophical thought that began in Ancient Greece and a method that crosses many different cultures. Many skeptics examine the meaning systems of their times, and this can often result in a position of doubt. This skepticism can be either disbelief in philosophical solutions, agnosticism, or even rejecting the reality of the outside world. One kind of scientific skepticism talks about looking into claims that lack evidence that can be seen.
In Islamic philosophy, philosophical skepticism was started by Al-Ghazali, known in the West as "Algazel", as a part of the orthodox Ash'ari school of Islamic theology. It has been said that Rene Descartes' ideas in "Discourse on the Method" may have been influenced by Al-Ghazli.

</doc>
<doc id="230109" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230109" title="List of members of the European Parliament for the United Kingdom, 2009–14">
List of members of the European Parliament for the United Kingdom, 2009–14

This is a list of Members of the European Parliament (MEPs) for the United Kingdom in the 2009 to 2014 session. They are listed in order by their last name.
"This table can be sorted by constituency, party or party group: click the symbol at the top of the column for each."

</doc>
<doc id="230110" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230110" title="King River (Victoria)">
King River (Victoria)

King River is a river in the north east of Victoria, Australia. It flows into the Ovens River and which then joins the Murray River at Echuca. The King River is used for kayaking with many level two and three rapids. In 2008 it was the site for the Victorian and Australian Downriver Championships. The King Valley is a beautiful, cool climate wine grape growing area. 
The King Valley has been described as a little part of Italy, set in the hills of north east Victoria, south of Wangaratta. This area has a history which includes bushrangers, the Chinese and Italians. The Chinese came from the gold fields in the mid 1800s and worked as farmers growing vegetables and tobacco. The were also Chinese merchants, selling their goods as they moved around the valley in horse pulled wagons. Roads in the valley today carry the names of the more important families like Mahlooks, Honey and Fosangs.
The Italians came to the area in the 1940s and 50's and like the Chinese grew tobacco. They soon saw that it was a good place to grow wine grapes. The valley has become famous for its different wines, such as sangiovese, nebbiolo and barbera. The vineyards have Italian names like Pizzini, Dal Zotto, Corsini, Sartori, Ciccone and Politini. The King Valley has some of the highest altitude vineyards in Australia. 
Whitfield and Moyhu are the major towns in the King Valley along the road from Wangaratta or Mansfield. 

</doc>
<doc id="230113" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230113" title="Trillion (disambiguation)">
Trillion (disambiguation)

Trillion may mean:
Either of the following two numbers (see Names for large numbers for more information):

</doc>
<doc id="230173" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230173" title="Placoderm">
Placoderm

The Placoderms ("Placodermi": Greek = "plated skin") were a class of armoured prehistoric fish, which lived from the mid Silurian to the end of the Devonian period. Their head and thorax were covered by armoured plates; the rest of the body was scaled or naked, depending on the species. Placoderms were among the first jawed fish, the Gnathostomata. A 380 million year old fossil of one species is the oldest-known example of live birth.
The placoderms were hugely successful in the Devonian period, which is sometimes called the 'Age of Fish'. In the Upper Devonian, a series of extinction events devastated the marine fauna. As the placoderms were predators, this caused a swift decline in their numbers, and the class was entirely extinct by the end of the Devonian.
The main source of placoderm fossils is the Old Red Sandstone continent. This, in the Devonian, was a united North America and western Europe and the continental shelf areas around it. Fossils from these strata in Scotland were collected since the 18th century, and Louis Agassiz wrote the first survey of fossil fish. A century later, Eric Stensiö showed that placoderms were genuine jawed fish.
Remarkable fossils have more recently been found in the Gogo formation of northern Western Australia. This is a former Upper Devonian reef system, where well-preserved fossils of 25 species have been found. The relationship between the placoderm and other jawed fish is still not clear. Most placoderms were benthic predators, near the bottom of the water column. The largest types, such as "Dunkleosteus" and "Gorgonichthys" were 6 metre-long top predators in the middle and upper pelagic zones.

</doc>
<doc id="230184" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230184" title="Ixia">
Ixia

Ixia is a genus of plants in the family Iridaceae.
All of these plants are herbs with corms. The plants grows in South Africa. In total, there are 40-60 species.
Common names for this kind of flower are "Corn lily" and "African Corn-Lily" and "Wand flower".
The leaves look like swords. The flowers look like stars.
Some species of Corn lilies are cultivated as garden plants and houseplants.
<br style="clear:left">

</doc>
<doc id="230189" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230189" title="Teleost">
Teleost

Teleosts are the dominant fish of the present day. They arose in the Mesozoic era, and include 20,000 living species. The oldest teleost fossils date back to the late Triassic. They evolved from fish like bowfins in the clade Holostei. During the Mesozoic and Cainozoic they diversified. 96 percent of all known fish species are teleosts.
They are, in order of evolution, vertebrates, jawed fish (Gnathostomata), bony fish (Osteichthyes) and ray-finned fish (Actinopterygii).
Teleosts have a movable jaw and changes in the jaw muscles. These changes make it possible for them to protrude their jaws outwards from the mouth. This adaptation improves their ability to grab fast-moving prey.
The date of origin of the teleosts is a difficult problem. Two kinds of evidence are available. There is evidence from the fossil record, in which the first teleost comes from the late Triassic period.
This date is somewhat later than molecular divergence time estimates (molecular clock). A recent paper finds that fossil dates and molecular clock dates are similar to each other. These researchers atate:
Teleostei

</doc>
<doc id="230229" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230229" title="Fresh water">
Fresh water

Fresh water (also 'freshwater' or 'fresh-water') is water that does not have a lot of salt in it.
When people say 'fresh water', they usually mean water from the lakes, rivers, snow, and ice, which is not salty. It also can mean water that people can drink. The oceans and seas are made up of salt water, which people cannot drink. 
However, people cannot drink all fresh water, because it might be contaminated. It might have harmful bacteria in it, or poisonous because of chemicals it contains. Water from a tap has been tested and treated so that it is safe to drink. This applies to most countries, but in some place the water needs to be boiled first to kill the germs and drunk after it has cooled down.
Fresh water that people can drink safely is called 'potable water'. Desalination can turn salt water into drinkable water.

</doc>
<doc id="230235" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230235" title="Grand Theft Auto: Vice City">
Grand Theft Auto: Vice City

Grand Theft Auto: Vice City is a video game. It was sold in stores starting in 2002, for the Playstation 2 and for personal computers. It is part of the "Grand Theft Auto" series of video games. It takes place in the middle of the 80s in a fictional place called Vice City. This fictional city is based on the real-life city called Miami in Florida.

</doc>
<doc id="230266" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230266" title="WrestleMania XXVII">
WrestleMania XXVII

WrestleMania XXVII was the twenty-seventh yearly WrestleMania professional wrestling pay-per-view (PPV) event made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It took place at the Georgia Dome in Atlanta, Georgia.
In September 2009, it was reported that the city of Atlanta was wanting to have WrestleMania XXVII at the Georgia Dome. A press conference was held on February 1, 2010 at the Georgia Dome to officially announced the event for Atlanta; this will be the first WrestleMania to be held in the state of Georgia. Along with WrestleMania XXVII, a group of events known as "WrestleMania Week" will be held in the week before the event including WrestleMania's yearly "WrestleMania Axxess" fan convention, the 2011 WWE Hall of Fame ceremony, the fourth yearly "WrestleMania Art" showing and auction, and a Celebrity Pro-Am Golf tournament. According to the president of the Atlanta Sports Council, Gary Stokan, "WrestleMania Axxess" is planned to be held at the Georgia World Congress Center, while the WWE Hall of Fame ceremony will take place either at the Fox Theatre or at Philips Arena.
Between 15 and 20 cities were thought of to host the event, with fewer than half of the people thought of invited to explain why they should hold the event at WWE's headquarters at Stamford, Connecticut. Atlanta's main rival to hosting the event was the city of Miami, Florida who wanted to host the event at Sun Life Stadium along with "WrestleMania Axxess" at the Convention Center and the WWE Hall of Fame ceremony at the American Airlines Arena. Miami was later given WrestleMania XXVIII.
During the pay-per-view, Justin Roberts announced a new Georgia Dome "entertainment" attendance record of 71,617. But a Billboard.com article claims a Backstreet Boys concert had 73,337 people in attendance. WWE says in their official press release that the Backstreet Boys concert only had 65,658 people in attendance. WWE's number was later confirmed by officials at the Georgia Dome.

</doc>
<doc id="230302" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230302" title="Enthalpy">
Enthalpy

Enthalpy is a concept used in science and engineering when heat and work need to be calculated.
When a substance changes at constant pressure, enthalpy tells how much heat and work were added to (or removed from) the substance.
Enthalpy is similar to energy, but not the same. When a substance grows or shrinks, energy is used up or released. Enthalpy accounts for this energy. Because of this, scientists often calculate the change in enthalpy, rather than the change in energy.
The name comes from the Greek word "enthalpos" (ενθαλπος), meaning "to put heat into". The idea and the word was made up by the Dutch scientist Heike Kamerlingh Onnes in 1909.
When a chemical reaction happens, a substance can become warmer or colder. As a result, heat will flow to things around it, or from things around it, until its temperature is the same again. If the pressure stays the same, this amount of heat tells how much the enthalpy changed.
For example, if gasoline is burned in the open air, heat is released by the gasoline. If we suppose 100 kilojoules of heat were released, then the enthalpy of the gasoline was reduced by 100 kilojoules. Therefore the change in enthalpy for this reaction was ∆"H" = –100 kJ.
If a chemical reaction gives off heat (warming its surroundings), then the enthalpy of the reaction is said to have decreased. The value of ∆"H" is negative. This kind of reaction, like the example above, is called exothermic.
If a chemical reaction absorbs heat (cooling its surroundings), then the reaction's enthalpy has increased. The value of ∆"H" is positive. This is called an endothermic reaction.

</doc>
<doc id="230335" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230335" title="MRSA">
MRSA

MRSA is a strain of Methicillin-resistant "Staphylococcus aureus". This is a bacterium which causes infections in different parts of the body. It is tougher to treat than other strains of "Staphylococcus aureus" – or 'staph' – because it is resistant to some commonly used antibiotics. In fact, it is resistant to all forms of penicillin and cephalosporin.
The symptoms of MRSA depend on where you're infected. Most often, it causes mild infections on the skin, causing pimples, boils or pus. But it can also cause more serious skin infections or infect surgical wounds, the bloodstream, the lungs, or the urinary tract.
Though most MRSA infections aren't serious, some can be life-threatening. Many public health experts are alarmed by the spread of tough strains of MRSA. Because it is hard to treat, MRSA is sometimes called a "super bug".
Garden-variety staph are common bacteria that can live on our bodies. Plenty of healthy people carry staph without being infected by it. In fact, 25-30% of us have staph bacteria in our noses.
But staph can be a problem if it manages to get into the body, often through a cut. Once there, it can cause an infection. Staph is one of the most common causes of skin infections. Usually, these are minor and don't need special treatment. Less often, staph can cause serious problems like infected wounds or pneumonia.
Staph can usually be treated with antibiotics. But over the decades, some strains of staph -- like MRSA -- have become resistant to antibiotics that once destroyed it. MRSA was first discovered in 1961. It's now resistant to methicillin, amoxicillin, penicillin, oxacillin, and many other antibiotics.
While some antibiotics still work, MRSA is constantly adapting. Researchers developing new antibiotics are having a tough time keeping up.

</doc>
<doc id="230342" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230342" title="Colony (biology)">
Colony (biology)

A colony in biology refers to a life-style or habit where members of the same species live together. 
Usually the members of a colony are genetically linked by common heredity. Sometimes, as in bryozoa, they are genetically identical clones, sometimes as in eusociality, they are members of an extended family. Sometimes, as with the Portuguese Man o' War, the members of the colony are joined together as one individual, which operates as a single unit.
Most of the colonies in the groups listed below build a common structure or nest. Sometimes they are linked only by their behaviour. The close integration of termites, ants, bees and wasps is called eusocial.
The term applies mostly to animals, though there are some protists and prokaryotes which live as colonies.

</doc>
<doc id="230366" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230366" title="Samson">
Samson

"Samson redirects here. For other uses, please see Samson (disambiguation)"
Samson is the third to last of the Judges of the ancient Children of Israel mentioned in the Tanakh (the Hebrew Bible) and the Talmud. He is described in the Book of Judges chapters 13 to 16.
The Book of Samson also appears in Josephus's "Antiquities of the Jews", written in the last ten years of the 1st Century AD, as well as in works by Pseudo-Philo, written slightly earlier.
Samson is known for being given great strength by God to use against those who do not like him and to do great things that regular people cannot do: killing a lion with his bare hands, defeating a whole army with only a donkey's jawbone to fight with, and making a temple fall down.
He is believed to have been buried in Tel Tzora in Israel above the Sorek valley. There stand two large gravestones of Samson and his father Manoah. Nearby stands Manoah’s altar (Judges 13:19-24). It is located between the cities of Zorah and Eshtaol.
Samson's father Manoah, and his wife had been trying to have a baby for many years when an angel showed up in front of their house. The angel told them that they were to have a son, who was to be a Nazarite. The child was to never cut his hair, drink wine, or touch a dead person. A while later, Samson was born, and he obeyed the Nazarite laws just as the angel said.
Samson saw a pretty Philistine woman while he walked through Timnah, a Philistine town. He went to ask permission from her father to marry her. The Philistines at the time were the enemies of the people in Israel, so Samson did not know how his father would react once he told him the news. While he was on his way home, a lion jumped on him. He killed the lion with his bare hands. After this, he told the Philistine woman that he wanted to be her husband. At their wedding, Samson gave the Philistine guests a riddle about the lion. However, his wife told them the answer because she was threatened by the men, and Samson realised he could not trust her. After the wedding, she was given to another man. Later, Samson's wife and father-in-law were burned to death.
After his first wife died, Samson found another good-looking Philistine woman. Her name was Delilah. Little did he know that she would betray him to the Philistines. She tried many times to get the secret behind his great strength. This made Samson very annoyed with her. After a long time, Samson told Delilah that he would become weak if his hair was cut.
After getting the secret to his strength, Delilah told the Philistine army about it. She sang him to sleep at her feet, and called a man to shave Samson's head. After getting his haircut, Samson was tied up while still asleep. He woke up and tried without success to break free from the ropes he was tied down with. The Philistines grabbed him, poked his eyes out with their swords and took him to Gaza, where he was put in prison.
While in prison, Samson worked on a treadmill, a machine used to grind grain. He did this work for a few months until his hair grew long again. Next, he was taken to a temple honoring the Philistine god Dagon. It was here that he performed for the people worshipping Dagon. While on stage, Samson told a young boy nearby to move him in between two pillars. He pushed the pillars apart with his full strength. This caused the temple's roof to fall down on top of himself and his Philistine audience. Samson died from doing this, but he ended up killing twelve thousand of his enemies. He defeated more Philistines in the event of his death than during his life.
Samson, Shimshon (), Standard Šimšon Tiberian Šimšôn; meaning "of the sun" – perhaps proclaiming he was strong, or "[One who] Serves [God]") or Shamshoun or Sampson 

</doc>
<doc id="230367" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230367" title="Scale model">
Scale model

A scale model is a copy of an object that is bigger or smaller than the real size of the object. Very often the scale model is smaller than the real object and used as a guide to making the object in full size. Scale models are made or collected for many reasons.

</doc>
<doc id="230370" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230370" title="Give It All">
Give It All

"Give It All" is a song by the punk band Rise Against. It was released as a single from the album, Siren Song of the Counter Culture, in 2004. It is a fast paced song with a slower, chant-along bridge, running at two minutes and fifty seconds. It got to number thirty-seven on the Billboard Hot Modern Rock Tracks chart.

</doc>
<doc id="230393" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230393" title="Bavarian State Library">
Bavarian State Library

The Bavarian State Library ("Bayrische Staatsbibliothek", "BSB") is the state library of Bavaria. It is an important universal library. In mid 2012, there were about 9.3 million books in the library. The oldest of them are from the Middle Ages. There are also about 90.000 manuscripts in the library. Among these are the Codex Aureus, an illustrated gospel book from the 10th century, one of the three surviving versions of the Nibelungenlied, and the Carmina Burana. It also contains about a third of the surviving early prints, known as Incunables. Among them is the Gutenberg Bible. 
A law was introduced in 1639. This law says that two copies of each book published in Bavaria must be given to the state library for free.

</doc>
<doc id="230400" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230400" title="Chris Hardwick">
Chris Hardwick

Christopher Ryan Hardwick is an actor/comedian. He is best known for performing with Mike Phirman in Hard 'n Phirm, hosting "Singled Out", "Wired Science", "Web Soup", and "The Nerdist Podcast", and the current voice of Otis in "Back at the Barnyard". He often shows up at G4TV studio as a guest on "Attack Of The Show". He also does the Nerdist podcast which is a podcast discussing daily life, comedy, pop culture, and includes interviews with other celebrities. In 2011 he began hosting a live half-hour talk show on the AMC network, "Talking Dead".
Hardwick gave up drinking alcohol in 2003. He dated singer Lisa Loeb in 2004. He was in a relationship with actress Janet Varney from 2004 until 2011. Hardwick is currently dating Chloe Dykstra.

</doc>
<doc id="230436" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230436" title="Nontheism">
Nontheism

'Nontheism' is a term that describes anyone who is not a theist. In other words, a nontheist is anyone who does not have a specific belief in a god or deity. It usually refers to anyone who does not have any religious belief. This is a lot like atheism, but the two terms are often used in different ways.
The term ""nontheism"" was first used by G. J. Holyoake in 1852. He used it because of the bad associations with the term atheism.
Today, about 2.3% of the world's population describes itself as atheist. About 11.9% is described as 'nontheist'. Between 64% and 65% of Japanese describe themselves as atheists, agnostics, or non-believers, and up to 48% in Russia. The percentage of such people in European Union member states ranges between 6% (Italy) and 85% (Sweden).

</doc>
<doc id="230475" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230475" title="Inorganic">
Inorganic

The word inorganic is used to emphasise that the subject is not organic in origin.

</doc>
<doc id="230484" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230484" title="Bleach (anime)">
Bleach (anime)


</doc>
<doc id="230515" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230515" title="Re-Education (Through Labor)">
Re-Education (Through Labor)

"Re-Education (Through Labor)" is the first single from the American punk rock band Rise Against's fifth studio album, Appeal to Reason. The single was released digitally to digital stores and radio stations on August 25, 2008. A music video was released on the same day.
A limited physical version of the single was released on 7" vinyl and can be gotten only by pre-ordering "Appeal to Reason". This version also has a B-side titled "Minor Threat", which is a cover of the song by Minor Threat.

</doc>
<doc id="230530" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230530" title="Appeal to Reason">
Appeal to Reason

Appeal to Reason is the fifth studio album by American punk rock band Rise Against. After touring in support of their last album, The Sufferer & the Witness, Rise Against began to record Appeal to Reason in January 2008 at the Blasting Room studio in Fort Collins, Colorado. Recording and production were finished in June, and the album was released in North America on October 7, 2008. The album is the band's first release with current guitarist Zach Blair.
"Appeal to Reason" is Rise Against's highest charting album, getting to number three on the "Billboard" 200 chart and selling 64,700 copies in its first week of release. It got mostly good reviews from critics. The album produced three singles: "Re-Education (Through Labor)", "Audience of One", and "Savior".

</doc>
<doc id="230534" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230534" title="Audience of One">
Audience of One

"Audience of One" is a song by the American punk rock band Rise Against, written by the band's vocalist Tim McIlrath. It is the second single from their 2008 album Appeal to Reason. Getting to number four on the Billboard Alternative Songs chart, "Audience of One" is Rise Against's third-highest charting single, behind the last single from Appeal to Reason, "Re-Education (Through Labor)", which got to number three and the third single "Savior".
In mid-October 2008, the L.A. radio station KROQ began playing "Audience of One." Its video was told to be shot with director Brett Simon on December 9. On January 15, the video for "Audience of One" was first seen on MySpace. The single was released on CD and 7" vinyl on March 3, 2009 in the UK. The song is also used in "Guitar Hero World Tour".

</doc>
<doc id="230540" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230540" title="Tim McIlrath">
Tim McIlrath

Tim McIlrath (born November 3, 1979) an American singer, songwriter and musician. He is the singer, rhythm guitarist, and main songwriter as well as co-founder with bassist Joe Principe for the punk rock band Rise Against. McIlrath is known to help animal rights and actively promotes PETA with his band. He follows the straight edge lifestyle, along with Rise Against bassist Joe Principe and guitarist Zach Blair.
Tim McIlrath was born November 3, 1979 in Chicago, Illinois. At a young age he read books such as 1984 by George Orwell and Brave New World by Aldous Huxley, which would inspire his later work. As a child he went to "Our Lady of the Wayside," where he was made fun of for having one brown eye and one blue eye. This is known as heterochromia. As an early teenager, all of Tim's friends were into snowboarding, so Tim saved up money until he had $400 to buy a snowboard. But instead of buying a snowboard, he bought a Gibson SG.
In college, Tim majored in English and Sociology. In his junior year he met Joe Principe at a "Sick of it All" concert show. Joe asked Tim to sing over a few tracks that he and Mr. Precision had taped. That is when Rise Against was formed, and Tim left college.
On the reverse of McIlrath's white "Les Paul" guitar are the words "Out of Step". This is a reference to Minor Threat's album Out of Step. Tim is now married and he and his wife Erin have two daughters, Blythe and Scarlet. They live with him in Arlington Heights, Illinois.
Tim McIlrath began his musical career in his teenage years. Tim was very active in the Chicago local alternative rock/punk scene. His first band was the post hardcore band Baxter. They formed in 1995 along with future "The Lawrence Arms" drummer Neil Hennessy and future "Killing Tree" and "Holy Roman Empire" bassist Geoff Reu.
Their first release was a full length, self released, cassette, "Troy's Bucket", which was released in 1996. "Troy's Bucket" was met with good reviews from reviewers, and Baxter became a popular band in the Chicago underground scene. 
In 1997 they released a 7" EP "Lost Voices" on Static Station Records. After some local touring, the band split up. Tim played bass and sang backup fur "The Honor System". He sang on their demo and on some songs on their first album "Single File". He and drummer Neil Hennesy could also be found in a brief lineup of the grind band "Yellow Road Priest", whose members went on to form "Pelican". Following the band's breakup in 1997, Tim formed metalcore band "Arma Angelus", along with singer Pete Wentz, who was to become bassist in mainstream pop punk/emo band Fall Out Boy. McIlrath played bass with the band until 1999 when he quit to form "Transistor Revolt", which would soon become Rise Against.
In 1999 Tim formed the band that would become Rise Against with former "88 Fingers Louie" bassist, Joe Principe, guitarist Dan Precision (Mr. Precision), and drummer Toni Tintari under the name "Transistor Revolt". Drummer Brandon Barnes did not come into the picture until 2001 along with the band name Rise Against. They recorded their first album The Unraveling on Fat Wreck Chords in 2001. 
In 2003 guitarist Mr. Precision left, and Todd Mohney filled in. Later that year they released their second album "Revolutions Per Minute" which was greeted with great success. They toured the United States a lot that year, though by the end of it, Todd left. In order to replace him, former "Reach the Sky" guitarist Chris Chasse joined in 2004 and they released their first album on Geffen records, "Siren Song of the Counter Culture".
With the release of the singles "Give it All", "Swing Life Away", and "Life Less Frightening", Rise Against became more popular with fans, but still kept their underground feeling. After more touring (like a European tour and spots on the Vans Warped tour), the band went back to the studio and recorded their fourth album "The Sufferer & the Witness", which had eight singles ("Ready to Fall, "Prayer of the Refugee", "The Good Left Undone", "Behind Closed Doors", "Drones", "Survive", "Injection", and "Under the Knife".)
They had ended their tour and were back in the studio in the process of making their next album, when Chris Chasse left the band to start a family life.
Rise Against recorded their latest album "Appeal to Reason" with the help of guitarist Zach Blair, who is now a member and has known the band for many years. "Appeal to Reason" was released on October 7, 2008. The band recorded it at The Blasting Room in Fort Collins, Colorado with Bill Stevenson and Jason Livermore, who helped make "Revolutions Per Minute" and "The Sufferer & the Witness".

</doc>
<doc id="230552" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230552" title="Kris King">
Kris King

Kris King (born February 18, 1966 in Bracebridge, Ontario) is a Canadian retired ice hockey left winger that played for the Chicago Blackhawks, Washington Capitals, New York Rangers, Toronto Maple Leafs, Phoenix Coyotes and the Winnipeg Jets.

</doc>
<doc id="230560" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230560" title="Joe Principe">
Joe Principe

Joe Principe (born November 14, 1974) is the bass guitarist, co-composer and co-founder of the punk rock band Rise Against. He is known for his complex bass patterns in their songs. He is also a strict vegetarian, an animal rights advocate and actively promotes PETA with his band.
Joe started his musical career at age 15, learning to play by ear and influenced during his formative years by Bad Religion, Minor Threat, Bad Brains, the Descendents and other similar bands. Starting out in Chicago punk band 88 Fingers Louie. After 6 years of touring and releasing records with the band, Joe made Rise Against with singer/guitarist Tim McIlrath, former 88 Fingers Louie guitarist Mr. Precision, and drummer Brandon Barnes. In 2002, Mr. Precison left and was replaced by Todd Mohney, who was replaced by Chris Chasse in 2004, who was later replaced by guitarist Zach Blair in 2007. Rise Against released their first two records ("The Unraveling", and "Revolutions Per Minute") on Fat Wreck Chords, and their next two ("Siren Song of the Counter Culture", and "The Sufferer & the Witness") on Geffen.

</doc>
<doc id="230567" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230567" title="Colonel">
Colonel

A colonel is a rank of officer in the military. It is usually the highest or second highest rank before general and Field Marshal, but many of the countries represents this post as the highest military officer like Gambia, Libya, Niger, Suriname etc. . A colonel is usually in charge of a regiment.
The word comes from the Latin word "columnella" which means column, but it was first used in Italy as the name for the officer in charge of a column. It came into English from French. It is usually said like the word "kernel".

</doc>
<doc id="230568" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230568" title="Cy Thomas">
Cy Thomas

Cyril James Thomas (August 5, 1926 – January 2, 2009) was a Welsh NHL ice hockey winger who played 2 seasons for the Chicago Blackhawks and Toronto Maple Leafs. 

</doc>
<doc id="230573" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230573" title="Denis Savard">
Denis Savard

Denis Joseph Savard (born February 4, 1961) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey centre. Savard played 18 seasons in the National Hockey League (NHL). He played for the Chicago Blackhawks, Montreal Canadiens, and the Tampa Bay Lightning.
He was drafted with the 3rd overall pick by the Chicago Blackhawks in the 1980 NHL Entry Draft. He was known for his trademark move, the 'Savardian Spin-o-rama', a move where Savard whirled around with the puck in a full rotation which allowed him to beat defenders and goaltenders. The term was actually coined by Danny Gallivan, referencing the move performed by Serge Savard.
On June 29, 1990, the Chicago Blackhawks traded Savard to the Montreal Canadiens for star defenceman Chris Chelios and a second-round pick (Mike Pomichter). The trade was considered to be largely in the Blackhawks' favor as Chelios would produce some of his best seasons as a Blackhawk while Savard's career was on the decline. Savard won the Stanley Cup with the Canadiens in 1993.
In the Summer of 1993, he signed as a free agent with the Tampa Bay Lightning, where he played 1½ seasons. On April 6, 1995, he was traded back to the Blackhawks, for a 1996 sixth-round pick (Xavier Delisle). He retired from playing professional ice hockey on June 26, 1997. His jersey number #18 was retired by the Chicago Blackhawks on March 19, 1998 and he was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame on November 13, 2000.
After he retired, he became the 36th head coach in Chicago Blackhawks history on November 27, 2006. He was fired in 2008.

</doc>
<doc id="230575" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230575" title="Sami Helenius">
Sami Helenius

Sami Helenius (born January 22, 1974 in Helsinki, Finland) is a professional ice hockey defenceman who currently plays for the Pelicans of the SM-liiga and has played for many teams in the NHL too the Chicago Blackhawks, Dallas Stars, Calgary Flames, Tampa Bay Lightning and the Colorado Avalanche and was the team captain of the SM-liiga team Jokerit.

</doc>
<doc id="230577" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230577" title="Jeff Hackett">
Jeff Hackett

Jeff Hackett (born June 1, 1968 in London, Ontario) is a Canadian retired ice hockey goaltender who played for the Chicago Blackhawks, New York Islanders, San Jose Sharks, Montreal Canadiens, Boston Bruins and the Philadelphia Flyers of the National Hockey League (NHL). 

</doc>
<doc id="230578" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230578" title="5150: Home 4 tha Sick">
5150: Home 4 tha Sick

5150: Home 4 tha Sick is the first EP by American rapper, Eazy-E. It was released on December 28, 1992. The producers of the album were Naughty by Nature, Cold 187um and Bobby "Bobcat" Ervin. The EP was certified Gold on February 9, 1993 by the RIAA. The EP is now out of print and all the songs that were included the EP are on the remastered version of "Eazy-Duz-It". The only single released on the EP was "Only If You Want It". 

</doc>
<doc id="230583" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230583" title="Latin Kings">
Latin Kings

The Latin Kings is an organized Hispanic street gang based in Chicago and New York City.

</doc>
<doc id="230588" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230588" title="Hitler Youth">
Hitler Youth

The Hitler Youth was an organization in Nazi Germany for children from ages 10 to 18. The girls split off from the Hitler Youth when they were 14 to join The League of German Maidens. All German children between these ages whom Adolf Hitler considered to be "pure blooded" (blonde hair and blue eyes) were required to join, and parents who stopped their children from joining could be sent to prison for a long time. In order to get rid of any distractions or other groups that might keep children from being involved with the Hitler Youth, Hitler banned all other youth groups or clubs. The Hitler youth also prepared boys for the army and taught them how to use weapons.
The purpose of the Hitler Youth was to train children to accept values such as duty to the Nazi Party and to Hitler, and to teach them to be prepared even to give their lives for their country. Many children died because of the Hitler Youth.
 3. ↑ http://www.wolfhildehitleryouthdiary.com
History of the Hitler Youth

</doc>
<doc id="230593" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230593" title="Cookie cutter">
Cookie cutter

A cookie cutter is a piece of equipment to cut dough from cookie dough to cut the dough into pieces to make cookies. 

</doc>
<doc id="230595" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230595" title="Esa-Oke">
Esa-Oke

Esa Oke is a town in the African country of Nigeria.

</doc>
<doc id="230610" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230610" title="Beating heart cadaver">
Beating heart cadaver

A beating heart cadaver is the body of a dead person that has been connected to a medical ventilator. This will keep the organs of the dead body, including the heart, functioning and alive for a few days. Such a body still functions physically, but the person it belonged to is dead by the law and medicine's definition because there is no longer any conscious brain function possible.
The procedure for caring for a beating heart cadaver is the same as caring for a normal patient. The body must be monitored at all times, and if necessary, "life saving" procedures must be taken. Since the brain does not work, the hormone levels and blood pressure must be controlled by doctors to keep the organs alive. Measures must be taken to prevent infection and maintain normal tissue oxygenation.
A beating heart cadaver is kept alive in order to keep its organs from decaying before they can be transplanted. Surgeons will remove the organs, one after the other, and give them to their patients. The entire recovery process is usually completed within four hours. This process was formerly known as an "Organ Harvest", but the name has since changed to the milder "Organ Recovery." Many organs can be used, and many lives can be saved by one body. The bodies are generally organ donors, who have agreed beforehand to donate their organs. Some donated organs are taken from non-heart-beating donors. Organs from brain deaths, however, have a better success rate, and currently most organ donation is from these deaths.
A beating heart cadaver is often disturbing and confusing. Because the heart is beating and the body is warm, people may have difficulty believing it is dead. Families often like to see the body once it has been removed from the machines and put to rest.

</doc>
<doc id="230612" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230612" title="Free radical">
Free radical

A free radical is a molecule with an unpaired electron (Afzal & Armstrong, 2002). The molecule is reactive and seeks another electron to pair. 
Free radicals are involved in the mechanisms of damage associated with disease development (Rice-Evans, 1999). Examples are hydrogen peroxide, hypochlorite, nitric oxide and nitrogen dioxide. 
The need for antioxidants in our daily life is becoming more critical with increased exposure to free radicals (Percival, 1998). Pollution, cigarette smoke, drugs, illness and stress can increase our exposure. 
Percival, M. (1998). “Antioxidants”. "Clinical Nutrition Insights" 1/96 Rev. 10/98. http://acudoc.com/Antioxidants.PDF

</doc>
<doc id="230613" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230613" title="Attack on Pearl Harbor">
Attack on Pearl Harbor

The Attack on Pearl Harbor was a surprise attack by Japan against the United States naval base at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii on the morning of December 7, 1941. It is what led the United States into World War II. Japan carried out the attack so that the U.S. Pacific Fleet, which was a collection of ships that the United States could use in a war, would not enter the war that Japan was planning in Southeast Asia, against Britain and the Netherlands, as well as the U.S. in the Philippines. The attack was made up of two aerial attack waves totaling 353 aircrafts, launched from six Japanese aircraft carriers. 2,390 people died in the attack. Japan declared war on the United States the same day.
The next day, United States president Franklin D. Roosevelt gave a speech to Congress. In his speech, President Roosevelt said that December 7 was "a date which will live in infamy". Most Americans listened to the speech on the radio. A few minutes after the speech ended, Congress voted to declare war on Japan. Only one member of Congress, Jeanette Rankin, voted "no". Three days later, Germany also declared war on the United States.
Rumors started blaming Japanese Americans for knowing about the attacks ahead of time and even helping. Many American citizens became afraid of Japanese Americans and German Americans, because Germany was an ally to Japan. As a result, 110,000 Japanese Americans and 31,000 German Americans were sent to internment camps starting in 1942. 3,000 Italian Americans were also interned. The government made the father of a famous baseball player, Joe di Maggio, move from the West coast because he was an Italian immigrant. Some German Americans were interned as late as 1944. The government apologized for doing this to the Japanese Americans in 1988. German Americans and Italian Americans have never received an apology. 

</doc>
<doc id="230646" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230646" title="Dracunculus">
Dracunculus

Dracunculus is a genus of plants in the family Araceae. They have a large purple spathe and spadix, and a foul smell.
There are only three species of "Dracunculus". "Dracunculus vulgaris" grows in Southern Europe and Northern Africa. "Dracunculus canariensis" grows in Canary Islands and Madeira.
All of these plants are herbs with tubers. The individual flowers flowers are tiny: they are gathered in an inflorescence.
Common names for this plant are "Snake Lily", "Dragon Arum", "Black Dragon", "Voodoo Lily", "Ragons", "Black Arum", "Dragonwort" and "Stink Lily".
"Dracunculus vulgaris" is cultivated as a garden plant.

</doc>
<doc id="230700" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230700" title="Poughkeepsie Bridge">
Poughkeepsie Bridge

The Poughkeepsie Bridge (sometimes known as the Poughkeepsie Railroad Bridge or the Poughkeepsie-Highland Railroad Bridge) is a cantilever bridge over the Hudson River. It goes from Poughkeepsie, New York on the east side to Highland, New York on the west side. It was built for trains and was completed on January 1, 1889. It closed down on May 8, 1974 after a bad fire. It became part of the National Register of Historic Places in 1979. On October 3, 2009, the bridge was opened to the public as a pedestrian bridge and New York State Park. It is now known as the Walkway Over the Hudson. It cost $39 million to improve it. 

</doc>
<doc id="230706" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230706" title="Shehnai">
Shehnai

A Shehnai is a South Asian music instrument which is normally played at marriages and other ceremonies, rites and rituals. The word itself is of Muslim/Turkish origin, combining 'Sheh' (or 'Shah') 'Royal' and '-Nai' or 'Ney', a type of Flute. A version of the "Shehnai", the "Surnai", is also played in the Northern and North-western areas of India and Pakistan, in particular at traditional Polo matches.

</doc>
<doc id="230712" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230712" title="Verne Troyer">
Verne Troyer

Verne Troyer (born January 1, 1969 in Sturgis, Michigan) is an American actor. He is tall. He is best known for playing "Mini-Me" in the "Austin Powers" movies. Troyer also guest-hosted WWE Raw on November 30, 2009.

</doc>
<doc id="230736" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230736" title="Brandon Barnes">
Brandon Barnes

Brandon Barnes (born October 10, 1972) is an American musician and producer from Denver, Colorado. He is best known as the drummer and co-composer for the hardcore punk band, Rise Against. Brandon Barnes currently lives with his wife, son and daughter in Colorado.
Brandon studied music in college and played drums in the University of Colorado music program. He knew then he wanted to make music his career. By listening to his favorite drummers such as Elvin Jones, Tony Williams, Terry Bozzio, Peter Erskin, and Dave Lombardo, Brandon got the style of playing he has used in many bands over the last 10 years.
Brandon joined Rise Against in 2000 after the breakup of "Pinhead Circus" and was on the 2001 release and tour of The Unraveling. Since then, Brandon Barnes is continuing to play in Rise Against and has made drum tracks for all six of their albums.

</doc>
<doc id="230746" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230746" title="Elizabeth Cady Stanton">
Elizabeth Cady Stanton

Elizabeth Cady Stanton (November 12, 1815 – October 26, 1902) was an American social activist, abolitionist, and leading figure of the early women's rights movement along with Susan B. Anthony. Her Declaration of Sentiments, presented at the first women's rights convention held in 1848 in Seneca Falls, New York, is often credited with initiating the first organized women's rights and women's suffrage movements in the United States.
Stanton received a very good education. That was not common for women during that time. She married Henry Stanton, who fought against slavery. They had seven children. She became interested in women's rights when she was at a World's Anti-Slavery meeting in London. She and Lucretia Mott, another activist, were upset because women were not allowed to be a part of the meeting. Because of this, they created their own women's rights meeting.
The first meeting was in 1848 in Seneca Falls, New York. Stanton wrote "The Declaration of Sentiments" which was about the need for changes. Some of the changes they wanted were allowing women to vote and making women be equal to men in society. The "Declaration" was signed by the women at the conference. Stanton continued to fight for women's rights by spreading petitions throughout New York. These petitions were meant to push the New York Congress into passing the New York Married Women's Property Act.
In 1851, Stanton met Susan B. Anthony, another famous activist. Stanton and Anthony worked together for a very long time. Together they wrote speeches, articles, and books. Stanton and Anthony were leaders of the women's rights movement for more than fifty years.
Stanton and Matilda Gage wrote the "Declaration or Rights". That was presented by Susan B. Anthony at the Philadelphia Centennial in 1876. Stanton traveled around the country and position as president of the National Woman Suffrage Association. During her travels she spoke about current social issues having to do with women's rights. Some of the issues were divorce laws and raising children.
In her later years, Stanton was still politically active, although she didn't travel as much. She wrote, with Anthony and Gage, books called the "History of Woman Suffrage" from 1881 to 1885. She also published the "Woman's Bible". She wrote a book about her life called "Eighty Years and More". Stanton died in 1902 in New York City, only eighteen years before women were allowed to vote.

</doc>
<doc id="230749" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230749" title="Newgrounds">
Newgrounds

Newgrounds is an American website hosted in Glenside, Pennsylvania, United States. Created in 1995, the site has Adobe Flash animations and games, but also features a music and art portal. The site was started and is owned by Tom Fulp. Newgrounds is different from most other Flash websites by its automated submission and rating system. It was the first website in history to produce a fully automated user-made content system.

</doc>
<doc id="230768" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230768" title="Helmut Fink">
Helmut Fink

Helmut Fink (born 18 March 1901 – 27 April 2009) was the last living verified German World War I veteran. He was with the German Empire in the German Revolution 1918-1919.

</doc>
<doc id="230771" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230771" title="Moscow Kremlin">
Moscow Kremlin

The Moscow Kremlin is a big red castle in the center of Moscow. It is usually simply called the Kremlin. It is where most of the Russian government works. It is on the left bank of the Moskva River and southwest of Red Square.
The Kremlin and Red Square are a UNESCO World Heritage Site.

</doc>
<doc id="230778" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230778" title="Samson (disambiguation)">
Samson (disambiguation)

Samson is a person from the Bible known for his strength.
Samson may also refer to:
Samson (band), a British rock band formed in 1977

</doc>
<doc id="230783" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230783" title="Jerry Brown">
Jerry Brown

Edmund Gerald Brown Jr. (born April 7, 1938) is an American politician. In 2010, he was elected Governor of California. On November 4, 2014, he was re-elected governor. He was also Governor of California from 1975 to 1983.
Brown is a member of the Democratic Party. He has also been California's Secretary of State, Attorney General of California, and was the mayor of Oakland for eight years. He ran for President of the United States several times, but did not win his primary in the 1976 and in 1992. 
Brown was born in San Francisco, California. His father was Pat Brown who also served as Governor of California until loosing re-election to Ronald Reagan. His mother was Bernice Layne Brown. He was raised in San Francisco. Brown studied at Yale University and at the University of California, Berkeley.
Brown began his political career as a member of the Los Angeles Community College District Board of Trustees from through 1969–1971. He later served as Secretary of State of California from 1971 through 1975.
Elected Governor in 1974 at age 36, Brown was the youngest California governor in 111 years. 
Brown declined to run for a third term in 1982, instead running for the United States Senate in 1982. However, he was defeated by Republican Mayor Pete Wilson (who himself would later become governor), and many considered his political career to be over. After travelling abroad, Brown returned to California and served as Chairman of the California Democratic Party (1989–1991), resigning to run for the Senate again in 1992.
Running against Meg Whitman in 2010, Brown became the 39th Governor in 2011; on October 7, 2013, he became the longest-serving governor in California history, surpassing Earl Warren. He was reelected in 2014 with sixty percent of the vote. As a consequence of the 28-year gap between his second and third terms, Brown has been both the sixth-youngest California governor (the youngest since 1863) and the oldest California governor in history.
Brown had been speculated to run for the Democratic nomination for President in the 2016 U.S. presidential election and he had expressed some interest in doing so, particularly if Hillary Clinton did not run. However, in an interview in 2014, Brown ruled out running. He did not rule out running for another term as Mayor of Oakland, saying that "I wouldn't mind being mayor of Oakland. But I don't know, when I'm 80 and a half, whether I'll have the same appetite. I'm very excited doing this job. [Still], I don't want to foreclose my options for four years from now." 
In an interview by CNN during the second Republican Primary debate at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library, Brown hinted at a possible presidential bid in 2016. He stated that "I'll jump in when the time is appropriate".
Brown married his girlfriend of fifteen years, Anne Gust in 2005. 
In April 2011 Brown had surgery to remove a basal-cell carcinoma from the right side of his nose. In December 2012, media outlets reported that Brown was being treated for early stage (the precise stage and grade was not stated) localized prostate cancer with a very good health.

</doc>
<doc id="230815" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230815" title="Pavlova (food)">
Pavlova (food)

Pavlova is a meringue-based dessert named after the Russian ballet dancer Anna Pavlova. It is a cake with a crispy crust and soft, light inside. 
People believe the dessert was made to celebrate one of the dancer's tours to Australia and New Zealand in the 1920s. The two countries have argued for a long time over where it was created.
The dessert is very popular in both countries and often eaten on special occasions. It is usually served with cream and fruit.
Research shows that the pavlova was first made in New Zealand. Keith Money wrote that a New Zealand chef in a hotel in Wellington, New Zealand, created the dish when Pavlova visited as part of her world tour in 1926.
Professor Helen Leach, who studies the history of food at the University of Otago in New Zealand, collected 667 pavlova recipes. Her book, "The Pavlova Story: A Slice of New Zealand’s Culinary History", says that the first Australian pavlova recipe was made in 1935, and the recipe in the rural magazine "NZ Dairy Exporter Annual" was made in 1929. 
The Australian website "Australian Flavour" gives an even earlier date, 1926, when "Home Cookery for New Zealand" by E Futter had a recipe for “Meringue with Fruit Filling.” The recipe was almost the same as a pavlova. 

</doc>
<doc id="230822" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230822" title="Meringue">
Meringue

A meringue () is a type of dessert made from whipping egg whites and sugar. Some meringue recipes also ask for cream of tartar or cornstarch to hold it together. Meringues are often flavoured with vanilla and a small amount of almond or coconut extract. They are light, airy and sweet.
People do not agree whether meringue was invented in the Swiss town of Meiringen by an Italian chef named Gasparini. They are more sure that the name "meringue" was first seen in 1692, in a cookbook by François Massialot. The word "meringue" was first used in English in 1706 in an English translation of Massialot's book. There are two English recipe books that have a recipe for meringue, but it is called "white biskit bread" in the book of recipes started in 1604 by Lady Elinor Fettiplace, or called "pets" in the manuscript of collected recipes written by Lady Rachel Fane.
There are many types of meringue. The usual type is dry and crisp.
One type is the half-cooked type on queen of puddings, key lime pie, and lemon meringue pie. There are also uncooked meringues, and other types of meringues cooked in different ways.
Cooked meringue cannot be refrigerated or it will become soggy. They will keep for at least a week if stored in an airtight container.
Meringue is also used as a topping on other desserts, such as angel food cake, pavlova, and baked Alaska.

</doc>
<doc id="230836" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230836" title="Faggot (slang)">
Faggot (slang)

Faggot (or fag) is a derogatory term for a homosexual. It is usually used to refer to males, but may also be used for females. A lot of people, especially homosexuals, see it as hate speech. They usually prefer the term gay, or sometimes queer.
Younger generations often use the term "fag" as an insult towards people that annoy them without actually linking the word to homosexuals.

</doc>
<doc id="230849" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230849" title="Zach Blair">
Zach Blair

Zach Blair is the lead guitarist and co-composer for Chicago-based hardcore punk band Rise Against. Before joining Rise Against in early 2007, Blair was a member of hardcore punk group called Only Crime along with his brother, Doni Blair who currently plays with the Toadies. He has also been a 2nd touring guitarist for The Loved Ones and was the 2nd guitarist on the instrumental band "The Mag Seven's" album "The Future Is Ours, If You Can Count".
Blair is a vegetarian, an animal rights advocate and actively promotes PETA with the other members of Rise Against. Their newest release, "Appeal to Reason" is Rise Againsts' first album with Blair.

</doc>
<doc id="230865" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230865" title="Warning colouration">
Warning colouration

Animals that are dangerous, or foul to eat, usually advertise the fact. This is called warning colouration or aposematism. It is the exact opposite of camouflage. Warning colours tend to be some combination of red, yellow, black and white.
Alfred Russel Wallace, a British naturalist, explained it this way, in 1889:
Wallace predicted that birds and other predators would reject conspicuous prey whilst accepting cryptic prey. Later reports confirmed this.
Animals with warning colours move slowly and expose themselves to sight. The sluggishness and exposure helps to advertise their defence. Along with the colour and behaviour often goes the foul smell of their chemical weapons. Noxious caterpillars often have thick, leathery cuticles which help them to resist young birds making a 'test'. When the bird takes a peck, disgusting fluid seeps out from special glands on its back. The caterpillar (or other larva) will often survive such an attack, and the young bird has learnt a lesson it will never forget. All in all, the predator is given good warning. Tests show that warning colours definitely do deter predators.
Some individual animals will die or receive damage while birds or mammals on the attack learn about the connection between colour and taste. However, if warning costs less than hiding, the animal benefits. And the advertising traits such as colours may serve other functions as well. The patterns may help mate identification within the species, for instance.
Warning colouration is the basis of two different kinds of mimicry: Müllerian mimicry and Batesian mimicry.
There are a number of predators which eat toxic animals. Cases which have been studied suggest there is some kind of cost to be borne for their relative immunity to the toxin.
The Rough-skinned newt is toxic, and displays its warning colour by showing its abdomen. Throughout much of the newt’s range, the common garter snake ("Thamnophis sirtalis") is resistant to the toxin. In several populations, these snakes successfully prey upon the newts. Toxin resistant garter snakes are the only known animals that can eat these newts and survive.
The snake’s resistance to the toxin has resulted in a selective pressure that favours newts which produce more potent levels of toxin. Increases in newt toxicity then apply a selective pressure favouring snakes with mutations conferring even greater resistance. The price paid by the snakes is that their digestion and body metabolism is slower than related species. Really resistant snakes have slower crawl speeds than snakes with little or no resistance.
This is an example of co-evolution. This cycle of a predator and prey co-evolving is sometimes called an evolutionary arms race. In this case it results in the newts producing levels of toxin far in excess of what is needed to kill any other conceivable predator.
Animals can, and do, show bright colours which have other functions. The most common functions are:
However, the bright colours used for these functions tend to be different from the standard warning patterns and colours. 
The colouring of many species has unknown function. This is usually because their life habits have not been studied sufficiently, and because no field tests have been done. One example is the extraordinary moth "Utetheisa pulchella", the Crimson Speckled Moth. Its association with the plant "Dittrichia viscosa", which has a somewhat unpleasant smell, suggest the moth has warning colouration, but the matter is not settled. The related species "Utetheisa ornatrix", which feeds on other plants, is known to exude (squeeze out) alkaloids to put predators off.

</doc>
<doc id="230880" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230880" title="Sawfly">
Sawfly

A Sawfly is an insect belonging to suborder Symphyta of the Order Hymenoptera. The sawflies are a group of largely plant-eating (herbivorous) insects. The group is less specialised than the ants, bees and wasps.
Sawflies are distinguishable from most other Hymenoptera by the broad connection between the abdomen and the thorax, and by their caterpillar-like larvae. The common name comes from the saw-like appearance of the ovipositor, which the females use to cut into the plants where they lay their eggs. Large populations of certain sawfly species can cause substantial economic damage to forests and cultivated plants. 
The Xyelidae is a small family of sawflies known from fewer than 50 extant species in 5 genera, with an extensive fossil record. They are the oldest fossil Hymenoptera, dating back to the Triassic, some 200 million years ago. 
Most species occur in the Northern hemisphere, especially in boreal regions, though there are a few neotropical species. Most are associated with conifers (esp. "Pinus" and "Abies"), where the larvae feed on pollen or within buds, though larvae of a few species feed on the leaves of deciduous trees.

</doc>
<doc id="230897" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230897" title="Catarina Pereira">
Catarina Pereira

Catarina Pereira (born June 13, 1990) is a Portuguese singer and actress. She competed with her song, "Canta por mim" (Sing for me), for the chance to sing for Portugal at the Eurovision Song Contest 2010. She had the lead role in the Portuguese production of "High School Musical".

</doc>
<doc id="230901" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230901" title="Captain Planet and the Planeteers">
Captain Planet and the Planeteers

Captain Planet and the Planeteers is an American animated environmentalist television program, based on an idea by Ted Turner and produced by Andy Heyward, Robby London, Barbara Pyle and Nicholas Boxer. The series was developed and co-produced by Turner Program Services along with the partnership of DiC Entertainment and ran new episodes from September 10, 1990 until December 5, 1992. A second series, "The New Adventures of Captain Planet", ran for three seasons and was produced by Turner Broadcasting and then-corporate sibling Hanna-Barbera Productions. Both programs continue today in syndication.

</doc>
<doc id="230928" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230928" title="Protectionism">
Protectionism

Protectionism means that a country has laws or other rules that make it easier for their own products and brands to sell by making goods from foreign countries more expensive or harder to get.
The idea of protectionism is to stop imports (when people buy goods from other countries instead of from their own). Mercantilism is one kind of protectionism.
For example, if farmers from Argentina are selling wheat at a lower price than French farmers are, French people would buy more wheat from Argentine farmers than from French farmers, and French farmers would not get so much money.
The benefits to protectionism is that some people in a country would make more money because they would be able to sell things at higher prices, but on the other hand, other people would lose money because they wouldn't be able to buy the things from other countries that sell them cheaper.
Many protectionists (people who believe in protectionism) support big tariffs (taxes on a trade involving a foreign country) because the government can get a lot of money from the tariffs.
When a country raises a tariff on another country, usually the other country raises their tariffs on that country to get even. This is called a trade war.
Tariffs were popular in the United States during the 1800s, but when the United States made the Hawley-Smoot Tariff a law in 1930, it raised tariffs very high on Europe. In response, Europe raised its tariffs on the United States, which resulted in a trade war. Many economists and historians believe that the tariffs made the Great Depression worse.
Protectionism is no longer popular now. Instead, people support free trade (the opposite of protectionism where the government makes it easier for the country to trade with other countries).

</doc>
<doc id="230932" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230932" title="Led Zeppelin (album)">
Led Zeppelin (album)

Led Zeppelin is the first album from the band of the same name, released on January 12, 1969. The album was recorded in 1968 and is notable for being one of the most influential albums of all time, especially inspiring future heavy metal and hard rock bands. The album did not get good reviews by critics in 1969 but the album still sold many copies, today, the album is generally seen as a rock classic. 
On the album, guitarist and producer Jimmy Page used many different techniques to get a unique sound. For example, he recorded the instruments from far away instead of putting the microphone right in front of the amplifier or drum set, this gives a different sound, like it sounds in the room when it was played. 
Official website

</doc>
<doc id="230938" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230938" title="Davy Crockett">
Davy Crockett

David Crockett (August 17, 1786 – March 6, 1836) was an American frontiersman, soldier, politician, and folk hero. He is more often called Davy Crockett. He also has the nickname “King of the Wild Frontier”. He represented the state of Tennessee in the U.S. House of Representatives. He was part of the Texas Revolution. He died in the Battle of the Alamo.
Crockett was born in Tennessee. A of the cabin he was born in stands today in Davy Crockett Birthplace State Park in Tennessee.
The Crockett family's name comes from the name "Monsieur de la Croquetagne". Monsieur de la Croquetagne was a captain in the Royal Guard of French King Louis XIV. The family became Protestants and ran away from France in the 17th century. Crockett did not have an easy childhood. He traveled around a lot, and had a lot of adventures. He started hunting with his brothers before his ninth birthday. A little after he started going to school, he beat up a bully. He stopped going to school so that his teacher would not punish him. His teacher told his father that Crockett was not at school. He then ran away from home so that his father would not beat him. He started moving around Tennessee. This was all according to a book Davy Crockett wrote about himself.
He came back home when he was 15. His family welcomed him back. He married Mary (Polly) Finley a day before his twentieth birthday. They had three children. However, Polly died at a young age. He married another woman named Elizabeth Patton in 1815. They had three children together.
Crockett served in the Tennessee Militia for a few years, then ran for Congress in 1824. He lost his election, but ran again in the next election. In 1827, he was elected to the United States House of Representatives. As a Congressman, he became angry about President Andrew Jackson's Indian Removal Act, which forced Native Americans to leave their land. He lost his re-election in 1830. However, he ran again in 1832 and won.
In 1834, he wrote a book about himself called "A Narrative of the Life of David Crockett. Written by Himself". He lost his re-election to Congress that year.
Around December 1834, Crockett told some of his friends that he might move to Texas if Martin Van Buren became the next president of the United States. The next year, he talked to his friend Benjamin McCulloch about going to Texas, which belonged to Mexico at that time, with some people to fight in a revolution against Mexico. Van Buren was elected president, so he left Tennessee on Nov. 1, 1835 with three other men to go to Texas, saying, "You may all go to hell and I will go to Texas".
He arrived in Nacogdoches, Texas, in early January 1836. On January 14, 1836, Crockett and 65 other men signed an oath before Judge John Forbes to the Provisional Government of Texas for six months that said "I have taken the oath of government and have enrolled my name as a volunteer and will set out for the Rio Grande in a few days with the volunteers from the United States." Each man was promised about 4,600 acres (19 km²) of land.
He showed up at the Battle of the Alamo on February 8. There were over 100 other men there. On February 23, a Mexican army, led by General Antonio López de Santa Anna, showed up, and the Mexican army surrounded the Alamo, ready to take it over. After the Mexican army had been there for eight days, 32 other men showed up to help Crockett and the other men defending the Alamo.
On March 6, after the Mexican army had been there for 12 days, the Mexican army attacked just before dawn while the defenders were sleeping. According to Susana Dickinson, before running to his post, Crockett stopped in the chapel to pray. When the Mexican soldiers made it over the walls of the Alamo, the defenders stayed behind the low wall in front of the church, using their rifles as clubs and using knives because they did not have time to reload their guns. After firing shots and charging with bayonets, Mexican soldiers pushed the few remaining defenders back toward the church. The Battle of the Alamo lasted almost 90 minutes. All of the men defending the Alamo died, including Davy Crockett. That evening, the Mexican army lit a fire and burned the bodies of the men who defended the Alamo to ashes.
Even while he was still alive, many books and plays were written about Crockett's life, some of which stretched the truth. Since his death, he has become a popular figure in American folklore. In the 1950s, there was a television show about him, which had a song called "The Ballad of Davy Crockett" which was very popular. Many children wore "coonskin" hats to look like him.

</doc>
<doc id="230941" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230941" title="Early Christianity">
Early Christianity

Early Christianity is known as the Christianity of around the three centuries (1st, 2nd, 3rd, early 4th) between the time of the Crucifixion of Jesus (c.26-36) and the First Council of Nicaea in 325.
Since the 19th century, historians have learned more about the early Christian community. Books written early in the time period, such as the Didache (in second-millennium copies) and the Gospel of Thomas (in two manuscripts dated as early as about 200 and 340) as well as parts from the Jewish-Christian Gospels have been found again in the last 200 years
At the beginning of Christian history, the church was in Jerusalem, in an "upper room" perhaps where the Cenacle is today, and leaders included James, Peter, and John. The major source for the Apostolic Age (c.30-c.100) is the Acts of the Apostles. Following the Great Commission, the missionary actions of the Apostles, including Paul of Tarsus who said the title of "Apostle to the Gentiles", spread Christianity to cities in the Hellenistic world, such as Alexandria and Antioch, and also to Rome and even beyond the Roman Empire. The term "Christian" was first appies to members of the church at Antioch according to . The New Testament includes letters written by Paul to churches, such as those in Thessalonica and Corinth, during the years 50-62, see also Seven Churches of Asia. Early Christians continued the Jewish practice of respect for the Jewish Scriptures, using the Septuagint translation of Hellenistic Judaism that was in general use among Greek-speakers, or the Targums in use among Aramaic-speakers, but added to it their own writings.

</doc>
<doc id="230959" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230959" title="Hops">
Hops

Hops are the flowers of the hop plant, which are in the humulus genus. Hops look like little cones, and are used to make beer. They give the beer a bitter flavor. They have been used to make beer for many centuries, and were used by the Romans in the Roman Empire. 

</doc>
<doc id="230960" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230960" title="Priscilla Ahn">
Priscilla Ahn

Priscilla Ahn (born 1984) is an American singer-songwriter. 
In 2008, Blue Note Reco.rds released her first full-length album, "A Good Day". Ahn went on a national tour that June. Ahn has toured with Willie Nelson, Amos Lee, Ray LaMontagne, Devotchka and Joshua Radin. Ahn's songs have been on television shows and movies. She has made appearances on The Tonight Show with Jay Leno, Dancing with the Stars and NPR. 

</doc>
<doc id="230971" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230971" title="White Australia policy">
White Australia policy

The White Australia Policy was the name given to laws that stopped non-Europeans from coming to live in Australia. These laws were put in place in 1901, and were repealed from the 1950s to 1970s.
In 1901, 98% of people living in Australia were of European background, with "white" skin, and with British laws and customs. The government wanted to keep Australia this way. This had an influence on the type of people living in Australia. In 2001, many Australians claimed to have fathers from Europe. About six percent were Asian, and about two percent were Aboriginals. Most of the remaining 92% were European.
In the 1850s many Chinese people, mainly men, came to Australia to search for gold. This lead to anti-Chinese riots on the goldfields at Lambing Flat in New South Wales, and at the Buckland River diggings in Victoria. The Victorian government tried to stop more Chinese from arriving, by charging a special tax of £10 for every Chinese person who came on a ship to Victoria. In 1861 New South Wales passed laws to stop Chinese people coming, and Queensland passed laws in 1877, and Western Australia in 1886. Later men from the Pacific Islands, called "kanakas", were brought to Australia to work on the sugarcane farms in Queensland. This also caused problems because they worked for much lower wages than other people. The new Federal government of Australia acted in 1901 to stop certain types of people coming to work or live in Australia.
The Immigration Restriction Act (1901) listed who could come to Australia and who would not be allowed into the country. The following types of people were not allowed:
This test was made to keep out anyone that the Australian government did not want to allow into Australia without being seen to be racist. Anyone who wanted to come to Australia had to be literate, that is be able to read and write. This would be proved with a dictation test. A person had to be able to write down something read to them in a European language by a government official. It did not have to be in a language that they understood. At first the test was to be given in English, but the government thought that American negroes and Japanese people would be able to pass the test. For example, to keep out people from Malta, they were given the test in Dutch. One person who spoke several languages was given the test in Gaelic. The test could also be given to people in the first year that they were living in Australia. In 1932, this was changed to the first five years, and it could be given many times. From 1902 to 1909, the test was given to 1359 people, and only 52 passed. After 1909, no person passed the test. Anyone who failed the test was forced to leave Australia. This law was used until 1958.
After World War II the Australian government wanted to bring in lots of new people. The Ben Chifley Labor Government started the Snowy Mountains Scheme which needed lots of new workers. Australians worried less about taking people from different cultures. Through the 1950s, lots of Southern and Eastern European refugees resettled in Australia, leaving a Europe still recovering from World War II or the Communist Eastern-Block behind. Liberal Prime Minister Robert Menzies' Government brought in the Colombo Plan which brought Asian students to Australian universities to help Asian development. In 1958, Menzies ended the "dictation test" and the Government said well qualified non-Europeans would be suitable. Other laws made it easier to bring non-Europeans to Australia. Prime Minister Harold Holt's "Migration Act, 1966" basically ended the White Australian Policy so that migrants from different parts of the world could all come to Australia, like refugees from the Vietnam War. Finally in 1973, the Gough Whitlam Labor Government made a law that Australian immigration officers should "totally disregard race" when considering migrants. But Whitlam took in less migrants in total, so the number of migrants not from Europe did not really start to get bigger and bigger until the Malcolm Fraser Liberal Government (1975-1983) started to take more immigrants. These days, Australia takes big numbers of migrants from everywhere.
Non-white families who chose not to depart from Australia were not affected by the Immigration Restriction Act. However many people who did not have white skin, or European culture, chose to move back to their home country due to racism that they experienced in Australia. 

</doc>
<doc id="230972" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230972" title="Swastika">
Swastika

The Swastika is a cross with its arms bent at right angles, in either left-facing or right-facing forms. It is a widely-used religious symbol in Hinduism, Buddhism and Jainism. In the 1920s, the swastika became a the symbol for the Nazi party in the Western world. It was used as the symbol of the Finnish Air Force until 1945.
The Swastika is a sacred symbol in Hinduism, Buddhism and Jainism. It is also a sign of spiritual purity. The swastika was a letter in the ancient Sanskrit language. It meant luck or well being. It is also found on Byzantine buildings, Ancient Greek coinage and in Native American burial sites. During the 20th century Adolf Hitler adopted the symbol for the Nazi Party. From 1935 – 1945 it was used on the German flag. The symbol became stigmatized because of its association with Nazi war crimes. But it is still used as a religious sign.

</doc>
<doc id="230973" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230973" title="Hartford Whalers">
Hartford Whalers

The Hartford Whalers were a professional ice hockey team from Hartford, Connecticut. The Whalers played in the National Hockey League for 18 seasons. The team began playing in the NHL and were originally called the New England Whalers before being renamed the Hartford Whalers in 1979. The Whalers were relocated to Carolina and were renamed the Carolina Hurricanes in 1997.

</doc>
<doc id="230974" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230974" title="Winnipeg Jets">
Winnipeg Jets

The Winnipeg Jets are an ice hockey team that plays in the NHL. The team plays in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada at the MTS Centre. They were founded in 2011 when the Atlanta Thrashers were bought by Winnipeg-based company, True North Sports and Entertainment and were moved back to Winnipeg. The team announced the "Winnipeg Jets" as their name when they selected 7th in the first round of the 2011 NHL Entry Draft on June 25, 2011. Kevin Cheveldayoff was named its first General Manager on June 8, 2011 and Claude Noel was named the new head coach of the Jets on June 23, 2011.
The first Winnipeg Jets played in the NHL from 1972 to 1996. This team is now known as the Phoenix Coyotes.

</doc>
<doc id="230975" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230975" title="Saab 9-3">
Saab 9-3

The Saab 9-3 is a car produced by Saab since 1998. It is the successor of the 900, and it is now in its Second generation.

</doc>
<doc id="230978" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230978" title="Saab 9-5">
Saab 9-5

The Saab 9-5 is a car produced by Saab since 1997. It is the successor of the 9000, and it is now in its Second generation.

</doc>
<doc id="230979" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230979" title="Saab 9000">
Saab 9000

The Saab 9000 was a car produced by Saab from 1985 through 1998. It was successed by the 9-5.

</doc>
<doc id="230980" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230980" title="Saab 900">
Saab 900

The Saab 900 was a car produced by Saab from 1978 through 1998. It was succeeded by the 9-3.

</doc>
<doc id="230990" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230990" title="Easter Bunny">
Easter Bunny

The Easter Bunny (or Easter Hare) is a character depicted as an anthropomorphic rabbit. In old stories, the creature brings baskets filled with colored eggs, candy and toys to the homes of children on the night before Easter. The Easter Bunny will either put the baskets in a certain place or hide them somewhere in the house for the children to find when they wake up in the morning.
The Easter Bunny is similar to Christmas's Santa Claus, as they both bring gifts to good children on the night before the holidays they are related to.

</doc>
<doc id="230999" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230999" title="Alberto Núñez Feijoo">
Alberto Núñez Feijoo

Alberto Núñez Feijoo (born September 10, 1961) is the current president of Galicia. He is the leader of the Galician PP, the main conservative political party which defeated the socialists in the elections of 2009 and again in the elections of 2012. Feijoo is a strong admirer of Manuel Fraga, although he does not govern Galicia in the same manner.
Núñez Feijoo studied law in Santiago de Compostela. He is married to the journalist Carmen Gámir.

</doc>
<doc id="231004" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231004" title="Lincoln Logs">
Lincoln Logs

Lincoln Logs is the name of a children's toy. They are small logs made for children to build with. They were invented in Chicago, Illinois by John Lloyd Wright, son of the architect Frank Lloyd Wright.
Lincoln Logs were added into the United States National Toy Hall of Fame in 1999.

</doc>
<doc id="231007" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231007" title="Led Zeppelin II">
Led Zeppelin II

Led Zeppelin II is the second album from the band Led Zeppelin. It was released on October 22, 1969, it was recorded in 1969 in many different studios. The album sounds a lot like the first album with a few hard rock songs and blues covers, but they also did some new things with the love song "Thank You" and the drum solo "Moby Dick". The most famous song from the album is "Whole Lotta Love", the riff is one of the most well known in the rock genre. Guitarist and producer Jimmy Page worked with engineer Eddie Kramer to create many unusual sounds, for example, on "Whole Lotta Love", they used a technique known as backward echoing.
Official website

</doc>
<doc id="231009" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231009" title="Led Zeppelin III">
Led Zeppelin III

Led Zeppelin III is the third album from the band Led Zeppelin, released on October 22, 1970. Many of the songs were written while Jimmy Page and Robert Plant visited a cottage in Wales, in a place called Bron-Yr-Aur. The musicians were inspired by the Welsh countryside, and because of this, many songs on the album are written in the style of folk and country. This upset many fans at the time who said that the band should focus on making more rock music, but there were still some rock songs on the album, such as "Immigrant Song" and "Celebration Day". 

</doc>
<doc id="231010" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231010" title="Avalon">
Avalon

"Avalon" is a popular song. It was written by Al Jolson, Buddy DeSylva and Vincent Rose in 1920. It was first recorded by Jolson and used in the musicals "Sinbad" and "Bombo". Jolson's version became #2 on the American singles chart. It is possible that Rose wrote the song alone, and that Jolson's name was used in the credits because he was a popular artist and helped make the song popular. At first only Rose and Jolson were marked as the writers, and DeSylva's name was added later.
Many jazz artists have recorded the song, for example Cab Calloway (1934), Coleman Hawkins (1935) and Eddie Durham (1936). Benny Goodman played the song in his concert in Carnegie Hall in 1938. The song was also played in the films "The Jolson Story" (1946) and "The Benny Goodman Story" (1956).
The melody at the beginning of the song was taken from Giacomo Puccini's opera "Tosca", and Rose changed it only a little. Because of this, a court later decided that Jolson and Rose had to pay Puccini's publishers $25,000 and all later profits from the song.

</doc>
<doc id="231027" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231027" title="Phoney War">
Phoney War

The Phoney War was a name of months after Poland was defeated in September 1939 and before France was invaded in May 1940, during World War II. 
During this time, there was no big military operations in Europe. Even there was a British and French declaration of war on Germany and military alliances between the Western Allies and Poland. British Air Force dropped propaganda leaflets on Germany and Canadian troops began to arrive Britain. In the sea, German submarines destroyed many Allied ships, marked the beginning of Battle of the Atlantic.
In April 1940, Germany invaded Denmark and Norway. The two sides began to fight each other again. Britain and France needed a lot of weapons quickly, so they began to buy them from American weapon companies. American government helped Britain and France by selling weapons at lower cost, and, later, lend-lease of military equipments and supplies.

</doc>
<doc id="231040" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231040" title="Jason Bonham">
Jason Bonham

Jason Bonham (born July 15, 1966) is an English rock drummer who is noted for being the son of Led Zeppelin drummer John Bonham, as well for his own music. He has played with bands like Foreigner and UFO, and he has also played with the surviving members Led Zeppelin on several band reunions, such as the reunion in 2007 at the London 02 Arena. He has a close relationship with former Led Zeppelin guitarist Jimmy Page, and they have toured together in the 80's when Page released his solo album, Outrider. In 2010, Bonham will be working with his new band, Black Country.

</doc>
<doc id="231052" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231052" title="Radiolaria">
Radiolaria

Radiolaria are amoeboid protists which produce mineral skeletons. The skeletons, usually of silica (SiO), have a central capsule. This divides the cell into inner and outer portions, called "endoplasm" and "ectoplasm". 
Radiolaria are found as zooplankton throughout the ocean, and their skeletal remains cover large portions of the ocean floor as radiolarian ooze. Radiolaria have existed since the beginning of the Palaeozoic era. They take their name from the radial symmetry of most species. They are valuable markers or diagnostic fossils, because they have a rapid turn-over of species. This helps to identify strata, and to correlate strata at different sites.
Radiolaria are heterotrophs (eat other things), but also may include protist algae as endosymbionts.
The skeletons of radiolarians are generally organized around spicules, or spines, which extend from the main skeletal mass. Formed from the fusion of many of these spines is the outermost skeleton, the shell or "test". Connecting this shell to the many concentrically organized inner shells are bars or beams, which strengthen and support the structure.
The nuclei and most other organelles are in the endoplasm, while the ectoplasm is filled with frothy vacuoles and lipid droplets, keeping them buoyant. Often it also contains symbiotic algae which provide much of the cell's energy. Not much is known about the living amoebae because they cannot be cultured in the laboratory.

</doc>
<doc id="231054" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231054" title="Led Zeppelin IV">
Led Zeppelin IV

Led Zeppelin IV is the fourth album from the rock band Led Zeppelin, the real title of the album is , but since it's impossible to say these symbols, it is normal just to say Led Zeppelin IV. Some people also say The fourth album, 'Zoso', Symbols or simply call it Untitled. It was released on November 8, 1971 and recorded at a big house called Headley Grange in 1971. The album is the band's most famous and most successful album, and also has their best known song, "Stairway to Heaven". For this album, the band used many different genres and recording techniques, they had rock and roll songs, acoustic songs and heavy blues songs. Many fans and critics think that "Stairway to Heaven" is one of the best songs of all time, if not the greatest, as well as the album itself. There are also many other notable songs on the album, "Rock and Roll" was played in almost every concert the band did after the release of the album, while songs such as "Black Dog and "Going to California" were played for most of the shows. All of the songs have become regulars on American rock radio.
For this album, the band chose to not have a normal name for their album, so that people would just listen to the music without caring about the title and get wrong expectations. Jimmy Page got the idea that each member of the band should choose their own symbol to represent them on the album title. Each band member have been closely associated with their symbol during and after the career of Led Zeppelin, and they have all used them after the release of the album. For example, John Bonham used to have the three rings on his bass drum and Jimmy Page has used the Zoso symbol on his amplifier as recent as the reunion concert in 2007 at the London 02 Arena.

</doc>
<doc id="231061" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231061" title="Squeeze">
Squeeze

Squeeze are a British rock/new wave band from London. They were active from 1974 to 1982 and 1985 to 1999. They reunited in 2007.

</doc>
<doc id="231071" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231071" title="Houses of the Holy">
Houses of the Holy

Houses of the Holy is the fifth album from rock band Led Zeppelin, released on March 28 1973, but recorded in 1972. This album has many different music styles on it, like reggae, funk, acoustic songs and folk-like rock songs. Many fans and critics thought when the album was released, that it was not as good as the album they made two years earlier, Led Zeppelin IV, but today it is seen as one of their best albums. Songs like "The Song Remains the Same", "No Quarter", "Over the Hills and Far Away" and "The Rain Song" were performed for almost all tours after the release of the album. "The Song Remains the Same" is also the title of their 1976 movie, but recorded in 1973 and 1974. 
official website
Houses of the Holy info

</doc>
<doc id="231075" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231075" title="Heat lamp">
Heat lamp

A heat lamp is a lamp (light) with the main purpose of making heat. This is commonly infrared light but white light incandescent lightbulbs are also used. Sometimes the glass of the light bulb is colored to cut out yellow and even higher frequency light (to let the infrared light through, which has most of the heat).
Humans can use these lamps to keep warm, to warm a part of the body that is injured and needs gentle heat, etc. These lamps are also frequently used to keep baby chickens, piglets or other baby animals warm.

</doc>
<doc id="231077" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231077" title="Maltese lira">
Maltese lira

The Maltese lira was the type of money that was used in Malta before it was replaced by the euro in 2008.

</doc>
<doc id="231079" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231079" title="Bobby Dodd">
Bobby Dodd

Robert "Bobby" Lee Dodd (November 11, 1908 – June 21, 1988) was an American college football coach at Georgia Institute of Technology (Georgia Tech). He was elected to the College Football Hall of Fame as a player and coach. He is one of only three people to have done this.
Dodd was born in Galax, Virginia. He moved to Kingsport, Tennessee and played several sports at Dobyns-Bennett High School. After high school, he played as a quarterback at the University of Tennessee. From 1931–1945, he worked as an assistant coach for William Alexander at Georgia Tech. Alexander hired Dodd while he was still a student at Tennessee. Dodd replaced Alexander in 1945 and became the third head coach at Georgia Tech. He retired from coaching after the 1966–67 season, with 165 wins, 64 losses, and 8 ties in his career. He also worked as athletic director for Georgia Tech from 1950 until 1976. Dodd died in June 1988 at the age of 79 in Atlanta, Georgia.
Dodd was quarterback for the University of Tennessee football team from 1928 to 1930. He played for its coach, Robert Neyland. Dodd wanted to play for Georgia Tech but was not offered a scholarship. In the games that Dodd started at Tennessee, they had a record of 27–1–2.
Dodd played a major role in one famous game. During his sophomore year, in a game against Alabama, "Dodd threw a touchdown pass in that game to tie Alabama, 13–13. Then he punted out of bounds inside the Alabama 1-yard line and Tennessee got a safety on the next play to win, 15–13." This was an important game for both teams since they were rivals.
Another time in Dodd's playing career showed the thinking he would use in his coaching career. "Against Florida in 1930 he got his teammates in a huddle and told them about a play he had used in high school. When the ball was snapped, it was placed on the ground unattended. The players ran in one direction. Then the center returned, picked up the ball, and waltzed to the winning touchdown." Tennessee fans even developed a catch phrase for Dodd during his time there: "In Dodd we trust."
Dodd was selected to be on Grantland Rice's All-American team in 1930. He was the second player from Tennessee to make an All American team. The first was Gene McEver in 1929. In 1959, Dodd was selected for the University of Tennessee's Hall of Fame and to the College Football Hall of Fame as a player. He was elected in the same year as teammate Herman Hickman.
Dodd had a 165–64–8 record as head coach at Georgia Tech. He led Georgia Tech to two Southeastern Conference (SEC) championships (1951 and 1952) and one national championship in 1952. While he was coach, Tech played in 13 major bowl games. The school won 9 of these games, including six in a row from 1951 to 1956. His team had a 31-game winning streak from 1951 to 1953.
Dodd took over the Georgia Tech football program after Coach Alexander's retirement in 1944. Dodd's coaching ideas were about developing and treating his players well. He did not believe in hard physical practices. Instead, he liked practices that were about the small details of football. Dodd's ideas led to winning. He set the record for career wins at Tech at 165 career coaching wins including a 31-game winning streak from 1951–1953. He also won two Southeastern Conference Titles and the 1952 National Title. The 1952 title was part of a 12–0 perfect season and Sugar Bowl win over Ole Miss.
Dodd also understood the rivalry with the University of Georgia. His teams won 8 games in a row over the Bulldogs from 1946–1954. They had 176 points to Georgia's 39 during the winning streak. This 8–game winning streak is still the longest winning streak for either side in the series. Dodd ended his career with a 12–9 record against Georgia.
Dodd's career included Georgia Tech leaving the Southeastern Conference. The initial reason for them leaving was a feud between Dodd and Alabama Crimson Tide Coach Bear Bryant. The feud began when Tech was visiting the Tide at Denny Stadium in 1961. After a Georgia Tech punt, Alabama fair-caught the ball. Chick Granning of Georgia Tech was running down to tackle the receiver of the punt, but relaxed after the signal for the fair catch. Darwin Holt of Alabama continued play and hit his elbow into Granning's face. This caused severe breaks in Granning's face, a broken nose, and blood-filled sinuses. Granning became unconscious and suffered a severe concussion. These injuries left him unable to play football ever again. Dodd sent Bryant a letter asking Bryant to suspend Holt. Dodd felt that Holt injured Granning on purpose. Bryant never suspended Holt. The lack of punishment made Dodd angry and caused him to want to leave the SEC.
Another issue for Dodd was Alabama's and other SEC schools' recruiting of players. Schools would recruit more players than they could have on their roster. During the summer practice sessions, the teams would remove extra players. This would happen after the signing day which meant those players could not find somewhere else to play. Dodd asked the SEC leaders to punish the "tryout camps" of other SEC members but the SEC did not. Finally, Dodd took Georgia Tech out of the SEC in 1963. Tech would play without a league like Notre Dame and Penn State (at the time) during the final four years of Dodd's coaching career. In 1967, Dodd passed the head coach position to his favorite assistant, Bud Carson. Dodd continued to work as athletic director which he had first been hired as in 1950. He would not retire from athletic directing until 1976. In 1983, he said he would like to run a United States Football League team if Atlanta was given one. The league, however, shut down before Atlanta received a team.
Dodd wanted to win every game, but unlike some other coaches, he did not believe in risking his athletes' health in order to win. He believed that the most important part of college football was the college football player.
In honor of the character of Dodd, each year a Division I college coach who has shown leadership both on and off the field is awarded the Bobby Dodd Coach of the Year Award. This award is given by the Bobby Dodd Coach of the Year Foundation. He was inducted into the College Football Hall of Fame as a player in 1959 and as a coach in 1993. In 1988, Georgia Tech named its stadium Bobby Dodd Stadium in honor of him. The Bobby Dodd Institute is a group that helps people with disabilities; it is named in honor of Dodd for his help to the disabled.

</doc>
<doc id="231083" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231083" title="Walnut Hills High School">
Walnut Hills High School

Walnut Hills High School is a high school in Cincinnati, Ohio. According to Newsweek, Walnut Hills is the best school in Ohio. It helps prepare you for college. The school colors are blue and gold. The motto is ""Sursum ad summum"", which is Latin for "Rise to the Highest". The mascot is the eagle, and the sports teams are known as "The Eagles". They have a newspaper that comes out every month and have a magazine that comes out every year.

</doc>
<doc id="231084" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231084" title="Wrongful life">
Wrongful life

Wrongful life is a legal action in which someone is sued for not stopping the birth of a severely disabled child. In this type of lawsuit a child and the parents will sue a doctor or a hospital. The doctor or hospital is sued for not giving information about the disability during the pregnancy. The doctor or hospital may have not provided all the information on a genetic case before the pregnancy. The parents argue that if the mother had known this information, she would have had an abortion, or chosen not to become pregnant at all.
In the past, only parents could sue for their "own" damages the occurred as a result of the birth of a disabled child (e.g., the mother's own pregnancy medical bills and cost of psychiatric treatment for both parents' emotional resulting from becoming aware that their child was disabled). This cause of action is known as wrongful birth. But the child could not sue for his or her own damages, which were often much more in terms of money and harm.
In four U.S. states, the child is allowed to start a wrongful life cause of action for damages. In 1982, the Supreme Court of California was the first state supreme court to permit the child's right to sue for wrongful life, but in the same decision, limited the child's recovery to special damages. 
Most other jurisdictions, including England and Ontario, have not allowed the wrongful life cause of action.

</doc>
<doc id="231089" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231089" title="Intensity (physics)">
Intensity (physics)

In physics, intensity can usually be understood as the strength of something like a beam of light. To figure out (i.e., compute) the exact intensity of a beam of light or a fire hose spraying water, we need to know how many units of light or water are coming to some area in some period of time. A factory might have an "intensity" of 100 cars per day delivered to the loading dock. A fire hose might have an intensity of 100 buckets of water per minute per open window of a certain size in a burning building. 
Usually when talking about intensity, we are talking about the amount or energy of particles or radiation per unit area. Since each particle spreads out from the source in a sphere, the area is measured as the surface area of this sphere, or 4*pi*r^2, where r is the distance from the source to the observer. 

</doc>
<doc id="231097" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231097" title="Baked Alaska">
Baked Alaska

Baked Alaska is a dessert made of ice cream on top of slices of sponge cake or Christmas pudding and covered with meringue. The whole dessert is then baked in a very hot oven for just long enough to cook the meringue. The meringue is a good insulator, and the short cooking time prevents the heat from getting through to the ice cream.
Its name, but not the recipe, was made at Delmonico's Restaurant in 1876 to honour the new American territory.
February 1 is Baked Alaska Day.
A slightly changed dessert called Bombe Alaska came from Noel, Alaska. Some dark rum is splashed over the Baked Alaska, and the whole dessert is flambéed while being served.

</doc>
<doc id="231102" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231102" title="Dean Koontz">
Dean Koontz

Dean Koontz (born July 9, 1945 in Everett, Pennsylvania) is a writer from the U.S. state of Pennsylvania. He is known for writing in the suspense thriller genre and has had many books that have been New York Times Bestsellers.

</doc>
<doc id="231105" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231105" title="Everett, Pennsylvania">
Everett, Pennsylvania

Everett is a city in the state of Pennsylvania in the United States. The population is 1,850 as of the July 2008.
Writer Dean Koontz was born here.

</doc>
<doc id="231106" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231106" title="Christmas pudding">
Christmas pudding

Christmas pudding or Plum pudding is a steamed dessert that originated in the 1420s and is served on Christmas Day (December 25). It tastes like steamed pudding, with lots of dried fruits and nuts, and made with suet (animal fat). It is eaten in large amounts during the Christmas holidays. It is a traditional food to have at Christmas.
Christmas pudding Nutrition facts

</doc>
<doc id="231120" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231120" title="Anna Bergendahl">
Anna Bergendahl

Anna Henrietta Bergendahl (born December 11, 1991) in Katrineholm, Sweden is a singer and former Idol 2008 contestant. Bergendahl won Melodifestivalen 2010 and represented Sweden in the Eurovision Song Contest 2010 in Oslo. Her song This Is My Life is currently at number one on the Swedish single chart. In Idol 2008 she finished in fifth place. 

</doc>
<doc id="231121" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231121" title="Nordic skiing">
Nordic skiing

Nordic skiing is a sport in the Winter Olympics. It is called that because it comes from the Nordic countries. It includes cross-country skiing, which involves skiing over very long distances. It also involves ski jumping.

</doc>
<doc id="231123" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231123" title="Gene McEver">
Gene McEver

Eugene T. "Gene" McEver (September 15, 1908 - July 12, 1985) was a Hall of Fame college football player for the University of Tennessee. He was born in Bristol, Virginia in 1908. 
McEver was the first ever All American for the Tennessee Volunteers football team. He played for them in 1928, 1929, and 1931 for coach Robert Neyland. McEver missed the 1930 season with a knee injury. McEver scored 130 points for the Volunteers in 1929, helping them to a 9-0-1 record. The total led the NCAA in scoring that year. That total is still the record for most points in one year at Tennessee. McEver also holds the record for career scoring at Tennessee among non-kickers.
McEver finished his career with 44 touchdowns and 12 points after touchdown for 276 points. He was named to the All-Southern team in 1928, 1929, and 1931, with teammates Bobby Dodd and Herman Hickman. McEver was elected to the College Football Hall of Fame in 1954.
McEver coached at Davidson College in North Carolina from 1937 through 1943. His record there was 16-43-4. McEver also coached the University of North Carolina to a 1-7-1 record in 1944. He was an assistant coach at Virginia Tech from 1944 to 47.

</doc>
<doc id="231124" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231124" title="United States Football League">
United States Football League

The United States Football League was a football league in the 1980's. The spring and summer is when the USFL would play football. Entrepreneur Donald Trump owned some parts of the league. John Bassett was the late owner of the Tampa Bay Bandits, of the USFL.

</doc>
<doc id="231125" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231125" title="Whistler, British Columbia">
Whistler, British Columbia

Whistler is a village in the British Columbian province of Canada. The population as of 2006 is 9,248 and the mayor of Whistler is Nancy Wilhelm-Morden. It is located on the Sea to Sky Highway (Highway 99), which goes from the Peace Arch Border Crossing in Surrey, British Columbia to the Cariboo Highway (Highway 97) 10 kilometres north of Cache Creek, British Columbia. Over two million people visit Whistler annually, and it is usually for alpine skiing and mountain biking at the Whistler-Blackcomb ski resort. Whistler was the host Mountain Resort of the Vancouver 2010 Winter Olympics and Paralympic Games.

</doc>
<doc id="231128" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231128" title="Bundeswehr">
Bundeswehr

The Bundeswehr (German for "Federal Defence Force"; ) are the German Armed Forces. The German armed forces are for the unified Germany itself and do not have several parts for the States of Germany.
There are five sections: three bigger ones: Heer (Army), Marine (Navy) and Luftwaffe (Air Force) form one unified force, not three separate fighting forces. And two smaller ones: "Joint Support Service" (Streitkräftebasis) and "Central Medical Services" (Zentraler Sanitätsdienst).
In peace-time the commander-in-chief is the Federal Minister of Defence, and in wartime the Chancellor of Germany. This is unlike most countries where the head of state is commander in chief.
In March 2012, there were about 207,000 soldiers serving in the Bundeswehr; there are another 200,000 in reserve. Conscription for the Bundeswehr has been abolished in July 2011.

</doc>
<doc id="231132" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231132" title="Bobby Dodd Coach of the Year Award">
Bobby Dodd Coach of the Year Award

The Bobby Dodd Coach of the Year Award is college football award given every year to the Division I Football Bowl Subdivision head coach whose team does well on the field, in the classroom, and in the community. The award is named for Bobby Dodd. Dodd was head football coach at Georgia Tech. The award was made in 1976 to honor the values that Dodd held. Coaches who win the award are chosen by a committee of college football experts and all previous winners. The winner is announced during half-time of the Chick-fil-A Bowl on December 31 in Atlanta, Georgia. A formal presentation is held later, usually on the university campus of the winner.
Only Joe Paterno of Penn State has received the award twice, in 1981 and in 2005. Four schools have had two different coaches given the award: Michigan with Bo Schembechler in 1977 and Lloyd Carr in 2007; Air Force with Ken Hatfield in 1983 and Fisher DeBerry in 1985, Georgia Tech with Bobby Ross in 1990 and George O'Leary in 2000 and TCU with Jim Wacker in 1984 and Gary Patterson in 2009.

</doc>
<doc id="231139" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231139" title="Shane Mosley">
Shane Mosley

Shane Andre Mosley (born September 7, 1971) is a retired American professional boxer from Pomona, California. Mosley has held world titles in three weight divisions. He held the IBF Lightweight Championship, WBC & WBA (Super) Welterweight Championships and WBC, WBA (Super) & "The Ring" Light Middleweight Championships.

</doc>
<doc id="231143" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231143" title="Craftsman">
Craftsman

Craftsman may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="231146" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231146" title="Kingsport, Tennessee">
Kingsport, Tennessee

Kingsport is a city in Hawkins and Sullivan counties in the U.S. state of Tennessee. The large part of the city is in Sullivan County. The population was 44,095 at the 2000 census.
The name is based on "King's Port" which referred to the area around Ross's Landing. It is part of what is known as the "Mountain Empire," which includes a portion of southwest Virginia and the mountainous counties in Tennessee to the east.
Kingsport is located at (36.536851, -82.542123) where U.S. highways 11 and 23 meet. Kingsport is also the starting and ending point of Interstate 26.
According to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of 45.0 square miles (116.6 km²), of which, 44.1 square miles (114.1 km²) of it is land and 0.9 square miles (2.4 km²) of it (2.07%) is water.
People who live in Kingsport use the Kingsport City Schools public school system. The system has seven elementary schools, two middle schools, and one high school. Kingsport is also home to eight private academies. The city is also part of Sullivan county which has 2 other high schools in Kingsport.
While no college or university houses its main campus within the city, Northeast State Technical Community College, East Tennessee State University, and University of Tennessee have branch campuses in Kingsport.
The Kingsport Mets of the Appalachian League, a rookie-level league, play in the city. They are an affiliate of the New York Mets. The team has competed in the city since 1969, with the exception of 1983. The Mets play in Hunter Wright Stadium named after Mayor Hunter Wright.

</doc>
<doc id="231149" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231149" title="Mississippi State University">
Mississippi State University

Mississippi State University is a university in Starkville, Mississippi. It has 20,138 students and is the largest college in the state of Mississippi. The college was opened in 1878 as a land-grant university. Its sports teams are called the Bulldogs (men's teams) and Lady Bulldogs, and play in the Southeastern Conference.

</doc>
<doc id="231150" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231150" title="University of Mississippi">
University of Mississippi

The University of Mississippi (also called Ole Miss) is a university in Oxford, Mississippi. The college was founded in 1848. Its sports teams, called the Rebels, play in the Southeastern Conference. 
In September 1962, James Meredith won a lawsuit to secure admission to the previously segregated University of Mississippi. He attempted to enter campus on September 20, on September 25, and again on September 26. He was blocked by Mississippi Governor Ross Barnett, who said, "[N]o school will be integrated in Mississippi while I am your Governor." The Fifth U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals held Barnett and Lieutenant Governor Paul B. Johnson, Jr. in contempt, with fines of more than $10,000 for each day they refused to allow Meredith to enroll.
Attorney General Robert Kennedy sent U.S. Marshals. On September 30, 1962, Meredith entered the campus under their escort. Students and other whites began rioting that evening, throwing rocks and then shooting guns at the U.S. Marshals guarding Meredith. Two people were killed; 28 marshals suffered gunshot wounds; and 160 others were injured. After the Mississippi Highway Patrol withdrew from the campus, President John F. Kennedy sent regular US Army forces to the campus to quell the riot. Meredith began classes the day after the troops arrived.

</doc>
<doc id="231156" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231156" title="Targovishte">
Targovishte

Targovishte is a town in the northeastern part of Bulgaria. It is a capital of Targovishte Province. It is 125 km to the west of the Black Sea. About 37,000 people live in the town. 

</doc>
<doc id="231157" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231157" title="The Gits">
The Gits

The Gits was a punk rock band that formed in Seattle, Washington in 1986 and disbanded in 1993 after the mysterious murder of their lead singer Mia Zapata. Joan Jett who is a long time fan of The Gits wrote a song entitled "Go Home" which was inspired by the death of Mia Zapata.
The band's original name was ""Snivelling Little Rat Faced Gits"" which was named after a Monty Python skit but they later shortened it to "The Gits".

</doc>
<doc id="231158" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231158" title="Penalty shootout">
Penalty shootout

A penalty shootout in association football is a way of deciding who wins match if both teams have scored the same number of goals.
If the score is a draw after 90 minutes, usually the teams will play an extra 30 minutes of extra time. If the score is still equal, then a penalty shootout takes place. Usually each team takes five penalties each, and the team who scores the most wins. If both teams are equal after these penalties, then each team will take one more penalty until one team is ahead.
Penalty shootouts are normally only used in cup matches, and not league matches. If nobody wins in a league match, both teams get one point for the draw. In a cup match often a winner in needed to go to the next round.
Many famous cup finals have been won by penalty shootouts, like the 2006 World Cup final, the 2005 UEFA Champions League final and the 1994 World Cup final.
FIFA laws of the game

</doc>
<doc id="231163" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231163" title="Jersey Shore (TV series)">
Jersey Shore (TV series)

Jersey Shore is an MTV reality series that features eight housemates who spend their summers in New Jersey and partying in their beach house and working at a store. Season 1 was shot in Seaside Heights, New Jersey and season 2 was shot in Miami, Florida. The cast later returned to Seaside Heights for Season 3 with a new cast member Deena. MTV has later reported that Season 4 of "Jersey Shore" will be filmed in Italy during spring and summer 2011. Also, cast members Snooki and JWoww have a spinoff show. The show has brought a lot of controversy about its use of the slang word "guido/guidette" and how they portray Italian American stereotypes. Despite this, the show has brought record high ratings for MTV, making it the network's most viewed reality show ever. MTV announced that they were going to cancel the series after 6 seasons.

</doc>
<doc id="231165" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231165" title="Bloodhound Gang">
Bloodhound Gang

The Bloodhound Gang is a comedy rock band from Pennsylvania. Many of their songs have humorous rap and sexual innuendo. They are best known for their hit singles "Fire Water Burn" and "The Bad Touch". Formed in 1992, their music style slowly changed from rap to alternative rock. The Bloodhound Gang has sold more than 6 million albums.
Jimmy Pop – lead vocals, rhythm guitar, songwriter (1991-present)
Evil Jared Hasselhoff – bass guitar (1995-present)
Q-Ball – turntables, keyboard, backing vocals (1995-present)
The Yin – drums, percussion (2006-present)
Daniel P. Carter - lead guitar (2009-present)
Foof – vocals (1992)
Bubba K. Love – Drums (1992-1993)
Daddy Long Legs – vocals, bass guitar (1992-1995)
M.S.G. – turntables (1993-1995)
Skip O'Pot2Mus – drums (1993-1995)
Tard-E-Tard – turntables (1995)
Spanky G – drums (1995-1998)
Lupus Thunder - lead guitar (1994-2008)
Willie The New Guy – drums (1999-2006)

</doc>
<doc id="231166" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231166" title="Savior (Rise Against song)">
Savior (Rise Against song)

Savior is a hit single from the American punk rock band Rise Against's 2008 fifth studio album "Appeal to Reason". It was released as the album's third single on June 3, 2009, and it peaked at number three on "Billboard"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s Alternative Songs chart, better than the peak set by the same album's first single, Re-Education (Through Labor), and at number seven on the Rock Songs chart. It became the band's second single to reach the Hot Mainstream Rock Tracks chart, peaking at number 16. It is also Rise Against's highest charting single on the Bubbling Under Hot 100 Singles, peaking at number 2.
The song is downloadable, plus content for the Rock Band series along with "Prayer of the Refugee" and "Re-Education (Through Labor)". Also, in the trailer for the PC game the song plays in the background in Simlish.

</doc>
<doc id="231168" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231168" title="The Unraveling">
The Unraveling

The Unraveling is the debut album by the American punk rock band Rise Against. Released on April 24, 2001 and produced by punk producer Mass Giorgini. It is the only Rise Against studio album where frontman Tim McIlrath does only lead vocals and does not play guitar. Two songs, "My Life Inside Your Heart" and "The Art of Losing" were used for the unreleased Dreamcast game Propeller Arena.

</doc>
<doc id="231177" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231177" title="Picture book">
Picture book

A picture book is a book that combines words and pictures to tell a story. They are usually for young children to read. The pictures are illustrations that show different parts of the story. The written part of the book is often short and basic, using words that a child can understand.
The earliest illustrated book made for children was "Orbis Pictus" by John Amos Comenius. It was published in 1658. One of the earliest picture books in English was Lewis Carroll's "Alice's Adventures in Wonderland" from 1866. The drawings in it were done by John Tenniel. Beatrix Potter's "The Tale of Peter Rabbit" was published in 1902. Potter did all her own illustrations, which are watercolour paintings. Some of the best-known picture books are "Make Way for Ducklings", "The Cat in the Hat", and "Where the Wild Things Are".

</doc>
<doc id="231205" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231205" title="Physical Graffiti">
Physical Graffiti

Physical Graffiti is the sixth album from rock band Led Zeppelin. It was released on February 24 1975 as a double album. This is the first double album the band released, and the songs were recorded over many years, some were old songs that they did not use for other albums, and some were new ones made for this album. The album was very popular with both critics and fans, and it still is, it has one of their most well known songs, the Arab-sounding "Kashmir". The band had a big tour when the album was released, they played concerts in Europe,the US and ended the touring in May 1975 with five concerts at Earl's Court in London. Some of the songs from their London concerts are on their 2003 DVD. 
Official website

</doc>
<doc id="231206" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231206" title="Tropical Storm Mekkhala (2008)">
Tropical Storm Mekkhala (2008)

Tropical Storm Mekkhala (internationally called: 0816, JTWC designation: 20W) was the 16th Tropical Storm of the 2008 Pacific typhoon season by the Japan Meteorological Agency who are the Regional Specialized Meteorological Centre for the North Western Pacific Ocean. The Joint Typhoon Warning Center (JTWC) have also recognised Mekkhala as the 20th tropical depression, and the 18th tropical storm of the 2008 Pacific typhoon season. Tropical Storm Mekkhala formed off the coast of China on September 25, 2008.

</doc>
<doc id="231214" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231214" title="Professional wrestling match types">
Professional wrestling match types

This article lists the many types of matches in professional wrestling.
A singles match is a match between two wrestlers. The first person to either win by pinfall or submission is the winner. If one of the wrestlers get disqualified, or "counted out" (when a wrestler is caught outside of the ring and the referee counts to either 10 or 20, depending on the companies' rules) they will lose the match.
There are also different types of singles matches such as:
An Empty arena match is a hardcore match which takes place in an arena that has no fans in it. The only people that are there are the wrestlers, referee, and cameramen. One of the first known empty arenas matches took place in 1981 at the Mid South Coliseum in Memphis, Tennessee between Terry Funk and Jerry Lawler. Another well known empty arena match happened between The Rock and Mankind and was shown during the halftime show of Super Bowl XXXIII.
A Falls Count Anywhere match is a match where a pinfall or submission can happen anywhere in the arena. Weapons are usually legal. The types of matches often go in to the audience, the hallways and backstage areas.
A Flag match is a match where two flags are placed on opposite turnbuckles. To win the match, the wrestler must grab the opponent's flag and raise it while defending the flag in the their own corner. 
A Handicap match is a match where one wrestler or a team compete against a team of wrestlers with a higher number (for example; two against one, three against two, etc.) Usually it is the babyfaces wrestlers that are outnumbered by the heel wrestlers. Sometimes in two-on-one Handicap matches, the team acts under tag team rules.
An Iron Man match is a match where there is a set time limit and is also a multiple-fall match. The way to win the match is to have the most points by the end of the time limit. To gain a point, the wrestler must pin or submit their opponent. A point can also be gained by countout or disqualification.
A Lumberjack match is a regular match where the outside of the ring is surrounded by wrestlers. The wrestlers that surround the ring are called "lumberjacks" (females wrestlers are sometimes called "lumberjills"). If a wrestler is knocked out of the ring, the lumberjacks will put them back in. They are usually split in groups of faces and heels. During early lumberjack match, the lumberjacks would wear stereotypical lumberjack clothing but this is no longer done.
A bra and panties match is a match where the female wrestler must strip her opponent to her bra and panties to win.
A tuxedo match is a match where two male wrestlers compete in tuxedos. To win the match, the wrestler must strip their opponent's tuxedo off.
An evening gown match is a match where the wrestler must strip off the evening gown of her opponent to win.
A Tag Team match is a match between four wrestlers divided in to teams of 2. One wrestler of each team stands just outside the ring ropes until he is tagged in by his partner by slapping hands or lightly slapping their partners back with the ref watching. This match is won by pinfall or submission.
A Triple Threat match is regular match but with three competitors instead of two. First person to score a pinfall or submission wins. No disqualification or count outs. 
This match includes four wrestlers competing against each other at once. The match continues as the wrestlers are eliminated one by one by pinfall or submission until there is only one left which is then the winner.
A barbed wire steel cage match is a type of cage match where barbed wire is a part of the match's design. There are different variations of the match like a Razor wire Steel Cage Match which is the same except that razorwire replaces the barbed wire and it would wrap around the top, corners, and walls of the cage and Barbed wire Razor wire Steel Cage match is the same as the barbed wire cage match, however the top, corners, and walls of the cage are covered with barbed wire, further wrapped with razor wire.
A Fans Bring the Weapons match is a match where the weapons are given by the fans before the show. Sometimes the weapons will already be in the ring but usually they are handed to the wrestlers during the match. This type of match was popular in Extreme Championship Wrestling (ECW).
A First Blood match is a match where there are no disqualifications. To win the match, a wrestler must make their opponent bleed.
A Last Man Standing match is a match where a wrestler has to hurt their opponent enough to where he cannot make it to his feet before the count of 10, the one who cannot meet the count loses. There are no pinfalls or submission, no disqualifications, no count outs.
A No Disqualification match is a match where the wrestlers cannot be disqualified and can use weapons and outside interference. Unlike the regular hardcore match, the pinfalls/submissions must be made in the ring.
A Taipei Deathmatch is a match where the fists of the wrestlers are taped. The wrestlers then dip their fists in super glue and broken glass. The way to win the match is by either Pinfall, Submission or Escape.
A Kiss My Foot match is a type of singles match where the loser has to kiss the winner's foot. Known matches include Bret Hart vs Jerry Lawler at the King of the Ring and Jerry Lawler vs Michael Cole at Over the Limit. There is a similar version of the match is the "Kiss My Ass Match", where the loser had to kiss the winner's butt and was held during WWF's Attitude Era.
Luchas de Apuestas (gambling fights) are matches where both of the wrestlers put something on the line, usually their mask or hair. The loser of the match would then lose the thing that they put on the line. A masked wrestler would be forced to unmask and a wrestler that put their hair on the line would be shaven bald. This type of match is popular in Mexico. 
A Boiler Room Brawl is a match where two wrestlers fight in a boiler room. To win the match, the wrestler must escape the boiler room. 
A Parking Lot Brawl is a match where two wrestlers fight in a parking lot. The wrestlers are allowed to use everything around them including the cars as weapons. The wrestler must win by either pinfall or submission. A similar match called the Iron Circle match takes place in a in the middle of many cars parked in a circle with their headlights on.
A Pig Pen Match is match where two wrestlers fight in a pig pen full of pigs that is placed near the stage. The match ends when the wrestler pins, submits or throws their opponent into the pig pen.
A Ladder match is a match where a prize is hung above the ring, usually a championship belt or a briefcase with a contract inside. To win you must climb a ladder and retrieve the prize. Weapons are legal in this match type.
A tables, ladders and chairs match (usually abbreviated to TLC) is a match where tables, ladders and steel chairs can be used as weapons. The first TLC match took place at SummerSlam in 2000 between Edge and Christian, The Dudley Boyz and The Hardy Boyz.
A Tables match is a match where a wrestler must put their opponent through a table with an offensive move in order to win. The match can also be used in tag teams, under an elimination match and during a one "fall" rules match. There is also a hardcore version where the wrestler must put the opponent through a table that has been set on fire.
A steel cage match is a match that literally takes place in a steel cage which surrounds the ring. You can win by pinfall, submission or escaping the cage by climbing over with both feet hitting the floor outside or by exiting the door with both feet hitting the floor.
A Hell in a Cell match is a match which takes place in a large cage which covers beyond the ring apron is lowered around the ring and leaves a small gap between the edge of the ring and the cage wall. It also covers the top of the cage hence the name 'cell'. There is no disqualification and wrestlers are allowed to go outside the cell. 
During the early Hell in a Cell matches, many wrestlers got injured. A famous moment happened in 1998 at King of the Ring when The Undertaker threw Mankind off the 16-foot (5 m) high cell through the Spanish announcers table. Undertaker also chokeslammed Mankind through the roof of the cell onto a thumbtack-covered mat in the same match. 
An Elimination Chamber match is a match which takes place in a large, circular steel cage that surrounds the entire ring. The chamber contains four clear, plexiglass pods which holds four of the six wrestlers in the match. A pod opens every five minutes to let another wrestler into the match. A wrestler can be eliminated from the match by either pinfall or submission. The wrestler that either gets a pinfall or submission of the last two remaining competitors is the winner. The match was created by Triple H and was introduced by Eric Bischoff in November 2002.
An Inferno match is a type of match where the ring is completely surrounded by flames when both of the wrestler have entered the ring. The way to win the match is for a wrestler to set their opponent on fire. The match usually ends on the outside so that the paramedics can help the loser of the match. The first inferno match took place at in 1998 where The Undertaker defeated Kane.
A Buried alive match is a match where there is a grave dug out of dirt found outside the ring. The way to win the match is for a wrestler to throw their opponent into the grave and bury them in dirt. There are usually shovels, wheelbarrows or bulldozers to help with the burying.
A casket match, also known as a Coffin match, is a match where there is a casket near the ring. To win the match, the wrestler has to throw their opponent in the casket and close the lid. 

</doc>
<doc id="231233" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231233" title="Igor Shpilband">
Igor Shpilband

Igor Shpilband (, born July 1964) is a former Soviet ice dancer and current ice dancing coach of Scott Moir and Tessa Virtue, who won the gold medal for ice dancing at the 2010 Winter Olympics.
Shpilband was born in Moscow, Soviet Union. He to the United States in January 1990 with Veronica Pershina, Gorsha Sur, and Elena Krikanova and went to live with Lucile Begrow in Huntington Woods, Michigan for a few months. Shpilband became a United States citizen in 2000.
He was married to Veronica Pershina. Their daughter Ekaterina Shpilband is also an ice skater.
He won the 1983 World Junior Figure Skating Championships with his partner Tatiana Gladkova. They were coached by Ludmila Pakhomova. Shpilband retired from competitive skating after Ludmila died in 1986.
He worked as a coach at the Detroit Skating Club when he came to the US. He later began coaching in Canton, Michigan.

</doc>
<doc id="231237" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231237" title="David Lange">
David Lange

David Lange (4 August 1942—13 August 2005) was the Prime Minister of New Zealand from 1984 to 1989.
Lange was born in Otahuhu, Auckland. In 1954, he went to a political meeting which made him want to go into politics. After his father was charged with indecent assault, he decided that he would become a solicitor. After finishing school at Otahuhu College, he went to Auckland University to study law in 1960, and graduated in 1966.
In 1967, he was working as a barrister and solicitor in New Zealand. He took over a legal practice in Kaikohe in 1968. He married Naomi Crampton in 1968. He completed his Master of Laws with Honours in 1970.
Lange became active in politics when he joined the Labour Party in 1963, while he was still at university. He first tried to get elected to the Auckland City Council in 1974, but did not get enough votes. In 1975, he tried to get a seat in Parliament, but again was unsuccessful. A third attempt in 1977 was successful and he won the seat of Mangere. He held this seat until he left politics in 1996. His first speech in the parliament was very successful and he was seen as a possible leader of the Labor Party. In 1979 he was made the Deputy Leader, and in 1982 Lange was made the leader. When the Labor Party won the elections in 1984, David Lange became Prime Minister of New Zealand.
While he was prime minister, Lange passed a policy in 1985 to not let nuclear-armed ships into New Zealand waters.
He resigned in 1989. He and his wife Naomi separated in the same year after 21 years of marriage. Lange married Margret Pope in 1992.

</doc>
<doc id="231246" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231246" title="Asian emerald cuckoo">
Asian emerald cuckoo

The Asian emerald cuckoo is a species of cuckoo in the Cuculidae family.
It lives in Southeast Asia, in Bangladesh, Bhutan, Cambodia, China, India, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, Nepal, Sri Lanka, Thailand, and Vietnam. The Asian emerald cuckoo is a protected animal in Malaysia. 
Its scientific name is "Chrysococcyx maculatus".
This bird is not in the Cuculinae subfamily, and so it is not a nest parasite. They raise their own young, like most birds. Emerald cuckoos lay eggs in a nest built by the parents.

</doc>
<doc id="231251" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231251" title="Molecular clock">
Molecular clock

The molecular clock is a technique which estimates when two taxa diverged in evolution. It is based on comparing the detailed structure of key molecules. The method may be done for species, or any higher taxon, such as phyla. Adjustments are made by using what is known of the fossil record. The molecular data used for such calculations is often nucleotide sequences in genome analysis, or amino acid sequences for proteins such as haemoglobin. It is sometimes called a "gene clock" or "evolutionary clock".
The key assumption behind the technique is that, in the long run, changes in molecular structure happen at a steady rate.
Researchers such as Ayala have challenged this assumption. According to Ayala, these factors combine to limit the application of molecular clock models:
Nevertheless, the method is now used widely in taxonomy and phylogeny.

</doc>
<doc id="231262" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231262" title="Strawberry">
Strawberry

A strawberry is a plant that grows fruit that people eat. The fruit of a strawberry is rose when ripe, and has edible seeds on the outside. Many people eat strawberries on ice cream or dip them in sugar. Strawberries are rich in vitamin C and manganese. Many strawberries are grown on strawberry farms and the farmers often have hives of bees that live on the farm to pollinate the strawberries. Strawberries are technically aggregate fruits, containing more than one fruit. Strawberry stems are called runners. They grow above ground. They are a type of stolon. Seeds (the achenes) are the true fruit.

</doc>
<doc id="231263" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231263" title="Key lime pie">
Key lime pie

Key lime pie is an American dessert made of key lime juice, egg yolks, and sweetened condensed milk in a pie crust. One version uses the egg whites and has a meringue topping. The dish is named after key limes ("Citrus aurantifolia" 'Swingle'), but it is sometimes made with other types of lime. 
The filling in key lime pie is yellow, mostly because of the egg yolks. When it is being mixed, the condensed milk and the acidic lime juice react and make the filling become thick. Many early recipes for key lime pie did not tell the cook to bake the pie because they used this reaction to make the filling thick. Today, because of food safety, the pies are often baked for a short time. The baking thickens the filling even more.

</doc>
<doc id="231266" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231266" title="Molecular evolution">
Molecular evolution

Molecular evolution is the process of evolution in DNA, RNA, and proteins. 
Molecular evolution emerged as a scientific field in the 1960s as researchers from molecular biology, evolutionary biology and population genetics sought to understand the structure and function of nucleic acids and protein. Some of the key topics have been the evolution of enzyme function, the use of nucleic acid changes as a molecular clock to study species divergence, and the origin of non-functional or junk DNA. 
Recent advances in genomics, including whole-genome sequencing, and bioinformatics have led to a dramatic increase in studies on the topic. In the 2000s, the role of gene duplication, the extent of adaptive molecular evolution versus neutral genetic drift, and the identification of molecular changes responsible for various human characteristics especially those pertaining to infection, disease, and cognition.
Molecular systematics is the process of using data on the DNA, RNA, or proteins to resolve questions in phylogeny and taxonomy. The idea is to place groups in their correct position on the evolutionary tree. This corrects their biological classification from the point of view of evolution. The technique has already led to major changes in the taxonomy of living things, including the names for higher categories, which had been stable for well over a century.
Molecular systematics has been made possible by techniques for sequence analysis. This gives the exact sequence of nucleotides or bases in either DNA or RNA. At present it is still expensive to sequence the entire genome of an organism, but it has been done for over 100 species.

</doc>
<doc id="231277" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231277" title="Sequence analysis">
Sequence analysis

Sequence analysis in molecular biology involves identifying the sequence of nucleotides in a nucleic acid, or amino acids in a peptide or protein. Once a sample has been obtained, DNA sequences may be produced automatically by machine and the result displayed on computer. Interpreting those results is still a task for humans.
Information from sequence analysis is used in many fields of biology. It gives information on the relationship between individual organisms, or between groups of organisms. It shows how closely related they are.
A DNA sequence is the sequence of nucleotides in a DNA molecule. It is written as a succession of letters representing the primary structure of a DNA molecule or strand. If functional, such a sequence carries information for the sequence of amino acids in a protein molecule. The possible letters are A, C, G, and T, representing the four nucleotide bases of a DNA strand — adenine, cytosine, guanine, thymine. The sequences are printed next to one another, without gaps, as in the sequence AAAGTCTGAC.
The study of RNA and proteins is more complex. The overall structure of DNA is simple and predictable (double helix). The study of RNA and proteins must include a study of their 3-dimensional structure, which is varied, and influences how they work. To some extent this can be assisted by computer, but has to be verified in each case.
Information on sequences is kept in databases. Since the development of fast production of gene and protein sequences during the 1990s, the rate of addition of new sequences to the databases increases all the time.
Complete genome analysis has been done on over 800 species and strains. The work is done by a machine, the DNA sequencer, which analyses light signals from fluorochromes attached to the nucleotides. This type of work is gradually becoming less expensive. 
As of December 2012, whole genome analysis has been completed on about 800 to 900 living species and strains of species. Numbers are approximate, and changing.
The human genome is stored on 23 chromosome pairs in the cell nucleus and in the small mitochondrial DNA. A great deal is now known about the sequences of DNA which are on our chromosomes. What the DNA actually does is now partly known. Applying this knowledge in practice has only just begun.
The Human Genome Project (HGP) produced a reference sequence which is used worldwide in biology and medicine. "Nature" published the publicly funded project's report, and "Science" published Celera's paper. These papers described how the draft sequence was produced, and gave an analysis of the sequence. Improved drafts were announced in 2003 and 2005, filling in to ≈92% of the sequence.
The latest project ENCODE studies the way the genes are controlled.
It is not necessary to have whole genome sequences for forensic work, such as identifying a criminal from traces of DNA left at a crime scene, or for paternity cases. At present whole genome sequencing is still very expensive, but fortunately, simpler and cheaper methods are available.
The basic idea is to look at certain loci (places) in the genome which are highly variable between people. About 10 to 15 of these loci are needed for a match, and the legal details differ between countries. A match between a sample and a suspect individual makes it extremely likely that the individual was the source of the sample. This evidence would then be the basis of the prosecution case for a crime. A similar analysis would show that a man was very likely the father of a child. This is really a modern way to do what was done with blood groups before DNA details could be analysed.
Each person’s DNA contains two alleles of a particular gene or 'marker': one from the father and one from the mother. 'Markers' are genes chosen for having a number of different alleles occurring frequently in the population. The following table is from a commercial DNA paternity testing experiment. It shows how relatedness between parents and child is demonstrated with five markers:
The results show that the child and the alleged father’s DNA match for these five markers. The complete test results showed this correlation on 16 markers between the child and the tested man. If a case is tested in court, a forensic scientist would give evidence on the likelihood of getting that result by chance.
There are state laws on DNA profiling in all 50 states of the United States. Detailed information on database laws in each state can be found at the National Conference of State Legislatures website.
Ancient DNA has been recovered from some sources. The record for survival of DNA suitable for sequence analysis is 700,000 years. A horse skeleton buried in permafrost has provided bones with some DNA surviving. The sequence was only 70% complete, but it was enough for researchers to say "It would not look like a horse as we know it… but we would expect it to be a one-toed horse". For comparison, researchers had access to DNA sequences of modern horses, donkeys and Przewalski's horse.

</doc>
<doc id="231281" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231281" title="Riverina">
Riverina

The Riverina () is a large farming area in the south west of New South Wales, Australia. It has flat plains, warm to hot climate and a large supply of water for irrigation. This has allowed the Riverina to become one of the most productive and agriculturally varied areas of Australia. With the state of Victoria to the south, and the mountains of the Great Dividing Range to the east, the Riverina covers those areas of New South Wales in the Murray and Murrumbidgee river systems.
The Riverina has been home to Aboriginal groups for over 40,000 years. It was first settled by Europens in the mid-19th century as a pastoral region growing beef and wool for markets in Australia and overseas. In the 20th century, the building of major irrigation areas in the Murray and Murrumbidgee valleys has led to the introduction of crops such as rice and grapes. The Riverina has strong links to Victoria, and the region was the source of much of the push behind the federation of Australian colonies.
The major cities and towns in the Riverina include Wagga Wagga, Albury and Griffith. Albury and Wagga Wagga are home to campuses of Charles Sturt University. Wagga Wagga is home to two major Australian Defence Force bases.
The area of the Riverina region is not fixed, but it usually includes the farming and pastoral areas of New South Wales, west of the Great Dividing Range and in the drainage basin of the snow-fed Murray and Murrumbidgee Rivers. The north edge of the Riverina is the Lachlan River catchment area known as the Central West. Along the Murray to the south, the Riverina border is the state of Victoria. West of where the Murray and Murrumbidgee meet, is the beginning of the drier Far West region.
In general, the Riverina is an alluvial plain formed by soil carried from the Great Dividing Range by streams between 30,000 to 15,000 years ago. The landscape includes rolling hills to the east but then becomes flatter to the west with most of that plain reaching less than above sea level. The western Riverina is mainly flat saltbush plain.
The geology of the Riverina has several troughs and sedimentary basins. The western Riverina is thought to be the end of the Ballarat and Bendigo geological zone. The eastern part is over the top of the western part of the Lachlan Fold Belt. It is possible that the Riverina has mineral deposits including coal, petroleum, coal seam methane, gypsum, gold, Cobar style polymetallic systems, heavy mineral sands and possibly diamonds in these fold belt rocks and basins. Riverina soils are generally sandy along the rivers, with more saline grey and brown clays found on rarely flooded areas on the edge of the floodplain. As the Murrumbidgee flows downstream, the water and soil become more saline.
The Riverina is drained by the large Murray-Darling Basin. Rivers and streams in the Riverina generally flow east to west. As well as the Murray, Murrumbidgee and Lachlan, other streams include Billabong Creek and the Edward River, an anabranch of the Murray. Much of the water carried by these streams is taken out for other uses. In 2001–2002, 52% of the Murray and Murrumbidgee water was taken, with 77% of that water used for irrigation.

</doc>
<doc id="231285" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231285" title="Phylogeny">
Phylogeny

A phylogeny is a proposal of how organisms are related by their evolutionary history. It is based on the evidence that all living things are related by common descent. The evidence for phylogeny comes from palaeontology, comparative anatomy, and DNA sequence analysis.
The main product of phylogenetics is a phylogenetic tree or tree of life. This is a diagram showing a pattern of ancestor/descendent relationships. Information may be related to geological periods or estimated dates. A biological classification is another type of product. 

</doc>
<doc id="231286" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231286" title="Asana">
Asana

Asana is a body position in Yoga. It can mean where a person sits, and the way that they sit. It helps to balance the mind and body. It is meant to be firm, yet comfortable.
All the many different body positions in Yoga are "Asana"s: they all have their own names and every name ends with "asana", such as sav"asana" (correct lying). Many have names of animals, such as bujang"asana" (cobra). Others have names that describe the position, such as shirsh"asana" (head).

</doc>
<doc id="231293" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231293" title="Fedora">
Fedora

A fedora is a hat. The name of the hat comes from a play called Victorien Sardou, Fédora. Popular in the early 20th century, it has become a stereotype for gangsters or Private Investigators (PIs).
They mainly come in black, sometimes with a band of coloured fabric around the rim.
Some people, such as Jack Abramoff and Richard W. Lariviere, become known for wearing fedoras.

</doc>
<doc id="231304" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231304" title="Black Francolin">
Black Francolin

The Black Francolin, "Francolinus francolinus", is a gamebird in the pheasant family Phasianidae of the order Galliformes, gallinaceous birds.

</doc>
<doc id="231305" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231305" title="Giant Gippsland earthworm">
Giant Gippsland earthworm

The giant gippsland Earthworm, ("Megascolides australis"), is one of Australia's 1,000 native earthworm species. These Giant earthworms average at 100 cm long and 2 cm in diameter and can reach 3 m in length. It is difficult to measure length, as the worms will stretch, so scientists use weight to estimate the size. The average weight of a fresh adult worm is about 200 grams. They have a dark purple head and a blue-gray body.
The worms are found in the Bass River Valley of South Gippsland, near Korumburra and Warragul. They are only found in a small area, of about 100,000 hectares. They live in small pockets of blue-grey clay close to water. They live in burrows about 500mm deep, and can burrow as deep as 1.5m.
The habitat the worms used to live in was tall eucalypt forests. Most of this has been cleared for farming, but the worms have continued to survive because they live deep underground. They have been listed a vulnerable species because of these changes. The worms only lay a single egg, between 4-7cm in size. These can take up to one year to hatch, and the worms take several years to become adults, and be able to reproduce. This slow rate of growth, also makes them a vulnerable species.

</doc>
<doc id="231306" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231306" title="Himalayan monal">
Himalayan monal

The Himalayan monal, "Lophophorus impejanus", is also known as the Impeyan monal or pheasant. It is a bird in the pheasant family, Phasianidae. Its discoverer, Latham, wrote in his "General History of Birds" (1821): "[the monal] inhabits India, but is not common, being brought from the hills in the northern parts of Hindustan to Calcutta, as a rarity. Lady Impey attempted, with great prospect of success, to bring some of them to England, but after living on board for two months they caught a disorder from the other poultry, and died".
It is the national bird of Nepal, where it is known as the danphe (or Danfe), and is mentioned frequently in Nepali songs. It is also the state bird of Uttarakhand, India.
The Himalayan Monal is a relatively large-sized pheasant. The males of this species look quite different from the females of the species. The male Himalayan Monals have bright and colorful feathers of blue, green, purple, and red. They have a white patch of feathers underneath the base of their tail, but the rest of their underside is black. The males also have a crest (several feathers) on top of their heads. Both the male and female of the species have blue circles of skin around their eyes. The females and the young birds (chicks) have an overall brown appearance. Their feathers also have white and black strips on certain parts. The females have a white throat.
The male chicks look like the females chicks until a little after a year when they begin to become more colorful. Before then you could tell the young male and females apart because of their larger size and black feathers, instead of white feathers, on the throat.

</doc>
<doc id="231308" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231308" title="Himalayan Snowcock">
Himalayan Snowcock

The Himalayan Snowcock ("Tetraogallus himalayensis") is a snowcock in the pheasant family Phasianidae of the order Galliformes, gallinaceous birds.

</doc>
<doc id="231310" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231310" title="Kashmir Nuthatch">
Kashmir Nuthatch

The Kashmir Nuthatch (Sitta cashmirensis) is a species of bird in the Sittidae family.

</doc>
<doc id="231312" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231312" title="Snow Partridge">
Snow Partridge

The Snow Partridge ("Lerwa lerwa") is a gamebird in the pheasant family Phasianidae of the order Galliformes, gallinaceous birds.

</doc>
<doc id="231324" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231324" title="Richard Baer">
Richard Baer

Richard Baer (September 9, 1911 - June 17, 1963) was the third German commander of the concentration camp Auschwitz.

</doc>
<doc id="231344" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231344" title="Black-throated Loon">
Black-throated Loon

The Black-throated Loon ("Gavia arctica"), is a medium-sized member of the loon or diver family.

</doc>
<doc id="231348" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231348" title="Little Grebe">
Little Grebe

The Little Grebe ("Tachybaptus ruficollis"), also known as Dabchick, is 23 to 29 cm in length.

</doc>
<doc id="231349" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231349" title="Tampa Bay">
Tampa Bay

Tampa Bay is a bay in St. Petersburg, Florida, USA that spreads trough Hillsborough Bay, Old Tampa Bay, Middle Tampa Bay, and Lower Tampa Bay.

</doc>
<doc id="231350" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231350" title="Tibetan Partridge">
Tibetan Partridge

The Tibetan Partridge "Perdix hodgsoniae " is a gamebird in the pheasant family Phasianidae of the order Galliformes, gallinaceous birds.

</doc>
<doc id="231353" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231353" title="Tibetan Sandgrouse">
Tibetan Sandgrouse

The Tibetan Sandgrouse ("Syrrhaptes tibetanus ") is a large bird in the sandgrouse family. This species breeds on the dry stony plateaus in Tibet and neighbouring parts of central Asia.

</doc>
<doc id="231354" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231354" title="Tibetan Snowcock">
Tibetan Snowcock

The Tibetan Snowcock ("Tetraogallus tibetanus") is a cock in the pheasant family Phasianidae of the order Galliformes, gallinaceous birds.

</doc>
<doc id="231355" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231355" title="Upland buzzard">
Upland buzzard

The upland buzzard ("Buteo hemilasius") is a species of bird of prey in the Accipitridae family.

</doc>
<doc id="231356" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231356" title="Western Tragopan">
Western Tragopan

The Western Tragopan or Western Horned Tragopan ("Tragopan melanocephalus") is a medium sized brightly plumaged pheasant found along the Himalayas.

</doc>
<doc id="231357" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231357" title="Red-necked Grebe">
Red-necked Grebe

The Red-necked Grebe, "Podiceps grisegena", is a bird migration aquatic bird that is found in the temperate regions of the northern hemisphere.

</doc>
<doc id="231359" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231359" title="Horned grebe">
Horned grebe

The horned grebe or Slavonian grebe ("Podiceps azurites") - "Podiceps": Latin for "podicis" (rump) and "pedis" (foot), referring to the placement of the legs on its body; "auritus": Latin for "eared" - is a member of the grebe family of water birds. It inhabits Eurasia and North America.
<br>

</doc>
<doc id="231360" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231360" title="Black-necked grebe">
Black-necked grebe

The black-necked grebe ("Podiceps nigricollis"), known in North America as the eared grebe, is a member of the grebe family (biology) of water birds. It occurs on every continent except Australia and Antarctica.
<br>

</doc>
<doc id="231371" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231371" title="Jouanin's petrel">
Jouanin's petrel

Jouanin's petrel ("Bulweria fallax") is a seabird in the Procellariidae family. It is present in the northwest Indian Ocean and south Arabian Sea.
It is native to Oman, Somalia and Yemen. Its natural habitats are open seas and shallow seas. It has been recorded breeding on Socotra.
<br>

</doc>
<doc id="231379" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231379" title="Flesh-footed Shearwater">
Flesh-footed Shearwater

The Flesh-footed Shearwater, "Puffinus carneipes", is a small shearwater. Its plumage is black. It has pale pinkish feet, and a pale bill with a black tip.

</doc>
<doc id="231381" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231381" title="Wedge-tailed Shearwater">
Wedge-tailed Shearwater

The Wedge-tailed Shearwater, "Puffinus pacificus" is a medium-large shearwater in the seabird family Procellariidae.

</doc>
<doc id="231386" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231386" title="Poet's Corner">
Poet's Corner

Poets' Corner is an area in the south transept of Westminster Abbey. Over the years, many people have been buried in this corner. They have been buried here in recognition of their contributions to British culture. Most are poets, playwrights, and writers. The first interred in the corner was Geoffrey Chaucer in 1556. When Edmund Spenser was buried nearby, the tradition of burying literary notables in the corner was established. The most recent memorial (6 December 2011) was that of Poet Laureate Ted Hughes. Writer C. S. Lewis will be the next to be commemorated on 22 November 2013, the fiftieth anniversary of his death. Burial in Poet's Corner is not automatic following death. Lord Byron died in 1824, for example, but a memorial in the corner was not raised to him until 1969. 

</doc>
<doc id="231428" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231428" title="Bobby Jindal">
Bobby Jindal

Piyush "Bobby" Jindal (born June 10, 1971) is an American politician. Jindal served as Governor of Louisiana from January 14, 2008 through January 11, 2016. He was elected governor in 2007. Before becoming Governor, he was a Representative in the United States Congress. Jindal is a Republican, which means that he is a conservative governor. 
Jindal was born to Indian parents in Baton Rouge. Jindal became governor at the age of 36, which makes him one of the youngest governors in the United States. He is currently the second youngest governor after fellow Republican Governor Nikki Haley of South Carolina. Jindal and Haley are the only Indian-Americans to hold the office of governor in any state in the United States.
On June 24, 2015, Jindal announced that he will run for President of the United States in the 2016 presidential elections. On November 17, 2015, Jindal officially suspended his presidential campaign, saying "this is not my time". On January 11, 2016, Jindal left office and was succeeded by John Bel Edwards.
Jindal was born to Amar and Raj Jindal. His parents were born in India but moved to Louisiana in 1971. He grew up in Baton Rouge and went to school in that city. In college, Jindal was educated at Brown University and Oxford University. In college, he learned about government and medicine. After passing college, Jindal helped many businesses in Louisiana. 
Jindal is a conservative Republican who believes in making taxes lower for everybody. As governor, Jindal has fought against dishonest politicians. Jindal favors more gun freedom and has spoken at the National Rifle Association.
When BP could not contain its oil spill in 2010, Jindal, traditionally an opponent of federal expenditires and activity in states, became one of the loudest callers for federal assistance of all types from money to laws and manpower. He was heavily criticized by the White House and many others for opposing resources for the Federal Government and insisting that the States be reposnible for their own affairs, Then, when Louisiana needed help in Katrina and the Oil Spill, he was critical that the Federal government would not do more, faster. 
He also came under criticism for having always advocating the interests if large oil companies and never asking for more safety inspectors (the Gulf inspectors are a small fraction of the staffing of other regions relative to the number of offshore oil wells.) Jindal also never objected to the terrible safety record of BP prior to the spill. Defenders of his record argue that he and other Louisiana politicians, made a reasonable tradeoff decision, and Federal reources sould be used to assist Louisiana since the oil that is produced benfits the entire country.
On January 11, 2016, Jindal left office because of term-limits. He was succeeded by John Bel Edwards.
Jindal is a Catholic Christian and was baptized during college. He is married to Supriya Jindal. He has three children.
On May 18, 2015, Jindal formed a presidential exploratory committee to determine whether he would run as a candidate in the 2016 Presidential election. Jindal is expected to announce his presidential campaign at an event in New Orleans on June 24.
On June 24th, 2015, Jindal announced that he would run as a candidate in the 2016 Presidential election. He is the first Indian - American to run for president. On November 17, 2015 after poll debate performances and polling numbers, Jindal officially suspended his presidential campaign, saying "this is not my time".

</doc>
<doc id="231454" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231454" title="Hagfish">
Hagfish

Hagfish are craniata in the class Agnatha or Myxini. Hagfish do not have a skeleton, except they do have a skull, which is made of cartilage.
Because of this, many researchers think Myxini should not be in the subphylum Vertebrata. However, because of its fins and gills, they are called fish. They are marine, meaning they live in the sea.
The original 19th century classification groups hagfish and lampreys together as cyclostomes (or historically, Agnatha), as the oldest surviving class of vertebrates alongside gnathostomes . An alternative scheme proposed that jawed vertebrates are more closely related to lampreys than to hagfish, so vertebrates include lampreys but exclude hagfish. 
Recent DNA evidence supports the original scheme.
Hagfish are usually about half a meter (18 in) long. They have long, eel-like bodies. Hagfish's eyes are small and not very useful, because the hagfish uses mostly its senses of smell and touch to find food. The whiskers near the hagfish's mouth are called barbels, and are used for touching. They have four hearts, two brains, and no backbone. A fish which looks like the hagfish is the lamprey.
Hagfish eat invertebrates (animals such as worms) and are also scavengers, eating fish which are dead or dying. Hagfish have four sets of teeth on their tongue to bite pieces of flesh from its prey. They use these tongue teeth to eat. The teeth pinch together to lock onto its food, helping it tear into dead and dying fish which have sunk to the bottom of the sea, where it lives. Often, a hagfish digs into the dead fish that it is eating, removing the insides of the dead fish. 
Usually, people only see hagfish when nets that sweep the sea floor are pulled up. Every fish, even the dead ones at the bottom of the sea, are brought up into the boat by the net. In some of those dead fish, hagfish are found eating. The smelly fish are dumped onto the deck of ships with the hagfish poking out from their bodies.
When hagfish are afraid, they make slime. This slime comes out of the sides of the hagfish's body. They are able to make enough slime to completely fill a two-gallon bucket. The reason such a small fish can make so much slime is because the slime comes out in strings that quickly swell up much bigger when they are in the water.Their unusual way of eating and their slime has made many people call the hagfish the most "disgusting" of all sea creatures. Although hagfish are sometimes called "slime eels," they are not eels at all.
Hagfish are usually not eaten by humans in most countries. However, meat from the inshore hagfish (a type of hagfish known as "kkomjangeo" (꼼장어) or "meokjango" (먹장어) in Korean and "Nuta-unagi" in Japanese) is a popular food in Korea. 
Hagfish skin is used to make leather for wallets and belts. When this leather is sold, it is called "eel skin". 
Scientists are studying hagfish slime to see if they can use it to make things. The strings of protein in hagfish slime are thin and strong, so they are a useful material. Because it is not made from oil, hagfish slime would be more environmentally friendly than the plastics that we use now. 

</doc>
<doc id="231492" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231492" title="Population (statistics)">
Population (statistics)

In statistics, a population is a set of things from which samples may be drawn. This allows statistical inferences to be drawn, or estimates made of the total population. For example, if we were interested in crows, then we would sample the set of crows which is of interest. The population of crows is limited to crows that exist now or in the future. Probably, geography will be a limitation in practice. To fairly represent the whole population a sample needs to be random. 
Population is also used to refer to a set of measurements or values, not only cases actually observed. Suppose, for example, we are interested in the set of all adult crows now alive in the county of Cambridgeshire, and we want to know the mean weight of these birds. For each bird in the population of crows there is a weight, and the set of these weights is called the population of weights.

</doc>
<doc id="231500" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231500" title="Biota">
Biota

Biota is a common term in biology. It means all the living things at a particular time or place. Examples: Cambrian biota; Madagascan biota. Because it includes all the living members of a given environment, the term is used especially in ecology. A similar term is biome, which refers to large geographical regions. Tundra is a biome.
Flora, fauna and other forms of life such as fungi are collectively called biota.

</doc>
<doc id="231515" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231515" title="Short-tailed shearwater">
Short-tailed shearwater

The short-tailed shearwater ("Ardenna tenuirostris", formerly "Puffinus tenuirostris") is a migratory seabird of the Procellariidae family. It breeds in Tasmania and south-eastern Australia.. It can also be called yolla or moonbird, and is commonly known as the muttonbird in Australia.
<br>

</doc>
<doc id="231532" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231532" title="BOINC">
BOINC

BOINC, or The Berkeley Open Infrastructure for Network Computing, is an organization that lets ordinary people use their computers to do scientific work. SETI, or Search for Extra-Terrestrial Intelligence, is the most popular of the BOINC programs. SETI searches for radio signals from outer space that might be a sign of alien life and worlds. BOINC involves other scientific work. For example, it allows individuals to use their computer to find the structures of proteins, a cure for the disease malaria or the very structure of our galaxy, the Milky Way.

</doc>
<doc id="231533" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231533" title="Human Rights Campaign">
Human Rights Campaign

The Human Rights Campaign is an organization that supports the rights of gay, bi-sexual or transgender men and women in the United States. They are the largest such group in the United States, with over 750,000 members and people who support them. The HRC works to ensure that the rights of these individuals are protected and respected throughout the United States. One issue that the HRC works on is to make sure that individuals have the right to marry people of the same sex if they want. 

</doc>
<doc id="231534" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231534" title="Rachel Maddow">
Rachel Maddow

Rachel Anne Maddow (born April 1, 1973) is a progressive female talk show host on the television network MSNBC where she is the host of the show "The Rachel Maddow Show". She is the first openly gay host of a primetime network news show.

</doc>
<doc id="231541" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231541" title="Secular Coalition for America">
Secular Coalition for America

The Secular Coalition for America is an organization that supports the principle that the government should not interfere with religion nor should it promote or endorse a religious view. It is made up of humanists, atheists, agnostics, freethinkers and theists along other organizations who support these basic ideals. Member organizations include Atheist Alliance International, the Institute for Humanist Studies, the Secular Student Alliance, the Secular Web, American Humanist Association, Society for Humanistic Judaism, the Freedom From Religion Foundation, the Military Association of Atheists and Freethinkers, the American Ethical Union, Camp Quest and American Atheists. The Secular Coalition for America urges Congress to support the principles of making sure the government is not promoting religion and is being neutral towards religion.

</doc>
<doc id="231584" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231584" title="Ornette Coleman">
Ornette Coleman

Ornette Coleman (March 9, 1930 – June 11, 2015) was an American jazz musician. He plays the saxophone, violin and trumpet. He is also a composer. He was one of the people that helped make a new jazz style called free jazz, in the 1960s. Coleman's music is also like blues music. His album "Sound Grammar" won the 2007 Pulitzer Prize for music.
Coleman was born in Fort Worth, Texas. He began playing R&B and bebop music, at first on the tenor saxophone. He wanted to leave his home town so he got a job in 1949 with a traveling show. Then he played with touring R&B shows. In Baton Rouge, he was attacked and his saxophone was destroyed. After that he changed to the alto saxophone, and that is still the instrument he usually plays. He joined a band and traveled with them to Los Angeles, in California. He worked at different jobs while still trying to be successful as a musician.
From the start, Coleman played his music differently to other musicians. Some Los Angeles jazz musicians thought he was playing out of tune. In 1958 Coleman made a record called "Something Else!!!!: The Music of Ornette Coleman". Other musicians like Don Cherry, Billy Higgins, Don Payne and Walter Norris also played on the record.
Coleman was very busy in 1959. His made a record called "Tomorrow Is the Question!". He played on this ecord with a quartet. He did not play with a piano player. He started working with a record label called Atlantic Records. He made a record called "The Shape of Jazz to Come" in 1959. A music critic called Steve Huey said it was a very important jazz record. The album was different from other jazz music.
Coleman's quartet played at a jazz club in New York City. They were popular with other musicians like Leonard Bernstein and Lionel Hampton. Other musicians like Miles Davis did not like his music.
Coleman often played a plastic saxophone. He had first bought a plastic one in Los Angeles in 1954 because he could not afford a metal one. He did not like the sound of the plastic saxophone at first. Now he plays a metal saxophone.
In 1960, Coleman made a record called "". It was nearly 40 minutes long. It is one of the longest jazz performances on a record. It was an important record in jazz and now there is a jazz style called free jazz.

</doc>
<doc id="231586" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231586" title="Elizabeth Dole">
Elizabeth Dole

Elizabeth Hanford Dole (born July 29, 1936) was a United States Senator. She was the Secretary of Transportation in Ronald Reagan's administration and the US Secretary of Labor for George H.W. Bush. She is the wife of former Senator Bob Dole, who ran for president but did not win.

</doc>
<doc id="231591" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231591" title="Royal Army Ordnance Corps">
Royal Army Ordnance Corps

The Royal Army Ordnance Corps was a corps of the British Army. It dealt only with the supply and maintenance of weaponry, munitions and other military equipment until 1965, when it took over most other supply functions, as well as the provision of staff clerks, from the Royal Army Service Corps.

</doc>
<doc id="231592" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231592" title="British Home Guard">
British Home Guard

The British Home Guard was a defence organisation of the British Army during World War II. It was a secondary defence line. It was meant to stop invasion by Nazi forces.
The Home Guard existed from 1940 to 1944. It was composed of one and a half million volunteers who were otherwise not allowed to go into military service. The main reason for this was old age. This led to the nickname "Dad's Army". The Home Guard guarded the coastal areas of Britain from enemy threats, like paratroopers. They also helped guard some industrial areas, such as factories and airfields. It was widely popularised after the war by the comedy show "Dad's Army".
The beginning of the Home Guard are usually traced back to Captain Tom Wintringham. When returning from the Spanish Civil War, Wintringham wrote a book called "How To Reform The Army". In it, he writes about how Britain could make something similar to the Spanish International Brigades in the Civil War. Although the book was well received, many of its suggestions were ignored at the time. This was because the tensions in Europe did not seem likely to escalate into war.
Following a series of events, Anthony Eden, the Secretary of State for War at the time, gave a radio broadcast on 19 May 1940. He asked for volunteers to join the Local Defence Volunteers, as it was known in the start. It originally was given jobs that were not related to combat. It worked as a sort of 'armed police force'. However, after complaints from members, the government allowed it to "delay and obstruct" the enemy advance. This was putting mostly untrained and unwell people armed with aging weapons against trained troops. Later on in the war, it was renamed the Home Guard, following pressure by Prime Minister Winston Churchill.

</doc>
<doc id="231606" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231606" title="Roswell, New Mexico">
Roswell, New Mexico

Roswell is a city in the U.S. state of New Mexico. It is famous for the 1947 Roswell UFO Incident. It is also the home of New Mexico Military Institute (NMMI), which was founded in 1891.

</doc>
<doc id="231617" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231617" title="Search for Extra-Terrestrial Intelligence">
Search for Extra-Terrestrial Intelligence

The Search for Extra-Terrestrial Intelligence (SETI) is a program that individuals can use on their computers to search for radio signals from worlds with alien life. It is maybe the most famous of the BOINC or Berkeley Open Infrastructure for Network Computing progams that allow users to use their computers for scientific research.
Search for Extra-Terrestrial Intelligence

</doc>
<doc id="231621" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231621" title="2010 Summer Youth Olympics">
2010 Summer Youth Olympics

The 2010 Summer Youth Olympic Games, officially known as the I Olympic Youth Summer Games, is an international summer sports event that was celebrated from August 14 to August 26, 2010 for youths. It was the first Youth Olympic Games(YOG) and the host city was Singapore.

</doc>
<doc id="231624" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231624" title="2012 Winter Youth Olympics">
2012 Winter Youth Olympics

The 2012 Winter Youth Olympic Games, officially known as the I Olympic Youth Winter Games, was an international winter sports event. It was held from 13 to 22 January 2012. The host city was Innsbruck, Austria. 

</doc>
<doc id="231626" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231626" title="Skeletons">
Skeletons

Skeletons is the fourth full-length album by American rock band, Hawthorne Heights. It is their first album to be released through Wind-up Records. The release date for the album was June 1, 2010. The album has 13 tracks. The album is produced by Howard Benson.
The first song released as a single from the album is "Nervous Breakdown".
Because the band member who did the harsh vocals for the band died, the album before this one, "Fragile Future", didn't have any death growls in it. During the 2009 tour, though, one of the other band members started using these vocals for the band, so this album has them again.
Other music groups like Just Surrender, Monty Are I, Punchline, and Anarbor went on the tour too.
During the tour the band played a song called "End of the Underground" and passed out download cards for the song "Unforgivable". These were the first two songs anyone heard from the new album.

</doc>
<doc id="231627" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231627" title="Youth Olympic Games">
Youth Olympic Games

The Youth Olympic Games is a sporting event that takes place in a different city every four years for athletes between ages 14 and 18. The first Youth Olympic Games was held on 14 August 2010 to 26 August 2010 in the country of Singapore. 
The 2014 Summer Youth Olympic Games, officially known as the II Olympic Youth Summer Games, is an international summer sports event that will be from August 16 to August 28, 2014. The host city, Nanjing, China.
The 2016 Winter Youth Olympic Games will be officially known as the Games of the II Olympiad.
The 2018 Summer Youth Olympic Games will be officially known as the Games of the III Olympiad.

</doc>
<doc id="231628" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231628" title="Summer Youth Olympic Games">
Summer Youth Olympic Games

The Summer Youth Olympic Games or the Games of the Olympiad

</doc>
<doc id="231629" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231629" title="Winter Youth Olympic Games">
Winter Youth Olympic Games

The Winter Youth Olympic Games or the Games of the Olympiad

</doc>
<doc id="231662" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231662" title="Evelina">
Evelina

Evelina or "The History of a Young Lady's Entrance into the World" is a novel written by English writer Frances Burney and first published in 1778. The novel first came out secretly, but the poet George Huddesford revealed that Burney was the writer of "Evelina" in what Burney called a "vile poem". When it was known that Burney had written "Evelina", it immediately made her very famous.
In this novel of letters, beautiful Evelina Anville, the heroine, leaves her quiet home for the first time to go to London. Through many dangers and delights of fashionable society, Evelina grows in character and wisdom and finds love with Lord Orville. This sentimental novel of romance and satire was an influence to Jane Austen and Maria Edgeworth.
"Evelina" is actually a sequel. Before that was another book that never came out in print. It was the sequel of a finished book titled "The History of Caroline Evelyn". On or around her 15th birthday in June, Frances Burney burned all of her writings. Among the works she burned, there was a complete work of fiction, "The History of Caroline Evelyn". This was four months before the wedding of Mr. Burney and Mrs. Allen, Burney's new stepmother. It is not clear why she burnt it. However, it is likely that she did it because Mrs. Allen did not like her writing. However, the story of "Evelina" was still in her mind, and she began writing it secretly. When she was at the third volume, she felt guilty. She told her father that she was writing a book, but did not explain more, and asked him if she could print it. Dr. Burney laughed and said yes.
"Evelina" came out in January 1778. It was immediately popular. Almost everyone praised the book. Dr. Burney did not know who was the writer until June, when Burney' sister told him. He read it with "fear & trembling", but liked it. He later came and praised Frances for writing so well. Burney was so happy she "threw herself" into his arms and burst into tears.
The novel begins with a letter from Lady Howard to her friend, the Reverend Arthur Villars. In the letter, Lady Howard says that Madame Duval (the grandmother of Evelina) is going to visit England to see her granddaughter Evelina again. In his reply, Reverend Villars tells her about Evelina's history. 18 years ago, Mme. Duval had been very angry with her daughter Caroline, Evelina's mother, when she ran away with Sir John Belmont. After they had married, Sir John Belmont burnt up the marriage papers, and said that it was the same as if they had never married. Unhappy, she went back to Reverend Villars, who had brought her up, as he now brought up Evelina. There, she gave birth to Evelina, and died. Reverend Villars is afraid that Mme. Duval might make Evelina die shamefully like her mother Caroline.
Reverend Villars wants to keep Evelina away from Mme. Duval, so he lets her visit Lady Howard's home. While she is there, they get news that Lady Howard's son-in-law, Captain Mirvan, is coming back to England. Evelina wants to see what London is like, and asks Reverend Villars to let her go there. Sadly, the Reverend says yes.
In London, people are attracted by Evelina's beauty and doubtful birth. Evelina, who is intelligent, but very inexperienced, does not know about the rules of 18th century London society. Because of this, she makes many mistakes. She falls in love with Lord Orville, a handsome, modest, and polite man. Another man, Sir Clement Willoughby, is in love with Evelina, but her birth and his character make him try flirting with her instead of wishing to marry her. Evelina is confused and embarrassed by his behavior, but does not know how to stop him.
In London, Evelina is very surprised to meet her grandmother and some of her cousins, the Branghtons. She is embarrassed by their impolite behavior and thinks that Lord Orville will never love her. The Mirvans return to the country, taking Evelina with them.
Both Evelina and the Reverend are unhappy to hear Mme Duval's wish to sue Sir John Belmont. Lady Howard writes to Sir John Belmont instead, telling him about Evelina. Evelina waits for the answer fearfully.
Sir Clermont Willoughby comes to Lady Howard's house without being invited. He and Captain Mirvan dress up like robbers to play a trick on Mme. Duval, whom Captain Mirvan hates. They tell her that M. Du Bois, her friend, is in jail. Afraid, she goes to see if it is true with Evelina. While Captain Mirvan throws Mme. Duval into a ditch and ties her up, Sir Clement Willoughby talks to Evelina privately. Evelina feels very sorry for Mme. Duval, and tries to make Captain Mirvan stop his tricks, but he only becomes angry. Sir Clermont Willoughby offers to go away from Lady Howard's house, and leaves, to Evelina's satisfaction.
Shortly after he leaves, Lady Howard receives a letter from Sir John Belmont. He says that he is already bringing up a daughter of Caroline, and that she will inherit his money. Evelina is very confused, and Mme Duval is furious. She visited Reverend Villars and said she must take Evelina to sue Sir John Belmont. The Reverend says no. Then she threatens that if Evelina does not live with her in London, she will not give Evelina her money when she dies. "To me, I own, this threat seemed of little consequence (importance)," writes the Reverend, "but...my diffidence (fear, shyness, doubt) of the right I have of depriving (taking away) her of so large a fortune...induced me to listen to her proposal". He tells Evelina to be careful, and "...not only "judge" but..."act" for yourself". Evelina goes with Mme Duval back to London.
Evelina lives with the Branghton family, and is very unhappy. Mme Duval is very angry to find out that she had been tricked by Captain Mirvan when she finds M. Du Bois at the Branghton's house. At the Branghtons' house, she meets a very poor, melancholy Scottish poet, Mr. Macartney, and sees him with guns in his hands, saying, "O God!--forgive me!" Thinking he is trying to kill himself, she stops him and cries, "O Sir! have mercy upon yourself!" She later finds out he had been planning to rob people by frightening them with his guns for money, because the Branghtons had threatened to put him in prison if he didn't pay money to stay at their house. He had fallen in love with a lady, but the lady's father had been so angry, they had fought, and the father had become sick. When he told this to his mother, she told him the lady's father was actually his father, who had left them long ago - so the lady he had loved was actually his sister! Evelina gives him her own money, and makes friends with him.
She is very sad with the Branghtons, however. Once, they visited Marybone, a pleasure garden. There, Evelina was attacked by a drunken sailor and saved by prostitutes. While she is with the prostitutes, she meets Lord Orville again. She is very surprised when he comes to visit her in the unfashionable part of London and again is kind to her. Later, the Branghtons use Evelina's name to ride in Lord Orville's carriage, even breaking its glass. Horrified, Evelina writes a letter to Lord Orville saying that she was sorry for what the Branghtons did, and the Branghtons had used her name without even telling her. She is shocked when she gets a insulting reply from Lord Orville. "Oh...how have I been deceived in this man!" Soon after, she returns to Reverend Villars. There, she becomes very ill. Worried, the Reverend sends her to Bristol Hotwells, a vacation town at Clifton Hill, with her "extremely clever" neighbor, Mrs. Selwyn.

</doc>
<doc id="231672" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231672" title="Rascal Flatts">
Rascal Flatts

Rascal Flatts is a country music band from Columbus, Ohio. They became a band in 1999 and released their debut album "Rascal Flatts" in 2000. They are signed to Lyric Street records and have won many CMT and ACM awards.
Their newest album is "Unstoppable", which came to stores in 2009. 
Rascal Flatts Official website

</doc>
<doc id="231675" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231675" title="Geothermal energy">
Geothermal energy

Geothermal energy (from the Greek roots "geo", meaning earth, and "thermos", meaning heat) is energy made by heat inside the Earth's crust. It's clean and sustainable. 
Although the Sun does heat the surface of the Earth, heat from inside the Earth is not caused by the Sun. The geothermal energy of the Earth's crust comes 20% from the original formation of the planet, and 80% from the radioactive decay of minerals. The Earth is hottest at its core and, from the core to the surface, the temperature gets gradually cooler.
Resources of geothermal energy range from the shallow ground to hot water and hot rock found a few miles beneath the Earth's surface, and down even deeper to the extremely high temperatures of molten rock called magma. It has been used for bathing from Paleolithic times, but is now better known for making electricity.
All over the world, geothermal energy has been used to make about 10 gigawatts of electricity in 2007, and give 0.3% of the electricity needed around the world. When used to generate electricity, geothermal power plants typically offer constant output. 
Geothermal energy is also used directly for district heating, or in other heating and cooling applications. Buildings in Iceland are heated in this way from the country's many geothermal sites. 
Power plants and thermal applications of geothermal energy are mature technologies, whereas enhanced geothermal systems (EGS) projects are a new type of application.
Almost everywhere, the shallow ground or upper 10 feet (3m) of the Earth's surface maintains a nearly constant temperature between 50° and 60°F (10° and 16°C). Geothermal heat pumps can tap into this resource to heat and cool buildings. A geothermal heat pump system consists of a heat pump, an air delivery system (ductwork), and a heat exchanger - a system of pipes buried in the shallow ground near the building. In the winter, the heat pump removes heat from the heat exchanger and pumps it into the indoor air delivery system. In the summer, the process is reversed, and the heat pump moves heat from the indoor air into the heat exchanger. The heat removed from the indoor air during the summer can also be used to provide a free source of hot water.
Geothermal energy escapes as hot water at many hot springs or as steam at geysers.
In the United States, most geothermal reservoirs of hot water are in the western states, Alaska, and Hawaii. Wells can be drilled into underground reservoirs for the generation of electricity. Some geothermal power plants use the steam from a reservoir to power a turbine / generator, while others use the hot water to boil a working fluid that vaporizes and then turns a turbine. Hot water near the surface of Earth can be used directly for heat. Direct-use applications include heating buildings, growing plants in greenhouses, drying crops, heating water at fish farms, and several industrial processes such as pasteurizing milk.
Hot dry rock resources occur at depths of 3 to 5 miles (5-8 km) everywhere beneath the Earth's surface and at lesser depths in certain areas. Access to these resources involves injecting cold water down one well, circulating it through hot fractured rock, and drawing off the heated water from another well. Currently, nobody uses this method commercially. Existing technology also does not yet allow recovery of heat directly from magma, the very deep and most powerful resource of geothermal energy.

</doc>
<doc id="231679" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231679" title="Crips">
Crips

The Crips are a street gang that were founded in 1969 by Stanley Williams and Raymond Washington in Los Angeles, California. They are rivals with the Bloods, another street gang. Some notable Crips are Snoop Dogg and Eazy-E.

</doc>
<doc id="231713" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231713" title="Parents, Families and Friends of Lesbians and Gays">
Parents, Families and Friends of Lesbians and Gays

Parents, Families and Friends of Lesbians and Gays or PFLAG is an American organization. It is devoted to the cause of homosexual or gay rights while actively involving (as in its' name) parents, family and friends of those individuals. The organization started in 1972 when Jeanne Manford watched in horror as the police of New York City ignored her son being thrown down an escalator, during a protest for gay rights.

</doc>
<doc id="231718" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231718" title="List of last surviving World War I veterans by country">
List of last surviving World War I veterans by country

The last living veteran of World War I (28 July 1914 – 11 November 1918) was Florence Green. She was a British woman who served in the Allied armed forces, and who died on 4 February 2012, aged 110. The last veteran who served in combat was Claude Choules. He served in the British Royal Navy (and later the Royal Australian Navy) and died 5 May 2011, aged 110. The last veteran who served in the trenches was Harry Patch who died on 25 July 2009, aged 111. The last Central Powers veteran was Franz Künstler from Austria-Hungary. He died on 27 May 2008 at the age of 107.
The total number of people who took part in WWI is estimated by the Encyclopædia Britannica at 65,038,810. There were around 9,750,103 military deaths during the conflict.
This is the list of the last living veterans of world war I by the country and the branch that they served:

</doc>
<doc id="231734" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231734" title="Swing Life Away">
Swing Life Away

"Swing Life Away" is a song by hardcore punk band Rise Against. It came off of their 2004 album "Siren Song of the Counter Culture". It was first written by Tim McIlrath and Neil Hennessy, the song is mostly from Rise Against's catalog because it is performed and recorded acoustically. The lyrics are happy and speak of happiness with a less-than-perfect life, although they maintain the band's characteristic themes of self-analysis and hope. At a show at Festival Hall in Melbourne, Australia, McIlrath stated the song was written about a good friend of the band who helped them whilst they were lesser known.

</doc>
<doc id="231740" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231740" title="Within Temptation">
Within Temptation

Within Temptation is a Dutch gothic rock band, the band creating by Robert and Sharon. 
The album "Enter" is a mix of gothic rock, gothic metal and doom metal. The album The Dance this mix of gothic metal and doom metal. The album Mother Earth this mix of gothic rock, gothic metal, alternative rock, symphonic metal and folk metal. Now the band play of style Mother Earth.

</doc>
<doc id="231743" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231743" title="1910 Cuba hurricane">
1910 Cuba hurricane

The 1910 Cuba hurricane was said to be one of the worst tropical cyclones that has ever hit Cuba. The storm formed in the southern Caribbean Sea on October 9, 1910. It grew stronger as it moved northwest. It then made landfall on the western end of Cuba. The storm made a loop over open water, and then began moving towards the United States. After crossing Florida, the storm moved near the rest of the southeastern United States and passed out to sea.
Because of the storm's loop, some reports said it was actually two hurricanes. In Cuba, the storm was one of the worst disasters in the island's history. There was bad damage and thousands of people lost their homes. In Florida, the storm also caused damage and caused flooding in some areas. It is not known exactly how much damage the storm caused. However, losses in Havana, Cuba were over $1 million. At least 100 people died in Cuba alone.
On October 9, a type of storm called a tropical depression began in the southern Caribbean Sea. It was north of Panama. The storm grew stronger while it moved toward the northwest. It became a tropical storm on October 11. On October 12, it became a hurricane. The next day, the storm was seen to the southwest of Cuba. For a short time, it was a Category 3 hurricane measured on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale. The storm then hit western Cuba and crossed the island. It moved over the Gulf of Mexico and slowed down.
The hurricane was steered, or moved, by an area of high pressure (a type of weather system) to the north. Over warm water in the Gulf of Mexico, the hurricane quickly grew stronger. It then moved in a small circle, and on October 16, it reached its highest power. It had winds of 150 mph (240 km/h). The hurricane turned to the northeast and again hit western Cuba. It began to move near the Florida Panhandle on October 17. The storm hit Cape Romano, and moved to the north. Now over land, the hurricane became weaker. After crossing Florida, it curved to the northeast and entered the Atlantic Ocean. The storm probably died out on October 23.
The storm was unusual because it was first thought to be two different hurricanes. This is because of the loop it made in the Gulf of Mexico. One paper reported that the first hurricane died in the central Gulf of Mexico; the second hurricane formed and hit Florida. The storm's path was debated, and it was later found to be a single cyclone.
On October 15, all ships in a area around Key West were warned of the storm. Many ships stayed in harbors. Storm warnings were also put up.
The storm caused bad damage in Cuba. It was considered one of the worst tropical cyclones on the island. Strong winds and much rain caused flooding in streets, ruined crops (mostly tobacco), and damaged farms. The hurricane affected many towns, including Casilda. The town of Batabanó was left under water. The hurricane halted communication to other areas. Most of the deaths and damages were reported to be in the Pinar del Río Province.
The "New York Times" wrote that Cuba had "probably suffered the greatest material disaster in all its history". Thousands of peasants, or workers, lost their homes. The country's capital, Havana, also suffered bad damage. On the coast, many ships carrying valuable items sunk. The storm also badly damaged goods kept on wharves. Tall waves crashed on land and caused flooding. Many boats were wrecked by the storm. The high waves flooded about of Havana's coastal land.
At least 100 people were killed by the storm, mostly because of mudslides, including five people in Havana. However, some reports say the death toll was as high as 700. Damage caused by the storm cost millions of dollars. In Havana alone, $1 million in losses were reported.
A ship, the "Holliswood", became stuck in the storm in the Gulf of Mexico. It left New Orleans on October 1 and was carrying cypress wood. The ship's crew fought the storm for days. The "Holliswood" was blown miles off its path. Its owner, Paul Mangold, said:
A steamboat called the "Harold" saw the ship and rescued all of the crew. However, Captain E. E. Walls said he wanted to stay behind. The "Holliswood" was badly damaged. The crew told the captain that the ship would be unable to float in five more hours. After the crew was rescued, Captain Walls struggled for days without food or fresh water. On October 20, another ship (the "Parkwood") rescued Walls. He was unconscious, and thought to be dead. When he was on the "Parkwood", he woke up, but was delirious. He asked to be put back on the "Holliswood". Instead, the "Parkwood" pulled the damaged ship to land.
At Key West, Florida, winds blew at . Many docks were destroyed. Damage in the Florida Keys was worth around $250,000 (1910 USD, or $5.7 million in 2009 dollars), and houses near the ocean were damaged. Strong winds pushed water out of the Tampa Bay. High waves from the sea moved over land, and people had to hold onto trees to survive. Some citrus crops were destroyed. The wind tore the roofs off homes and shook buildings off their foundations. 
Seven men died at Punta Gorda when some Cuban ships were wrecked. Near there, one man and a baby drowned, and another died trying to cross a flooded river. A French steamship, the "Louisiane", crashed into land. There were 600 passengers on the ship. All people were rescued by another ship.
The hurricane blew down many pine trees near Jupiter, Florida. One man near Lemon City was killed by falling wood. However, the storm's effects on the east coast of Florida were not as bad as they were in other places. Part of the Florida East Coast Railroad was washed out. The storm blew an American ship aground at Boca Raton. Three people died, and the rest of the crew was stuck for 12 hours.

</doc>
<doc id="231746" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231746" title="1910 Atlantic hurricane season">
1910 Atlantic hurricane season

The 1910 Atlantic hurricane season was the period of 1910 when tropical storms formed. It happened during the summer and the first half of fall in 1910. The season was quiet, with only five known storms.
The first storm formed on August 23. It hit Hispaniola as a weak tropical storm.
The second storm was another weak tropical storm that hit northeast Mexico.
The first hurricane of the season was a strong Category 2 storm. It moved through the Caribbean and Greater Antilles.
Another hurricane moved past Bermuda. It caused only minor damage.
The last storm was the strongest hurricane of the season. It was a strong Category 4 hurricane that moved through western Caribbean.

</doc>
<doc id="231750" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231750" title="Bundala National Park">
Bundala National Park

Bundala National Park is a protected national park in the south east of Sri Lanka. The area of 6216 hectares was first protected in 1969. It is an important wetland and was added to the list of Ramsar sites in 1990. There are many animal species living in the park including elephants and turtles. Because of the wetalnds there are many species of bird which come to the park, including flamingos, pelicans, and storks.

</doc>
<doc id="231760" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231760" title="University of Tennessee">
University of Tennessee

The University of Tennessee is a public land-grant university in Knoxville, Tennessee. It was started in 1794. The university had almost 28,000 students in 2008. Its sports teams are called the Volunteers.

</doc>
<doc id="231762" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231762" title="Head coach">
Head coach

A head coach, senior coach or manager is a person who trains and develops men and women who play sports. They usually hold a more public profile and are paid more than other coaches on the team. In some sports such as soccer and baseball, the head coach is called a manager. In other sports, such as Australian rules football, they are called a senior coach. Some sports that use the phrase "head coach" include American football and basketball. 
These head coaches sometimes have other coaches that report to them. These assistant coaches focus on one part of the team rather than the whole team. Assistant coaches often work in offensive positions or defensive positions. They can sometimes coach just one position on the team such as a coach just for the quarterbacks in American football. 

</doc>
<doc id="231764" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231764" title="Social studies">
Social studies

Social studies is the name of a course or set of courses taught in primary and secondary schools or elementary, middle, and high schools, but is also sometimes the study of parts of human society at schools around the world.
At primary school, social studies is usually about the local community and family. By middle and high school, social studies includes many subjects about past and current human behavior and . Usually, social studies taught in middle and high school is in the form of history, civics, economics and geography.
Social studies is a little different than social science, though many of the social sciences are covered in social studies.

</doc>
<doc id="231765" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231765" title="William Alexander (coach)">
William Alexander (coach)

William A. Alexander was the third head football coach at Georgia Tech. Alexander graduated from Georgia Tech in 1912 as valedictorian of his class. Alexander became head coach after John Heisman retired in April 1920. 
As coach, he led Georgia Tech to three SIAA titles (1920, 1921, 1922) and its second national championship in 1928. In 1944 he retired from coaching. He was replaced by Bobby Dodd who was one of his assistant coaches. The Alexander Memorial Coliseum at Georgia Tech is named after him.

</doc>
<doc id="231766" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231766" title="Screaming">
Screaming

Screaming is a vocal technique often used in punk rock, fast played metal music, and screamo. It is usually simply either a louder than normal high pitched form of singing, or a louder than normal low pitched form of singing. In both cases the vocalist usually tries to make it sound like some sort of beast's growl. For this reason, a low pitched scream is usually called a death growl.
More experimental forms of screaming are often used in alternative rock and emo music. These genres often have shrill screaming that has an emotional tone to it. The band, Thursday, is a good example of this.
Screaming is popular in genres: screamo, post-hardcore, hardcore punk, heavy metal, and many more.
Some other bands that have screaming include Silverstein, Hawthorne Heights, and Escape the Fate.

</doc>
<doc id="231772" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231772" title="Banda Pir Khan">
Banda Pir Khan

Banda Pir Khan is a union council in the Abbottabad District, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan.

</doc>
<doc id="231781" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231781" title="Service sector">
Service sector

The service sector, also called tertiary sector, is the third of the three traditional economic sectors. The other two are the primary sector, which covers areas such as farming, mining and fishing; and the secondary sector which covers manufacturing and making things. The service sector provides a service, not an actual product that could be held in your hand. Activities in the service sector include retail, banks, hotels, real estate, education, health, social work, computer services, recreation, media, communications, electricity, gas and water supply.
The service sector is an important part of the economy. For example, in Australia in 2007, 85% of all businesses were in the service sector. In 2009 there were more than nine million people employed in the service sector in Australia, which was 86% of all jobs. In India, there has been a huge growth in service sector businesses which made up 55% of India's GDP in 2006—2007. Computer software businesses in India are increasing at a rate of 35% per year.
Increasingly service sector businesses focus on what is now being called the “knowledge economy”. They need to keep ahead of other businesses by understanding what it is their customers want and be in a position to give it to them quickly and at low cost. 
One good example of this are banks which went through big changes in the late 20th century. Using information and communication technology, banks have vastly reduced the number of people they need to employ, and lowered the cost of providing bank service. For example, an automated teller machine is able to provide basic banking services 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, in many different places. Before this, banking services were only available from the bank when it was open. Many banks and building societies have joined together to form much lower cost businesses that can make more money from a wider customer base. The key to this process is gaining information about their customers and constantly coming up with new services for them. 

</doc>
<doc id="231802" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231802" title="Uzziah">
Uzziah

Uzziah (עֻזִּיָּהוּ in Hebrew, meaning "Yahweh is my strength"; ; ), also known as Azariah (עֲזַרְיָה in Hebrew; ; ), was the king of the ancient Kingdom of Judah, and one of King Amaziah's sons, whom the people chose to rule after his father (; 2 Chronicles 26:1). He was 16 years old when he became king of Judah and ruled for 52 years. He "did that which was right in the sight of the Lord" (; ). According to the Bible, at first he was a good king and had great success. His fields and vineyards grew well, he dug many wells and towers in the desert, he defeated his enemies with a strong army, and he became very powerful. A seal with Uzziah's name has been found in a cistern at Tell Beit Mirsim.
However, he grew proud, and entered the temple of the LORD to burn incense on the altar of incense (). Azariah the priest with 80 other priests came to him and said, "Leave...for you have been unfaithful...you will not be honored by the LORD God". Uzziah became angry, but while "...he was raging at the priests...leprosy broke out on his forehead", and he "...had leprosy until the day he died". Because of this, his son Jotham ruled the palace and the people of the land. He died and was buried in a field that belonged to the kings. Probably because of his leprosy, Uzziah was buried in a cemetery belonging to the kings, but not in the tombs of the kings.

</doc>
<doc id="231822" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231822" title="Sentimentality">
Sentimentality

Sentimentality is both a used to make people respond emotionally, but usually in a way more than is needed.
"A sentimentalist", Oscar Wilde wrote, "is one who desires (wants) to have the luxury of an emotion without paying for it." Yeats wrote, "Rhetoric is fooling others. Sentimentality is fooling yourself." 
"Sentimental" began to be thought of more negatively from the nineteenth century. Before that it had simply meant "feeling", but it began be criticized for its "excessiveness" (too much), and now is about feeling in situations where it is not needed.

</doc>
<doc id="231837" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231837" title="Blubber">
Blubber

Blubber is inside the skin of whales and seals. It is used to keep them warm. It was also used by the Eskimos for blubber lamps.

</doc>
<doc id="231842" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231842" title="Keith Olbermann">
Keith Olbermann

Keith Olbermann (born January 27, 1959) is a former progressive male television talk show host on NBC's and Microsoft's cable news channel MSNBC, where he was the host of the show Countdown with Keith Olbermann. On his show, he was often critical of conservatives such as Bill O'Reilly and George W. Bush. Some compared him to O'Reilly, except that Olbermann was to the left and O'Reilly is to the right. Before being on political shows, Olbermann worked for ESPN as a sportscaster. He once hosted the ESPN sports news show SportsCenter.
He had his show on MSNBC, but was fired shortly after Comcast's takeover of NBC Universal in January 2011. He then moved to Current TV, partially owned by Al Gore, but was fired after less than a year there.

</doc>
<doc id="231843" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231843" title="Ann Radcliffe">
Ann Radcliffe

Ann Radcliffe (July 9, 1764 - February 7, 1823) was an English novelist. She was born in London. Her father was a trader, but when she was little, she lived mostly in the houses of richer relations. In 1772 her family moved to Bath, where it is possible she may have gone to a school run by Sophia and Harriet Lee. She married in 1787 William Radcliffe, who later became the editor of the "English Chronicle". It was probably with his help that she began writing for fun. Her first tries to write romance stories were "The Castle of Athlin and Dunbayne" (1789) and "A Sicilian Romance" (1790). They were both published secretly. "The Romance of the Forest" (1791) made her famous as the writer of Gothic romances, the "hobgoblin romance", later called "the Radcliffe romance". Two novels published when she was alive, "The Mysteries of Udolpho" (1794) and "The Italian" (1797), helped make her famous as "the Great Enchantress". Radcliffe was also a great traveller. She made a book after she traveled to the Continent, "A Journey Made in the Summer of 1794, through Holland and the Western Frontier of Germany...To Which Are Added Observations of a Tour to the Lakes" (1795). But the tours written about in the novels were based on travel books, landscape paintings, and imagination. Walter Scott called Radcliffe "the first poetess of romantic fiction". Even though she was famous, Radcliffe liked to be private. She later had asthma, and died from an asthma attack in 1823.

</doc>
<doc id="231844" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231844" title="Bloods">
Bloods

The Bloods are a street gang. They were founded in 1972 in Los Angeles, California. They are rivals with the Crips, another street gang. Bloods members are known for wearing mostly red colors which is their gang color. 
During their rivalry with the Crips in the 1970s, a faction of the Crips called the Pirus street gang broke away from the Crips and joined other smaller gangs to make a gang which would later on become known as the Bloods. Some notable Bloods are rappers Game and Suge Knight.

</doc>
<doc id="231845" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231845" title="Alan Colmes">
Alan Colmes

Alan Samuel Colmes (born September 24, 1950) is an American radio/television host, former comedian and author. His talk-radio show is distributed by Fox News Radio. He is the writer of the book, "Red, White and Liberal: How Left is Right and Right is Wrong". From 1996 to 2009, Colmes was the co-host of "Hannity & Colmes", a nightly political debate show on Fox News Channel.

</doc>
<doc id="231846" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231846" title="Hannity &amp; Colmes">
Hannity &amp; Colmes

Hannity & Colmes was a television talk show on the Fox News Channel hosted by the conservative Sean Hannity and the progressive Alan Colmes. It ran from on October 6, 1996 to January 9, 2009.

</doc>
<doc id="231849" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231849" title="Shale">
Shale

Shale is a fine-grained sedimentary rock formed from mud. The mud is a mix of flakes of clay minerals and tiny fragments (silt-sized particles) of other minerals, especially quartz and calcite. The ratio of clay to other minerals is variable. Shale is characterized by breaks along thin laminae or parallel layering or bedding less than one centimeter in thickness, called "fissility" (= ~splitting). Mudstones, on the other hand, are similar in composition but do not show the fissility.
Shales and mudrocks contain roughly 95 percent of the organic matter in all sedimentary rocks. However, this amounts to less than one percent by mass in an average shale. Black shales form in anoxic (without oxygen) conditions. They contain free carbon and iron sulfides such as pyrite. This produces the black colouration.
Shales are typically deposited in very slow moving water and are often found in lakes and lagoonal deposits, in river deltas, on floodplains and offshore from beach sands. They can also be deposited on the continental shelf, in relatively deep, quiet water. This process could have taken millions of years to complete.
'Black shales' are dark, as a result of being especially rich in unoxidized carbon. Black shales are deposited in anoxic or low oxygen environments, such as in stagnant water columns. They are common in some Palaeozoic and Mesozoic strata, Some black shales contain abundant heavy metals such as molybdenum, uranium, vanadium, and zinc.

</doc>
<doc id="231853" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231853" title="Zooid">
Zooid

A zooid is a term for a small individual animal, part of a marine colony. The zooids in a colony are usually clones, and may be cytoplasmically connected. Though genetically identical, the zooids in a colony may serve different functions. This is the same as would be the case with a normal metazoan animal, but in a zooid colony the members are more like individuals. 
The word is pronounced "zō-oid", not like zoo. Some examples:

</doc>
<doc id="231886" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231886" title="Organic farms">
Organic farms

Organic farms grow foods without using man-made chemicals (like pesticides or herbicides) which can harm the environment or wildlife. 
Organic farmers use manures rather than man-made chemical fertilisers which add extra nutrients to the soil. Organic foods are unique to the way other foods are produced as they can cause benefits to the environment by increasing the quality of soil and reducing energy use, carbon emissions, pesticides and nitrate pollution.
Flower growers and ordinary home gardens can use organic methods too. An example of organic farming which is often used in the garden is biological control. Biological control means using natural methods to get rid of pests, instead of using poisons. For example by encouraging Ladybirds (ladybugs) into the garden as they eat aphids (greenfly).

</doc>
<doc id="231898" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231898" title="Bronchus">
Bronchus

Bronchi (one Bronchus) are the large air tubes leading from the trachea to the lungs. They carry air to the lungs. 
The trachea (windpipe) divides to form the right and left main bronchi. These divide to form smaller and smaller tubes called bronchioles. Eventually the bronchioles end in the alveoli (small air sacs). At the alveoli, oxygen from the air we breathe into our lungs is moved into the blood. The blood then carries oxygen around to the rest of the body, which needs oxygen to survive. Without the bronchi, air would never get into the lungs, and oxygen would never get into our bodies.
The bronchi's walls are made of cartilage. 
The right bronchus (shown on the left in the image on this page) is shorter, wider, and straighter than the left bronchus.

</doc>
<doc id="231928" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231928" title="ChessBase">
ChessBase

ChessBase GmbH is a German company that markets chess software. It also has a chess news website, and uses a server for online chess. Set up in 1998, it builds and sells large databases, with up to three million games, classified in various ways. A smaller fraction have notes, about 60,000 at present. It is possible to connect the database with one or more "chess engines" which calculate likely good moves. Databases organize data from past games; engines do calculations and use look-up tables for standard information, having, for example, answers to special endgame problems.

</doc>
<doc id="231930" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231930" title="Bill Ayers">
Bill Ayers

William Charles "Bill" Ayers (born December 26, 1944) is an American elementary education theorist. He is a former head of the Weather Underground. Ayers is known for speaking out against the Vietnam War in the 1960s. He is also known for his current work in trying to help make learning and teaching better. In 1969, Ayers started the Weather Underground. The Weather Underground is a group that call themselves a "communist revolutionary group". They carried out bombings against public buildings during the 1960s and 1970s. This was because the United States was being a part of the Vietnam War. Ayers is a professor in the College of Education at the University of Illinois at Chicago. He has the titles of Distinguished Professor of Education and Senior University Scholar. During the 2008 U.S. Presidential election, a controversy was brought up over ties between Ayers and then Senator Barack Obama. Ayers is married to Bernadine Dohrn. She was also a member of the Weather Underground.
Bill Ayers grew up in Glen Ellyn, Illinois. Glen Ellyn is just outside Chicago. He went to public schools there until his second year of high school. After this he started going to Lake Forest Academy. It is a smaller prep school. Ayers received a B.A. from the University of Michigan in American studies in 1968. He is the son of Thomas G. Ayers. His father used to be Chairman and CEO of Commonwealth Edison.
In 1965, Ayers was part of a group who were protesting at a restaurant in Ann Arbor, Michigan. The restaurant would not serve African Americans. Ayers' first arrest came when he took part in a sit-in at a local draft board. He sat in jail for ten days. Shortly after his arrest, he landed his first teaching job at the Children's Community School. This small preschool was run from a local church basement. The preschool was part of a larger movement across the United States called the "free school movement". Schools that were part of this movement had no grades or report cards. Instead, they tried to work on getting students to cooperate with each other and work together instead of competing. The teachers allowed the students to call them by their first names. After teaching for only a few months, at the age of 21, Ayers became the head of the school. There he also met Diana Oughton, who would be his girlfriend until her death in an explosion in 1970.
Ayers became part of the New Left and the Students for a Democratic Society (SDS) in the early 1960s. In 1968 and 1969, Ayers became well known as a head of the SDS. He was head of a smaller SDS group called the "Jesse James Gang". Ayers made important changes to Weatherman beliefs about being militant (ready to fight for the cause). The group that Ayers headed in Detroit, Michigan became one of the first groups that would turn into the Weathermen. Before the June 1969 SDS convention, Ayers became an important head of the group. This came about due to a split in the group.
In June 1969, the Weathermen took over the SDS at its convention. Ayers was made Education Secretary. Later in 1969, Ayers helped to place a bomb at a statue that was made to honor policemen that were killed. The bomb blast broke almost 100 windows and blew parts of the statue onto a nearby street. (The statue was rebuilt and unveiled on May 4, 1970, and blown up again by other Weathermen on October 6, 1970. While they were putting it back together, the city put a 24-hour guard around it to stop another attack. In January 1972, it was moved to Chicago Police headquarters. Ayers was also part of the "Days of Rage" riot that took place in Chicago in 1969. He was also a part of the "War Council" meeting that happened in Flint, Michigan. Two big decisions came from the "War Council". The first was to start a violent, armed resistance (using bombs, and robberies) against the government. The second was to start underground (secret) groups in important cities around the country. An FBI informant named Larry Grathwohl, who pretended to be a Weatherman in 1969, said that "Ayers, along with Bernardine Dohrn, probably had the most authority within the Weatherman".
In 1970, Weatherman members Ted Gold, Terry Robbins, and Diana Oughton were killed when a bomb they were building blew up. This was called the Greenwich Village town house explosion. Ayers and several other Weathermen were able to avoid being caught following this explosion. Ayers was not facing charges at this time, but the federal government later brought charges against him. Ayers was part of the bombings of New York City Police Department headquarters in 1970, the United States Capitol building in 1971, and the Pentagon in 1972. Ayers wrote, in 2001, that: Although the bomb that rocked the Pentagon was itsy-bitsy - weighing close to two pounds - it caused 'tens of thousands of dollars' of damage. The operation cost under $500, and no one was killed or even hurt. 
Some new reports have said that Ayers, Dohrn, or the Weatherman took part in the 1970 San Francisco Police Department bombing. However, neither Ayers, nor anyone else has ever been charged with this crime.
In 1973, it was discovered that the FBI were focusing on the Weatherman as well as the New Left. This was part of several secret, and sometimes illegal FBI projects called COINTEL. Because the FBI agents had broken the law, the government asked that all weapons and bomb charges be dropped against the Weather Underground. This included charges against Ayers.
However, there were still state charges against Dohrn. Dohrn did not want to turn herself in to the police. "He was sweet and patient, as he always is, to let me come to my senses on my own", she later said of Ayers. She finally turned herself in, in 1980. She was fined $1,500 and given three years probation.
In 1973 Ayers helped write the book "Prairie Fire" with others who were part of the Weather Underground. They dedicated the book to almost 200 people, including Harriet Tubman, John Brown, 'All Who Continue to Fight', 'All Political Prisoners in the U.S.', and Sirhan Sirhan, who was convicted of killing Robert F. Kennedy.
In 2001, Ayers wrote "Fugitive Days: A Memoir". He said "Fugitive Days" tried to answer the questions of Kathy Boudin's son and his statement that Diana Oughton died trying to stop the Greenwich Village bomb makers. Some have questioned the truth, accuracy, and tone of the book. Brent Staples wrote for "The New York Times Book Review" that "Ayers reminds us often that he can't tell everything without endangering people involved in the story. Historian Jesse Lemisch (who was also a member of the SDS) said that Ayers' memories were wrong. Ayers, in the beginning of his book, says that it was written as his personal memories and was not a research project.
"Chicago Magazine" said that "just before the September 11 attacks", Richard Elrond, who was hurt in the "Days of Rage", was given an apology from Ayers and Dohrn. "[T]hey were remorseful," Elrod says. "They said, 'We're sorry that things turned out this way.'" Ayers gave a lot of interviews before his book was published. In these interviews he defended his history of radical words and actions. Some of the articles were written before the September 11 attacks and appeared right after. Many comments were made by the media comparing the statements that Ayers was making about his past just as a terrorist incident shocked the public.
A lot of the controversy about Ayers in the years since 2000 comes from an interview that he gave to "The New York Times". The reporter quoted him as saying "I don't regret setting bombs" and "I feel we didn't do enough". When asked if he would "do it all again," he said "I don't want to discount the possibility." Ayers questioned the interviewer's way of describing him in a "Letter to the Editor" on September 15 2001. In his letter, Ayers wrote: "This is not a question of being misunderstood or 'taken out of context', but of deliberate distortion." In the following years, Ayers has said that what he meant by saying that he had "no regrets" and "we didn't do enough" he was talking about their efforts to stop the US from fighting in the Vietnam War. He said these efforts were ". . . inadequate [as] the war dragged on for a decade." Ayers has repeatedly said that the two statements did not mean that he wished they had set more bombs.
Ayers was asked in a 2004 interview, "How do you feel about what you did? Would you do it again under similar circumstances?" He said: "I've thought about this a lot. Being almost 60, it's impossible to not have lots and lots of regrets about lots and lots of things, but the question of did we do something that was horrendous, awful? ... I don't think so. I think what we did was to respond to a situation that was unconscionable." On September 9, 2008, journalist Jake Tapper talked about the comic strip in Ayers' blog, where he explained the soundbite: "The one thing I don't regret is opposing the war in Vietnam with every ounce of my being... When I say, 'We didn't do enough,' a lot of people rush to think, 'That must mean, "We didn't bomb enough shit."' But that's not the point at all. It's not a tactical statement, it's an obvious political and ethical statement. In this context, 'we' means 'everyone.'"
In 2008, Ayers said this about his actions:
The Weather Underground crossed lines of legality, of propriety and perhaps even of common sense. Our effectiveness can be — and still is being — debated.
He also again defended his actions against charges of terrorism:
The Weather Underground went on to take responsibility for placing several small bombs in empty offices... We did carry out symbolic acts of extreme vandalism directed at monuments to war and racism, and the attacks on property, never on people, were meant to respect human life and convey outrage and determination to end the Vietnam war.
In an interview that Ayers gave in 1995, he said of his political beliefs in the 1960s and 1970s: "I am a radical, Leftist, small 'c' communist ... [Laughs] Maybe I'm the last communist who is willing to admit it. [Laughs] We have always been small 'c' communists in the sense that we were never in the Communist party and never Stalinists. The ethics of communism still appeal to me. I don't like Lenin as much as the early Marx. I also like Henry David Thoreau, Mother Jones and Jane Addams [...]" In 1970 Ayers was called "a national leader" of the Weatherman organization and "one of the chief theoreticians of the Weathermen" by "The New York Times".
The Weatherman started off as part of the Revolutionary Youth Movement (RYM) within the SDS. They split from the RYM's Maoists saying they had no time to build another party. They also said that war against the United States government and capitalism should begin right away. Their founding paper called for the creation of a "white fighting force" to fight with the "Black Liberation Movement" and other "anti-colonial' movements. to achieve "the destruction of US imperialism and the achievement of a classless world: world communism." In June 1974, the Underground released their 151-page work called "Prairie Fire". "Prairie Fire" said that: "We are a guerrilla organization [...] We are communist women and men underground in the United States [...]" The Weatherman's leaders, including Ayers, wanted radical changes to sexual relations and used the slogan "Smash Monogamy".
Larry Grathwohl, who was an FBI agent who joined the Underground, said that Ayers wanted to overthrow the United States government. In an interview that he gave in January 2009, Grathwohl said that:
"The thing the most bone chilling thing Bill Ayers said to me was that after the revolution succeeded and the government was overthrown, they believed they would have to eliminate 25 million Americans who would not conform to the new order." 
Ayers replied:
"Never said it. Never thought it. And again, Larry Grathwohl, I don't know him today, but certainly the FBI was an organization built on lies."
In an interview with ABC7 reporter Alan Wang, Ayers said that "Now that's being blown into dishonest narratives about hurting people, killing people, planning to kill people. That's just not true. We destroyed government property," said Ayers. However, when asked if he ever made bombs, Ayers replied: "I'm just not going to talk about it."
During the 2008 U.S. presidential election, a controversy started about Ayers' contact with then-Senator Barack Obama. This had been well known in Chicago for years. After being raised by the British press The ties between Ayers and Obama was written about by blogs and newspapers in the United States. The issue was also talked about in a debate by moderator George Stephanopoulos. It later became an issue for John McCain's campaign. "The New York Times", CNN, and several other news groups said that Obama does not have a close friendship with Ayers. After the election, Ayers said he did not have any close ties with Obama and condemned the Republicans for using "guilt by association" tactics. In a new afterword to his book, he added a note saying that he knew the Obamas "as neighbors and family friends." But in an interview with "Good Morning America", Ayers said the afterword was "describing there how the blogosphere characterized the relationship."
Ayers teaches at the University of Illinois at Chicago. He mainly focuses on social justice, fixing education in urban areas, children who are in trouble with the law and related issues.
He began working as a teacher at the Children's Community School (CCS). CCS was started by a group of students and based on the Summerhill way of teaching. After he left the underground, he earned an Masters in Education (M.Ed) from Bank Street College in Early Childhood Education (1983)), an M.Ed from Teachers College, Columbia University in Early Childhood Education (1987) and an Ed. D from Teachers College, Columbia University in Curriculum and Instruction (1987).
He has edited and written many books and articles. They usually have to deal with education. He has also been on many panels and symposia.
Ayers is married to Bernardine Dohrn. Dohrn was also part of the Weather Underground. They have two adult children and they share custody of Chesa Boudin. Boudin is the son of two former Underground members who were put in jail. Chesa Boudin went on to win a Rhodes Scholarship. Ayers and Dohrn live in the Hyde Park neighborhood of Chicago.
In 1997 Chicago awarded him its Citizen of the Year award for his work on the Chicago Annenberg Challenge project.

</doc>
<doc id="231941" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231941" title="Three-sector hypothesis">
Three-sector hypothesis

The Three-sector hypothesis is a macroeconomic theory. It says that there are three kinds of economic activities, which are very different from each other:
These kinds of activities are named "sectors". The theory speaks about the primary, secondary, and tertiary sector. The theory was developed by Alan Fisher, Colin Clark and Jean Fourastié in the 1930s. Clark used a speech given by Sir William Petty, in 1690. For this reason the theory is also known as Petty's Law. The first sector is about directly using natural resources, the second sector is about processing these resources to obtain "higher level" goods. 
The theory also says that the main focus of the economy of a country will change, from the primary to the secondary, and from the secondary to the tertiary sector, as the country's economy develops. 

</doc>
<doc id="231958" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231958" title="Osteogenesis Imperfecta">
Osteogenesis Imperfecta

Osteogenesis imperfecta is a genetic disorder. It is commonly called brittle bone disease. It is an autosomal dominant disease, which means a person can get if only one of their parents has the abnormal gene. OI affects the part of the bones called the collagen rod, which provides bone strength. The abnormal gene weakens or even destroys the collagen rod. This disease was first identified by Vrolik in 1854.
Osteogenesis Imperfecta is a disease that occurs when someone has weak bones, and it is a genetic disorder. When someone has this disease, their bones are most likely to break. Unfortunately, Osteogenesis Imperfecta is not curable. This disease is categorized in four types: Type one is the most common case and it often causes brittle teeth and bone related injuries. Type two is a more severe version of type one and has most of the same symptoms just in more severe cases. People with type three of Osteogenesis Imperfecta may have more than 100 fractures before puberty. Their eyes often develop a purple, blue, or grey tint and people with this case also often have hearing loss. 50% of people that have Osteogenesis Imperfecta have hearing loss while becoming an adult. Type 4 is a more severe case of most symptoms stated above.
Less severe symptoms of OI may include:
OI has many other serious and fatal symptoms including respiratory problems and bone deformity.
OI occurs equally in both male and females and can affect all ethnic groups. OI happens in the womb and there is no cure. It is usually discovered when someone breaks a lot of bones; they may have DNA testing to check for OI. It occurs in 1 in 20,000 births.

</doc>
<doc id="231959" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231959" title="Piss Christ">
Piss Christ

Piss Christ is a 1987 photo that was taken by Andres Serrano. The picture is of a small plastic crucifix that is in a glass of Serrano's urine. The piece won the Southeastern Center for Contemporary Art's "Awards in the Visual Arts" competition.This contest gets some of its money from the National Endowment from the Arts, a United States government group that gives money to art projects.
The photo caused some dispute when it was first shown in 1989. Some people who were against the photo, including United States Senators Al D'Amanto and Jesse Helms were upset that Serrano was given $15,000 for the work. They were also upset that part of it was from the National Endowment for the Arts. Supporters of the work said the "Piss Christ" is an issue of artistic freedom and freedom of speech.
Others said that the government paying for "Piss Christ" went against separation of church and state. 
Sister Wendy Beckett, an art critic and Catholic nun, said in a television interview with Bill Moyers that she did not think the work was blasphemous. She thought that it was but a statement on "what we have done to Christ"
During a showing of Serrano's works at the National Gallery of Victoria (NGV) in 1997, then Archbishop George Pelli tried to get the Supreme Court of Victoria to stop the gallery from showing the work. Th Court did not agree with him and did not stop it. A few days later, one visitor tried to take the work off of the gallery wall, and two teenagers later attacked the work with a hammer. The director of the NGV then cancelled the show. He said that he was worried about some of Rembrandt's works that were also being shown at the time.
"Piss Christ" was part of the BBC documentary called "Why Beauty Matters", which talks about art and how it is important in everyday life.

</doc>
<doc id="231964" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231964" title="Cosley Zoo">
Cosley Zoo

Cosley Zoo is an AZA-accredited zoo. It is in Wheaton, Illinois. It is a part of the Wheaton Park District. Families and individuals can come in for free. The zoo, which is situated on 5 acres (2 hectares) of land. It is built on the site of a historic train station. There are domestic animals. There is also wildlife that is native to Illinois.
The zoo holds a great number of programs for children. For example, they have programs like Junior Zookeepers, birthday parties, and holiday events.

</doc>
<doc id="231967" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231967" title="MSNBC">
MSNBC

MSNBC is a progressive cable news channel started by National Broadcasting Company (NBC) and Microsoft (MSN), thus the name MSNBC. It was started in 1996. It is produced by NBC's news division, NBC News. It replaced a channel Roger Ailes operated and founded for NBC called America's Talking. Most of its shows are shows that talk about news and politics, and are hosted by people such as Ed Schultz, Chris Matthews and Rachel Maddow. There have been accusations of a liberal bias on MSNBC. MSNBC's motto is "Lean Forward", suggesting a progressive political stance. 

</doc>
<doc id="231969" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231969" title="Athletic director">
Athletic director

An athletic director is someone who is in charge of the sports at a school. Most colleges and high schools have an athletic director. 

</doc>
<doc id="231971" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231971" title="Hyperplane arrangements">
Hyperplane arrangements

Hyperplane arrangements is a branch of mathematics that studies how smaller objects, called hyperplanes, can be arranged in a bigger object. This is related to other fields of mathematics like number theory, combinatorics, and topology.

</doc>
<doc id="231975" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231975" title="Bobby Dodd Stadium">
Bobby Dodd Stadium

Bobby Dodd Stadium at Historic Grant Field is the football stadium at the corner of North Avenue at Techwood Drive on the campus of Georgia Institute of Technology in Atlanta, Georgia. It has been home to the Yellow Jackets football team since 1905. It is also the oldest stadium in Division I Football Bowl Subdivision.
Bobby Dodd Stadium is named in honor of Robert Lee "Bobby" Dodd, longtime football coach and athletic director at Georgia Tech. The field is named for Hugh Inman Grant, son of John W. Grant, an Atlanta . 
The stadium is located on the east side of the Georgia Tech campus. It is in the middle of Atlanta, just off Interstate 75/Interstate 85, across from the Varsity restaurant.
It was first known as Grant Field (it was renamed Bobby Dodd Stadium in 1988). The stadium is the oldest continuously used on-campus site for college football in the southern United States.
Football has been played at the current site since 1905. In 1913, grandstands were built for the first time, mostly by Tech students. 
The stadium does not look like it originally did. It has been expanded several times. The original stadium seated 5,600. By 1925, the west and south stands were completed, making the stadium a 30,000-seat horseshoe with an open north end. The west stands were rebuilt and a large press box was added in 1947, bringing capacity up to 44,000. The original all-steel 4,105-seat North stands were built in 1958. In 1962 and 1968 the upper decks were added to the East and West sides bringing capacity to its all-time high of 58,121. In 1985 the South stands were taken down to make room for the William C. Wardlaw Center. 
The west grandstand now covers the old one, which is still underneath it. Grant Field was occasionally used as a site for Atlanta Falcons games during the team's early years when it was sharing Fulton County Stadium with the Atlanta Braves of Major League Baseball. If the Falcons needed to play a game at the same time as the Braves, they would play at Grant Field. The lighting was replaced in 1998. 
Following the 2001 season, a major expansion and renovation project was started, which was done in two phases in order to play the 2002 season in the stadium. For the 2002 season, seating was returned to the South end in front of the Wardlaw Center, and the original North stands and lower east bleachers were rebuilt and bowled in. After the 2002 season, the expansion was completed by adding a free standing upper deck in the north end zone. This addition of a north end zone upper deck brought Bobby Dodd Stadium to its current capacity. The new stadium was rededicated during the 2003 home season opener versus the Auburn Tigers on September 2, 2003.
In the summer of 2009, Bobby Dodd Stadium underwent a number of changes. First, the scoreboard was renovated and after completion, is now twice as big as the old scoreboard. Also, ribbon boards were installed in front of the Wardlaw Center, as well as along the sides of the stadium. Another change was the improvement of the sound system in the stadium. 

</doc>
<doc id="231979" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231979" title="Bud Carson">
Bud Carson

Leon H. "Bud" Carson ( – ) was an American football coach best known for working with the Pittsburgh Steelers' championship teams of the 1970s.
Carson played defensive back for North Carolina from 1949 to 1951, then entered the Marines. 
After he left the Marines, he went into coaching. He worked at Georgia Tech for head coach Bobby Dodd. Carson took over as head coach in 1967. Under Carson, the Yellow Jackets had three 4-6 seasons in a row before going 9-3 and winning the Sun Bowl in 1970. In 1971, Tech finished 6-6 after a Peach Bowl loss. He was fired by Georgia Tech after that season. While at Georgia Tech, he made the "Cover 2" defensive strategy that has been widely used by the NFL.
Pittsburgh Steelers head coach Chuck Noll hired Carson as defensive coordinator in 1972. Under Carson, the "Steel Curtain" developed as one of the best defenses in National Football League history. The defense, led by Jack Lambert, Mel Blount, Jack Ham and Mean Joe Greene, gave up fewer points than any other American Football Conference team in Pittsburgh's Super Bowl seasons of 1974 and 1975. In 1976, the team gave up fewer than 10 points a game.
After the 1977 season, Carson took over the defensive-coordinator job with the Los Angeles Rams, who lost to the Steelers in Super Bowl XIV. He later worked as a coach for the Kansas City Chiefs and Baltimore Colts. He then was in charge of the New York Jets' defense from 1985 to 1988. In 1989, he was hired as the head coach of the Cleveland Browns.
Cleveland won the AFC Central Division in 1989 before losing to the Denver Broncos in the conference championship for the third time in four years. Browns owner Art Modell fired Carson halfway through the 1990 season, which ended with a 3-13 record. Carson then worked as a coach for the Philadelphia Eagles and the St. Louis Rams before retiring in 1997.
Carson, a long-time smoker, died in 2005 of emphysema. He was married to Linda Carson, an anchorwoman at Sarasota television station WWSB. His daughter Cathi Carson is the sports reporter at two Jacksonville stations in Jacksonville WTEV and WAWS and was formerly a reporter at WWSB. He also had a son, Cliff, and a daughter, Dana, as well as a stepson, Gary Ford.

</doc>
<doc id="231982" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231982" title="Gouverneur Morris">
Gouverneur Morris

Gouverneur Morris (January 31, 1752 – November 6, 1816) was an American politician and diplomat from New York City. Morris was born and died in Morrisiana, which is now part of The Bronx. He went to college at King's College, New York. He was a delegate to the Continental Congress from New York in the 1770s. In the 1780s, he moved to Philadelphia and was the assistant superintendent of finance. He was also a delegate to the Constitutional Convention from Pennsylvania. He was very active there, giving 173 speeches. This was more speeches than any other person gave. Morris wrote the Preamble and many of the sections of the Constitution. Later, he served as ambassador to France from 1792 to 1794. He was a U.S. Senator from 1800 to 1803. 
Late in life, Morris was head of the group building the Erie Canal. He wanted a strong central government, and wanted people to think of themselves mostly as Americans rather than people of the state they lived in. Morris also spoke out against slavery. He had a wooden leg. It was thought that Morris lost his leg due to falling out of a window after having an affair. He is also noted for keeping a diary of his life. 

</doc>
<doc id="231984" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231984" title="Herman Hickman">
Herman Hickman

Herman M. Hickman (October 1, 1911 - April 25, 1958) was a Hall of Fame college football player for the University of Tennessee, and played for the NFL's Brooklyn Dodgers. He later coached football and was a professional wrestler.
Hickman came to the University of Tennessee from Johnson City, Tennessee. Hickman was a guard for the Tennessee Volunteers football team from 1929–1931. He was chosen for Grantland Rice's All American football team in 1931. Hickman was also named to the All-Southern team in 1931 with teammate Gene McEver. Coach Robert Neyland held Hickman in high regard. "When one (football writer) said Hickman was 'the best guard the South ever produced,' Coach General Bob Neyland snarled, 'Herman Hickman is the greatest guard football has ever known.'"
Following his time at Tennessee, Hickman played for the NFL's Brooklyn Dodgers from 1932 to 1934. He was named an All Pro at left guard in 1933.< name=bio/> He was elected to the College Football Hall of Fame in 1959.
Hickman was an assistant at Wake Forest, North Carolina State and West Point before earning the head coaching job at Yale University in 1948. He led the Bulldogs to a 16-17-2 record before resigning in 1951.
Hickman was a writer, who came to be known as "Poet Laureate of the Little Smokies." He was also a staff writer for Sports Illustrated.
Hickman also was a professional wrestler, known as "The Tennessee Terror." He wrestled in over 500 matches.

</doc>
<doc id="232000" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232000" title="No More Heroes (video game)">
No More Heroes (video game)

No More Heroes is an action video game for Wii system. The game's main character is Travis Touchdown, who is trying to be the number one hitman. His weapon is a kind of light sword which probably comes from "Star Wars".

</doc>
<doc id="232002" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232002" title="Butterflyfish">
Butterflyfish

Butterflyfish are a group of conspicuous tropical marine fish of the family Chaetodontidae; the bannerfish and coralfish are also included in this group. Found mostly on the reefs of the Atlantic, Indian and Pacific Oceans, there are approximately 120 species in 10 genera.

</doc>
<doc id="232004" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232004" title="Marine angelfish">
Marine angelfish

Marine angelfish are group of fish of the family Pomacanthidae. They are found on shallow reefs in the tropical Atlantic, Indian, and mostly western Pacific oceans. The family contains seven genera and approximately 86 species. 

</doc>
<doc id="232029" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232029" title="Viktor Korchnoi">
Viktor Korchnoi

Viktor Korchnoi (23 March 1931 – 6 June 2016) was a professional chess grandmaster and author. He was born in Leningrad, USSR. In 1976 he defected to the Netherlands. He has lived in Switzerland for many years, and is now a Swiss citizen. He is a professional chess player and author. He was the oldest active grandmaster on the regular tournament circuit. His health does not allow him to play at present. Viktor was at or near the top in chess for half a century.
In all, Korchnoi was a candidate for the World Championship on ten occasions (1962, 1968, 1971, 1974, 1977, 1980, 1983, 1985, 1988 and 1991). Korchnoi was also a four-time USSR chess champion, a five-time member of Soviet teams that won the European championship, and a six-time member of Soviet teams that won the Chess Olympiad.
Korchnoi played three matches against Anatoly Karpov, the latter two for the World Chess Championship. In 1974, he lost the Candidates final to Karpov by the narrowest margin: 11.5–12.5. Karpov was declared world champion in 1975 when Bobby Fischer failed to defend his title. Then, after defecting from the Soviet Union in 1976, Korchnoi won two Candidates cycles to qualify for World Championship matches with Karpov in 1978 and 1981.
The 1978 Karpov–Korchnoi World Championship match was held in Baguio, Philippines. It was one of those events where the struggle took place off as well as on the board. Korchnoi's status as a defector and stateless person was exploited to the full by the Soviet delegation. Karpov's team was a dozen strong, and only three of them were chess players. They included Dr Zukhar, Karpov's personal psychiatrist/psychologist, whom (it was claimed) attempted to hypnotise Korchnoi during play.
There was constant controversy off the board, with X-raying of chairs, protests about the flags used on the board, hypnotism complaints and the mirror glasses used by Korchnoi. When Karpov's team sent him a blueberry yogurt during a game without any request for one by Karpov, the Korchnoi team protested, claiming it could be some kind of code. They later said this was intended as a parody of earlier protests, but it was taken seriously at the time. The story of these off-the-board struggles has been reported in detail, from the Korchnoi point of view.
As a sporting contest, it had an exciting climax. The match would go to the first player to win six games, draws not counting. After 17 games, Karpov had an imposing 4–1 lead. Korchnoi won game 21, but Karpov won game 27, putting him on the brink of victory with a 5–2 lead. Korchnoi fought back, scoring three wins and one draw in the next four games, to equalise the match at 5–5 after 31 games. However, Karpov won the next game, and the match, by 6–5 with 21 draws. For the second time, Karpov had won by the narrowest possible margin.
Korchnoi won the next Candidates' cycle to again earn the right to challenge Karpov in 1981. The match, held in Merano, Italy, was held in an atmosphere of political tension. Korchnoi's wife and son were still in the Soviet Union. His son was promised that he would be allowed to join his father, if he gave up his passport. When he did so, he was promptly drafted into the Soviet army. In spite of protests, Korchnoi's son was arrested for evading army service, sentenced to two and a half years in labour camp, and served the full sentence. After the release, he was again refused permission to leave the USSR. In 1982, six years after Korchnoi's defection, his son finally succeeded in leaving the country.
In what was dubbed the 'Massacre in Merano', Karpov defeated Korchnoi convincingly by 6 wins to 2, with ten draws.
Korchnoi was due to play the young Soviet Garry Kasparov in the next (1984) Candidates' cycle. He seemed to have great fondness for Garry Kasparov – possibly because he recognized the situation Kasparov was in – a prominent talent blocked by the Soviet bureaucracy.
The match was to be held in Pasadena, California, but the Soviet Chess Federation protested. Possibly this was because Korchnoi was a defector and the match was in the cold-war enemy's back yard, and because of the soon-to-be-announced Soviet decision to boycott the 1984 Olympic Games in Los Angeles). At any rate, Kasparov was not allowed to fly there to play the match. This defaulted the match to Korchnoi.
However, after a remarkable series of events, spearheaded by the British Grandmaster Raymond Keene, Korchnoi agreed to play the match in London. This was a gracious gesture by Korchnoi, since technically he had already won by default. After a good start, Korchnoi was overcome by Kasparov's attacking play and remarkable maturity.
Viktor continued to play in Europe, living in his adopted country of Switzerland and frequently representing their Olympiad team on top board. Korchnoi first played for Switzerland at the 1978 Olympiad, held in Buenos Aires, where he took the individual gold medal for best performance on board one.
On the January 2007 FIDE rating list, Korchnoi was ranked number 85 in the world at age 75, by far the oldest player ever to be ranked in the FIDE top 100. The second-oldest player on the January 2007 list was Alexander Beliavsky, 22 years younger than Korchnoi.
In September 2006 Korchnoi won the 16th World Senior Chess Championship, held in Italy, with a 9–2 score. Korchnoi scored 7.5–0.5 in his first eight games, then drew his last three games. This is the first world title Korchnoi had won. Viktor achieved another mark by winning the 2009 Swiss championship in Grächen. He scored 7/9 at the open tournament.
Viktor's style of play was total commitment. He almost always played for a win if at all possible, and rarely took short draws. He was often seen in complex, double-edged positions, where it is difficult to see what is going on. 
Korchnoi died at the age of 85 in Wohlen, Switzerland from complications of a stroke on 6 June 2016.

</doc>
<doc id="232032" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232032" title="Mycenae">
Mycenae

Mycenae (Greek "Mykēnai" or "Mykēnē"), is an archaeological site in Greece. It is about 90 km south-west of Athens, in the north-eastern Peloponnese. 
In the second millennium BC, Mycenae was one of the most important centers of early Greek civilization with a strong army. The time of Greek history from about 1600 BC to about 1100 BC is called Mycenaean Greece.
The Mycenaeans of Greece had learned many things from other lands. By 1400 B.C., they were known for their art, literature, and philosophy. Their most important city, Mycenae (mi see' née), was just north of what later became Corinth.
In 1300 BC the king built a wall 23 ft wide and 60 ft high. The stone blocks used were very big. A "corbel arch", where each stone hung a little further beyond the one below, was used. A triangle was also used to support it. The Lion Gate, the main gate of the wall and an example of a corbel arch, is still admired today.
The common people went inside the palace walls in times of danger but at other times lived in their own houses. Their houses were shaped like deep rectangles with flat roofs and front porches. People worked at many different jobs. They were cooks, doctors, carpenters, tailors, woodcutters, and makers of textiles. The Mycenaeans grew many things and kept animals like oxen, sheep, pigs, and goats. They also built good roads and bridges. Their army was strong. Spears and have been found, and also many swords, big and small. Their edge and point were used.
By 1200 BC the power of Mycenae was declining. The eventual destruction of Mycenae was part of the general Bronze Age collapse in the Greek mainland and beyond. Within a short period all the palaces of southern Greece were burnt, including that at Mycenae. The cause or causes of the Bronze Age collapse are not known for sure.
For their worship of gods, these people made shrines. Poseidon was worshiped as a chief deity, and the “protector of the sky” was Zeus. They also worshipped Apollo, Artemis, Hera and many others of the Greek religion. 

</doc>
<doc id="232033" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232033" title="Anatoly Karpov">
Anatoly Karpov

Anatoly Karpov (born Zlatoust, Russia, 23 May 1951) is a Soviet and Russian chess grandmaster and former World Champion. He was official world champion from 1975 to 1985, played three more matches for the title from 1986 to 1990, then was FIDE World Champion from 1993 to 1999. 
His tournament successes include over 160 first-place finishes. He had a peak Elo rating of 2780, and his 90 months at world number one are second only to the record of Garry Kasparov. 
Since 2005, he has been a member of the Public Chamber of Russia. He has recently involved himself in several humanitarian causes, such as advocating the use of iodised salt.

</doc>
<doc id="232048" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232048" title="Vasily Smyslov">
Vasily Smyslov

Vasily Smyslov (24 March 1921 – 27 March 2010) was a Russian chess grandmaster, and World Chess Champion from 1957 to 1958.<ref name=H/W>Hooper D. and Whyld K. 1992. "The Oxford companion to chess". 2nd ed, Oxford University Press.</ref> 
Smyslov was a candidate for the World Chess Championship on eight occasions (1948, 1950, 1953, 1956, 1959, 1965, 1983, and 1985). He was one of the five players selected to compete for the 1948 World Chess Championship tournament to determine who should succeed the late Alexander Alekhine as champion. His selection was questioned by some, but this criticism was silenced when he finished second behind Mikhail Botvinnik. His victories in the double-round Candidates tournaments of 1953 and 1956 were the greatest tournament wins of the 1950s. He played three 24-game world championship matches against the formidable Botvinnik, drawing the first in 1954, winning the second in 1957 but losing the return match in 1958. All three matches were held in Moscow.
Smyslov was twice equal first in the Soviet Championship (1949, 1955), and his total of 17 Chess Olympiad medals won is an all-time record. In five European Team Championships, Smyslov won ten gold medals (team and individual). He remained active and successful in competitive chess well into the 1960s and 1970s and he qualified for the finals of the World Championship Candidates' matches as late as 1983. Vasiliy won the first World Senior Chess Championship in 1991. He retired from competitive play in 2001.
Smyslov was also a concert-level singer. His baritone singing, and fellow grandmaster Taimanov's piano recitals, were evening events at many major chess tournaments.
A tribute from Anatoly Karpov:

</doc>
<doc id="232065" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232065" title="Karachay-Balkar language">
Karachay-Balkar language

The Karachay-Balkar language (Къарачай-Малкъар /Qarachay-Malqar/) is a Turkic language spoken by the Karachays and Balkars. It is divided into two dialects: Karachay which pronounces two phonemes as and , and Balkar, which pronounces the corresponding phonemes as and .

</doc>
<doc id="232073" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232073" title="Boris Spassky">
Boris Spassky

Boris Spassky (born 30 January 1937 in Leningrad), is a Soviet–French chess grandmaster. He was the tenth World Chess Champion, holding the title from late 1969 to 1972.
Spassky won the USSR Chess Championship twice outright (1961, 1973), and twice more lost in playoffs (1956, 1963). He was a World Chess Championship candidate on seven occasions (1956, 1965, 1968, 1974, 1977, 1980, and 1985).
Boris won the Candidates match series in 1965 and 1968. He played for the world championship three times. Against Tigran Petrosian in 1966 he lost; against Petrosian again in 1969 (winning), and against Bobby Fischer in 1972 (losing). The match with Fischer in Reykjavik was the most publicised chess match of any time. His loss was subjected to the most rigorous scrutiny by the Soviet central committee for chess, and he was criticised for lack of adequate preparation.
The second half of his life until recently was lived in France. He has both Russian and French nationality.
On 1 October 2006, Spassky suffered a minor stroke during a chess lecture in San Francisco. On 23 September 2010, ChessBase reported that Spassky had suffered a more serious stroke that had left him paralyzed on his left side. After that he returned to France for a long rehabilitation programme. 
On 16 August 2012, Spassky left France to return to Russia under disputed circumstances. He now lives in an apartment in Moscow.
Spassky is the oldest living former world champion.

</doc>
<doc id="232105" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232105" title="Bill Bailey">
Bill Bailey

Bill Bailey (born Mark Bailey 13 January 1965, Bath, Somerset) is an English stand-up comedian, musician and actor. He often plays music in his comedy shows. Bailey is well known for being on television programmes like "Bill Bailey's Birdwatching Bonanza", "Have I Got News for You", "Never Mind the Buzzcocks", "QI" and "Black Books".
In 2003, a newspaper called "The Observer" said that Bailey was "one of the 50 funniest acts in British comedy". In 2007 he was voted number seven on Channel 4's "Hundred Greatest Stand-ups".

</doc>
<doc id="232109" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232109" title="Vladimir Kramnik">
Vladimir Kramnik

Vladimir Kramnik, born 25 June 1975, is a Russian chess grandmaster. He was Classical World Chess Champion from 2000 to 2006, and undisputed World Chess Champion from 2006 to 2007.
In October 2000, he defeated Garry Kasparov in a match played in London, and became the Classical World Chess Champion. In late 2004, Kramnik successfully defended his title against challenger Peter Leko in a drawn match played in Brissago, Switzerland.
In October 2006, Kramnik, the Classical World Champion, defeated reigning FIDE World Champion Veselin Topalov in a unification match. As a result, Kramnik became the first undisputed World Champion, since Garry Kasparov split from FIDE in 1993.
In 2007, Kramnik lost the title to Viswanathan Anand, who won the World Chess Championship tournament (not a classical match between the two players) ahead of Kramnik. He played Anand at the World Chess Championship match 2008, but lost.
Kramnik has been diagnosed with an uncommon form of arthritis, called ankylosing spondylitis. It causes him great physical discomfort while playing. In January 2006, Kramnik announced that he would skip the Corus Chess Tournament in Wijk aan Zee to seek out treatment for his arthritis. He returned from treatment in June 2006, playing in the 37th Chess Olympiad. He scored a +4 result, earning the highest performance rating (2847) of the 1307 participating players.
On 30 December 2006 he married French journalist Marie-Laure Germon. He has a daughter named Daria who was born 28 December 2008.

</doc>
<doc id="232121" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232121" title="Leah Clark">
Leah Clark

Leah Clark (born December 20, 1979 in Albuquerque, New Mexico) is an American actress. She has provided many voices for Japanese anime series and video games. The roles she is most famous for are Coby in "One Piece", Blair in "Soul Eater", and Fuyuki in "Sgt. Frog"

</doc>
<doc id="232126" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232126" title="Veselin Topalov">
Veselin Topalov

Veselin Topalov (Веселин Топалов, born 15 March 1975), is a Bulgarian chess grandmaster and former 'FIDE world chess champion'. This was a knock-out tournament of lower status than the classical world championship. 
Topalov became the FIDE champion in 2005. He lost his title in a classical match against Vladimir Kramnik, the purpose of which was to unify the titles. During the match, his manager accused his opponent of cheating. The match ended the division between world titles, which had arisen in 1993. Next, Topalov defeated Gata Kamsky in February 2009 in Sofia, Bulgaria to earn the right to be the challenger for the World Chess Championship in 2010. Topalov lost the World Championship match with Anand 5½–6½ in May 2010.
Topalov won the 2005 Chess Oscar. He was ranked #1 in the world from April 2006 to January 2007, and then had the second highest Elo rating of all time (2813). He regained the world #1 ranking again in October 2008, and officially remained #1 until January 2010, when he fell to #2 behind Magnus Carlsen. 
He has been ranked number one a total of 27 months in his career, the fourth longest, behind only Garry Kasparov, Anatoly Karpov, and Bobby Fischer.

</doc>
<doc id="232131" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232131" title="Magnus Carlsen">
Magnus Carlsen

Magnus Carlsen (born Sven Magnus Øen Carlsen, 30 November 1990) is the World Chess Champion. He became World Champion on 22 November 2013, by defeating Viswanathan Anand by 6½ to 3½. Carlsen also won the return match in 2014 by 6½4½.
A Norwegian chess grandmaster and chess prodigy, Carlsen is the highest rated player in the world, and the highest rated player in the history of chess. His peak rating of 2881 is higher than even Kasparov achieved. Kasparov's highest rating was 2851. 
On 26 April 2004, Carlsen became a grandmaster at the age of 13 years, 148 days. This made him the third youngest grandmaster in history. He played at the Nanjing Pearl Spring tournament in September–October 2009. This lifted him to an Elo rating of 2801. This made him second in the world. He is the fifth player to have a rating over 2800. He was 18 years old when he got this rating. This made him the youngest person to have a rating above 2800. 
On 1 January 2010, the new FIDE rating list was published. He was 19 years and 32 days old when he became the youngest chess player in history to be ranked world number one. He broke the previous record held by Vladimir Kramnik.
In London, March 2013, Carlsen won the 2013 Candidates tournament and qualified to challenge Anand for the World Chess Championship.
When Carlsen became the fourth best player in the world he reached an agreement with a public relations (PR) expert in early 2009. This arrangement has borne fruit. Carlsen now has two sponsors, each of which provides 100,000 Euros a year. One is a stockbroker, the other a law firm. With this money, Carlsen is able to travel, and spend time on training. His coach is Garry Kasparov, a former World chess champion.
In return for the sponsorship, Carlsen wears the names of the sponsors on his jackets. This is called 'logo exposure'. He attends meetings, and gives talks. His image helps the companies to hire 'high achievers' to their staff. Put simply, companies of that type are keen to hire intelligent people. Carlsen's overall business manager is his father, Henrik.
Norway held the 2014 Chess Olympiad, and the Norwegian Government has pledged (promised) 70 million kroner (~8.5 million euros) in support of the event.

</doc>
<doc id="232154" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232154" title="Study">
Study

Study can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="232167" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232167" title="Christopher Hitchens">
Christopher Hitchens

Christopher Eric Hitchens (13 April 1949 – 15 December 2011) was an Anglo-American atheist, writer and debater. He wrote for various magazines including "The Nation", "Free Inquiry", "Slate", and others. He was a supporter of the philosophical movement humanism.
Hitchens was educated at Balliol College, Oxford. After graduation in 1970, he became a magazine writer. In 1982, he moved to Washington, D.C. In 1988, he learned from his grandmother that his mother was Jewish, but had kept her religion a secret. Hitchens remained an atheist and did not adopt any religious faith. He did not write about his religious views until his 2007 book "God Is Not Great: how religion poisons everything."
Hitchens tried to write from first-hand experience. To write his essays, he braved gunfire in Sarajevo, he was jailed in Czechoslovakia, and in 2008, he was brutally beaten in Beirut, Lebanon. In 2009, Hitchens agreed to be waterboarded. He wrote in "Vanity Fair" magazine, "If waterboarding does not constitute torture then there is no such thing as torture".
Hitchens died of oesophageal cancer.

</doc>
<doc id="232173" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232173" title="Sam Harris">
Sam Harris

Sam Harris is an American author. He is a philosopher, neuroscientist, atheist and humanist . He is the co-founder and CEO of Project Reason. 
Harris, Christopher Hitchens, Richard Dawkins, and Daniel Dennett are commonly known as the "Four Horsemen of Atheism". 

</doc>
<doc id="232177" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232177" title="Shepherd Express">
Shepherd Express

Shepherd Express is an progressive weekly newspaper in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, United States. It is the third largest newspaper in the state of Wisconsin. Its original title was the "Crazy Shepherd", a name that comes from a line in poet Allen Ginsberg’s poem “Footnotes to Howl”.
Shepherd Express Website

</doc>
<doc id="232181" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232181" title="Paranasal sinuses">
Paranasal sinuses

Paranasal sinuses are parts of the nasal cavity. They are usually counted to be part of the respiratory system. They are mucous membranes, which are mostly inside bones. These bones are then filled with air, which makes the skull look bigger, without adding much extra weight. Prenasal cavities can be found in mammals, most birds, dinosaurs, and crocodilians.
Since sinuses are in virtually all land vertebrates, they must have a function. They are covered with a mucosa, epidermal cells which are moist and make mucus. This moistens and warms the air on its way into the lungs. The mucus also picks up particles which come in with the air. A variety of possible functions have been proposed:

</doc>
<doc id="232194" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232194" title="Fishing lure">
Fishing lure

A fishing lure is an object used to catch fish. It is tied to the end of a fishing line. A fishing lure is made to look like something a fish would eat. They move in a special way and have certain colors. Lures have fishing hooks attached to them. 
They are usually used with a fishing rod. When a lure is used, it is cast, or thrown, out into the water and pulled back in. A good fisherman can cast the lure into places where the fish hide, like under logs.
There are many types of fishing lures. Most of them are made to look like dying, injured, or fast fish. They can be made of wood, plastic, rubber, metal, cork, feathers, animal hair, and other things. Some are shiny so that they catch the fish's attention.
Fishing lures can come in many different types such as a jig or a popper. A jig will usually have a weight attached to it so it can float at the right height. A popper is a lure used to attract trout and bass. A popper has a colorful design in the front to attract fish. Fishing lures can be very expensive as some are sold for thousands of dollars. 
The fishing lure was invented in 1890 by a man named James Heddon. He created the fishing lure by accident by taking a big piece of wood and carving a frog shape into it and taking the lure and attaching it to his line. Then he threw it in the water and immediately caught a bass. The next day he started a company called the Heddon Company and the era of the fishing lure was born. 

</doc>
<doc id="232200" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232200" title="Batabanó, Cuba">
Batabanó, Cuba

Batabanó is a municipality and city in the La Habana Province of Cuba. It was founded in 1688. It is crossed by several rivers. In 2004, 25,664 people lived there.

</doc>
<doc id="232205" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232205" title="Americans United for the Separation of Church and State">
Americans United for the Separation of Church and State

Americans United for the Separation of Church and State or "Americans United" for short, is an organization that says that the American government should be neutral on religion. It promotes what it believes is a strong reading of the Establishment clause of the U.S. Constitution. It is headquartered in Washington D.C. and is headed by the Reverend Barry Lynn. 

</doc>
<doc id="232217" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232217" title="Bilby">
Bilby

The bilby (also known as the rabbit-eared bandicoot) is a rabbit-like marsupial. It lives in deserts, dry forests, dry grasslands, and dry shrubby areas in Australia. The bilby's pouch faces backwards. These big-eared, burrowing mammals are in danger of extinction.
The bilby, like all bandicoots, is a nocturnal animal (most active at night). Digging with its strong, clawed feet, this solitary mammal excavates long, complex burrows. Its underground dens are up to 5 feet (1.5 m) long.
At Easter, chocolate Easter Bilbies are sold as an Australian alternative to the Easter Bunny. Money raised from the sale of the bilby shaped chocolate is used to fund protection for the bilby. 
The bilby likes to eat insects and fruit, they can dig their burrows up to 2 metres deep and 3 metres long.

</doc>
<doc id="232234" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232234" title="Shakhriyar Mamedyarov">
Shakhriyar Mamedyarov

Shakhriyar Mamadyarov (born 12 April 1985 in Sumgayit, Azerbaijan), is a chess grandmaster. On the January 2008 FIDE rating list he reached number six in the world with a rating of 2760. He is known for being an excellent chess strategist. "His unique style of play never fails to amaze his often surprised chess opponents".

</doc>
<doc id="232237" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232237" title="University of Phoenix Stadium">
University of Phoenix Stadium

University of Phoenix Stadium is a sports arena in Glendale, Arizona. The arena opened in 2006, and right now the Arizona Cardinals of the National Football League (NFL) play there. The stadium also hosted WWE's WrestleMania XXVI.
University of Phoenix Stadium's Official Website

</doc>
<doc id="232272" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232272" title="Yellowknife, Northwest Territories">
Yellowknife, Northwest Territories

Yellowknife (2011 population: 19,234) is a Canadian city. It is the capital of the Northwest Territories of Canada. It is located on the north shore of Great Slave Lake. The city used to be a mining town until the 1980's.

</doc>
<doc id="232298" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232298" title="Footloose">
Footloose

Footloose is a 1984 American musical drama movie. It stars Kevin Bacon and was directed by Herbert Ross. Lori Singer, Dianne Wiest and John Lithgow are co-stars. 
It was made into a musical on Broadway in 1999. A movie remake came out in 2011. 

</doc>
<doc id="232299" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232299" title="M. J. Cole">
M. J. Cole

M.J. Cole (born Matthew James Firth Coleman, 9 August 1973) is a DJ. He has worked with Dido and Mariah Carey. He is from London, England. Cole attended the Royal College of Music. He is a garage singer. He has also worked with Fatboy Slim, De La Soul, Freq Nasty, and Ed Rush. He has done remixes for Kym Mazelle. His song "Sincere" made it onto Britain's Top 40.

</doc>
<doc id="232305" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232305" title="Fishery">
Fishery

A fishery is a place for raising fish or harvesting fish. There are all kinds of fisheries in the world, like salmon fisheries. Fisheries might take fish from the wild or breed them.

</doc>
<doc id="232321" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232321" title="Clematis vitalba">
Clematis vitalba

Old man’s beard (the scientific name is "Clematis vitalba") is a fast growing vine that covers and strangles trees and shrubs. To kill the tree or shrub, it covers them and does not let them get any light from the sun that it needs to grow.

</doc>
<doc id="232327" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232327" title="2010 Chile earthquakes">
2010 Chile earthquakes

"'2010 Chile earthquake" may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="232335" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232335" title="Main Page">
Main Page


</doc>
<doc id="232346" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232346" title="Butter cake">
Butter cake

A butter cake is a cake with butter as a main ingredient. 
The traditional English pound cake used equal parts of butter, flour, sugar, and eggs to produce a heavy, rich cake. This was the first butter cake. The invention of baking powder during the 19th century made it possible to have lighter, fluffier cakes using these same ingredients, making the modern butter cake. 
Butter cakes are often made by beating the butter and sugar until fluffy. This is called creaming. Eggs are added, then the other ingredients.
Butter cakes taste best when stored at room temperature, because they dry out and lose taste when refrigerated.
Butter cakes are high in fat because they contain so much butter.

</doc>
<doc id="232349" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232349" title="Baking powder">
Baking powder

Baking powder is a dry chemical leavening agent used to make baked foods lighter and less dense. Baking powder works by making a reaction between an acid and a base, which produces carbon dioxide bubbles to make the mixture light. It is used when the food should not taste of yeast or when the mixture is not elastic enough to hold bubbles for very long. Because carbon dioxide is made faster by baking powder than yeast, breads made with it are called quick breads.
Most baking powders are made up of an alkaline (usually baking soda), one or two acid salts, and a starch (cornstarch or sometimes potato starch). Baking soda is where the carbon dioxide comes from, and the acid releases it, like this:

</doc>
<doc id="232351" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232351" title="Battle royal (professional wrestling)">
Battle royal (professional wrestling)

In professional wrestling, a battle royal (sometimes spelled battle royale; plural battles royal or battle royals) is a match type in which many wrestlers fight against each other at the same time and wrestlers are eliminated until only one is left. That person is then the winner. Usually a battle royal begin with 20 wrestlers in the ring, who are then eliminated by pushed out of the ring, over the top rope, and having both feet touch the floor out side the ring. A popular example of the battle royal is the Royal Rumble match that is put on yearly in January by World Wrestling Entertainment.
Team based battle royals consist of two or more teams of wrestlers, with the number of wrestlers on each team usually being equal. There are different types of such matches:

</doc>
<doc id="232354" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232354" title="Numbat">
Numbat

The numbat ("Myrmecobius fasciatus") is a marsupial from open woodlands in western Australia. It is also called the banded anteater, because it eats termites.
It is unusual in being one of the few diurnal (daytime) marsupials. It has no pouch, but the mother carries round her four young on her stomach. At night, they take shelter in hollow logs. The numbat has a life span of 5-6 years under human care.
These solitary, long-tailed termite-eaters are in danger of extinction; very few remain in the wild. When Europeans arrived, the numbat was found across the New South Wales and Victorian borders west to the Indian Ocean, and as far north as the southwest corner of the Northern Territory. It was at home in a wide range of woodland and semiarid habitats. 
The deliberate release of the European red fox in the 19th century wiped out the entire numbat population in Victoria, NSW, South Australia and the Northern Territory, and almost all numbats in Western Australia, as well. By the late 1970s, the population was well under 1,000 individuals, concentrated in two small areas not far from Perth, Dryandra, and Perup.
The numbat is the emblem of Western Australia.

</doc>
<doc id="232357" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232357" title="Haber process">
Haber process

The Haber process or the Haber-Bosch process is a chemical reaction that uses nitrogen gas and hydrogen gas to create the chemical compound ammonia. The Haber process uses temperatures ranging from 400°C to 450°C under a pressure of 200 atm. The Haber process uses a catalyst mostly made up of iron.
The Haber process is named after the German scientist Fritz Haber. Haber was the first person to successfully complete the process. In 1909, Haber's process could produce about one cup of ammonia every two hours. Carl Bosch helped to develop the Haber process for industry. In 1913, the German company BASF started using the Haber process to make ammonia. During World War I, the Haber process was used to make explosives. The Germans kept this a secret until after the war. In 1918, Haber won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry, and in 1931, Bosch also shared a Nobel Prize.
The Haber process is still important today because it produces ammonia, which is needed for fertilizer and for many other purposes. The Haber process produces about 500 million tons (453 billion kilograms) of fertilizer every year. This fertilizer helps to feed about 40% of the world's population.
The gases for the Haber process must be prepared before changing them into ammonia. After that is done, ammonia is created by using magnetite (iron oxide) as the catalyst:
In this process, only about 15% of the nitrogen and hydrogen is changed into ammonia. However, the unused nitrogen and hydrogen is recycled. Overall, 98% of nitrogen and hydrogen can be changed into ammonia.

</doc>
<doc id="232361" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232361" title="Stockholm syndrome">
Stockholm syndrome

Stockholm syndrome is something that sometimes happens to people who are victims of kidnapping. In Stockholm syndrome, the victim starts feeling loyalty toward the person who kidnapped him or her and even start to have feelings for the person. It got its name from a bank robbery in Norrmalmstorg in Stockholm, Sweden in 1973. There was a bank robbery where two thieves held four people as hostages. When the thieves were arrested six days later, the hostages hugged and kissed the men who had kept them under control for six days. 

</doc>
<doc id="232363" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232363" title="Carl Edwards">
Carl Edwards

Carl Michael Edwards, II (born August 15, 1979) is an American racecar driver who drives the No. 19 Toyota Camry in the NASCAR Sprint Cup Series for Joe Gibbs Racing. In the past, Edwards drove the #99 Aflac Ford Fusion for Roush Fenway Racing. Edwards was the 2007 Nationwide series Champion.

</doc>
<doc id="232366" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232366" title="2010 Pichilemu earthquake">
2010 Pichilemu earthquake

A 6.9 earthquake occurred on March 11, 2010, 40 kilometers southwest of Pichilemu, O'Higgins Region, Chile . A tsunami warning was made by the Pacific Tsunami Warning Center Pacific-wide, although they warned of the possibility of local tsunamis within 100 kilometers of the epicenter (between San Antonio and Concepción).
Although news media first reported the earthquake as an aftershock of the February earthquake, the initial geological summary given by the United States Geological Survey said it was a different earthquake. Though unchained by the regional stress caused by the February 27 earthquake, the March event was not a fast adjustment to February's thrust fault rupture between the Nazca and South American plates, but it was caused by normal faulting inside one of those plates. However, it has not been positively decided in which plate the earthquake occurred.
Within 6 hours, 10 aftershocks took place, of these 2 were of magnitude 6 or greater and 7 between magnitude 5 and 6.
The earthquake took place shortly before the new president, Sebastián Piñera, was sworn in, at about 12:15 PM local time (15:15 UTC), at the Chilean congress in Valparaíso, where the shaking was clearly felt. The presidents of Bolivia, Paraguay, and Ecuador were present when the earthquake occurred, however, the television footage showed that the inauguration was not interrupted.
Damages reported by the Chilean news media include a collapsed pedestrian crossing over Chile Highway 5, north of Rancagua. The most affected place by the earthquake was Pichilemu, the epicentre of the earthquake. It destroyed the Ross Park, the most of the Agustín Ross Cultural Centre and many houses in Espinillo and Rodeillo.
The May, 2 2010 Pichilemu earthquake was a magnitude 6.0 M earthquake that struck off Pichilemu, Chile, at 10:52 AM on May 2, 2010 at the epicenter, at a depth of . USGS described that the epicenter was south-southwest of San Antonio, west Regional capital of Rancagua, northwest of Curicó and southwest of the Chilean capital of Santiago.
After almost exactly three hours later a second quake happens in the same area with an intensity of 4.8 M
More than 10 aftershocks happened on May 2 and 3.

</doc>
<doc id="232386" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232386" title="Levon Aronian">
Levon Aronian

Levon Aronian, born 6 October 1982 in Yerevan, is an Armenian chess Grandmaster. He is Armenia's #1 player. 
Aronian won the Chess World Cup 2005. He led the Armenian national team to the gold medals in the 37th Chess Olympiad, Turin 2006, the 38th Olympiad, Dresden 2008, and the World Team Chess Championship in Ningbo, 2011. In the Chess Olympiad 2010 at Khanty-Mansiysk he won the silver medal for his individual performance on board one.
He won the FIDE Grand Prix 2008–2010, qualifying him for the Candidates tournament for the World Chess Championship 2012, where he was knocked out in the first round. 
Aronian has had a string of outstanding tournament results since reaching the top with a joint win at Wijk aan Zee 2008. His latest, and perhaps greatest victory was in January 2012, at the same Tata Steel Chess Tournament in Wijk aan Zee. The field included world #1 Magnus Carlsen, defending champion Hikaru Nakamura, and former world champion Veselin Topalov, among others. The average rating of the field was 2755, making this thirteen-round event a category 21 tournament. After twelve rounds, Aronian was in clear first place with 8.5 points going into the final round, one point ahead of Carlsen and Teimour Radjabov. In the final round, Aronian drew against Radjabov with the white pieces in the King's Indian Defence. With the draw, Aronian finished with 9/13 (+5), a tournament performance rating of 2891. He took clear first place a point ahead of Carlsen, Radjabov and Fabiano Caruana.
Aronian was declared the best sportsman of Armenia in 2005, and was awarded the title of "Honoured Master of Sport of the Republic of Armenia" in 2009.

</doc>
<doc id="232387" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232387" title="Casio">
Casio


</doc>
<doc id="232388" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232388" title="Alexander Grischuk">
Alexander Grischuk

Alexander Grischuk (born Moscow, 31 October 1983) is a chess grandmaster, one of the top Russian players. 
In the FIDE World Chess Championship 2000 he made it to the semi finals. 
In the FIDE World Chess Championship 2004 he made it to the quarter finals, where he lost 3–1 to Rustam Kasimdzhanov. 
Grischuk is also one of the best blitz chess players in the world, having once held the record for highest rating achieved on the Internet Chess Club. In 2006 he won the World Blitz Championship in Israel.
Grischuk is married to the Ukrainian WGM Natalia Zhukova. His games are available here:

</doc>
<doc id="232391" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232391" title="Peter Svidler">
Peter Svidler

Peter Svidler, born 17 June 1976 in Leningrad, is a Russian chess Grandmaster, and six times Russian chess champion.
Peter Svidler learned to play chess when he was six years old. In 1992, he tied for 1st with Ragim Gasimov in the USSR Junior Open Chess Championship. He became a grandmaster in 1994. 
He has been Russian champion six times (1994, 1995, 1997, 2003, 2008, 2011). This is a record for this high-class event, which has a long history. In 2001, he reached the semi-finals of the FIDE World Championship.
He came second (with Viswanathan Anand) in the FIDE World Chess Championship 2005 in San Luis with 8.5 points out of 14 games, lagging 1.5 points behind the winner, Veselin Topalov. In an interview given for World Chess Network he said: "I only prepared seriously for San Luis, and I think it has paid off. But in general I spend most of my spare time with my wife and kids, so my relative success in 2005 was a pleasant surprise". His San Luis result earned him direct entry to the World Chess Championship series of 2007. In that tournament he scored 6.5 out of 14, placing 5th out of eight players.
In 2006 he came second behind Alexander Grischuk at the World Blitz Championship in Rishon Lezion, Israel, with 10.5 points out of 15 games. He also finished tied for first with Vladimir Kramnik at Dortmund 2006.
Svidler has won the FIDE 2011 World Cup in Khanty-Mansisyk Siberia. The final was in September.
Svidler took the $120,000 first prize after beating his fellow countryman, Alexander Grischuk 2.5-1.5, in the best-of-four game final. It was a crushing psychological win for Svidler, who took adantage of his opponent's bad time-management. Svidler steered the games into lines that had Grischuk thinking from the very early stages. 
Svidler has now become the first Russian to win the World Cup title. His back-to-back major title wins of the Russian Championship followed by the World Cup has Svidler once again into the world’s top ten. 
Both Svidler and Grischuk also earned qualification for the 2012 World Championship Candidates tournament. And in the all-Ukrainian battle for the third Candidates spot, Vassily Ivanchuk won 2.5-1.5 against Ruslan Ponomariov.

</doc>
<doc id="232393" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232393" title="Renaissance man">
Renaissance man

The term Renaissance man or polymath is used for a very clever person who is good at many different things. The idea comes from a time of history called the Renaissance which lasted from about 1400 to about 1600. One of the most famous people alive during this time was Leonardo da Vinci. He was most famous as a painter, but he was also a scientist, engineer and mathematician. Leonardo is called a "Renaissance man". Another "Renaissance man" was Michelangelo, who was a sculptor, painter, architect and poet.
When the term "Renaissance man" is used, it does not mean that the man really lived in the Renaissance. It can be used for anyone who is very clever at many different things, no matter when that person lived. Albert Schweitzer was a 20th century "Renaissance man" who was a theologian, musician, philosopher and doctor. Benjamin Franklin was a "Renaissance man" who lived in the 18th century (1700s) and was an author and printer, politician, scientist, inventor and soldier.

</doc>
<doc id="232394" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232394" title="Hurricane Vince (2005)">
Hurricane Vince (2005)

Hurricane Vince was a hurricane that began in the northeast Atlantic Ocean. It was part of the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season. The waters where it formed were thought to be too cold for tropical cyclones to exist. Vince was the 20th named storm and 12th hurricane of the season.
The storm that became Vince started out as an extratropical cyclone. It became a subtropical storm on October 8 to the southeast of the Azores. The National Hurricane Center (NHC) did not officially give the storm a name until October 9. Vince grew into a hurricane before beginning to weaken at sea. On October 11, it made landfall on the Iberian Peninsula in Spain. It was a tropical depression. It may have been the first storm to hit the area since a hurricane in 1842. Vince died out over Spain causing rain in the country. What was left of the storm passed into the Mediterranean Sea.
On October 5, a storm called the 2005 Azores subtropical storm was absorbed by another low pressure area. It began to develop and become more organized. It became a subtropical cyclone early on October 8. The storm was 580 miles (930 km) southeast of Lajes in the Azores. The National Hurricane Center (NHC) did not name the system Vince then because the waters were thought to be too cold for tropical or subtropical cyclones to exist. The storm slowly became more tropical, with a warm center. It became a tropical storm in October 9 in water cooler than 24 °C (75 °F), colder than the 26.5 °C (80 °F) needed for tropical storms.
After becoming a tropical storm, it had an eye, a clear opening at the center of the storm. The NHC named it Tropical Storm Vince, but it was not known whether Vince was tropical or subtropical at the time. A later analysis of the storm found that Vince became tropical before it was given a name. The storm's eye became more settled and had a diameter of 15 mi (25 km). The storm also became stronger; it reached its highest force on October 9. At the time, it had wind speeds of 75 mph (120 km/h), a very weak Category 1 hurricane on the Saffir–Simpson Hurricane Scale. One NHC weather forecaster said that "if it looks like a hurricane, it probably is, despite its environment and unusual location".
Hurricane Vince quickly began to weaken because wind shear began to erode it. Vince weakened to a tropical storm. A type of weather system called a trough moved towards Vince from the northwest It pulled thunderstorms related to Vince away from the storm, and its center quickly moved to the east. On October 10, two short bursts of thunderstorms surprised forecasters. However, because the water was so cold, the storm kept weakening. Vince became weaker as it came closer to the Iberian Peninsula. It became a tropical depression on October 11. This was just before it made its landfall in Huelva, Spain. The fast-moving tropical depression quickly died out over land. What was left of the cyclone moved across southern Spain. It moved into the Mediterranean Sea south of Alicante early on October 12.
The Spanish Center for Emergency Coordination declared a rain pre-emergency for the province of Castellón. They were afraid that Hurricane Vince would bring rains which would flood the area. The Instituto Nacional de Meteorología (INM) issued a bulletin. It warned of a 40% chance of flooding. Four autonomous regions (Asturias, Cataluña, Castile and León and Galicia) issued flood warnings. Canarias issued a wind warning. Fishing fleets from Spain off the Andalusian coast went back to port. They were hit by the storm while anchored. The storm did not hit them in the open ocean.
Spain had been fighting a record drought that year. They welcomed the rains brought by Vince's remnants. In two days the storm brought a lot of rain to the province of A Coruña. This eased the sinking water levels in the reservoirs. But this also caused bad traffic and small floods. In Cordoba province, the A-303, A-306 and OC-293 roads were slightly flooded. The entrance of the University of A Coruña was blocked for some time. It was blocked by flood waters on October 11. A nearby roundabout was submerged. There were limited damages. No one died in the storm. The highest winds reported on land were 48 mph (77 km/h). These winds were reported at Jerez, Spain. Some ships reported stronger winds. The rainfall as a result of the hurricane was like normal rains from temperate systems. Only one to two inches (25 to 50 mm) of rain fell. Using the words of a song in the movie "My Fair Lady", National Hurricane Center forecaster James Franklin in the Tropical Cyclone Report for Vince wrote, "the rain in Spain was mainly less than 2 inches, although 3.30 inches (84 mm) fell in the plain at Cordoba."
Hurricane Vince began in an odd place, where tropical cyclones are not usually found. However, it does not hold any important records. Tropical Storm Alberto of the 1988 season formed farther north than any other storm, at 41.5° N. Also, Hurricane Ginger of the 1967 season formed at 18.1° W, the farthest east of any tropical cyclones. Hurricane Vince became a "hurricane" further east than any known storm, at 18.9° W. A tropical storm becomes a hurricane when wind speeds grow higher than .
The National Hurricane Center said that Vince was the first tropical cyclone known to hit the Iberian Peninsula. However, some documents claim that the 1842 Spain hurricane struck the Iberian Peninsula on October 29, 1842. That hurricane may have been stronger. More recently, Tropical Storm Grace formed farther north than Vince.
When Subtropical Storm Vince began on October 8, it was earliest in a season that the twenty-first tropical or subtropical storm formed. It was 38 days ahead of the record before that, which was set by Tropical Storm 21 of the 1933 season. Because Vince did not cause bad damage, the World Meteorological Organization did not retire (stop using) the name "Vince". It will be on the list of names for the 2011 season.

</doc>
<doc id="232398" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232398" title="Life insurance">
Life insurance

Life insurance is money for your family to use to pay your bills and death expenses when you die. A person must be healthy to purchase a life insurance policy. The amount of life insurance needed depends on the person’s family’s needs when they die. Some things to consider when purchasing a life insurance policy are, marital status, number of dependents, (wife, kids etc.) family size, income, and wealth. Life insurance has different types of policies.

</doc>
<doc id="232399" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232399" title="Polytetrafluoroethylene">
Polytetrafluoroethylene

In chemistry, Polytetrafluoroethylene (often shortened to PTFE) is a polymer of tetrafluoroethylene. It is a fluoropolymer, because the polymerization is based on strong bonds of fluorine and carbon. Polytetrafluoroethylene is not very reactive. It also repels oil and water. It is better known by its trade-names, "Teflon", and Gore-Tex. Teflon is a coating done to frying pans, among others. Gore-Tex is a membrane used in clothing. 
Perfluorooctanoic acid is needed to produce Polytetrafluoroethylene. Perfluorooctanoic acid is because it is very toxic for people and may cause cancer. The precursors for many chemical weapons are highly corrosive, their containers are therefore often treated with Polytetrafluoroethylene. For this reason, the export of Polytetrafluoroethylene from the European Union may need a special permit. 

</doc>
<doc id="232401" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232401" title="Teflon (disambiguation)">
Teflon (disambiguation)

Teflon is a trade name, which is used for the following polymers:

</doc>
<doc id="232405" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232405" title="Mannerism">
Mannerism

Mannerism is a style of art that was created in the Late Renaissance period, from about 1520 until about 1600. The Mannerist style of painting or sculpture often shows figures that are "elongated" (made longer) and "distorted" (made into strange shapes"). The aim of the Mannerist artist was usually to make art that looked "elegant".
The Mannerist style began in Italy, where the artists were influenced by the figures that Michelangelo painted on the ceiling and in the "Last Judgement" in the Sistine Chapel. During the Renaissance, artists like Leonardo da Vinci and Raphael had tried very hard to learn from nature, and to paint things in a way that was very realistic. These two famous painters both died around 1520. Many artists then decided that they were going to use the art of painting to "express themselves". They were not going to follow the rules of anatomy and perspective in the way that Leonardo and Raphael did. Mannerist paintings are often full of figures that seem to be twisting, writhing or fighting. The faces of the figures often show strong emotions such as sadness, fear, hatred or sexual feelings. 
Not all the painters who were working during the Mannerist period painted in the Mannerist style. Many artists continued to work in the style of the High Renaissance. Painters in the Mannerist style were Tintoretto, Jacopo Pontormo, Agnolo Bronzino, Parmigianino and Rosso Fiorentino. Giambologna and Benvenuti Cellini were Mannerist sculptors. Giulio Romano was a Mannerist architect. 
Mannerism spread from Italy to France, Germany and Spain. One of the most famous Mannerist painters was El Greco who worked in Spain. Some other artists who worked in the Mannerist style are the French sculptor Jean Goujon, the Dutch painter Abraham Bloemaert and the German painter Bartolomeus Spranger. Possibly the strangest paintings from this time were by Giuseppe Arcimboldo who did pictures in which people's faces seem to be made from fruit, flowers, fire and even fish. 

</doc>
<doc id="232406" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232406" title="Copa do Brasil">
Copa do Brasil

Copa do Brasil is a Brazilian football competition. It is a knockout competition played by 87 teams.

</doc>
<doc id="232414" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232414" title="Tricolour">
Tricolour

Tricolor or tricolour (meaning "three colours") is, in most cases, a flag or banner that has three colours. Tricolour is a specific type of a flag with three stripes.

</doc>
<doc id="232419" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232419" title="Palombia">
Palombia

Palombia is a fictional country, between Paraguay and Colombia. It is a portmanteau of both countries.

</doc>
<doc id="232422" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232422" title="Aqua Teen Hunger Force Colon Movie Film for Theaters">
Aqua Teen Hunger Force Colon Movie Film for Theaters

Aqua Teen Hunger Force Colon Movie Film for Theaters is an animated movie based on the Adult Swim program "Aqua Teen Hunger Force". The movie is rated R for crude and sexual humor, violent images, and language. The movie was written and directed by the show's creators Dave Willis and Matt Maiellaro.
The Aqua Teens, Carl, the Plutonians, the Cybernetic Ghost, Dr. Weird, and the Mooninites are all after the exercise machine called the Insanenoflex. Carl goes on it and gets stuck, so the Aqua Teens try to stop it with music. The plan works, but the Aqua Teens realize that the world is still in danger, and then they set out to find more about themselves. Later on the Aqua Teens find out how they were created by Dr. Weird. Also they learn that there was a fourth Aqua Teen called Chicken Bittle. Finally they learn that their father turns out to be a watermelon whose accomplice is Neil Peart of the band Rush and that their mother is a 9-layer burrito.
Another is planned for release in 2011 or 2012. It is unknown whether it will go to theaters or direct to DVD. It will be called "Death Fighter".

</doc>
<doc id="232424" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232424" title="Banner">
Banner

A banner is a flag or other piece of cloth with a symbol, logo, slogan or other message. Sometimes, churches use banners to evangelize people.

</doc>
<doc id="232426" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232426" title="Ray Romano">
Ray Romano

Ray Romano (born December 21, 1957) is an American actor and comedian. He is best known as the star of the television series "Everybody Loves Raymond". He acted in that series with Patricia Heaton.

</doc>
<doc id="232427" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232427" title="Dave Willis">
Dave Willis

David "Dave" Willis (born May 1, 1970) is an American voice actor, writer, and producer. He is best known for his work on the Adult Swim programs "Aqua Teen Hunger Force" and "Squidbillies".
His first job was on the show "". There he met Matt Maiellaro. He and Maiellaro later made "Aqua Teen Hunger Force".

</doc>
<doc id="232428" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232428" title="Johnny Clegg">
Johnny Clegg

Jonathan "Johnny" Clegg (born 7 June 1953) is a British-born musician from South Africa. He was in the bands Juluka and Savuka.
Juluka were able to tour in Europe. They had two platinum and five gold albums. They were an international success. The Savuka album "Shadow Man" sold 250,000 copies within a week after its release. It went on to sell more than 1,000,000 copies in France alone),
His song "Scatterlings of Africa" was on the soundtrack to the 1988 Oscar winning movie "Rain Man". This song is his only entry in the UK Singles Chart to date. It reached #75 in May 1987. He also did music for the movie "The Lion King 1½", "George of the Jungle" and "Opportunity Knocks". 

</doc>
<doc id="232430" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232430" title="Kick-Ass">
Kick-Ass

Kick-Ass is a comicbook and movie about superheroes. The movie opened in theatres in the United Kingdom 26 March 2010 and 16 April 2010 in the United States.
The movie and comic tell the story of a teenager called Dave Lizewski. Lizewski is an average teenager who wonders why nobody in real life has ever decided to become a superhero like the ones in the comic books. He decides to become a real-life superhero despite having no special power or ability of any kind. He purchases a suit on the Internet and calls himself Kick-Ass.

</doc>
<doc id="232437" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232437" title="Boeing 707">
Boeing 707

The Boeing 707 is a jet airliner. It was made by Boeing Commercial Airplanes from 1958 until 1979. It only has two rows of seats, which means it is a narrow-body plane. It also has four engines. The name is often said as "Seven Oh Seven". There are many different types of 707, and they can hold from 140 to 189 passengers. They can also fly from .
The Boeing 707 was Boeing's first jet airliner. It was the most common plane in the 1960s and it was still used a lot during the 1970s. The 707 was the first jet to have a lot of passengers fly on it. The 707 was not the first jet airliner, but it was the first one to make a lot of money. It made Boeing one of the biggest makers of airliners. It also started the group of planes with "7x7" names. The Boeing 727, Boeing 737 and Boeing 757 have some parts of the 707's design.
The 707's design came from the Boeing 367-80, which was a prototype jet. The very first 707, the 707-120, had Pratt & Whitney JT3C turbojet engines. Pan American World Airways started using the 707 on October 26, 1958. Other types of 707 are the 707-138 and the 707-320. Both of these started being used in 1959. A smaller version, the Boeing 720, was made in 1960. The 707-420 had Rolls-Royce Conway 508 turbofan engines. It was made in 1960.
The 707 has been used for many different types of flights. Versions of the 707 used by militaries are the E-3 Sentry and the C-137 Stratoliner. Boeing made 1,011 707s (including the Boeing 720). More than 800 military planes were made. In August 2011, 10 Boeing 707s were being used by airlines.
In August 2012, there were only two.
During World War II, and after it, Boeing was known for its military planes. Boeing had made very important bombers, like the propeller B-17 Flying Fortress and B-29 Superfortress and the jet B-47 Stratojet and B-52 Stratofortress. However, Douglas and other companies were far ahead of Boeing in the airliner market. The only successful airliners Boeing made before the 707 were the Boeing 314 Clipper and Boeing 307 Stratoliner. During 1949–1950, Boeing started looking at jets. Back then, aerial refueling (when a plane can get more fuel while flying) was being used a lot. The United States Air Force had ordered 800 KC-97 Stratotankers. Since planes were beginning to use jet engines, the USAF needed a jet tanker.
Boeing looked at many wing designs and engines for the new tanker. Eventually, it chose the 367–80. The "Dash 80" took less than two years to make. It first took off on July 15, 1954. It had Pratt & Whitney JT3C engines.
Nobody knew if the 707 would make money. Back then, Boeing was making almost all of its money from military planes. The last airliner it made, the Boeing 377 Stratocruiser, lost the company $15 million before the United States Air Force bought some and called them the KC-97 Stratotanker. In a demonstration flight over Lake Washington outside of Seattle, on August 7, 1955, test pilot Tex Johnston performed a barrel roll in the 367-80 prototype.
The Dash 80 was wide. This meant that it was wide enough to have two seats on each side of the plane. Boeing decided to make it wide. However, Douglas had made the DC-8, which was wide. Because of this, Boeing made the 707 wider again, so it was wide.
The first flight of the 707 happened on December 20, 1957. The FAA allowed it to fly on September 18, 1958.
The very first type of 707 was the 707-120. Qantas ordered a shorter version, which was called the 707-138. The -138 could fly for as long as Qantas needed. Braniff International Airways ordered a version with Pratt & Whitney JT4A engines. This version was called the 707-220. 
Even though the 707 should have had turbojet engines, the Pratt & Whitney JT3D was used the most. The JT3D was a turbofan engine. 
The last type of 707 was the 707-320C (C means "Convertible"). It had a big door for cargo. It also had a better wing. 
Boeing stopped making passenger 707s in 1978. 1,010 707s were made for airlines, but a lot of these went to militaries. Boeing made military 707s until 1991.
Some parts of the 707's design can be seen in the 737, 727 and 757.
The 707's wings are swept back at 35 degrees. This means that the wings are not straight lines. Boeing made a yaw damper for swept-wing planes, which was needed because swept-wing planes move strangely if there is not a yaw damper. 
On one flight, the yaw damper was switched off to give the new pilots some more experience with the plane. One pilot made a bad move, and the plane went out of control. Three of the engines were ripped off of the wing. The plane crashed near Seattle at Arlington, Washington. Four people on board died.
In his autobiography, Tex Johnston said he was flying on a 707 and he thought that there was something wrong with the yaw damper, because the plane was moving strangely. He went to the cockpit and helped fix the plane.
The 707 used air from the engines to pressurize the cabin. 
The P&W JT3D-3B engines have special doors which open when the plane is taking off. The doors help to give more air to the engines. The doors close when the plane is in the air.
Pratt & Whitney decided to make the JT8D-219 the new engines for planes made from the Boeing 707. A lot of these are for military planes which were designed from the Boeing 707.
The first orders for the 707 happened on October 13, 1955. Pan Am ordered 20 707s. There was a lot of competition between the 707 and the Douglas DC-8. A lot of big airlines only used the DC-8. Boeing decided to make some more changes to the 707's wing so that it could fly further. The new version was called the 707-320.
Pan Am was the first airline that used the 707. The plane's first flight was from New York to Paris on October 26, 1958. It stopped for fuel in Gander, Newfoundland. Qantas was the first airline from outside the United States to use the 707.
The 707 became a very popular jet airliner. It helped air travel grow a lot. Air traffic control was also upgraded.
At the end of the 1960s, the 707 was too small to fly all the passengers that wanted to fly. Boeing made the Boeing 747 because of this. The 707's engines were also too old.
During the Falklands War the Argentine Air Force used 707s to patrol. Some of them were caught by Royal Navy Sea Harriers. 
Trans World Airlines was the last U.S. airline to fly passengers on a 707. The flight happened on October 30, 1983. 
Most 707s are now private jets or cargo planes.
What the Boeing 720 was first called. American Airlines always called its 720s 707s.
The "707-120" was the first type of 707. The plane could hold 179 passengers. This type often had to stop for fuel in the North Atlantic. It had four Pratt & Whitney JT3C-6 turbojets. The first flight with passengers was on October 26, 1958. 56 were built, plus 7 short body −138s; the last −120 was delivered to Western in May 1960.
The "707-138" was a −120 which was ten feet shorter than the others. It could also fly further. 
The "707-120B" had Pratt & Whitney JT3D-1 turbofan engines. They were a lot better than the others. The −120B had some changes made to the wings. 72 were made. 
The "707-220" had more powerful Pratt & Whitney JT4A-3 turbojet engines. Five of these were made, but only four were delivered. The first one began being used in December 1959. 
The "707-320 Intercontinental" is a longer version of the 707-120. This type could hold more passengers, and had some changes made to the wings. It first took off on January 11, 1958.
The 707-420 was the same as the −320, but it had Rolls-Royce Conway 508 engines. Lufthansa was the first to carry passengers on this type of plane in March 1960.
The "707-320B" had a few changes made to the outside of the plane, as well as new engines. The wing was changed. This plane was first used in June 1962 by Pan Am.
The "707-320C" could be changed from a passenger plane into a cargo plane. More 707-320Cs were made than any other type. The 707-320C had a cargo door added, as well as some other changes to the wing and the floor.
Many militaries have used the 707 for many different things.
The Boeing E-3 Sentry is a U.S. military airborne warning and control system (AWACS) aircraft. It has some of the Boeing 707's design.
The Canadian Forces also used Boeing 707s. These were called the CC-137 Husky (707-347C) from 1972 to 1997.
"Boeing 717" was what Boeing called the C-135 Stratolifter and KC-135 Stratotanker. The McDonnell Douglas MD-95's name was changed to Boeing 717 after Boeing bought McDonnell Douglas.
In the 1980s, the USAF bought 250 used 707s for parts for the KC-135E Stratotanker.
707s are not used anymore by big airlines. However, as of December 2012, 10 707s were being used. John Travolta owns a 707-138B.
As of May 2011, the 707 has had 170 hull-loss accidents. 2,739 people have died in Boeing 707 accidents. A hull-loss accident is when the plane is damaged so much that it cannot be fixed.
Sources:

</doc>
<doc id="232438" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232438" title="Fischer-Tropsch process">
Fischer-Tropsch process

The Fischer–Tropsch process (or Fischer–Tropsch Synthesis or F-T) is a set of chemical reactions that converts a mixture of carbon monoxide gas and hydrogen gas into liquid hydrocarbons (fossil fuels like gasoline or kerosene). The F-T process has received attention for many different reasons, for example a way to produce low-sulfur diesel.
The Fischer–Tropsch process involves many kinds of reactions, which lead to both wanted and unwanted results. The desirable reactions create chemicals called alkanes. Sometimes the gas methane (natural gas) is produced which is generally undesirable. Sometimes different kinds of alcohol are produced in small amounts.
To make the gases needed for the F-T process many steps are required. For example, all chemicals entering the reactor must have all sulfur removed. For factories that start out with methane and want to make a liquid hydrocarbon (like kerosene), another important reaction is "steam reforming", which turns the methane into CO (carbon monoxide) and H (hydrogen gas).
This is the chemical equation for how steam reforming works. 
The reaction above describes one molecule of HO (steam) plus one molecule of CH (methane) converts into one molecule of CO(carbon monoxide) and three molecules of H (hydrogen gas).
A catalyst is a chemical element you add to a process to make it go faster or speed it up. Many different catalysts can be used for the Fischer–Tropsch process. The most common catalysts are the metals cobalt, iron, and ruthenium. These metals are all transition metals. The metal nickel can also be used, but usually with unwanted results. A nickel catalyst in the reaction usually produces a lot of methane, which is undesirable.
Cobalt seems to be the most active catalyst (it has the biggest and fastest effect on the process). When the input is a natural gas Cobalt catalysts are very good for the Fischer-Tropsch process. Iron catalysts are better when the input gas is of lower quality (less pure) such as coal or biomass. 
Most metals used for this process (like Cobalt, Nickel, and Ruthenium) remain in their metal form when you add them to the process. However Iron catalysts behave very differently. Often iron catalysts change form and chemical phase, like converting into various oxides and carbides during the reaction. It is important to control all of the iron reactions during the process, or else the process might not work correctly.
Fischer-Tropsch catalysts are famous for being extremely sensitive to the addition of sulfur. Even a tiny amount of sulfur can have an undesirable impact on the reaction. Cobalt is more sensitive to sulfur than iron.
High-Temperature Fischer-Tropsch (or HTFT) is operated at temperatures of 330°C-350°C. HTFT uses an iron-based catalyst. Sasol used HTFT in Coal-to-Liquid plants (CTL). Low-Temperature Fischer-Tropsch (LTFT) is operated at lower temperatures and uses a cobalt-based catalyst. Shell used LTFT in an integrated Gas-to-Liquid (GTL) plant in Bintulu, Malaysia.
Gasification refers to converting chemical compounds into gas. Some F-T factories use coal, biomass or other solid compounds as a starting point. Before these factories can start their F-T process, they must turn the solids into gases like CO, H2, and alkanes. This process is called gasification. The gas collected from coal gasification often has a CO/H2 ratio of ~0.7 instead of the best ratio of ~2. This ratio can be adjusted from 0.7 to 2.0 using the water-gas-shift-reaction. Gasification is a dirty and expensive process. Coal-based Fischer–Tropsch factories are factories that start out with coal, apply gasification to the coal and then use the resulting gas for the Fischer-Tropsch process. These factories can produce large volumes of CO2 in this way. One of the main reasons for this approach is the large amounts of energy required for a coal-based gasification process.
The original process was invented by Franz Fischer and Hans Tropsch. They were working at the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute in the 1920s, when they invented the original process. Ever since many changes have been made to improve the process. The term "Fischer-Tropsch" now is used for many processes that are similar to the original invention. Fischer and Tropsch submitted many patents, like US patent no. 1,746,464, applied 1926, published 1930. It was given to the factories in Germany in 1936. Germany had an abundance of coal but very little petroleum. The F-T process enables conversion of coal into gasoline, which is important to gasoline based transport like cars, airplanes and trucks. Therefore the F-T process enabled Nazi Germany and Japan during World War II to produce substitute fuels for tanks and cars. F-T production of fuel was about 9% of German war production of fuels and 25% of the automobile fuel.
The United States Bureau of Mines ran a program started by the Synthetic Liquid Fuels Act. The Bureau hired seven fuel scientists from Operation Paperclip in a Fischer-Tropsch plant in Louisiana, Missouri in 1946. Operation Paperclip was a plan to get German scientists to work for the US during World War II.
The F-T process has been used by many large companies, however sometimes the process is unpopular for many reasons. One such a reason is the high cost of equipment to get F-T factories operational. High operational and maintenance costs to keep the process problem free is another reason. Also, petroleum production cost is highly unpredictable. Usually, the factories are only profitable when they have access to "stranded gas". "Stranded gas" is what is referred to as sources of natural gas very far from major cities that is too expensive to pump to these cities. If the natural gas could be pumped to these cities and sold directly to consumers, it would be much more profitable for these companies. Therefore several companies are developing processes to enable practical exploitation of so-called stranded gas reserves.
The largest F-T factories with the largest application of F-T technology are owned and operated by the company Sasol in South Africa. South Africa is a country with large coal reserves but not enough oil. Germany is in a similar situation. Sasol employs coal and natural gas in the F-T Process. They produce many different substitutes for oil products, and produce most of the country's diesel fuel.
One of the largest uses of F-T technology is in Bintulu, Malaysia. This Shell factory turns natural gas into low-sulfur diesel fuels and food-grade wax. They produce approximately 12,000 barrels/day.
In October 2006, Finnish paper and pulp manufacturer UPM announced its plans to produce biodiesel by Fischer–Tropsch process. It said that it will do this along with the manufacturing processes at its European paper and pulp plants. It will use the waste biomass, from paper and pulp manufacturing processes, as the material to turn into biodiesel.
In 2009, chemists working for the U.S. Navy studied Fischer-Tropsch for making fuels with hydrogen and electrolyzing seawater. This study produced mostly methane gas, but the rest were short-chain hydrocarbons. Further refining of the hydrocarbons produced could lead to making kerosene-based jet fuel.
The abundance of CO2 makes seawater look like a good different fuel source. Scientists at the U.S. Naval Research Laboratory said that, "although the gas forms only a small proportion of air – around 0.04 per cent – ocean water contains about 140 times that concentration".

</doc>
<doc id="232445" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232445" title="John Brown (abolitionist)">
John Brown (abolitionist)

John Brown (9 May 1800 – 2 December 1859) was an American abolitionist. 
Brown was a white man, born in Torrington, Connecticut. He strongly believed in Christianity. He believed that Christians should treat people the same no matter what color their skin was. Many white Christians in America at this time did not agree with this. 
Brown lived mostly in Springfield, Massachusetts before moving to the Kansas Territory. This would later become the state of Kansas in 1861. Several of his sons were already living there. Brown's sons wanted his help to fight people from Missouri. The people in Missouri wanted slavery to be legal in Kansas. On 24 May 1856, Brown and his sons killed five people in Kansas who wanted slavery to be legal. They dragged the people out of their homes and killed them with swords. This came to be known as the Pottawatomie massacre. Many people in Kansas were shocked and upset about this. More violent things happened after this. This was the beginning of the period in the Kansas Territory known as Bleeding Kansas. Before leaving Kansas, Brown and his followers were attacked at the Battle of Osawatomie on August 30, 1856. His son Frederick was killed there.
In 1859, Brown decided to attack the Harpers Ferry Armory in Harper's Ferry, Virginia (now West Virginia). He was planning on giving the weapons to slaves. The slaves would use the weapons to fight against their masters and become free. Brown attacked the arsenal in October 1859. His sons and several other men, including several black men, helped him with the attack. His attack failed. Brown was captured, and was executed by hanging for treason against the state of Virginia on 2 December 1859.
People had strong feelings about John Brown. Some people thought that he was crazy or evil. Other people thought that he was a hero. His attack on Harpers Ferry helped lead to the American Civil War. The war would start in 1861.

</doc>
<doc id="232446" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232446" title="John Brown">
John Brown

John Brown is the name of:

</doc>
<doc id="232463" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232463" title="Sinocentrism">
Sinocentrism

Sinocentrism is the belief that China is the cultural center of the world.

</doc>
<doc id="232468" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232468" title="Thoroughfare Gap">
Thoroughfare Gap

Thoroughfare Gap is an album by American singer-songwriter Stephen Stills. The album was released in 1978.
Most tracks were composed by Stephen Stills.

</doc>
<doc id="232475" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232475" title="Annabeth Chase">
Annabeth Chase

Annabeth Chase is a fictional character in Rick Riordan's "Percy Jackson and the Olympians" series. She is a demigod, meaning she is half-mortal and half god. Her father is the mortal Frederick Chase and her mother is Athena, the goddess of wisdom, crafts and battle strategy. She is first cousins with Magnus Chase, who's mother is her paternal aunt. She first appears in the first novel of the series, "The Lightning Thief". Throughout the series she becomes close friends with Percy Jackson, later becoming his main love interest and girlfriend.
She is played by the actress Alexandra Daddario in the movie "", which is based off the first book, "The Lightning Thief. Also played the same part in the movie " The Sea of Monsters", which is based off the novel "Percy Jackson & the Olympians: The Sea of Monsters".
The writer of the books, Rick Riordan, was asked in an interview, "Do you feel those who said the main characters, such as Grover and Annabeth, are heroes in their own right?". He answered, "Annabeth is Percy's rational side. She can think through things and look at options that sometimes evade Percy in his moments of battle panic." This means she can think even when there is a fight going on, unlike Percy, and can find fixes to problems. That is also why Annabeth is a daughter of Athena because she is the goddess of wisdom and battle strategy.
Annabeth Chase is the half-blood daughter of the goddess Athena and the mortal man Frederick Chase. Born July 12. Being a daughter of Athena, who is a virgin, she was not physically born, but is a literal 'brain child'; she was born as a gift to the man her mother loved. When she was seven, she ran away from home. On her journey, she met Luke Castellan, Thalia Grace, and Grover Underwood. Together, they traveled to Camp Half-Blood, running from and fighting hordes of monsters. When they got to the borders of Camp Half-Blood, Thalia died fighting monsters so that Luke, Grover and Annabeth could safely get into camp. Thalia's father, Zeus, changes her into a pine tree on top of a hill that comes to be known as Thalia's Pine Tree. Annabeth lived at Camp Half-Blood for five years prior to Percy Jackson's arrival.
It has been shown that Annabeth does not get along with her father and step-family. According to her, her father was not very happy when she first appeared and tends to look at her as a nuisance. Her step-siblings appear to dislike her and feel afraid of her. Her stepmother seems to hate her and feel that she endangers the family by being only half-mortal. At the end of "The Lightning Thief", Annabeth returns to her family to see if she can get along with them. She is able to stay with them for approximately a year, but it is unknown if her feeling towards her family have changed; however, in "The Titan's Curse", her father and stepmother seem to care for her deeply, and her father helps fight off Kronos's army to save Annabeth.
Annabeth is a good fighter, and has been shown to be able to think on her feet in very hard situations. Despite this, Annabeth dreams of being an architect (building things), and the story has made many references to this. In "The Lightning Thief", she enjoys and quickly becomes addicted to the 3-D holographic SimCity-esque game at the Lotus Hotel and Casino, and in "The Sea of Monsters", it was shown that Annabeth’s greatest dream is to redesign the whole world to make it better, make Luke good again, and be accepted by her mother and father. In "The Last Olympian", she is granted the status of being the architect of Olympus.
Hubris, or deadly pride, is Annabeth's fatal flaw. Annabeth thinks that she is able to do anything: get her parents back together, build great monuments, and save Luke, as shown in the second book. She sometimes even thinks she can rebuild the world into an even better place than the immortals did. She also has a deep fear of spiders, due to the contest between Athena and Arachne.
Annabeth is described as being athletic and having curly blond hair (like a princess's), tan skin, and steely gray eyes. Percy Jackson describes her as "cute" at first but eventually she becomes "seriously beautiful."
Annabeth first appears in "The Lightning Thief" and is twelve years old. She was nicknamed "Wise Girl" by Percy.
She first meets Percy Jackson after he was attacked by the Minotaur and makes his way into Half-Blood Hill. When he first saw her, Percy described Annabeth as "pretty" with blond hair curled "like a princess's". After Percy heals from the Minotaur attack, Annabeth hears that he is to go on a quest (search) and she wants to go along, thinking Percy is "the one" from Chiron's prophecy. Together, she, Percy, and Grover go searching for Zeus's stolen lightning bolt. Throughout the book, Annabeth shows her unique intelligence, which she inherited from her mother, and also her arachnophobia (fear of spiders) that she shares with all her siblings on her mother's side (originating from the story of Arachne and Athena). At the end of the book, Annabeth is deeply hurt by Luke's betrayal.
Annabeth and Percy are more friendly towards each other than they were in "The Lightning Thief" . Together, they journey to the Sea of Monsters (now in the Bermuda Triangle) to find the Golden Fleece and save Grover from Polyphemus the Cyclops. The Golden Fleece is needed to save Camp Half-Blood. She hears the Sirens' song and confirms that her fatal flaw is hubris, which means "deadly pride." She helps Percy on Circe's island. She also learns to accept Tyson, Percy's young, Cyclops half-brother after having a bad experience with another Cyclops long ago. When they return their friendship gets deeper.
Annabeth is kidnapped along with the goddess Artemis and has to be saved by Percy, Thalia, Grover, and the huntresses Zoë Nightshade and Bianca di Angelo. In a dream Percy has, Annabeth is on a mountain, and she sees Luke holding up a black roof (unknown to Percy, it is the sky). Annabeth helps him hold it, and then Luke slips out from underneath, making Annabeth hold it. This is later used to trick Artemis into holding the sky, as Artemis would not be able to resist helping a maiden. Unlike the other books, Annabeth's role is quite small. It is hinted in this book that there will be a romantic future for her and Percy. Aphrodite, the goddess of love, also convinced Percy about his feelings for Annabeth, though she also made it even harder for them to fall in love. In the end, Percy saves both Annabeth and Artemis.
By this book, Annabeth is fourteen. Percy and Annabeth find an entrance into the Labyrinth. She realizes that Luke may try to use this entrance to invade Camp.
Annabeth leads the quest into the Labyrinth, fulfilling one of her ambitions. She goes into the Labyrinth with Percy, Grover, and Tyson to find a way to stop Kronos's evil forces from entering the borders of Camp Half-Blood by searching for the Labyrinth's inventor, Daedalus. The prophecy the Oracle gave her appears to have scared her and she refuses to say the last line. As they go into the Labyrinth, they face many hardships. Annabeth faces a Sphinx and finds the riddles (which are actually factual questions) not challenging and an insult to her intellect. They escape the claws of the Sphinx and continue on to find Hephaestus so he can tell them about where to find Daedalus.
As they head towards Hephaestus' forge in Mount St. Helens, they find telekhines there making a weapon for Kronos. Percy tells Annabeth to escape while she can. She kisses him for luck and they part ways. Annabeth believes that he dies when Mount St. Helens erupts, but this is not the case. Percy fell onto the island Ogygia, prison of the nymph Calypso, a daughter of Atlas. When Percy comes back to camp, Annabeth is performing a funeral ritual for him. When she notices him, she hugs him, making a scene. However, when she finds out about Calypso, she is very jealous. Percy then asks a mortal girl, Rachel Elizabeth Dare, to help them on their way through the Labyrinth (Rachel has a rare ability to see through the Mist). Annabeth becomes very jealous at how close Percy and Rachel are getting. The three of them discover Luke, who has become Kronos's vessel. After a battle, Luke is forced back into the Labyrinth, leaving two casualties. Annabeth refuses to believe that Luke is all bad, and gets quite mad at Percy for saying otherwise.
After they fulfilled their mission, Annabeth and Percy are standing on Half-Blood Hill, and are matching their goals with the prophecy, Annabeth reveals the last line of her prophecy, "To lose a love to worse than death" and is confused, not sure about her feelings for Luke, or a secret love for Percy.
In the final book, Annabeth first appears when Percy returns from blowing up Kronos's ship, the "Princess Andromeda". Following his arrival, Annabeth helps Percy hear the Great Prophecy. Percy bathes in the River Styx (he narrowly escapes by imagining Annabeth pulling him out of the river) and calls Annabeth, telling her to meet him in front of the Empire State Building with all the demigods from Camp Half Blood. When Annabeth and Percy go to Olympus, they meet Hermes, to whom Annabeth tries to apologize about Luke turning into Kronos. Hermes becomes angry at her and blames her for not saving Luke. Hermes leaves, and they return to the other campers to defend Manhattan and Mount Olympus. In battle, Ethan Nakamura attempts to stab Percy in the small of his back, his Achilles spot, and Annabeth jumps in front of him, taking the knife. After a few hours of rest, Annabeth, though still weak from poison, goes back into battle. Kronos goes to Olympus, and Grover, Thalia, Percy, and Annabeth follow him. Kronos attacks Percy, and Annabeth joins the fight, but is knocked out of the fight when Kronos slams her into Athena's throne. In the end, she saves Percy and Olympus by finally realizing the prophecy's true meaning. She convinces Percy to give Luke her knife (which was given to her by Luke when she was seven) so he can stab himself, killing himself and banishing Kronos to Tartarus yet again. She is rewarded by the gods, who allow her to use her talents as an architect to rebuild Mount Olympus.
Magnus Chase And The Gods Of Asgard, Book 1 The Sword Of Summer
Annabeth appears in this book searching, with her dad, for cousin Magnus.
In the movie, Alexandra Daddario plays Annabeth, a warrior at Camp Half-Blood with Percy and potential romantic foil. In the movie trailer, Annabeth says to Percy, "I definitely have strong feelings for you. I just haven't decided if they are positive or negative yet." Another scene shows them leaning in, seemingly to kiss. It was really a tease which is shown when she surprisingly steals Percy's sword from his sheath and at the same time brings her own sword to his throat and says,"First rule of battle strategy, never let your opponent distract you." In the movie, Annabeth is seen with brown, straight hair, a change from the book's description of her (with blonde hair). She also does not really show much love towards Luke.
A key subplot in the series is the relationship between Annabeth, Percy, and Luke. Luke is Annabeth's hero and one of her first half-blood friends. Annabeth likes Percy, which she hints at, but she still has feelings towards Luke. At the end of The Last Olympian, Luke shows slight feelings for her, sort of like an older brother. These feeling are present despite the fact that Luke and Percy are arch enemies and he has attempted to kill Percy many times. In "The Sea of Monsters", it is shown that one of her life's wishes is to save Luke from Kronos.
In the beginning of "The Lightning Thief", Annabeth is shown to dislike Percy when she finds out that Percy is the hero of the prophecy. She thinks he is weak, and is influenced by the rivalry between her mother, Athena, and Percy's father, Poseidon.But while they are on their quest, they have to ride a truck to get to their destination. This is the first time they actually talk. In The Mark of Athena,Annabeth says that's when she chose to "like" him. At the very end of "The Sea of Monsters" Annabeth kisses Percy on the cheek after winning the chariot race. In "The Titan's Curse", there are suggestions of some romance between Annabeth and Percy, although this is complicated by her lingering feelings towards Luke and the fact that her mother, Athena, disapproves of her "friendship" with Percy. In "The Battle of the Labyrinth", Annabeth finally expresses her feelings for Percy by kissing him good luck before vanishing using her Yankee's cap. When Percy returns, she is highly jealous, because she knows he has been with the sad but seductive Calypso. It is implied that Percy is trying to tell Annabeth about his feelings, but Annabeth remains distant due to her lingering feelings towards Luke.
In "The Last Olympian", after the defeat of Kronos and the saving of Luke's soul, the romantic relationship between Percy and Annabeth is solidified. Annabeth also states Percy looks 'cute when he's worried' when he first checks on her after she took a knife that was meant for him. Annabeth tells Luke as he dies that she always saw him as a brother, but never loved him. Later, she and Percy share their second kiss after she tells him that she will never, ever make things easy for him. He describes it as if his brain felt it was melting through his body. But nosy campers snoop on this and throw them into the camp lake. Then comes to a third kiss underwater in an air bubble made by Percy. They are together at the end of the series. It is hinted that they might be married one day in the future, as Annabeth said she wanted "to build something permanent", and Percy states that maybe they were "getting a good start together".
B. Allison Gray praises how in "Battle of the Labyrinth: Percy Jackson and the Olympians, Book 4", Riordan "successfully conveys Annabeth's emotions."
The casting for the movie has had a different reception. On one hand, as "Rama's SCREEN" reports, "the one that’s been causing argument is Alexandra Daddario as Annabeth Chase...apparently some of Rama’s SCREEN readers out there did and the comments on her casting were in mixed response...Ashley thought Annasophia Robb (Race To Witch Mountain) should’ve played that role meanwhile Kara and Victoria saw Daddario as too old because apparently, the character Annabeth Chase in the book is about 12 years old but Lily thought Daddario should be given a chance to prove herself worthy and Joe said that to make this work, the movie needs to make her hot, athletic, with blond hair and grey eyes." On the other hand, Katey Rich writes that Daddario "looks just right for that Hermione-esque role of the brainy brunette...Daddario, who has been in movies like "The Hottest State" and the recent , may have just signed on for a role that will take over her life,poo and bring her plenty of Emma Watson-scaled fame in the process. I hope she's got her wizard's wand-- oh, wait, I mean mythical god powers-- ready for the challenge."

</doc>
<doc id="232481" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232481" title="Percy Jackson">
Percy Jackson

Perseus "Percy" Jackson is the main character and narrator of Rick Riordan's "Percy Jackson & The Olympians" series. He is a demigod, meaning he is half-mortal and half god. His father is Poseidon, the god of the sea, and his mother is the mortal Sally Jackson.
First introduced in "The Lightning Thief" as a troubled twelve-year old who finds out that he is a demigod, Percy goes on many adventures in the series to save his friends and the gods of Mount Olympus.
Percy is played by the actor Logan Lerman in the movie "", a movie of the first book in the series, "The Lightning Thief".
Percy is good-natured, friendly, brave, and often willing to risk his life to save his friends, strangers, and even his enemies. He is angered by Thalia Grace often because their personalities are the same and they argue because they are such good friends. Percy has a sarcastic sense of humor and is funny in his writing.
Percy does not like nicknames or titles being given to him, with the exception of those given by Annabeth Chase. He always tells horses, which his father is said to have created, not to call him "boss" or "lord" whenever they talk to him, but does not get annoyed when Annabeth calls him "seaweed-brain". His fatal flaw is loyalty. Percy, like most boys his age, has trouble talking to girls.
It is said by Athena that Percy's fatal flaw is personal loyalty. He will give up anything to save his friends and loved ones. Kronos uses this flaw to control him several times in the series, such as when his mother is held hostage, when Grover is trapped on Polyphemus' island, and when Annabeth is kidnapped.
Perseus "Percy" Jackson is introduced as a troubled 12-year-old boy with dyslexia, which makes it hard for him to read, and ADHD, which makes it hard for him to pay attention. He has been kicked out of every single school he has gone to. He has just been kicked out of Yancy Academy, New York. He has few friends at the school, the best being Grover Underwood, a satyr (half human, half goat) disguised as a human.
During a field trip to a museum, Percy is annoyed by the school bully, Nancy Bobofit, for intimidating Grover and in a fit of rage, accidentally summons water from a nearby fountain to pull her in, but he didn't know how he'd done it. Mrs. Dodds, his pre-algebra teacher, witnesses the whole scene and tells him to follow her into the museum for a "talk." Suddenly, she turns into the Fury Alecto, and attacks him, looking like a bat-like figure with humongous fangs. Percy manages to destroy her using Mr. Brunner’s pen, Riptide, that transforms into a sword in his hand. However, when Percy returns to the bus and asks his classmates, nobody remembers Mrs. Dodds because of a force known as the Mist. The only person that may remember her was Grover, who always hesitated before he answered. Everybody else believed her name was Mrs. Kerr's.
Percy asks what just happened, and Mr. Brunner says he saw nothing and that Percy should bring his own things to write with in the future. Percy asks his classmates about it, but they act like there was never any "Mrs. Dodds". Percy sees that Grover is lying when he hesitates whenever Percy mentions "Mrs. Dodds". Percy overhears Grover and Mr. Brunner talking about him later in the school year. As he is going home on a bus with Grover, he sees three old ladies knitting a giant sock. Grover looks really worried about them. Percy ditches Groverat the bus stop and takes a taxi to his apartment on his own.
His mother arrives soon after he gets home and tells him that they can go to Montauk Beach for the entire weekend. Percy is happy that something good has finally happened and packs his things and leaves. At the beach, Percy wakes up in the middle of the night in a storm and is shocked to see Grover coming to him and his mom, telling them to leave. Percy is confused, but his mother takes them both in the car and drives quickly away.
After hearing a growl behind them, his mom arrives at a hill and pushes both boys out of the car. Percy sees that the thing chasing them is a Minotaur, who charges them. Percy and his mom dodge it, but Grover is too slow and the Minotaur charges him. Percy manages to defeat the Minotaur, but not before it dissolves Percy's mother into light and sends her to the Underworld. Percy drags Grover up the hill to Camp Half-Blood, where Percy passes out on the doorway of the Big House.
Percy learns that Camp Half-Blood is a place for demigods like him. He meets a future friend, Annabeth Chase. He learns that Mr. Brunner is actually the centaur (half human, half horse) Chiron, the camp's activity director. He also learns that the director of the camp is the god Dionysus. He is introduced to Luke Castellan, the leader of the Hermes cabin. Later, in a capture-the-flag game, Percy single-handedly defeats Clarisse, leader of the Ares cabin, and three others when he learns that he is the son of Poseidon. Soon after learning that Zeus's lightning bolt has been stolen, Percy embarks on his first and eventually successful quest along with Grover and Annabeth to retrieve it.
Thalia's tree, the magical border of Camp Half-Blood, has been poisoned. Chiron is blamed for the poisoning and is dismissed from camp; Tantalus, who comes from the Fields of Punishment and cannot have food or water, takes the job. The only thing able to rid the tree of its poison is the Golden Fleece, which is located on the island of Polyphemus (another son of Poseidon), in the Sea of Monsters (the Bermuda Triangle).
Clarisse, the daughter of Ares and longtime enemy of Percy, is given the quest to go into the Sea of Monsters to bring back the Golden Fleece, which has healing powers for plants, animals, and humans. Percy and Annabeth decide to go also, not just for the Golden Fleece, but for their friend Grover who is trapped in Polyphemus' cave. Tyson, a young Cyclops whom Percy befriended at school that year, joins them on their journey. Tyson is Poseidon's son and therefore Percy's half-brother.
As they enter the Sea of Monsters, they have to get past Scylla and Charybdis. Instead of trying to sail in between the two, Clarisse automatically goes for Charybdis and Tyson supposedly dies in Clarisse's ship after it sinks. After that, Percy and Annabeth journey to many dangerous islands, and Annabeth tells Percy many things about how Thalia died and she also mentions her prophecy and tells Percy that he has a choice to make when he becomes 16 years old. Fighting their way through many other obstacles, like the Sirens and Circe's island, they join up with Clarisse, Grover, and later Tyson (who did not die), and leave with the Golden Fleece.
When they return to the mortal world, they send off Clarisse on an airplane to camp alone, and Percy, Annabeth, Grover, and Tyson are kidnapped by Luke. In a duel with him, Percy is nearly killed. He is saved by Chiron, who is proven innocent, and his relatives, the Party Ponies. When they return to camp the Fleece is put on the tree. The Fleece not only revives Thalia's tree, but Thalia too. It turns out that this was actually Kronos's plan, done so that he would have another chance to control the prophecy which governs the future of Olympus and the Olympians.
At the end Percy and Annabeth win a chariot race and Annabeth kisses Percy on the cheek.
In the third book, Grover finds two demigods at a school, Bianca and Nico di Angelo. Percy, Grover, Thalia and two of Artemis' hunters, Zoë and Bianca (who later chose to become a hunter, upsetting Nico), are sent on a quest to save Artemis, who has been kidnapped. Percy is really going to save Annabeth, who was captured while they were saving the di Angelo's.
During the journey, Percy meets a mortal girl at Hoover Dam, named Rachel Elizabeth Dare, who can see through the Mist. She helps him escape from skeletal warriors who were trying to attack Percy and his friends.
While warning them about the junkyard of the gods, Aphrodite, goddess of love, tells Percy there is a romantic future waiting for him with Annabeth. Bianca is killed by a crazed robot in the junkyard of the gods while trying to get a figurine for her brother Nico. She said it was the only figurine he was missing in his collection. During the battle with Atlas, Zoë receives deadly injuries; she is poisoned by her old friend Ladon; her father, Atlas, makes the final strike that kills her and Atlas holds the burden of holding the sky again. Upon entering Olympus, the Gods decide whether to kill Thalia, Percy and Bessie (the ophiotaurus) who may hold the decision to tear down Olympus according to the Great Prophecy. Thalia becomes one of Artemis' hunters, eliminating her as a potential recipient of the Great Prophecy. In the end, the gods decide to leave Percy alive and keep the Ophiotaurus in safety at the throne room. Afterward, a feast is held in honor of the heroes and Athena tells Percy that she disapproves of his friendship with her daughter. At camp, Percy tells Nico about Bianca's death; he sprints into the woods. From then on, Nico hates Percy, blaming him for his sister's death. Annabeth, Percy and Grover search for Nico and cannot find him. Percy then holds the figurine of the god Bianca gave him at the junk yard. Suddenly, he realizes who Nico's father is: Hades, lord of the dead.
In book four, the Labyrinth of Daedalus is discovered. Camp Half-Blood is in danger of being invaded by Kronos' army by means of the Labyrinth. Chiron sends Annabeth along with Percy, Grover, and Tyson into the Labyrinth on a quest to find Daedalus. In this, they hope to use his knowledge to help thwart any attacks that are carried out using the giant underground maze. They eventually find Daedalus, who has made himself a new body, and has disguised himself as the sword play counselor.
There is a battle, as Kronos' army attacks Camp Half-Blood through the Labyrinth. Many are injured and some are left dead. Daedalus shows up to help along with his giant pet hellhound, Mrs. O'Leary. Daedalus has escaped death for centuries, but gives himself over to Nico di Angelo, a son of Hades, so he can accept his punishment in the Underworld and also so he can see his son Icarus and his nephew Perdix. Percy inherits Mrs. O'Leary; they have grown fond of each other. Percy and Annabeth's relationship starts to take on a new edge to it. Annabeth saves Percy several times and kisses him once because she thinks he is going to die. She also makes a big scene in front of all the campers when she realized that Percy was alive.
In book five, Percy discovers the truth behind the Great Prophecy. The campers find out there is a spy among them who is reporting everything to Kronos, who took over Luke's body in the fourth book. Percy battles Kronos many times, and eventually becomes invincible from bathing in the River Styx.
In the beginning, Percy and Beckendorf, son of Hephaestus are sent on a quest to blow up Luke's demon cruise ship, and Beckendorf is killed.
Percy and Nico sneak out of camp, and meet Hestia, who shows Percy part of Luke's past, and they meet Luke's mother.
A war between the Titans and Olympians ensues, one that has been in the making for much of the series. In the end, Luke, who is also invincible from bathing in the River Styx, kills himself in order to send Kronos back to Tartarus. Silena Beuregard turns out to be the spy. She is a good person inside, but Luke threatens her, and they make a deal that Beckendorf will not be hurt, as she was Beckendorf's girlfriend. Silena dies trying to kill a drakon, disguised as Clarisse, which upsets Clarisse greatly.In the end of the book, Luke commits suicide to save the Olympians.
Annabeth admits she never loved Luke, and that she cared for him only as a brother. She and Percy finally cement their relationship. Percy tries to tell her about his feelings at the River Styx, but says that she is not making it easy. She says:"I will never, ever make it easy for you Seaweed Brain. Get used to it", then kisses him, after which the other campers throw them into the canoe lake. Percy then creates an air bubble and they share "pretty much the best underwater kiss of all time.".
Percy was played by Logan Lerman in the movie "Percy Jackson: The Lightning Thief". That movies was adapated from the first book in the series, "The Lightning Thief". A movie of the second book, "The Sea of Monsters" was released on August 7, 2013 in the United States. The third movie, "The Titan's Curse", was set to be released during 2016.
Percy, like most demigods, has these disabilities:
In "The Lightning Thief", Percy is given a magically enchanted sword called Anaklusmos (Riptide). It is made of celestial bronze, a fictional metal which will injure immortals and monsters, but not wound mortals. Many demigods use celestial bronze weapons.
Children of the "big three" (Zeus, Poseidon, or Hades) are more powerful than demigods of the other Greek gods and goddesses. Hence, Percy has a wide range of abilities.
Percy has a lot of powers specifically connected to the things controlled by of Poseidon: seas, horses, sea creatures, and earthquakes. His water-related abilities tend to be stronger in sea water than in fresh water.

</doc>
<doc id="232495" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232495" title="IPad">
IPad

The iPad is a small tablet computer made by Apple Inc. Apple first showed it on 27 January 2010. It is larger than a smartphone and smaller than a laptop computer. It has a multiple touch interface (use two or more fingers to do certain things). It is different than a laptop in that it doesn't have a keyboard. Instead, it has a "virtual keyboards" using the touch screen, and a physical keyboard can be added. It doesn't have Adobe Flash. This keeps it from crashing, but some websites will not display correctly. Also you cannot have multiple windows open at the same time and drag and drop things between them.
Apple made an early version of a tablet computer in 1993 called the Newton MessagePad. It had similar functions to the iPhone, iPod Touch and iPad except it didn't have advanced things like the internet or a voice program. Apple stopped making Newtons in 1998.
Apple re-entered the mobile device market in 2007 when the iPhone was released. Some of the iPhone's features are based off of the Newton.
By the end of 2009 rumors about the iPad had been around for several years, and on January 27, 2010 Steve Jobs announced the iPad. It was not the first tablet to be sold, but it was the first one to sell in large numbers. It also was the first one that was controlled almost entirely by fingers touching the screen. Many of the earlier tablets (and PDAs, or personal digital assistants) used a lot of buttons or a stylus to control the tablet. 
The first generation iPad was able to be bought in the United States in April 2010 and most of the rest of the world within several months.
Apple announced the iPad 2 on March 2, 2011 and it was released on March 11, 2011. It had a new sleeker design and had a front and back video camera. It was also a lot thinner and had curved edges because people were complaining that the first gen iPad made their hands sore.
On March 16, 2012 Apple released the iPad 3. It kept the iPad 2's design but was slightly thicker and was the first iPad to have a retina screen for a sharper picture. It has 50% more pixels than a standard HDTV screen. 
On November 2, 2012 Apple released the iPad 4 which featured an A6 processor, a new connector called Lightning which replaces the old 30 pin dock connector, and an updated FaceTime camera. They also released a new iPad called the iPad Mini which featured a 7.9 inch screen instead of the normal 9.7 inch screen, though it didn't have a retina display. 
On October 22, 2013, the new iPad Air was announced which looked like the iPad Mini but still had the full size screen. It also had the newer A7 processor that the iPhone 5s had. At the same time, a new version of the iPad mini was announced that had the better Retina display.
On October 16, 2014, the iPad Air 2 was announced along with the iPad Mini 3. The iPad Air 2 has a thinner design than the iPad Air and has new features, such as a better camera and a Touch ID fingerprint reader. The iPad Mini 3 has the same design as the iPad Mini 2, but has a better camera and also has the Touch ID fingerprint reader that the iPad Air 2 has.
All models are made in China.

</doc>
<doc id="232496" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232496" title="Pseudocode">
Pseudocode

Pseudocode (sometimes written as pseudo-code) is a form of source code that is written for humans, not machines, to read. 
It is often written to show how an algorithm completes the needed/given task.
Reads the for loop and prints all the integers from 1 to 50.
This pseudocode outputs powers of two.
The above pseudocode sample computes a logical and function.

</doc>
<doc id="232506" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232506" title="University of Central Florida">
University of Central Florida

The University of Central Florida is the biggest university in the state of Florida, and the second-biggest in the entire United States. It also has more undergraduate students than any other single campus in the U.S. It is located in Orlando, one of the most popular places to visit in the entire world. Living in such an exciting city makes the University of Central Florida very attractive to students who want to get jobs or internships nearby.
Sometimes the University of Central Florida's name is shortened to UCF, especially when talking about the school's sports teams. UCF was founded in 1969 and has continued growing ever since.
UCF's sports teams, known as Knights, now play in the American Athletic Conference after leaving Conference USA in July 2013.

</doc>
<doc id="232508" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232508" title="CAPTCHA">
CAPTCHA

A CAPTCHA is a test that is used to separate humans and machines. CAPTCHA stands for "Completely Automated Public Turing test to tell Computers and Humans Apart." It is normally an image test or a simple mathematics problem which a human can read or solve, but a computer cannot. It is made to stop computer hackers from using a program to automatically set up hundreds of accounts, such as email accounts. It is named after mathematician Alan Turing's Turing test.

</doc>
<doc id="232510" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232510" title="GNU Lesser General Public License">
GNU Lesser General Public License

The GNU Lesser General Public License (LGPL) is a free software license created by the Free Software Foundation. It is similar to the GNU General Public License and is also an open source license. 

</doc>
<doc id="232511" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232511" title="Maple (CAS)">
Maple (CAS)

Maple is a commercial computer algebra system created (made) by Waterloo Maple Inc.

</doc>
<doc id="232518" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232518" title="Waterloo Maple">
Waterloo Maple

Waterloo Maple Inc. (Maplesoft) is a Canadian software company. They are in Waterloo, Ontario, and are most well known for creating the Maple computer algebra system.

</doc>
<doc id="232520" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232520" title="/dev/null">
/dev/null

In UNIX operating systems, /dev/null is a special file that removes everything written to it.

</doc>
<doc id="232522" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232522" title="Magenta rose">
Magenta rose

Magenta rose is a color that is a representation of the color of a particular type of rose called a "magenta rose", which can come in various tones of magenta or rose.
The first recorded use of "magenta rose" as a color name in English was in 1927.

</doc>
<doc id="232527" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232527" title="Grover Underwood">
Grover Underwood

Grover Underwood is a fictional character in Rick Riordan's "Percy Jackson and the Olympians" series. He is a satyr, a mythological Greek being that is half goat and half human. He has the upper body of a human and the legs and horns of a goat. He uses fake feet when he wants to look like a human. His horns are usually hidden by his curly brown hair (although they do eventually grow too tall for him to hide them) and sometimes an orange rasta cap. Although he is 32 years old, he is like a sixteen year-old human because satyrs age half as fast as humans do.
Grover is played by Brandon T. Jackson in the movies "" and "" the film adaptations of the first and second books in the series, "The Lightning Thief" and The Sea of Monsters.
Grover is the best friend of Percy Jackson. He has an empathy link with him. This means if one of them dies, the other will probably die, too (or that they will be left forever in a vegetative state, where they are asleep and never wake up).
Grover gets afraid easily. When this happens, his eyes turn into slits like a goat's. He starts eating furniture and tin cans . He always tries to defend his friends. He is very loyal. Grover also can deal with dangerous situations well. An example would be when he was kidnapped by Polyphemus the Cyclops. He likes enchiladas. He is afraid of rabbits (which Thalia calls his "bunny phobia")
Grover loves nature very much and hates pollution because he is a satyr. He secretly loves Artemis, the goddess of the hunt. He says, "She's so...into nature." He also likes to be near the Hunters of Artemis. Grover's girlfriend is a nymph named Juniper. They are first seen together in "The Battle of the Labyrinth". He helps out animals. He can also talk to them. Grover likes to look for Pan, the god of the wild. He is also afraid of cyclopes.
Grover, a satyr, goes undercover at Yancy Academy as a disabled student in order to discover if there are any half-bloods who attend it because most half-bloods have AD-HD and dyslexia and can do special things. There he discovers Percy Jackson, a half-blood, and alerts Mr. Brunner the Latin teacher, who turns out to be Chiron, Camp Half-Blood's activities director. Grover reveals his satyr form to Percy when the Jacksons go to a beach house in Montauk, New York before they are attacked by a minotaur. He accompanies Percy along with Annabeth Chase, Athena's daughter, on a quest to the Underworld to retrieve Zeus's stolen Master Lightning Bolt. At the end of the book Grover gets his searchers license to go look for Pan, the god of the Wild.
In The Sea of Monsters, Grover is searching for the lost god Pan, god of the Wild, when he is captured by Polyphemus the Cyclops. Grover is trapped in a bridal boutique, mistaken for a female Cyclops and is taken to Polyphemus's lair in the Sea of Monsters, where he creates the empathy link between him and Percy. In his dreams, Percy sees how Grover is trapped by Polyphemus, the blind cyclops that once held Odysseus captive, and is about to meet the same gruesome ending as all satyrs before him, including his father, who went searching for Pan. Along with Annabeth and Percy's half brother Tyson, Percy journeys on an unapproved quest to find Grover. At the end, the Golden Fleece (a powerful healing item) releases Thalia's spirit from the pine tree that kept it.
Grover is undercover once again, this time at a military school, where he discovers two children, Nico and Bianca di Angelo, that he suspects are half-bloods. In the excitement of his discovery, Grover asks Percy to come and help him safely bring the half-bloods to camp half-blood. In the process of trying to get to the di Angelos, a manticore (Dr. Thorn) attempts kidnaps Percy, Bianca, and Nico, only to lose them to Thalia, Annabeth, and Grover. As they battle Dr. Thorn, the Hunters of Artemis step in and rid of the monster by making him trip off a cliff, which led to the loss of Annabeth, her being on Thorn's back. Artemis leaves her Hunters to be escorted to Camp Half-Blood by Percy, Grover, and Thalia. Artemis is then kidnapped, which means that a quest must be launched to save her. That quest consists of Grover, Bianca (who is a new Hunter of Artemis), Zoe Nightshade (The chief Hunter of Artemis), Thalia, and Percy, who journey across the country to Mt. Tampalais. On the way, Grover is involved in several situations where Pan, god of the Wild, speaks to him. The first was in Cloudcroft, New Mexico, where the presence of Pan made the birds on Grover's coffee cup and a rubber rat come to life, also bringing a giant wild boar to help Percy, Thalia, him, Bianca and Zoe escape the skeletal army. The second incident happened when Grover was alone. Pan spoke to him, saying, "I await you." Both times, Grover was drinking coffee, so he and the other satyrs believe, that this had something to do with Pan's appearance.
It is in this book that we meet Juniper, Grover's nymph girlfriend, who is sobbing hysterically as The Council of Cloven Elders' decide that Grover has been searching far too long for the god Pan — they give him a week to find Pan, and if he does not, his searcher's license will be revoked. He, Percy, Annabeth and Tyson head into the Labyrinth this time to find its creator, Daedalus, and his workshop. Sometime in the book, Grover and Tyson split up from Percy and Annabeth. However, Grover meets a monster. Later, Grover finds Pan and learns the truth about his disappearance and that he, the God of Wild Things, must fade away and leave the job of making the earth green again to Grover, Annabeth, Percy, Tyson and everyone else on the planet. Grover unleashes the cry of Panic, greatly disrupting the Battle, and distracting the enemy long enough for the campers to surge and eventually drive them back into the Labyrinth.
Grover has been missing for 2 months; Percy and Nico decide to look for him on their way to the Underworld. Percy locates Grover through his empathy link in Central Park and finds him under a giant elm tree. Percy wakes him up by yelling, (via empathy link) "FOOD, PANCAKES!". He tells them he just took a nap and they figure out that Morpheus, the god of dreams, put Grover to sleep. In that way, Grover gives Percy and Nico info that some minor gods are on Kronos' side. He helps Nico and Percy get into the Underworld by playing his reed pipes to open up an entrance in Central Park.
After, his exile is ended and he is given a position in the Council of Cloven Elders. Grover is then appointed as the new Lord of the Wild, causing him to collapse with joy on the spot.

</doc>
<doc id="232532" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232532" title="Right whale">
Right whale

The right whales (Eubalaena spp.) are baleen whales with bow-shaped lower jaw and a head that is up to one-quarter of the body length. The head is hairier than most whales; up to 300 hairs are found on the tip of the lower jaw and 100 are on the upper jaw. There are also callosities (a series of horny growths) behind the blowhole, on the chin, above the eyes, on the lower lip, and on the rostrum (the beak-like upper jaw). They weigh about 70 tons. 
Right whales are similar to bowhead whales, but smaller. These whales are rich in blubber and have 2 blowholes. The eyes are very small and lips are large. Right whales were named by whalers who considered them the "right" whales to hunt, since they were rich in blubber, they were easy to catch (they are relatively slow swimmers) and they floated after being killed. 
Hunters needed the right whale's blubber for meat, because blubber could be boiled to make oil.
The right whale's name came from hunters, who thought that they were the "right" whales to hunt. This was because they had lots of blubber. They were also easy to catch (because they were relatively slow swimmers) and they floated on the surface of the water after being killed. Because of these things, right whales are the most endangered of the great whales.

</doc>
<doc id="232533" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232533" title="Rick Riordan">
Rick Riordan

Richard Russell "Rick" Riordan, Jr. (born June 5, 1964) is the author of the "Percy Jackson and the Olympians" series. He also wrote the "Tres Navarre" mystery series for adults and helped to edit "Demigods and Monsters", a collection of essays on the topic of his Percy Jackson series. He helped develop the 10 books in "The 39 Clues" series, published by Scholastic Corporation, and wrote the first book in the series, "The Maze of Bones".
Riordan was born in San Antonio, Texas. He graduated from the University of Texas at Austin where he double-majored in English and history. For fifteen years, he taught in public and private schools in California and in San Antonio. He was awarded St. Mary's Hall's first Master Teacher Award in 2002.
Riordan is the multi-award-winning author of the Tres Navarre mystery series for adults; his "The Maze of Bones" reached number one on the New York Times Best Seller list on September 28, 2008. His "Percy Jackson and the Olympians" series features a twelve-year-old boy who discovers he is the modern-day son of an ancient Greek god. Film rights were purchased by Twentieth Century Fox and a feature film was released on February 12, 2010. Riordan lives in San Antonio with his wife and their two sons. Recently, Riordan has stated that he is working on a new series based upon the Egyptian pantheon, which then turned out to be "The Kane Chronicles", with the first book, "The Red Pyramid", to be released May 4, 2010. He also won 13 awards the Anthony Award for Best Paperback Original, the Goodreads Choice Awards Best Middle Grade & Children's ( 5 times 2011-2015 ), Edgar Award for Best Paperback Original ( 5 times 2011-2015 ), Hampshire Book Award, and the Shamus award for best first PI novel!
Note: This book series is the sequel to Percy Jackson & the Olympians.

</doc>
<doc id="232537" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232537" title="Luke Castellan">
Luke Castellan

Luke Castellan is one of the main antagonists in Rick Riordan's "Percy Jackson & The Olympians" series. He is a demigod son of the Greek god Hermes.
Luke is played by Jake Abel in the movies "", the film adaption of the first book, "The Lightning Thief" and "", the film adaption of the second book "The Sea of Monsters".
Luke is first introduced in "The Lightning Thief" as the 19-year-old counselor for the Hermes cabin. While the rest of Percy's cabin mates complain about him because he is undetermined, Luke tries to make him feel at home, even stealing a toiletry bag for him. Luke first came to Camp Half-Blood when he was 14, alongside Thalia Grace, daughter of Zeus, and Annabeth Chase, daughter of Athena. Luke has a scar on his face, a relic from his battle with the dragon Ladon, guardian of the Garden of Hesperides, while on a quest. In "The Last Olympian", it is shown that his mother attempted to become the Oracle of Delphi and has succumbed to the curse of Hades. Her crazed prophetic ramblings affected Luke greatly, and forced him to run away when he was nine. In "The Battle of the Labyrinth", Luke's body becomes the vessel that harbors Kronos' essence.
Luke dies in "The Last Olympian" when he is given Annabeth's knife by Percy. He commits suicide by stabbing himself under his left arm where his mortality was still kept intact after his bath in the River Styx (known as his Achilles heel). As he dies, he asks Percy to make sure all the demigods are claimed to avoid this happening again which might mean that they had become friends again because he is forgiven by Percy. Although he is seen as a villain throughout the series, in the end he is treated like a hero and forgiven by everyone. He is also the hero mentioned by the prophecy of the Oracle in "The Last Olympian".

</doc>
<doc id="232539" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232539" title="Rachel Elizabeth Dare">
Rachel Elizabeth Dare

Rachel Elizabeth Dare is a fictional character in Rick Riordan's "Percy Jackson & the Olympians" stories. Unlike other big characters in the series, none of her parents are gods. Instead, they both are mortal. Despite this, Rachel has the ability to see through Mist, a thing that makes most humans unaware of the Olympians and immortals. She has the power to predict things, which is not common even with demigods. Because of these powers, the Oracle of Delphi passes into her from the cursed remains of the previous oracle. She therefore becomes the next Oracle of Apollo, Oracle of the Gods as well as the resident oracle at Camp Half-Blood. By becoming the Oracle, she gives up her romance with Percy because the Oracle must end all of their romance in their oath to become Oracle.
In this book, Rachel first appears at the Hoover Dam. Percy is being chased by a group of Skeletons when she sneezes. Percy turns around and his sword, Riptide, goes through her body. He realizes she knows it is a sword. He also finds out that she can see through the Mist. She saves Percy from the Skeletons by sending him into a restroom behind her and the skeletons to the generator room, which makes electricity.
In "The Battle of the Labyrinth", more details on Rachel's life are given. She shows up at Percy's new school, Goode High School. She can see that two cheerleaders are really empousai and helps Percy escape from Kelli, one of the empousai. Later, Percy asks her to help him navigate Daedalus's Labyrinth, a maze he built, to find him. She goes with Percy and Annabeth through the maze. After finding out Daedalus has made a deal with Kronos, she escapes with Percy and Annabeth. Eventually, the three find Kronos's headquarters. Kronos has started to live in Luke Castellan's body and tries to catch Percy. Rachel appears with Annabeth and Nico di Angelo and throws her blue plastic hairbrush at Luke's eye. This confuses Kronos and lets Percy escape. She also helps find Pan, the lost god of nature. She is there when he dies.
Later, she leaves Percy, Annabeth, Nico, Grover Underwood, and Tyson. Before she does, she tells them that her father is a rich businessman who buys forests. He cuts them down and use them to build shopping malls. Pan's death affects her, mainly because of her father's job. She wants to hang out with Percy again. Annabeth is not happy about this. Percy promises to call her. He says that he has memorized her phone number. Rachel is happy about this. Percy thinks of inviting her to his birthday party. He is too afraid to do so.
Rachel and Percy become good friends in "The Battle of the Labyrinth". Annabeth becomes jealous of her. Rachel also sees that Percy and Annabeth like each other more than they will admit.
"The Last Olympian" begins with Percy driving her to the beach in Paul Blofis's Toyota Prius. Paul Blofis is his mom's boyfriend. She asks him to go with her and her parents on a vacation in St. Thomas. He does not think it will work out. She also asks Percy to kiss her. They are interrupted by a Pegasus. It is Blackjack. He lands on the car with Charles Beckendorf riding him.
Percy goes to sink the "Princess Andromeda", a ship which Kronos is using as his base. Rachel kisses him for good luck before he leaves. In Percy's dreams, he sees Rachel writing things in Ancient Greek. She is drawing pictures of things she has never seen before, like a picture of Luke Castellan at age nine. When she goes on vacation with her parents, she asks them to return to New York by making a deal with her father to go Clarion Academy. Clarion Academy is a finishing school (a girls' school that teaches culture and social things) for girls that her mother also went to. This was all because she felt that Percy was in danger. Later on, Rachel flies to Camp Half-Blood on Blackjack. She takes in the spirit of the Oracle because Hades lifts the curse he had put on it. She says the next Great Prophecy. Rachel then goes back to the mortal world for the school year, leaving the campers without their oracle until the next summer.
Rachel's father is rich. She does not like the way she lives. She prefers helping charity. Rachel also likes art. Rachel is a love interest for Percy. This makes tension between her and Annabeth. However, she explains that she was attracted to Percy because he was the one who led her to her destiny as the Oracle. As the Oracle, she cannot fall in love or have children. She has respect for Annabeth and Percy's relationship.

</doc>
<doc id="232540" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232540" title="Nico di Angelo">
Nico di Angelo

Nico di Angelo is a fictional character in Rick Riordan's "Percy Jackson & The Olympians" and "The Heroes of Olympus" series. In the series, he is the demigod son of Hades and mortal Maria di Angelo. As such, Nico has extraordinary powers of necromancy and the power to command the dead; he is a son of one of the "Big Three" Greek gods, the other two being Hades' younger brothers Poseidon and Zeus. Nico is chronologically over seventy years old as a result of his prolonged stay in the Lotus Casino in Las Vegas, an enchanted hotel where one does not age and time does not pass at its normal pace. He and his sister, Bianca di Angelo were placed in the Lotus Hotel and Casino sometime after the end of World War II, but were rescued by a man in a suit (the Fury, Alekto) after some time.
Nico is said to have shaggy, messy black hair, olive skin and dark brown eyes. After his time in the maze he is describe as having a pale complexion. He usually wears dark clothing and is also mentioned on several occasions to be wearing an aviator's jacket. By the end of "The Battle of the Labyrinth", he also wears a skull ring, a gift from his deceased sister Bianca.
In "The Titan's Curse", Nico is a composed kid who loves a trading card game called Mythomagic. However, since his sister's death in "The Titan's Curse" at the hands of a defective Talos, he has a hateful resentment toward Percy. He later thinks Mythomagic is a stupid game, and burns all his cards in a fire. He becomes more sullen and solitary, saying that "only the dead respect him... and only out of fear". He believes that he will never be accepted with the living, but forgives Percy after Bianca tells him that it wasn't Percy's fault that she died. He also accepts the small figurine of Hades that Bianca wanted him to have before she died in "The Titan's Curse". In the fifth book, he brings Percy to his father to get information that proves to be the least his father can give, and his father ends up putting Percy in a dungeon. However, Nico rescues Percy from the dungeon and takes him to the River Styx where Percy becomes almost invincible. In the end of "The Last Olympian", Nico convinces his father, Hades, to help the other gods fight in the war against the Lord of Time, Kronos, and his army, and plays a major role in the victory. The relationship between Percy and Nico becomes close for they both might have been the child of the Great Prophecy.
Nico Di Angelo's fatal flaw is holding grudges, as Bianca tells him. In his case, it can lead to not wanting help or not asking to be saved in deadly situations because he does not like someone. Examples are his not wanting to be helped by Percy, even when Geryon was going to sell him to the Titans and not wanting to go back in the Labyrinth with them. Bianca shares this with him, as she also had the same fatal flaw in life, although this did not lead to her death. Bianca also says that holding grudges is the demigods of Hades' fatal flaw. In the fifth book, Nico tells his father, Hades, that he is holding a grudge that could end up killing the Olympians and the campers.
In "The House of Hades", Nico is forced by Cupid to reveal that he had a crush on Percy Jackson. This reveals that he is homosexual. Even when he later says that he does not feel that way anymore and that he had been young and impressionable at the time, there are indications during The House of Hades that he still loves Percy.
Nico is ten years old and first appears with his sister, Bianca, in a military school called Westover Hall in Bar Harbor, Maine. They are sought out by Grover Underwood, the satyr, who believes them to be two very powerful unknown half-bloods. Nico seems to be very interested in Mythomagic, a game about Greek mythology. When his sister Bianca accepts Artemis's proposal to become a Hunter, Nico gets angry at her for "abandoning" him. Percy finds Nico eavesdropping on Bianca and Zöe Nightshade (one of the Hunters of Artemis, a daughter of Atlas), and Nico successfully convinces Percy to promise to keep his sister safe. He does not appear again until the end of the book, where Percy explains to him that Bianca died to save the others on the quest. He also creates a large crack in the ground to swallow up the skeletons that were chasing Percy. He immediately turns on Percy, telling him he hates him, and reminds him of the oath he took to keep Bianca safe. Nico is last seen running into the woods at night, after screaming at Percy.
Nico is supposedly eleven years old in this book. He is first seen talking with an unknown ghost who is trying to tell Nico how to trade his sister's soul for another soul, when Percy is sent a collect Iris Message sent by Bianca Di Angelo, Nico's sister. It is revealed in this book that Nico can summon the dead. Nico is then seen when Percy, Annabeth, Grover, and Tyson visit Triple G Ranch, where Percy then saves Nico from being sent to the Titans. Nico, still angry at Percy, finally understands that it was Bianca's choice to go into the Talos robot, and he shouldn't be mad at Percy. The others leave Nico at the Ranch, where he supposedly meets King Minos (in ghost form) again, who convinces him to go back into the Labyrinth to supposedly save Percy and the others.
He is next seen being dragged into Daedalus' workshop by one empousa and two Laistrygonians, in chains, after being tricked by King Minos. He escapes with Percy, Annabeth, and Rachel Elizabeth Dare, who have to go back into the Labyrinth to find Grover and Tyson, who had stayed behind to look for Pan, god of the Wild. Along the way, they see Kronos in the form of Luke, and Nico, in a desperate attempt to save everyone, shows his true powers, and makes it known to Kronos that he is a son of Hades. They meet the wild god Pan, who gives everyone except for Nico a cryptic future reading and then vanishes. After they get out of the Labyrinth, a full-fledged battle erupts between the Titans and Camp Half-Blood, in which Nico summons a dozen undead soldiers to fight the dracanae, passing out in the process. He is revived with nectar and ambrosia, and he states that summoning that many soldiers required a lot of energy. After the campfire, he is seen talking with the ghost of his sister Bianca. He then tells Percy, who came out to see what was going on, that he did not belong at camp, but instead in the Underworld, and would train there instead. He also goes to search for his mother, who paid for him and Bianca to stay at the school in the beginning of "The Titan's Curse". He is last seen on Percy's apartment fire escape giving Percy news on Daedalus and a way to beat Luke for good. Before mentioning it, Nico is distracted by Percy's blue birthday cake, and Percy invites him in to talk.
Nico is supposedly twelve years old in this book. His theory to gain an edge over the Titans is to make Percy invincible by having him bathe in the River Styx, similar to the myth of Achilles. It is shown that after Bianca died, Hades feels he has no competent child, repeatedly mentioning that Bianca could do a better job at fulfilling their father's demands than Nico. It is also revealed that the lawyer who removed the children from the Lotus Casino was Hades' lead fury, Alecto, in disguise.
Although he does not appear in the book, he is mentioned by Annabeth to be searching for Percy.
Nico admits his feelings for Percy when he was confronted by Cupid. This makes Nico the first demigod acknowledged as homosexual in the series. He shares this secret with Jason, who was with him at the time.
Nico helps transport the Athena Partenos to Camp Half-blood to halt the attack from the Camp Jupiter. He is joined by Reyna and Coach Hedge. The band shadow traveled halfway around the world, causing Nico to lose a lot of his strength and "fade". When facing Bryce Lawrence, it was demonstrated that Nico could turn people into ghostly specters.
Hades was also alluded to have been aware about Nico's romantic feelings for Percy during one of his conversations with his son. Hades potentionally gives Nico his blessing, telling him he'd prepare a room for him in the Underworld. He also informs Nico that he wants him to be happy, and that he is proud of his son.
Upon arriving at Camp Half-Blood, Nico assists on destroying Octavian's catapults and is joined by Will Solace, who he bickered with all through out. This amuses Cecil and Lou Ellen, who were with them. After the battle, Will has expressed interest on befriending Nico, and maybe much more. Whenever Will touches Nico, it was stated that it sent electrical spikes through his body, as well as feeling what Nico claims are 'skeletal butterflies resurrecting in his stomach,' and the two flirt quite a bit, with Will expressing his dismay that Nico wasn't helping him nurse the wounded at the infirmary. When Nico answers the door to his cabin and sees Jason Grace he momentarily mistakes him for Will, which caused him to feel disappointed, and then ashamed of being disappointed.
Nico finally confesses his feelings for Percy, while Annabeth smiles approvingly at the reveal. He labels Percy as no longer his type, and walks towards a waving Will Solace, the boy he potentially chooses.
Nico's sword is made of Stygian Iron, which will kill monsters, and, unlike the other metals of Celestial Bronze and Imperial Gold, is capable of harming mortals. The metal, when being forged, is cooled in the River Styx, making it indestructible. It is implied that only beings of the Underworld, such as Hades and his children, are to use a Stygian iron weapon. The sword helps him channel his power to control and summon the dead, along with draining an enemy's soul to reinforce his sword's power. He can also use it to create fissures in the ground, trapping anyone unlucky to get caught in the underworld, like he did to Minos. Nico being a very powerful demigod he has many powers and he is aware that “With great power... comes a great need to take a nap," as he finds out when putting to sleep all of the skeleton guards in the Palace of Hades during his and Percy's escape from imprisonment during the Last Olympian. 

</doc>
<doc id="232541" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232541" title="Thalia Grace">
Thalia Grace

Thalia Grace is a fictional supporting character in Rick Riordan's "Percy Jackson and the Olympians" series, as well as a minor character in the Heros of Olympus, as Jason's sister. The demigod daughter of Zeus and a mortal mother, Thalia has electric blue eyes, black spiky hair, and freckles.
Thalia Grace is the daughter of Zeus, one of the "Big Three" Greek Gods, the other two being Poseidon and Hades. Grover Underwood was meant to watch over her when she ran away from home at ten years old, reaching Camp Half-Blood two years later. On her journey, she met Annabeth Chase and Luke Castellan. They had brief encounters with the Hunters of Artemis, and were almost convinced to join, but got angry with Zoe Nightshade and did not join. When she was twelve, they were all attacked by a herd of monsters and caught by a Cyclops in New York. She was captured, but thanks to Annabeth, freed. They ran, but the monsters they had briefly escaped from caught up to them. As they reached Half-Blood Hill, Thalia sent Luke, Grover, and Annabeth over the boundary line while she faced the monsters. She sacrificed her life for her friends, but her father Zeus took pity on her and turned her into a pine tree to preserve her, keeping the rest of the camp safe.
Thalia is a very skilled fighter and as she stated in "The Titan's Curse"; she can always beat Luke in a battle (which Percy has only done once). It is also mentioned throughout the series that she has a punk sort of style,hates Barbie dolls, and likes Green Day. She is always listening to rock bands and is into the punk subculture. Annabeth compares her to Percy, telling him, "You guys are so alike it's scary. Either you would have been best friends, or you would have strangled each other."
Thalia wants to be strong as many people believe, but sometimes is very sensitive. She loves Chiron as a father and believes that her father does not care about her. She deeply respects Poseidon but does not know why. Her favorite god is Pan. She is also known to like cheeseburgers, mentioned twice in the series. She also appears reluctant to use her mother's surname.
It is mentioned that Thalia was turned into a pine tree when she risked her life saving her friends atop of Half-Blood Hill, which guarded the boundary line for Camp Half-Blood. She also appeared in Percy's dream.
Thalia appears in Percy's dreams throughout the book. At the end of "The Sea of Monsters", she is brought back to life by the Golden Fleece which Clarisse places on her pine tree. Zeus gives her a spear which shoots electricity and turns into a small mace canister that fits in her pocket, and Athena gives her a bracelet that turns into Aegis, a shield with the Medusa's head carved into it. Thalia is now potentially the child of the prophecy, and Kronos soon takes advantage of the fact.
Thalia and Percy quarrel occasionally at camp because their similar personalities tend to clash. Thalia is called "Pinecone Face" by Percy; in retaliation, she calls him "Seaweed Brain", which Percy does not like because it's Annabeth's pet name for him. Before the quest, Nico di Angelo, who Thalia and Percy had rescued and brought to Camp Half-Blood, makes Percy promise to keep his older sister, Bianca, safe during the quest. Thalia goes on the quest to find Artemis, find the dangerous Ophiotaurus Artemis was seeking and rescue Annabeth, with Percy, Zoë Nightshade, Bianca di Angelo, and Grover. Thalia, Percy, Zoe Nightshade, Bianca, and Grover come upon the Junkyard of the Gods and told not to take anything from the junkyard, and just as the group is about to leave, a metal giant rises because Bianca took a figurine of her father, Hades, for Nico. Bianca goes inside of the metal giant and tries to control it, causing the giant to fall over and Bianca to die. Together, they face the Titan General, Atlas's army, and make it to Mount Tamalpais. Already weakened by dragon poison, while facing her father, Atlas, Zoe dies from a final blow from Atlas. There, Thalia fights her old friend Luke, and it seems that she has strong feelings for him, and they discover that Kronos used Thalia to twist destiny into her hands, since she would be turning sixteen on the day following the Winter Solstice. She escaped this deadly path and turned to her half-sister, Artemis, who made her a Hunter, which would stop her from being sixteen, because whoever becomes a Hunter becomes immortal, unless they shall die in battle, or break the oath by falling in love.
Thalia's tree still remains standing on Half-Blood Hill with the Golden Fleece for energy, it is currently being guarded by a baby dragon.
Thalia is absent from Camp Half-Blood this summer due to her adventures with Artemis and the Hunters, but she is mentioned once in the book.
Thalia and the Hunters of Artemis show up when Percy is looking for someone to defend the Lincoln Tunnel against the Titans. Thalia helps Percy and the other demigods defend Manhattan. At the end of the story, Thalia is still alive, and is granted help in getting more Hunters, because a lot of the Hunters died.
Thalia shows up at the cave by Aeolus' palace, along with the other hunters. She also fights at the wolf house when the hunters help Leo, Jason, and Piper fight the monsters and the giant.
It is implied that she has a weak resistance when she is offered power. She is also afraid of heights, a quality Percy finds strange, as her father is the Lord of the Sky. She is also extremely determined, as revealed in the short story "The Sword of Hades" in "The Demigod Files". She has trouble abandoning a difficult task that she has started but is not able to complete.

</doc>
<doc id="232544" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232544" title="The Titan's Curse">
The Titan's Curse

The Titan's Curse is fantasy-adventure novel based on Greek mythology. It was written by Rick Riordan and was published in 2007. "The Titan's Curse" is the third novel in the "Percy Jackson & the Olympians" series. It is the next book after "The Sea of Monsters". The book tells the story of the adventures of the fourteen-year-old demigod Percy Jackson as he and his friends go on a dangerous adventure. In this quest, they have to rescue his friend Annabeth and the Greek goddess Artemis, who have both been kidnapped. 
"The Titan's Curse" received good reviews. It was nominated for many awards. The book was also the number one "The New York Times" children's series best seller and "Book Sense" Top Ten Summer Pick for 2007. It was released in the United States and the United Kingdom on May 1, 2007. The novel was also released in audiobook format. Actor Jesse Bernstein read the audiobook. It is followed by "The Battle of the Labyrinth", which is the fourth book in the series.
Like the other books in the series, "The Titan's Curse" is of the fantasy genre. It uses the ancient Greek mythology in a modern setting as background. Reviewers have called its plot "fast-paced", meaning that the story moves very quickly. It has humor as well as themes such as love and loyalty.
Annabeth Chase and Artemis, the goddess of the hunt, are kidnapped.
Percy and his friends must find Artemis before the winter solstice. This is because in the winter solstice, her influence on the Olympian Council could change an important vote. The vote was on the war with the Titans. Thalia Grace, Zoë Nightshade, Bianca Di Angelo, and Grover go on this dangerous quest. They also are searching for a rare monster that Artemis was trying to hunt down when she went missing. This monster is so powerful that it can destroy Olympus. Percy is called by a hippocampus (which is a mythological sea-horse) to rescue a cow-like creature called the Ophiotaurus which lives in the sea. Percy names the Ophiotaurus "Bessie". He did not know that it is a male.
With help from Apollo, they reach Cloudcroft which is a small town in New Mexico. Grover feels the presence of Pan, the Greek god of nature. Soon, a wild gift from Pan, the giant Erymanthian Boar, comes to carry them to San Francisco. It takes them to the junkyard of the gods. Here, Percy meets Ares and talks to Aphrodite. Aphrodite hints that Annabeth and Percy will fall in love in future. The group then enters the junkyard. There, Bianca tries to steal an action figure for her younger brother. However, she awakens a prototype of Talos, a giant man of bronze. She destroys it, but dies after this. The demigods then go to Hoover Dam. Percy is attacked by skeleton warriors there. He meets Rachel Elizabeth Dare, a girl who can see through the Mist (which prevents common people from seeing monsters and magical things). She saves Percy by confusing the skeletons. This allows Percy and his friends to escape.
In San Francisco, they learn that Bessie the Ophiotaurus is the monster Artemis was searching. This is because sacrificing it and burning its entrails will give a person the power to destroy Olympus. They ask for the help of Annabeth's father who gives them a car. They travel to the Garden of Hesperides, where Zoë meets her sisters. She is poisoned by a dragon called Ladon. They continue to the Mountain of Despair on California's Mount Tamalpais, where Mt. Othrys, the Titan capital, is now present. From the top of the mountain where Atlas held up the sky, they see Artemis holding the sky. Annabeth is held captive by Luke. Percy takes the burden—the Titan's curse—from Artemis. After this, a fight breaks out. Atlas (the General of the Titans) kills his daughter Zoë by throwing her against rocks. Artemis tricks Atlas into taking his burden from Percy. Luke falls from a cliff during a battle with Thalia, and Percy thinks that he is dead. Later, Percy is told by Annabeth that Luke has survived.
"The Titan's Curse" received positive reviews from critics. The reviewers praised the humor and action in the story. "Children's Literature" called the book fast-paced. They said it "is full of adventure and humour" and that "[r]eaders will relate to good natured Percy, the protagonist." "Kirkus" said that the book made Greek myths come alive in a way classrooms cannot. They said the book will have "readers wondering how literature can be this fun." "School Library Journal" wrote that "Intricate prophecies and relationships" are "neatly" woven into the plot which they said had a lot of adventure. They added: "Teachers will cheer for Percy Jackson and the Olympians" as they would help students to learn about Greek mythology and also to read. They said that the book was a "winner" in "Olympic" (large) proportions. "Booklist's" starred review said, "The Percy Jackson & the Olympians series is built around a terrific idea" and said Riordan added more depth to the characters, but the books are still as funny as the previous ones. "KidsReads" also praised the book and said that the books are popular because they combine "humor, adventure and a winning hero" and said readers who have read the previous books would like Riordan's style.
"The Titan's Curse" received some awards and nominations. It was a Quill Award nominee. It was also the number one "The New York Times" children's series best seller and "Book Sense" Top Ten Summer Pick for 2007.
An eight hour and forty-eight minute audiobook read by the actor Jesse Bernstein was released on April 24, 2007. It was published by Listening Library. 
"AudioFile Magazine" praised the audiobook. They wrote that it sounded "young, or old, or really scary" in different parts. They added that Jesse Bernstein "[...] effectively voices the confusion and loss the team experiences."
"The Battle of the Labyrinth" is the fourth book in the series. Annabeth and Percy find an entrance into the Labyrinth during a game of capture the flag. Percy soon learns that Luke had used the entrance. He will lead the Titan army through the Labyrinth straight into the camp. To get into the Labyrinth, Percy has to find the Delta Symbol (Δ) and touch it. Using the Labyrinth, Percy tries to find Daedalus so Luke cannot get Ariadne's string. This would prevent Luke from attacking the camp.

</doc>
<doc id="232545" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232545" title="The Battle of the Labyrinth">
The Battle of the Labyrinth

The Battle of the Labyrinth is a 2008 fantasy-adventure novel based on Greek mythology and the fourth book in the "Percy Jackson & the Olympians" series by Rick Riordan. Demigod Percy Jackson, who is almost fifteen years old, tries to stop Luke and his army from invading Camp Half-Blood by navigating Daedalus's labyrinth. It was released on May 6, 2008 in the US and Canada.
After being attacked by Empousai cheerleaders at his new school, Percy returns to Camp Half-Blood and learns about "The Labyrinth", part of the palace of King Minos in Crete that, according to Greek mythology, was designed by Daedalus. During a battle game at the camp, Annabeth and Percy find an entrance into the Labyrinth. Percy soon learns that Luke had used the entrance and will lead his army through the Labyrinth straight in to the heart of Camp Half-Blood. To get into the Labyrinth, Percy has to find the Delta Symbol (Δ) on a passageway, touch it, and then enter the Labyrinth.
Using the Labyrinth, Percy has to try to find Daedalus so Luke cannot get Ariadne's string, thereby foiling Luke's invasion. Ariadne's string is used to find all the exits of the Labyrinth. Grover comes to the rescue and causes a Panic to scare away the enemy. After the battle, Daedalus sacrifices himself to close the labyrinth, which is tied to his life.
"The Battle of the Labyrinth" received generally positive reviews. "Publishers Weekly" praised Riordan saying, "One of Riordan's strengths is the wry interplay between the real and the surreal." and adding that "The wit, rousing swordplay and breakneck pace will once again keep kids hooked." "Children's Literature" said, "Riordan creates a masterful weaving of Greek mythology and traditional fantasy in this latest book in "The Olympians" series. Fans will enjoy the latest adventures of their favorite characters, and those picking the book up for the first time will have no trouble falling into this magical world." However "School Library Journal" wrote "Like many series, the "Percy Jackson" books are beginning to show the strain of familiarity and repetition." before adding: "However, the overarching story line remains compelling, and the cliff-hanger ending will leave readers breathless in anticipation of the fifth and final volume." "Kirkus" adjudged the book to be the best in the series and said, "The often-philosophical tale zips along with snappy dialogue, humor and thrilling action, culminating in a climactic battle between gods and Titans.
"Kirkus Reviews" gave "The Battle of the Labyrinth" a starred review as well as "Publishers Weekly."
"The Battle of the Labyrinth" was adapted to a 10 hours and 32 minutes audiobook read by actor Jesse Bernstein and published by Listening Library. The release date for the audiobook was May 13, 2008.
AudioFile Magazine was generally positive about the audiobook. They commended Bernstein, saying that he was "just as skillful at wringing humor from the witty dialogue and from the contrasts between the modern and ancient worlds." 
In "The Last Olympian" there is a final battle for Olympus, with Percy and his friends defending it against Kronos and his forces. Percy rallies the demigods and many of his allies take part in the war, including The Hunters of Artemis and the Party Ponies. Rachel becomes the new Oracle and spouts another Great Prophecy. Percy and Annabeth start going out. 
"The Last Olympian" was released May 5, 2009. It is the last book of the series.

</doc>
<doc id="232547" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232547" title="The Demigod Files">
The Demigod Files

The Demigod Files is a collection of stories by Rick Riordan published on February 10, 2009. It is a companion book to the main series, "Percy Jackson and the Olympians". It contains three short stories, titled "Percy Jackson and the Stolen Chariot", "Percy Jackson and the Bronze Dragon", and "Percy Jackson and the Sword of Hades". It also contains a preview of "The Last Olympian". Additional contents include interviews with some of the campers, a picture of Annabeth's trunk, a map of Camp Half-Blood, and various crossword puzzles and other activities. It is set between the fourth book, "The Battle of the Labyrinth", and the fifth book, "The Last Olympian".
Clarisse La Rue is given the chore of taking care of Ares's war chariot. It is stolen by her immortal brothers as a prank, Deimos and Phobos (gods of terror and fear respectively). Percy and Clarisse find it at a zoo. They face the two gods, whom without their powers of fear and terror are extremely weak in battle, (unlike the nature of Ares), and are easily defeated. They bring the chariot to Ares' Temple on the Intrepid, a battle cruiser.
Percy Jackson and Charles Beckendorf are on the same team for capture the flag. Beckendorf, a son of Hephaestus, has a somewhat awkward conversation about girls, and thinks Percy should ask Annabeth to the Fourth of July fireworks, the biggest dating event of the summer at Camp Half-Blood, that night. They set off into the woods and stumble on a huge anthill. Silena Beauregard and Annabeth capture Percy. Meanwhile, Charles Beckendorf charges straight ahead into the ant swarm as he tries to take back a huge bronze dragon's head, but immediately is pinched in the leg and has acid spit on his face. Percy, Annabeth and Silena try to find the rest of the body of the bronze dragon which was once one of the camp's defenses against monsters before Thalia's Pine Tree took its place so it can rescue Beckendorf from the ants. They finally get the monster started (a bronze dragon with no wings) and get it to help Beckendorf. It blasts open the ants' nest and all the ants attack the dragon. Meanwhile, Percy, Annabeth and Silena dart into the ant hill and get Beckendorf back out. When they come out and flee, the dragon spots them and goes berserk. Percy distracts the dragon so Beckendorf can jump on the dragon's back and unplug him. Silena is so relieved that Beckendorf is alive that when he asks her to the fireworks, she gladly accepts the invitation. Once they get back to camp, it turns out the capture the flag game has not ended yet, and Annabeth puts them in jail. Percy and Charles protest to no avail. Before Annabeth leaves to go back to the front line to fight for her team, she asks Percy out to the Fourth of July Fireworks, but she quickly leaves before Percy can answer.
Rick Riordan wrote this short story for World Book Day 2009. It takes place between "The Battle of the Labyrinth" and "The Last Olympian".
Persephone calls Percy, Thalia and Nico, all the children of the Big Three, into the Underworld to retrieve Hades's new sword from a demigod spy who stole it. The problem is that Hades' keys, which let anyone out of or into the Underworld, are in it. Persephone gives them a flower to track the half-blood. When all of the petals fall off, the sword thief has made it out of the Underworld. Percy, Nico and Thalia must retrieve the sword before time runs out. They catch the thief, Ethan Nakamura, but all the petals fall off because Ethan has raised the Titan Iapetus. Percy flings Iapetus into the river Lethe, a river that makes one forget their identity, during a fight. Although Percy also falls in, he stays dry because of his powers, being the son of Poseidon. Percy tells Iapetus that he is Bob and Iapetus believes him and is now harmless. When they return to Hades and Persephone with the sword, Hades is very unhappy about the sword and leaves in anger, threatening Persephone never to disobey him again. They later find out that Persephone requested the sword against Hades's orders.
An audiobook read by actor Jesse Bernstein was released the same day as the book.
The book received mixed reviews. Publishers Weekly criticized, "Bland illustrations depicting the contents of Annabeth's trunk, a map of Camp Half-Blood and a short "sneak peek" at "The Last Olympian" pad the contents (barely) to book length; the inclusion of a crossword puzzle and a word search makes the book difficult to share. Not a must-read-but try telling that to rabid fans." School Library Journal reviewer Tim Wadham commended the writing, saying, "Despite the fact that this is more of a marketing package than anything else, the quality of and interest in the three stories likely justifies its purchase."

</doc>
<doc id="232548" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232548" title="List of Percy Jackson and the Olympians characters">
List of Percy Jackson and the Olympians characters

This is a list of characters in the "Percy Jackson & the Olympians" series of fantasy novels by Rick Riordan.
In films portrayed by Logan Lerman
In films portrayed by Alexandra Daddario
In films portrayed by Brandon T. Jackson
In films portrayed by Isabella Fahrman

</doc>
<doc id="232549" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232549" title="Percy Jackson &amp; the Olympians: The Lightning Thief">
Percy Jackson &amp; the Olympians: The Lightning Thief

Percy Jackson & the Olympians: The Lightning Thief (known as Percy Jackson & the Lightning Thief in the UK and Australia) is a fantasy-adventure movie directed by Chris Columbus. The movie is based on "The Lightning Thief", the first novel in the "Percy Jackson & The Olympians" series by Rick Riordan. It stars Logan Lerman as the main character, Percy Jackson, alongside an ensemble cast which includes Brandon T. Jackson, Alexandra Daddario, Jake Abel, Rosario Dawson, Steve Coogan, Uma Thurman, Catherine Keener, Sean Bean and Pierce Brosnan. It was released to theaters on February 12, 2010.
In its opening weekend the movie ranked #2; and in its first week the movie grossed $40 million, comprising 40% of its "$95 million budget". Critical reception was mixed. The movie made a worldwide total of $191,143,508 after 28 days of release.
At the top of the Empire State Building, Poseidon (Kevin McKidd) meets with Zeus (Sean Bean), who comments that the storm clouds have no lightning and that his master bolt has been stolen. He blames Poseidon's son for the theft. Despite Poseidon's claims of his son's innocence, Zeus gives Poseidon 14 days to return it, lest war break out. 
During a field trip to a display of Greek and Roman art, teenager Percy Jackson (Logan Lerman), is lured away from the crowd by a Fury disguised as his substitute English teacher, who then attacks him, questioning him about the lightning bolt. Percy, who has no knowledge of this, is rescued by his Latin teacher, Mr. Brunner (Pierce Brosnan). After getting rid of the Fury, Brunner gives Percy a magical pen. On Brunner's instruction, Percy's best friend, Grover (Brandon T. Jackson), takes Percy to a training camp for demigods (half-human, half-gods), Camp Half-Blood. They are driven by Percy's mother, Sally Jackson (Catherine Keener). During their trip to the camp, Percy tries to learn about his father from Sally, but they are attacked by a Minotaur. Percy and Grover, who is revealed to be a satyr (half-goat, half-human), make it to the camp. Its defenses keep Sally from entering, she is captured by the Minotaur, and disappears before Percy. Percy engages the Minotaur with the magical pen, which turns into a sword named Riptide. He finally kills the creature with one of its horns.
In touring Camp Half-Blood, Percy learns that Brunner is the camp's trainer and the mythological centaur (half-horse, half-human) Chiron. He also finds out that his father is the god Poseidon. He meets Luke Castellan (Jake Abel), the son of Hermes, and Annabeth Chase (Alexandra Daddario), the daughter of Athena. While at the camp, Percy learns that water has the power to heal his injuries, and allows him to use his magical abilities.
Hades later appears and reveals that Sally Jackson is his prisoner, and proposes she be traded for the master bolt. Chiron instructs Percy not to bargain with the god, but to go to Olympus to convince Zeus that he did not take the bolt. Percy sneaks away from the camp to travel to the Underworld along with Grover and Annabeth, who secure for him a portable shield from Luke, flying shoes and a map to Persephone's (Rosario Dawson) pearls, one of which will reveal the exit from the Underworld.
At Aunty Em's Garden Emporium, they are attacked by Medusa (Uma Thurman), but manage to kill her, and take the pearl from her bracelet. They also take her head, which they later successfully use against a hydra that attacks them during their gaining of another pearl from the crown of a giant statue of Athena at the Parthenon replica in Nashville, Tennessee. They acquire the third and final pearl from a roulette wheel at a hotel casino in Las Vegas, Nevada, in part with help from Poseidon. The map reveals an entrance to the Underworld in Hollywood, California, beneath the Hollywood Sign. 
The trio enter the Underworld and cross the River Styx. Persephone takes them to Hades. Percy tries to explain to Hades that he did not steal the bolt. During an resulting chaos, Percy drops his shield, whose handle conceals the missing master bolt, which Hades takes. However, the trio manage to get it back before escaping the Underworld with the rescued Sally, forced to leave Grover behind, in Persephone's "care", as they only had three pearls. They are transported to the top of the Empire State Building, which they learn is the entrance to Olympus. They are confronted by Luke, who reveals himself to have been the real lightning thief. Explaining his hope for new rulers to take over Olympus, he explains that he had hoped that the trio would not escape the Underworld alive. He steals the bolt from Percy and the two fight. After using his water powers to get rid of Luke, Percy arrives in Olympus, where he presents the retrieved bolt, and reveals the truth about Luke. Poseidon explains to Percy the reason why they could not know each other during Percy's childhood, but expresses his love for his son. Percy also requests that Zeus retrieve Grover from the Underworld, to which the god agrees. Percy returns to Camp Half-Blood, where he continues his training, ending the movie in the midst of a clash with Annabeth. After the end credits, a scene shows Sally forcing Gabe out of their apartment and he reads a note on the fridge from Percy that says not to open the fridge. Gabe destroys the lock on the refrigerator and as he opens it, Medusa stares right back at him, and the scene goes black while a crackling noise is heard, showing that Gabe has been turned to stone.
In June 2004, 20th Century Fox bought the movie rights to the book. In April 2007, director Chris Columbus was hired to helm the project. Filming began in April 2009 in Vancouver. Portions of the movie were shot at the Parthenon in Nashville, Tennessee, a full-scale replica of the original Parthenon in Athens. Filming wrapped up on the morning of July 25, 2009 in Vancouver, British Columbia. Digital intermediate work began in San Francisco in November 2009. Christophe Beck composed the score.
Columbus has stated that the cast were chosen specifically with sequels in mind. " I think with Percy Jackson it was a matter of finding the right cast to fit into these roles, sort of the perfect cast for these roles, because hopefully, God willing, we will go on to do other Percy Jackson movies and you want the cast to grow with their characters."
The movie opened on February 12, 2010 in 3,356 theaters; its opening weekend box-office results totaled $31,236,067 in the U.S., finishing at #3 behind "The Wolfman", which opened at #2 with $31,479,235 and "Valentine's Day", which opened at #1 with $56,260,707. The movie had a strong opening weekend for its genre, posting the highest opening weekend for a fantasy movie not from the "Harry Potter", "Narnia", or "The Lord of the Rings" series. As of March 9, 2010, it grossed a total of $78,886,633, with $111,950,508 elsewhere in the world, bringing it to $190,837,141. It is the second highest grossing movie worldwide in 2010 after "Alice in Wonderland".
Critical reception of the movie has been mixed, as indicated by a weighted average score of 48 out of 100 from Metacritic. The movie currently holds a 50% 'Rotten' rating on Rotten Tomatoes, based on 120 reviews; the site's consensus being that although the movie "may seem like just another Harry Potter knockoff, the movie benefits from a strong supporting cast, a speedy plot, and plenty of fun with Greek mythology". Kenneth Turan of "Los Angeles Times" described the movie as "standard Hollywood product... unadventurous and uninteresting." "The Washington Post" reviewer thought "the movie suffers by taking itself a little too seriously. It's not just that it's a lot less funny than the book. It's also a lot less fun."
On BBC Radio 5 Mark Kermode criticized the similarity of the movie to director Chris Columbus' "Harry Potter" films.
A Percy Jackson video game based on "Percy Jackson & the Olympians: The Lightning Thief" was released on the Nintendo DS on February 11, 2010.
GameZone's Michael Splechta gave it a 6/10, saying "Percy Jackson might not make a splash when it comes to movie tie-in games, but fans of turn-based combat might find some redeeming qualities in this otherwise bare-bones game."

</doc>
<doc id="232550" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232550" title="The Last Olympian">
The Last Olympian

The Last Olympian is a fantasy-adventure novel based on Greek mythology by Rick Riordan published on May 5, 2009. It is the fifth and final installment in the "Percy Jackson & the Olympians" series and serves as the direct sequel to "The Battle of the Labyrinth". There is a statement at the end of the book referencing the close of "the first Camp Half-Blood series," indicating that there might be more to follow. "The Last Olympian" revolves around the demigod Perseus Jackson as he leads his friends in a last stand to protect Mount Olympus. The book received many positive reviews.
Percy Jackson, his friends, and the Olympians fight in a war resembling the original war between the Greek gods and the Titans and in a final battle with the powerful Titan, Kronos. Many fight for Olympus, including the Hunters of Artemis, dryads, satyrs, naiads, and tree nymphs, Chiron's centaur cousins the Party Ponies, and the hellhound Mrs. O'Leary. They must defend Mt. Olympus from Kronos' huge army consisting of rogue half-bloods, dracaenae, Hyperboreans, Laestrygonians, drakon, Hyperion, telekhines, Typhon, and hellhounds.
It is revealed that Luke had bathed in the River Styx, thus becoming nearly invincible (much like Achilles). Seeking to defeat Kronos, Percy does the same, with some encouragement from Nico. It is also revealed how Nico's mother died, and that the Oracle's foretelling of her death led to Hades cursing the Oracle. Due to this, when Luke's mother attempts to become the Oracle, she loses her mind and is given glimpses of Luke's future. Rachel, a mortal who can see through the Mist, tells Percy that he is not the hero of the Great Prophecy, and that it will influence his choice when he turns 16. 
Percy and Luke (who is possessed by Kronos) battle at the top of Mount Olympus in the throne room. Luke is shocked back into his normal self when Annabeth reminds him of his promise that he would never harm her. The 'cursed blade' of the prophecy was the knife that Luke gave to Annabeth when he promises to her that they are family. The Great Prophecy hinges on Percy's decision to give Luke the dagger rather than kill him. Luke commits suicide by stabbing himself in his mortal point when Kronos takes over his body, becoming the hero of the prophecy and ending the war on Percy's 16th birthday. 
The gods grant Percy, Grover, Annabeth, and Tyson rewards at the conclusion of their quest. Tyson becomes the General of the Cyclops army and is gifted a new weapon, a "stick." Grover is granted a place on the Council of Cloven Elders and becomes a new Lord of the Wild. Annabeth's wish to become an architect is fulfilled as she is tasked to design and rebuild Olympus. Percy, refusing godhood for himself, forces the gods to swear on the River Styx that they will recognize all of their children by the time they turn 13 and that they will end the pact of the Big Three, in which Zeus, Poseidon and Hades were barred from fathering demigod offspring. He also requires cabins for Hades and the minor gods to be built at Camp Half-Blood, and that they set Calypso free of her curse. Rachel becomes the new Oracle of Delphi and speaks the next Great Prophecy. Percy and Annabeth share a kiss, after which Clarisse La Rue and their other surviving friends dunk them in the lake, where they share another kiss, this time underwater.
"The Last Olympian" received overwhelmingly positive reviews. "Publishers Weekly" wrote "...fans will not be disappointed" and remarked "As the capstone to this beloved series, this story satisfies." They praised Percy's "brave leadership" and said that "the final clash would keep a Hollywood special effects team busy for years." "Booklist"'s starred review commented that "...Riordan’s imagination soars in the climactic battle scenes" but said that he manages to "bring the whole series to a satisfying close in the down-to-earth conclusion." It also received starred reviews from "Kirkus".
The unabridged audiobook version of "The Last Olympian" is read by Jesse Bernstein. It was released on May 12, 2009 by Random House/Listening Library. It is 10 hours and 50 minutes long.

</doc>
<doc id="232551" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232551" title="Vineyard">
Vineyard

A vineyard is a place where grapes are grown. Some vineyards belong to wineries. The grapes grown in those are used to make wine.

</doc>
<doc id="232552" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232552" title="Tyson (Percy Jackson)">
Tyson (Percy Jackson)

Tyson is a fictional character in Rick Riordan's "Percy Jackson and the Olympians" series. He is a cyclops. Percy Jackson, the main character of the series, is his half-brother. They have the same father, the Greek god Poseidon. He first appears as a homeless boy in the second book of the series, "The Sea of Monsters".
Tyson is played by Douglas Smith in , the film adaption of The Sea of Monsters.
Tyson is the son of the Greek god Poseidon and a nature spirit. He is a young cyclops who tries to be "the best little brother possible" and "make his family proud." He meets Percy at Meriwether College Prep school; Tyson is the subject of a program at the school which seeks to take in a homeless kid and help him while also taking in some information about him. The Mist obscures everybody's view of Tyson's one eye, making most think he has two eyes . Tyson has severe scars on his back that were caused by a sphinx in the substation where he used to live. Tyson finds Annabeth Chase pretty. He uses his bare strength and metalworking ability to his avail in many situations. For example, while fighting monsters in "The Sea of Monsters", his immunity to fire protected him from magical flaming spheres that would have killed anyone else. During his first summer at Camp-Half Blood, Tyson makes Percy a shield with images of all of their adventures engraved on it; it retracts into a watch when not deployed.
Thalia's tree, the tree which serves as the magical border of Camp Half-Blood, is mysteriously poisoned. Chiron is blamed for poisoning the tree and dismissed from camp; Tantalus takes his job. The only thing able to cure the tree is the Golden Fleece, which has healing powers for plants, animals, and humans. It is located on Polyphemus's Island in the Sea of Monsters (the Bermuda Triangle).
Clarisse La Rue, the daughter of Ares and longtime enemy of Percy, is given the quest to go into the Sea of Monsters to find the Golden Fleece. Percy and Annabeth decide to go also, not just for the Golden Fleece, but for their friend Grover, who is trapped in Polyphemus's cave. Tyson, Percy, and Annabeth, after saving Camp Half-Blood from two fire-breathing bulls, set out to find Polyphemus, who believes that Grover is a female cyclops and not a satyr.
As they enter the Sea of Monsters, they have to get past Scylla and Charybdis. Instead of trying to sail in between, Clarisse goes for Charybidis. Clarisse's ship is destroyed. Tyson, who did not escape the ship in time, is presumed dead the until it is learned that he was saved by a hippocampus named Rainbow. They all meet up on Polyphemus's Island and ultimately leave with the Golden Fleece.
When they return to the mortal world, Clarisse returns to camp on a plane. Percy, Annabeth and Tyson are kidnapped by Luke. He almost kills Percy in a duel, but Percy reveals that Chiron is innocent. Chiron comes to rescue them with his strangely dressed relatives, the Party Ponies. When they return to camp, the Fleece is put on the tree, reviving both it and Thalia.
Tyson plays a minor role in "The Titan's Curse". Once, while he is in Poseidon's underwater court making various items at the forge, he appears in an Iris message between him and Percy.
Percy comes back to Camp Half-Blood to find Tyson already there cleaning their room for inspection. Tyson has also fixed Percy's shield, which has been broken by a manticore, Dr. Thorn in the third book. The shield retracts into a watch when not in use. 
Annabeth leads the quest into Daedalus' Labyrinth. She breaks the rule of having only two companions on a quest by choosing Percy, Grover, and Tyson. Annabeth descends into the Labyrinth with them to find a way to stop Kronos's evil forces from entering the borders of Camp Half-Blood by searching for its inventor, Daedalus. They run into many obstacles. Annabeth faces a Sphinx and finds the riddles (which are actually factual questions) not challenging and an insult to her intellect. They escape the claws of the Sphinx and continue on to find Hephaestus so he can tell them about where to find Daedalus. Tyson then finds Briares, the Hundred-Handed One, but is disappointed to find out he is afraid of Kampe and refuses to fight. They split up, and Tyson follows Grover, who goes a different direction in search of Pan. They all reunite and flee the Labyrinth after the help of Daedalus (Quintus).
After jumping off the exploding "Princess Andromeda" (a cruise ship that Kronos had made his headquarters), Percy finds himself in Poseidon's palace where Tyson is waiting. Percy is in a grim state, so Tyson takes him to Poseidon. Poseidon looks very aged due to all of the stress from the war going on. Poseidon is not letting Tyson fight, for fear of losing him. To Tyson's disappointment, he sends him back to the armory to make weapons. The next time he is seen is through the mist of the hearth on Mount Olympus. Percy gives Poseidon the idea to send Tyson and all the other Cyclopes to take down Typhon. They do, and Typhon lands in the Hudson River. Tyson is last seen on Mount Olympus where he is awarded a new "stick"; he is also given the role of general of Olympus' army.

</doc>
<doc id="232553" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232553" title="Bowhead whale">
Bowhead whale

The bowhead whale (Balaena mysticetus) is an Arctic baleen whale, a right whale with a large, bow-shaped head that is up to 40% of its body length. The arched mouth is up to 10 feet (3 m) wide and 20 feet (6 m) deep. The eyes are very small and lips are huge. Bowheads live in pods, are rich in blubber (a subcutaneous layer 20-inch (50 cm) thick in places), and have 2 blowholes.

</doc>
<doc id="232565" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232565" title="Marcos Senna">
Marcos Senna

Marcos Senna (born 17 July 1976) is a Spanish football player. He plays for Villarreal and Spain national team.
177||13
177||13
!Total||27||1

</doc>
<doc id="232586" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232586" title="Coupe de France">
Coupe de France

Coupe de France is a French football competition. It is the premier knockout cup competition.

</doc>
<doc id="232605" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232605" title="Boris Gelfand">
Boris Gelfand

Boris Abramovich Gelfand (born 24 June 1968 in Minsk) is a Belarusian-Israeli chess grandmaster. He won the 2009 World Chess Cup. In 1998, Gelfand emigrated to Israel, where he is their top ranking chess player.
Gelfand was Junior Champion of the Soviet Union at 17, and European Junior Champion two years later. In 1988 he tied for first in the World Junior Championship, the title going to Joel Lautier. He earned the GM title the following year. He has won about 30 tournaments in his career, including tournaments at Wijk aan Zee (in 1992 and 1994) and first places in Biel (1993), Dos Hermanas (1994), Belgrade (1995), Tilburg (1996), Malmo (1999) and Pamplona (2004).
Gelfand has several times qualified for Candidates tournaments for the World Chess Championship. In 1993, he qualified for the Candidates via the Interzonal, and was knocked out in the quarter-final by England's Nigel Short. In the FIDE World Chess Championship 1996 he won the Interzonal, then won his first two Candidates matches, before being eliminated in the semi-final by Anatoly Karpov. He had numerous strong results in the knockout tournaments for the FIDE Championships 1998–2004, with his best result being a semi-finalist in 1997. He played in the 8-player 2002 Dortmund Tournament, which was the Candidates for the Classical World Chess Championship 2004, but failed to reach the semi-finals. 
He qualified for the tournament for the World Chess Championship 2007, and surprised most observers by finishing joint second with reigning world champion Vladimir Kramnik (third after tie breaks). The tournament and the world championship was won by Viswanathan Anand. 
Gelfand won the Chess World Cup 2009, and was automatically seeded into the Candidates tournament for the World Chess Championship 2012.
The 2012 Candidates match series was held in Kazan, Russia. In game three of the quarterfinals he played the Sicilian defense to defeat Shakhriyar Mamedyarov 2.5–1.5. In the semifinals he faced American Gata Kamsky. After splitting the first four games 2–2, the match went into a rapid playoff. Kamsky won game three in the playoff to go ahead 2–1. This meant Gelfand had to win with black in the final game to avoid elimination. Gelfand was up to the task, and then won the blitz playoff 2–0 to advance to the final. 
In the final, he faced Alexander Grischuk. After drawing the first five games, Gelfand won the sixth and final game on the white side of a Grünfeld defence to win the match 3.5–2.5. As winner of the Candidates series, Gelfand face Anand for the 2012 World Championship. In this match Gelfand tied 6–6, but he lost the four-game rapid play tie-breaker.

</doc>
<doc id="232609" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232609" title="Yue Wang">
Yue Wang

Yue Wang is China's highest ever rated chess grandmaster, and the first to reach the elite top 10 in the world. 
In 2004, he became China's 18th Grandmaster at the age of 17. In October 2007, Wang became the first Chinese player, and third Asian player, to cross the 2700 rating mark. 
Wang is currently ranked 2nd in Asia; #1 is World Champion Viswanathan Anand of India. 
Wang Yue was to play on 1st board at the World Team Chess Championship in January 2010, until China dropped out of the event at the last minute.

</doc>
<doc id="232628" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232628" title="Winchester College football">
Winchester College football

Winchester College football, also known as Wincofo or winkies, is a style of football that is played at Winchester College during the spring term or ""common time,"" as the Winchester students refer to it. It was originally played during the autumn term, or ""short half."" It is very similar to games played at other public schools such as Eton's wall game and Harrow game. The school is located in the city of Winchester in Hampshire, England. 
It was originally played down Kingsgate Street, a long street that runs parallel to the college. However, there were very few rules. The only thing that has not changed is that the canvas (the pitch it is played on) is the same measurement as the part of the street it was originally played on.
Nobody knows when the game location was moved. However after a while it was moved away from the town to the grassland on the top of St. Catherine's Hill. To stop the ball from going into the canal that is below, they used junior men from the college to go fetch it when it was not caught by the players. To some extent, this continues to be in the game because there are classmates used as watchers to catch stray balls. However, there were problems with this. The biggest is the lines of watchers were depleted due to players being too enthusiastic and colliding with each other, causing injuries. So they introduced ropes to mark out the border of the playing field. These are now essential tactics of the game.

</doc>
<doc id="232639" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232639" title="Nona Gaprindashvili">
Nona Gaprindashvili

Nona Gaprindashvili (; born 3 May 1941) is a Georgian chess player. She was the strongest female player of the 1960s and 70s, and became the sixth Women's World Chess Champion (1962–1978). She was the first woman to achieve the Grandmaster title.
In 1961, aged 20, Gaprindashvili won the fourth women's Candidates Tournament, setting up a title match against Russian world champion Elisabeth Bykova. She won the match easily, with a final score of 9−2 (+7−0=4), and went on to defend her title successfully four times. She finally lost her crown in 1978 to another Georgian, Maia Chiburdanidze, by a score of 6½–8½ (+2−4=9).
Gaprindashvili played for Soviet Union in the women's chess Olympiads of 1963, 1966, 1969, 1972, 1974, 1978, 1980, 1982, 1984, 1986, 1990, and for Georgia in 1992. She won as many as 25 medals, among which 11 team gold medals and 9 individual gold medals At the Dubai Olympiad 1986 she won all the ten games she played.
She was a five-times winner of the Soviet women's chess championship: in 1964, 1973, 1981, 1983, and 1985. During her career Gaprindashvili successfully competed in men's tournaments, tying for first place at Lone Pine, California in 1977.
In 1978 Gaprindashvili became the first woman to be awarded the Grandmaster title. She was awarded the title partly as a result of winning Lone Pine 1977 against a field of 45 players, mostly grandmasters. Although she did not meet the technical requirements for the GM Title, this result was so spectacular that FIDE found it sufficient.
Pal Benko wrote in "Chess Life & Review" (January 1979):
Nona was the first President of the National Olympic Committee of Georgia. In 2009 she won in Condino, Italy the World Senior Championship for women.

</doc>
<doc id="232646" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232646" title="Laffy Taffy">
Laffy Taffy

Laffy Taffy is a type of taffy that comes in many fruit flavours. It is made by Nestlé and the Willy Wonka Candy Company. Laffy Taffy also comes with jokes written on the wrapper. A piece of Laffy Taffy has 160 calories.

</doc>
<doc id="232667" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232667" title="Georgio de Chirico">
Georgio de Chirico

Georgio de Chirico was an Italian painter. He was born on June 10, 1888 in Volos, Greece. His parents were Italians. He died on November 20, 1978 in Rome, Italy. His best paintings were made from 1911-1917.
Giorgio De Chirico had only one pupil the painter Luca Bestetti, who did private lessons at his home, being an illustrator dependent of the pubblishing company of his father Carlo.

</doc>
<doc id="232673" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232673" title="Chris Bonington">
Chris Bonington

Sir Christian John Storey Bonington, CBE (born 6 August 1934 in Hampstead, London) is a British mountaineer, someone who climbs mountains. 
His has been to the Himalayas nineteen times. Four of those times, he climbed Mount Everest. He was the first to climb of the south part of the mountain Annapurna.

</doc>
<doc id="232674" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232674" title="Jersey Telecom">
Jersey Telecom

Jersey Telecom is the former monopoly incumbent operator in the Bailiwick of Jersey. Jersey is incorporated into the UK National Telephone Numbering Plan Ofcom | The National Numbering Scheme - Telephone Numbers administered by Ofcom area codes of +44 1534 for landlines and +44 7797 for Jersey Telecom mobiles, +44 7700 for Cable and Wireless mobiles and +44 7829 for Jersey Airtel mobiles. It is not connected to Jersey Post, the island's postal service.

</doc>
<doc id="232683" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232683" title="The Cable Guy">
The Cable Guy

The Cable Guy is an 1996 American black comedy thriller movie that was produced by Judd Apatow and Bernie Brillstein and was directed by Ben Stiller. 
Jim Carrey plays a man with borderline personality disorder who installs cable television in people's homes. He is obsessed with one of his customers, played by Matthew Broderick. 
The Cable Guy was released on June 14, 1996 in North America. The movie received mixed reviews with a 54% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and a 76 out of 100 from Metacritic. 

</doc>
<doc id="232725" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232725" title="Lucy Beale">
Lucy Beale

Lucy Beale is a fictional character from the BBC soap opera "EastEnders", and is currently being played by Hetti Bywater. She is the daughter of Cindy and Ian Beale. Her stepmother is Jane Beale.

</doc>
<doc id="232756" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232756" title="Camilla and Rebecca Rosso">
Camilla and Rebecca Rosso

Camilla Rosso and Rebecca Rosso (born 6 July 1994 in Wimbledon, London, England) are identical twin actresses. They had a role on "The Suite Life of Zack and Cody", where they were the twins Janice (Camilla) and Jessica (Rebecca). They also had the principal roles in the third movie in the series of "Legally Blonde", "Legally Blondes", which appeared on ABC Family and Disney Channel.
Camilla and Rebecca were discovered when they were selected in an audience by one of the executive producers of "The Suite Life of Zack & Cody" at a live taping of the show. They then auditioned, and they started to perform the roles of twins Janice (Camilla) and Jessica (Rebecca). They appeared in 7 episodes of the show.
They appeared in the film "Legally Blondes", which was released direct-to-DVD on April 28, 2009 as a sequel to "Legally Blonde". Reese Witherspoon, star of the original "Legally Blonde", presented and produced the film.
They currently live in Los Angeles with their mother, father, Aika (their dog), and three sisters Georgina (also an actress), Lola, and Bianca Rosso.

</doc>
<doc id="232788" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232788" title="Masahiko Kimura">
Masahiko Kimura


</doc>
<doc id="232795" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232795" title="Alexander Karelin">
Alexander Karelin

Aleksandr Aleksandrovich Karelin (born September 19, 1967 in Novosibirsk, Russian SFSR) is an athlete from the Russian Federation. He is considered the greatest Greco-Roman wrestler of all time and one of the best wrestlers of his time. He won gold medals at the 1988, 1992, and 1996 Olympic Games.

</doc>
<doc id="232818" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232818" title="Sunday school">
Sunday school

Sunday School is a kind of schooling found in many churches, mosques or religious communities. Classes are done on Sundays. Before or after the main part of worship, a class is held to learn more about that church's teachings, and about the Bible or holy scripture of the religion. Sometimes the class is only for children, sometimes adults go there as well and sometimes there are different classes for adults and for children.
Sunday schools were first set up in the 1780s to provide education to working children on their one day off from the factory. Robert Raikes contributed to their development. Raikes was the editor of "The Glouchestor Journal", and he wanted to stop children from becoming bad. In 1805, Stockport Sunday School made a school for 5000 students. In the late 19th century this was the largest in the world. 
The first Sunday school in London opened at Surrey Chapel by a pastor named Rowland Hill. By 1831, 1,250,000 children went every week to Sunday School in Great Britain. This was bout 25 percent of the people.
The American Sunday School system was first begun by Samuel Slater in Pawtucket, Rhode Island, in the 1790's.
Some Roman Catholic churches do Sunday schools, though Catholics commonly refer to Sunday school as "Catechism class".
Priests or pastors sometimes teach Sunday schools.

</doc>
<doc id="232821" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232821" title="Grimké sisters">
Grimké sisters

Sarah Grimké (1792-1873) and Angelina Grimké Weld (1805–1879), known as the Grimké sisters, were 19th-century American Quakers, educators and writers who supported abolitionism and women's rights.
The Grimké sisters were born in Charleston, South Carolina, USA. Sarah Moore Grimke was born on November 26, 1792 and Angelina Emily Grimke was born on November 26, 1805. They traveled in the North, talking about their experiences with slavery on their father's plantation. They were often mocked and laughed at. They both saw that women needed more freedom to help change society. They began helping the women's rights movement.
In 1838, the sisters became the first women to speak at a meeting of the Massachusetts state legislature. They spoke about slavery and abolitionism. People were very shocked. They helped attract thousands of women in New England to the movement. Many came to hear Sarah and Angelina speak at public lectures.
In 1838, Sarah wrote a paper called "Letters on the Equality of the Sexes and the Condition of Women." It answered many questions which were asked in a letter by a group of ministers who did not like the sisters because they had stepped out of their "woman's proper sphere".
When Sarah was 80, she tried to vote.
They lived to see the end to slavery, and the beginning of women's rights.

</doc>
<doc id="232824" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232824" title="DjVu">
DjVu

DjVu (pronounced like déjà vu) is a computer file format. It is made mostly to store scanned documents. It is especially used for things with a mix of words, line drawings, and photographs inside. DjVu has been sold as an to PDF, as it gives smaller files than PDF for most scanned documents. The DjVu developers report that color magazine pages make smaller to 40–70 kB. Black and white technical papers make it smaller to 15–40 kB. Old manuscripts make smaller to around 100 kB; a satisfactory JPEG image usually needs 500 kB. Like PDF, DjVu can have a OCR text layer. This makes it easy to cut and paste, and search for text.

</doc>
<doc id="232851" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232851" title="People For the American Way">
People For the American Way

People for the American Way (PFAW) is a progressive organization that is involved in political activism. Issues that it involves itself in are judicial nominations, church/state separation, civil rights, voting rights for Washington, DC in the U.S. Congress and equal rights for lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgendered (LGBT) people and promotion of civic participation.
PFAW says about its purpose on its website 

</doc>
<doc id="232883" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232883" title="Vladislav Listyev">
Vladislav Listyev

Vladislav Listyev (, 10 May 1956 - 1 March 1995) was a Russian businessman, television presenter and journalist, the first Director-General of the Russian ORT television.

</doc>
<doc id="232888" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232888" title="Mac Pro">
Mac Pro

The Mac Pro is a workstation computer made by Apple Inc. It is part of the company's Apple Macintosh group of computers. Also, it is the fastest computer Apple sells. It runs on Intel Xeon microprocessors, chips which help the computer think. It is like the Power Mac G5, which is the computer it replaced. The Mac Pro looks the same and the parts inside the computer can be changed the same, too. There are two other computers sold by Apple that are also called "desktop" computers. They are the iMac and Mac mini.
The first Mac Pro was announced at the 2006 Apple Worldwide Developers Conference. The computer used the Intel Woodcrest microprocessor.

</doc>
<doc id="232889" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232889" title="Mac Mini">
Mac Mini

The Mac Mini is a personal computer made by Apple Inc. It is small for a desktop computer, at 6.5 inches (16.5 cm) square and 2 inches (5.1 cm) tall. It was introduced on January 22, 2005. The newest model came out on October 20, 2009. It weighs 2.9 pounds (1.31 kg). The Mac Mini's power supply is outside of the machine. It is about one third of the size of the computer itself.
The Mac Mini is the first Macintosh desktop to not ship with a keyboard or mouse. Also, it does not come with a display. The Mac Mini is mainly intended for buyers who are "switchers" (users moving from PC/Windows to Mac) who already own a display, USB keyboard and a mouse. Others could easily buy these if needed.
A special version of the computer is also intended for use as a server in a smaller system (like a home network). It comes with Snow Leopard Server and two 500GB hard drives. The server does not have a built-in optical disc drive like other Mac Minis.

</doc>
<doc id="232890" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232890" title="Xserve">
Xserve

The Xserve is a server made by Apple Inc. which started in 2002. It was Apple's first serve since the Apple Network Servers that they made in 1996. It first came with one or two PowerPC G4 processors. Later, new PowerPC G5 were added. Now, the server runs on two quad-core Intel Nehalem CPUs.
The Xserve can be used for many things, such as a file server and web server. It can even be used for high-performance computing applications using clustering—a dedicated cluster Xserve, the Xserve Cluster Node. This means there are many Xserves linked together so they can combine their power. For this, it was available without a video card or optical drive.

</doc>
<doc id="232891" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232891" title="AirPort">
AirPort

AirPort and AirPort Extreme are local area wireless networking products that are made by the company Apple Inc.
Both the AirPort and the AirPort Extreme can both mean the protocol, the expansion card or the base station.
In Japan, AirPort is called the AirMacAirMac because the name AirPort was taken by I-O DATA.

</doc>
<doc id="232897" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232897" title="Mackerel">
Mackerel

Mackerel is a common name given to a number of species of fish. Most mackerel are from the Scombridae family.
They are pelagic fish, found in both temperate and tropical seas. Most live along the coast or offshore in the oceanic environment.
Mackerel typically have vertical stripes on their backs and deeply forked tails. They are superb swimmers, but are often eaten by larger predators such as cod, sharks and dolphins.
Mackerel is an oily fish with rich of omega-3. The flesh of mackerel spoils easily, especially in the tropics, and can cause food poisoning. So, it should be eaten on the day of capture, unless pickled in salt, or refrigerated.

</doc>
<doc id="232922" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232922" title="Theravada">
Theravada

Theravada is the oldest-surviving denomination of Buddhism. It was founded in Nepal. It is relatively conservative, and generally closest to early Buddhist practice. For many centuries it has been the main religion of Sri Lanka (now about 70% of the population) and most of continental Southeast Asia (Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar, and Thailand). Theravada is also practiced by minorities in parts of southwest China (by the Shan and Tai ethnic groups), Vietnam (by the Khmer Krom), Bangladesh (by the ethnic groups of Baruas, Chakma, and Magh), Malaysia and Indonesia, while recently gaining popularity in Singapore and the Western world. Today Theravada Buddhists, who are also known as Theravadins, number over 100 million worldwide; in recent decades Theravada has begun to take root in the West and in the Buddhist revival in Nepal.

</doc>
<doc id="232956" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232956" title="Poverty line">
Poverty line

The poverty line, which is also sometimes called the poverty threshold, is the smallest amount of money a person or a family needs to live on; to buy what is needed. People who are below this line are classified as poor. This line is used to decide who can get extra help with things like food, shelter or medical care. There is a poverty line based on the income and another based on consumption levels.
The poverty line is not the same in all countries. It can be decided by the economy. In the United States, the poverty line is different depending on how many people there are in a family. This is because it costs more to buy food and supplies for more people. So, for example, it is higher in a family with eight people than in a family with three people. 

</doc>
<doc id="232966" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232966" title="Taquería">
Taquería

Taquería (sometimes misspelled as "taquiria") is a Spanish word meaning "taco shop". In some places, means a restaurant specializing in burritos, although tacos and other Mexican dishes are often served as well. The first "taquerías" were people in stalls on the streets, but now many "taquerías" have moved into buildings and become restaurants.

</doc>
<doc id="232995" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232995" title="Second Fleet (Australia)">
Second Fleet (Australia)

The Second Fleet is the name of the second group of ships sent with settlers, convicts and supplies to colony at Sydney Cove in Port Jackson, Australia. There were six ships in the fleet: one Royal Navy Escort, four convict ships, and a supply ship. 
The ships were meant to sail to Australia together, and get to Sydney Cove in 1789. However the escort ship was wrecked on the way and did not arrive, and one convict ship was delayed and arrived two months after the other ships.
Unlike the First Fleet, where great efforts were taken to keep the convicts healthy, the Second Fleet was run by private businesses who kept the convicts in horrific conditions. When they got to Sydney, the sick convicts were a drain on the already struggling colony. 
The "Lady Juliana" sailed before the other convict ships and is not always counted as part of the Second Fleet. The supply ship "Justinian" did not sail with the convict ships and arrived before them. "HMS Guardian" set out before the convict ships but struck ice after leaving the Cape of Good Hope, went back to southern Africa and was wrecked on the coast.
The "Surprize", "Neptune" and "Scarborough" were sent by the firm "Camden, Calvert & King". They had agreed to transport, clothe and feed the convicts for a fee of £17 7s. 6d per head This fee was paid whether the convicts landed dead or alive. This firm had previously been in the business of taking slaves to North America. The only government people on the ship were the naval agent, Lieutenant John Shapcote, and the Captain of the Guard; all other crew were supplied by the firm. 
The Second Fleet left England on 19 January 1790, with 1,006 convicts (928 male and 78 female). They made only one stop on the way, at the Cape of Good Hope. Here 20 male convicts, survivors from "Guardian", were taken on board. The three ships made a faster trip than the First Fleet, arriving at Port Jackson in the last week of June 1790. This was three weeks after "Lady Juliana", and one week after the supply ship "Justinian".
The trip was fast, but the rate of people dying was the highest in the history of transportation to Australia. Of the 1,026 convicts who left, 267 (256 men and 11 women) died during the voyage (26%). 
On "Neptune" the convicts were not given enough food, they were kept tied up with chains, and rarely let up onto the deck. Many of them got scurvy. On "Scarborough", they were fed, but a reported mutiny attempt led to the convicts being kept locked up below the deck.
Captain William Hill, Captain of the guard, later wrote that the ships' captains did not feed the convicts so that they could sell the food in another country. They wanted the convicts to die quickly so that they did not have to waste the food on them and could keep it for sale later.
When they got to Sydney, the half naked convicts were lying without bedding, too ill to move. Those unable to walk were thrown over the side. All were covered with lice. At least 486 of the convicts were sick, 47% of those who had left England. The others were described as “lean and emaciated” and showing “more horrid spectacles than had ever been witnessed in this country”.
Among the people on the Second Fleet were D'Arcy Wentworth and his convict mistress Catherine Crowley, on "Neptune", and John Macarthur, then a young lieutenant in the New South Wales Corps, and his wife Elizabeth, on "Scarborough". Macarthur's eldest son, Edward Macarthur, who came with his parents on the "Neptune" and "Scarborough", is believed to be the only person who sailed in the Second Fleet of whom we have a photograph. He was also the last survivor of the voyage.
When news of the horrors of the Second Fleet reached England, both the public and government were shocked. An enquiry was held but no attempt was made to arrest Donald Traill, captain of "Neptune". He had been described as an insane sadist. The government did not charge him, the other captains, or the firm of contractors. They had already been contracted by the government to prepare the Third Fleet for sailing to Port Jackson in 1791.
Traill and his Chief Mate, William Ellerington, were privately put in court for the murder of an unnamed convict, seaman Andrew Anderson, and John Joseph, cook. But, after a trial lasting three hours before Sir James Marriott in the Admiralty Court, the jury set both men free "without troubling the Judge to sum up the evidence".

</doc>
<doc id="232999" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232999" title="Erin (color)">
Erin (color)

Erin is the color halfway between green and spring green on the color wheel. The color "erin" is named after the word "Erin", a poetic name for Ireland. 
The first written use of "erin" as a color name in English was in 1922.

</doc>
<doc id="233000" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233000" title="Culture of ancient Rome">
Culture of ancient Rome

Ancient Roman culture grew through the almost 1200 years of Rome's civilization. The Romans conquered many peoples and brought back from their wars many things from each land. Their way of life was a mix of many cultures, influences, and religions. Architecture, painting, sculpture, laws, and literature grew to a high level. Slaves, and Christians were treated differently by different rulers. Rome was a trading nation which kept military control over a wide range of peoples, mostly around the Mediterranean.
There were four classes of people in Rome: the aristocrats, the equestrians, the common citizens, and the slaves. The aristocrat class had about 300 families, mostly senators. The aristocrat class was very powerful. The equestrians were merchants, government builders, and bankers who were rich. The common citizens were farmers, industrial workers, and the city . Slaves had to work hard and were usually released when they became old. Some slaves were trained to be gladiators for people to watch. Other slaves worked in rich homes as doorkeepers, litter-bearers, messengers, or servants. Some Greek slaves were teachers.
The original Roman religion had many gods, with stories called Roman mythology. Sometimes they also worshipped foreign gods.
At the time of the birth of Jesus, the Roman Empire ruled the entire Mediterranean area. Jesus taught to worship God only. Because Christians worshiped only God and did not join in the festivals to other gods, Romans thought they were unpatriotic. Many Christians were crucified. Romans persecuted them for many years. Sometimes they were killed by animals for a show.
However, Christianity still spread in the Roman Empire. A great change took place when Constantine I became emperor. He moved the capital of the empire to Byzantium, converted to Christianity, and protected Christians from harm. Many Romans continued to worship the old gods.
In the Imperial Age, the poorer Roman houses were built of sun-dried brick. These houses only had one room. In this one room the family slept, ate, and had visitors. In the richer homes, statues and paintings were shown. Small rooms were used as living and dining places. In the center there was a court with a garden. It was decorated with fountains, plants, and flowers. Floors were often made of mosaics, tiles, or marble with lots of different colors. Some walls were painted. Dishes were made of pottery or glass. There was plumbing in some houses and in the public baths, and a sewer system was used. Hot air warmed the house from a heating system. Many rich Romans had two houses, one in the town and one in the country.
Poor people lived in buildings where the top floors were for the poorest. Sometimes they could have as many as 200 steps to reach them. Many fires happened. Buckets of water were used to put out fires, though many times it did not work.
Poor people ate vegetables, fish, salt, cheese, fruits, nuts, and olive oil. Meat, especially beef, was usually not eaten. Breakfast was usually not eaten and, for lunch, leftovers were used. Rich people ate dinner before four in the afternoon. They usually ate from three to ten hours. Hands were washed between the courses. One emperor served 22 courses at his dinner parties. If visitors were invited to dinner, slaves were sent to bring them on time, because water clocks did not always work the same. People enjoyed eating grapes for dessert. At first, cold clams and oysters were eaten for dessert, but later people ate them at the beginning of a meal instead.
The public baths were used not only for bathing. Besides the hot water rooms and cold water rooms, there were gardens, stadiums, art galleries, libraries, and places to eat. There were even underground passageways to get to places more easily. Aqueducts fed water for the baths. They were so well built that some are still used. The Romans were very proud of their aqueducts. They thought they were better than the "useless" Egyptian pyramids.
Big ships called "quinqueremes" had 300 people to row with oars. It could travel 100 miles a day. Trade paths were protected, for some things the ships carried were pearls, pepper, cotton, cinnamon, and silk. A pound of silk, at that time, cost a pound of gold.
The native language of the Romans was Latin. Its alphabet was based on the Etruscan alphabet, which was in turn based on the Greek alphabet. 
The surviving Latin literature is in Classical Latin from the 1st century BC. The spoken language of the Roman Empire was Vulgar Latin, which differed from Classical Latin in grammar and vocabulary, and eventually in pronunciation.
Out of Latin came Portuguese, Spanish, French, and Italian. Latin was used for medicine and science words.
Latin remained the main written language of the Roman Empire. Greek became the language spoken by the well-educated elite, because most of the literature studied by Romans was written in Greek. Roman literature was much influenced by Greek literature. Some of the best known examples are the "Aeneid" by Virgil, Plutarch's "Lives of Famous Men", and "Odes" by Horace.
In the eastern half of the Roman Empire, which later became the Byzantine Empire, Latin did not replace Greek at all. After the death of Justinian, Greek became the official language of the Byzantine government. The expansion of the Roman Empire spread Latin throughout Europe. Vulgar Latin evolved into dialects in different locations, gradually changing into the distinct Romance languages.
The Romans built great roads and bridges. They wrote plays and kept the Phoenician alphabet. The Romans were usually practical, and kept the Grecian culture alive. Many of the aqueducts they made are still there and used. Rome also had the first hospitals in the Western World. They also had the first system of state medicine for poor people.
Their building were decorated by mosaics on the floors, and paintings done directly on the walls.
The Romans' music was an important part of their lives. Song (known as "carmen") was part of almost every social occasion. Music accompanied spectacles and events in the arena. It was part of the performing arts form called "pantomimus", an early form of story ballet that combined expressive dancing, instrumental music and a sung libretto.
They were influenced by Etruscan and Greek music. What the Romans sang simply followed the natural melody of the song.

</doc>
<doc id="233004" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233004" title="Lagerstätte">
Lagerstätte

Lagerstätte (plural: "Lagerstätten") is a German word for places (sites) of exceptional fossil preservation. Adolf Seilacher coined the term in 1970 to describe sites, like Solnhofen, which yielded the most exceptional fossils.
Extra-special sites are called "Konservat-Lagerstätten" (conservation Lagerstätten). These are deposits known for the exceptional preservation of fine details. There skeletons are mostly articulated (bones together in life form), and the soft parts are preserved as impressions or casts. 
In Lagerstätten the normal processses of decay after death were less active or halted as sediment was deposited. This allowed the preservation of soft parts and exceptional detail. 
There are several possible causes which allow this to happen:
In these conditions, which are exceptional, scavengers, burrowers and bacteria are eliminated or reduced. Then the normal processes of deposition and fossilisation produces strata containing exceptional fossils.
Most of what we know about the details of extinct life comes from these exceptional sites. The soft-bodied Ediacaran biota, the fins of ichthyosaurs, the fur and wing structure of pterosaurs, the feathers on Mesozoic dinosaurs and birds, are all discoveries made on fossils from Lagerstätten. These sites preserve much of the fauna and flora of the time and place. That permits reconstruction of its ecology.
There are about 50 sites which have been described as Lagerstätten. 

</doc>
<doc id="233007" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233007" title="Hellenism (disambiguation)">
Hellenism (disambiguation)

Hellenism may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="233043" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233043" title="Post-impressionism">
Post-impressionism

Post-impressionism (or Post-Impressionism) is a term used to describe the development of French art after Manet (1832–1883). The British artist and art critic Roger Fry used the term in 1910, and it is now a standard art term. Fry organized the 1910 exhibition "Manet and the Post-Impressionists".
The post-impressionists were artists of the late 19th century who saw the work of the French Impressionist painters and were influenced by them. Their art styles grew out of the style called Impressionism. The word "Post-" means "after", so "post-impressionist" painting came after "impressionist" painting. These artists developed impressionism but rejected its limitations. They continued using the real-life subject matter, with vivid colours, often with thick paint. However, they added other ideas. Using geometric forms, to distorting form for effect, and using unnatural colours are some of their ways. The critic Rewald said "the term 'post-impressionism' is not a very precise one, though a very convenient one".
The main post-impressionist painters were Paul Cezanne, Paul Gauguin, Vincent van Gogh, Georges Seurat, Henri Toulouse-Lautrec and Henri Rousseau ('Le Douanier'). Picasso and Braque were certainly post-impressionists, but we describe them as Cubists.
The post-impressionist painters lived in France and knew each other, but they did not work together as a group, in the way that some of the impressionists did. They painted in ways that were different from each other. The post-impressionists led the way for other artists to experiment and develop all the different styles of Modern art in the 20th century.
The Post-Impressionist painters all experimented in different ways with the ideas of the Impressionists. Most of the important art movements (styles) of the twentieth century developed out of their work. Even though the Post-Impressionist painters were not well known in their lifetimes, they became so famous that in the 21st century their paintings sell for millions of dollars.
Click on each image to enlarge it, to see the way each artist has used brush-strokes and colour.

</doc>
<doc id="233045" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233045" title="Sunshine Skyway Bridge">
Sunshine Skyway Bridge

Sunshine Skyway Bridge is a highway bridge in Tampa Bay, Florida, that crosses 29,040 feet (5.5 miles or about 8.85 km). Every day, about 50,500 vehicles (cars and trucks) cross over the bridge. The bridge is considered Florida's ""flag bridge"" (Florida's most important bridge). On May 9, 1980, a freighter ship, called the MV "Summit Venture", ran into one of the bridge's supporting columns. 1200 feet (366 meters) of the bridge fell into the water, and 35 people were killed. The bridge was reconstructed to its current version in 1987.

</doc>
<doc id="233047" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233047" title="Handbook">
Handbook

A handbook (sometimes called a "vade mecum" which is Latin for "go with me") is a pocket book that can be carried at all times. Now however, this term is thought to be very old and is not in normal use any more.
Handbooks may have information about any topic, and are mostly guides of information in a special field or about a special method. They are not made for reading through from end to end. They are made to have fast answers in their area. For example, the MLA Handbook for Writers of Research Papers is a style guide for how to cite works in the MLA way, among other things.

</doc>
<doc id="233050" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233050" title="Yasuhiro Yamashita">
Yasuhiro Yamashita

Yamashita was in the 1984 Summer Olympics. He tore a right calf muscle early on. Even so he made it to the final. He played the final match against Mohamed Ali Rashwan of Egypt. Yamashita won the final and the gold medal despite his injury. Rashwan did not aim for Yamashita's right leg. Rashwan was given an award from the International Fairplay Committee.

</doc>
<doc id="233051" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233051" title="Mia Hamm">
Mia Hamm

Mariel Margaret Garciaparra (born on March 17, 1972, in Selma,Alabama), best known as Mia Hamm, is a retired American soccer player.

</doc>
<doc id="233053" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233053" title="Frankenstadion">
Frankenstadion

The Grundig Stadion is a football stadium in the southeast of Nuremberg, Germany. Since the 1963/1964 season, the stadium has been the home ground of 1. FC Nürnberg. The stadium has 48,553 seats. During the soccer World Cup 2006, the stadium was called "Frankenstadion".

</doc>
<doc id="233061" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233061" title="Texas Christian University">
Texas Christian University

Texas Christian University is a private co-ed university in Fort Worth, Texas in the United States. The school had 8,647 students in 2015. Their athletics teams are called the Horned Frogs.

</doc>
<doc id="233086" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233086" title="Atlantic Giant">
Atlantic Giant

Atlantic Giant is the name of a very large type of pumpkin. Fruit can grow to be larger than in diameter. The biggest Atlantic Giant ever grown weighed 1,725 pounds.

</doc>
<doc id="233091" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233091" title="Predator X">
Predator X

Predator X is a giant species of pliosaur discovered in 2006 by Norwegian scientist, Jorn Hurum. The skull was dug up in 2008 and told a lot about this animal. As far as scientists are concerned this animal had a bite force that was 4 times more powerful than that of a Tyrannosaurus and had a bite force 10 times more powerful than any modern giant predators today like the saltwater crocodile and the great white shark. From what scientists could gather this animal could lift a car in its mouth and crush it completely. This creature measured 49 feet long and weighed 99,000 pounds (49.5 tons). It lived about 147 million years ago and its remains were discovered in the Arctic.

</doc>
<doc id="233104" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233104" title="Emanuel Lasker">
Emanuel Lasker

Emanuel Lasker (24 December 1868 – 11 January 1941) was a German chess player, mathematician, and philosopher who was World Chess Champion for 27 years. 
In his prime Lasker was one of the most dominant champions, and he is generally regarded as one of the strongest players ever. He finally lost the title to Capablanca in 1921.
Lasker demanded high fees for playing matches and tournaments, which aroused some criticism. He had seen how Steinitz's life had ended in poverty, and was determined to avoid this fate. 
The conditions which Lasker demanded for World Championship matches in the last ten years of his reign were controversial, and prompted attempts to define rules for championship matches.
Lasker was also a talented mathematician, and his Ph.D. thesis is regarded as one of the foundations of modern algebra. He was a first-class contract bridge player and wrote about this and other games, including Go and his own invention, "Lasca".
Emanuel Lasker was the son of a Jewish cantor. At the age of eleven he was sent to Berlin to study mathematics, where he lived with his brother Berthold, eight years his senior, who taught him how to play chess. To supplement their income Emanuel Lasker played chess and card games for small stakes, especially at the Café Kaiserhof.
In 1890 he finished third in Graz, then shared first prize with his brother Berthold in a tournament in Berlin. In spring 1892, he won two tournaments in London, the second and stronger of these without losing a game. At New York 1893, he won all thirteen games, one of the few times in chess history that a player has achieved a perfect score in a significant tournament. 
His record in matches was equally impressive: at Berlin in 1890 he drew a short play-off match against his brother Berthold; and won all his other matches from 1889 to 1893, mostly against top-class opponents: Curt von Bardeleben 1889; Jacques Mieses 1889; Henry Edward Bird 1890; Berthold Englisch 1890; Joseph Henry Blackburne 1892, without losing a game; Jackson Showalter 1892–1893; and Celso Golmayo Zúpide 1893. 
In 1892 Lasker founded the first of his chess magazines, "The London Chess Fortnightly", which was published from August 15, 1892 to July 30, 1893. In the second quarter of 1893 there was a gap of ten weeks between issues, allegedly because of problems with the printer. Shortly after its last issue Lasker traveled to the USA, where he spent the next two years.
Lasker challenged Siegbert Tarrasch, who had won three consecutive international tournaments, to a match. Tarrasch haughtily declined, stating that Lasker should first prove his mettle by attempting to win one or two major international events.
Rebuffed by Tarrasch, Lasker challenged the reigning World Champion Wilhelm Steinitz to a match for the title. Initially Lasker wanted to play for US $5,000 a side, but the final figure was $2,000. The final combined stake of $4,000 would be worth over $495,000 at 2006 values. 
The match was played in 1894, at venues in New York, Philadelphia, and Montreal. Steinitz had previously declared he would win without doubt, so it came as a shock when Lasker won the first game. Steinitz responded by winning the second, and was able to maintain the balance through the sixth. However, Lasker won all the games from the seventh to the eleventh, and Steinitz asked for a week's rest. When the match resumed, Steinitz looked in better shape and won the 13th and 14th games. Lasker struck back in the 15th and 16th, and Steinitz was unable to compensate for his losses in the middle of the match. Hence Lasker won convincingly with ten wins, five losses and four draws. Lasker thus became the second recognized World Chess Champion, and confirmed his title by beating Steinitz even more convincingly in their re-match in 1896–1897 (ten wins, five draws, and two losses).
Lasker won first prizes at very strong tournaments in St. Petersburg 1895–1896, Nuremberg 1896, London 1899, Paris 1900. As time passed, there arose two great players, Akiba Rubinstein and Capablanca. Both deserved a match for the world championship, but as it turned out, the chance came to another fine player, Carl Schlechter.
Lasker arranged the World Chess Championship match against Schlechter in January–February 1910. Schlechter was a modest man, who was generally unlikely to win the major chess tournaments by his peaceful inclination, his lack of aggressiveness and his willingness to accept most draw offers from his opponents (about 80% of his games finished by a draw). 
The conditions of the match are still debatable, because they were never published. Some claim that Schlechter accepted especially unfavourable conditions. Giffard says he would need to finish two points ahead of Lasker to be declared the winner of the match, and he would need to win a revenge match to be declared World Champion. This opinion is not proven.
The match was originally meant to consist of 30 games, but when it became obvious that there were insufficient funds (Lasker demanded a fee of 1,000 marks per game played), the number of games was reduced to ten.
In the fifth game Lasker had a big advantage, but made a mistake which cost him the game. Schlechter was now a point ahead. The score before the last game was 5–4 for Schlechter. In the tenth game Schlechter tried to win and took a clear advantage, but he missed a win on his 35th move, and finished by losing. Hence the match was a draw and Lasker remained World Champion.
At St. Petersburg 1914 he overcame a 1½ point deficit to finish ahead of the rising stars Capablanca and Alexander Alekhine.
In January 1920 Lasker and José Raúl Capablanca signed an agreement to play a World Championship match in 1921, noting that Capablanca was not free to play in 1920. 
The match was played in March–April 1921. After four draws, the fifth game saw Lasker blunder with Black in an equal ending. Capablanca's solid style allowed him to easily draw the next four games, without taking any risks. In the tenth game, Lasker as White failed to create the necessary activity and Capablanca reached a superior ending, which he duly won. The eleventh and fourteenth games were also won by Capablanca, and Lasker resigned the match.
Some commentators attributed the result to Lasker's being in mysteriously poor form. On the other hand Vladimir Kramnik thought that Lasker played quite well and the match was an "even and fascinating fight" until Lasker blundered in the last game, and explained that Capablanca was twenty years younger, a slightly stronger player, and had more recent competitive practice.
After winning the New York 1924 chess tournament (1½ points ahead of Capablanca) and finishing second at Moscow in 1925 (1½ points behind Efim Bogoljubow, ½ point ahead of Capablanca), he effectively retired from serious chess.
In 1926 Lasker wrote "Lehrbuch des Schachspiels", which he re-wrote in English in 1927 as "Lasker's Manual of Chess". He also wrote books on other games of mental skill: "Encyclopedia of games" (1929) and "Das verständige Kartenspiel" (1929); English translation in the same year. Both these books posed a problem in the mathematical analysis of card games. "Brettspiele der Völker" ("Board games of the nations" 1931) had 30 pages about Go and a section about a game he had invented in 1911, "Lasca". "Das Bridgespiel" "The Game of Bridge" was published in 1931. Lasker became an expert bridge player, representing Germany at international events in the early 1930s, and a registered teacher of the Culbertson system. 
In October 1928 Emanuel Lasker's brother Berthold died.
In spring 1933 Adolf Hitler started a campaign of discrimination and intimidation against Jews, depriving them of their property and citizenship. Lasker and his wife Martha, who were both Jewish, left Germany the same year. After a stay in England, in 1935 they were invited to live in the USSR by Nikolai Krylenko, the Commissar of Justice responsible for the Moscow show trials and also Sports Minister. Krylenko was an enthusiastic supporter of chess. In the USSR, Lasker renounced his German citizenship and received Soviet citizenship. He took up residence in Moscow, and was given a post at Moscow's Institute for Mathematics, and a post of trainer of the USSR national team.
Lasker returned to competitive chess to make some money, finishing fifth in Zürich 1934; third in Moscow 1935 behind Mikhail Botvinnik and Salo Flohr and ahead of Capablanca and other masters; sixth in Moscow 1936 and seventh equal in Nottingham 1936. His performance in Moscow 1935 at age 66 was hailed as "a biological miracle".
Stalin's Great Purge started at about the same time the Laskers arrived in the USSR. In August 1937, Martha and Emanuel Lasker decided to leave the Soviet Union, and they moved, via the Netherlands, to the United States (first Chicago, next New York) in October 1937.
In the following year Emanuel Lasker's patron, Krylenko, was purged by Stalin. Lasker tried to support himself by giving chess and bridge lectures and exhibitions, as he was now too old for serious competition. In 1940 he published his last book, "The community of the future", in which he proposed solutions for serious political problems, including anti-Semitism and unemployment. Lasker died of a kidney infection in New York on 11 January 1941, at the age of 72.

</doc>
<doc id="233113" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233113" title="Viral hemorrhagic fever">
Viral hemorrhagic fever

Viral hemorrhagic fever is the name for a number of diseases. They often include fever and bleeding. They are caused by viruses. These fevers are one of the possible causes of the Black Death (most people think it is the bubonic plague).

</doc>
<doc id="233141" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233141" title="Computer Algebra System">
Computer Algebra System

A computer algebra system (CAS) is a large computer program that helps people with mathematics and algebra. It changes and moves around (manipulates) mathematical equations and expressions containing numbers and symbols called variables. Variables can stand for known or unknown values that can be solved for, or can be replaced with any value. It always keeps the formula exactly the same mathematically as the original equation or expression, unless it is being transformed, by a transformation algorithm.
A CAS might be used for integration or differentiation (and other calculus transformations), simplification of an expression (making it smaller and/or simpler), optimizing and finding the minimum and maximum values of results or variables, etc. Most have the ability to plot functions and expressions for visualization, which can be helpful and educational too.
Computer algebra systems can be special purpose, focusing on only a few types of symbolic math, to very large, general purpose programs that do almost everything (for example, the free CAS Maxima, which is the oldest CAS that is still under development). The results output by a good computer algebra system are often exact, simple, and generalized to work in all possible cases. Computer programs do have bugs, so important results should always be verified for correctness.
Modern computer algebra systems often include extensive numeric capabilities for convenience and which fit together with its symbolic abilities.
Numeric domains supported often include real, complex, interval, rational, and algebraic numbers.
Usually floating point arithmetic is available to use if desired, because the arithmetic is done by most computer hardware very quickly. The down-side of floating point arithmetic is that it is not always exact, and is mostly useless for rocket science, because of only 14 decimal digits of accuracy (with double precision floats), and because of a growing round-off error with each calculation, sometimes even less digits are accurate. Rational number arithmetic is exact if all numbers are rational. Interval arithmetic can be used to easily calculate the total possible error of an inexact arithmetic system. Complex number arithmetic is generally supported by allowing the imaginary unit (formula_1) in expressions and following all of its algebraic rules.

</doc>
<doc id="233146" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233146" title="Pi Day">
Pi Day

Pi Day or Pie Approximation Day is a day when people around the world celebrate the number pi. They also eat pie to celebrate the pun as both words sound the same. Pi Day is held on March 14.
On Pi Day 2004, Daniel Tammet 22,514 decimal digits of π.
On March 14, 2010, Google made a sign celebrating Pi Day, with the word "Google" laid over images of circles and nothing else but pi symbols

</doc>
<doc id="233153" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233153" title="Rick Hendrick">
Rick Hendrick

Joseph Riddick Hendrick III (born July 12, 1949) is the owner of the NASCAR race team Hendrick Motorsports. In the time that he has owned the team, he and his team have won ten Sprint Cup series championships.

</doc>
<doc id="233159" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233159" title="A Key to Uncle Tom's Cabin">
A Key to Uncle Tom's Cabin

A Key to Uncle Tom's Cabin is a book written by Harriet Beecher Stowe, the writer of "Uncle Tom's Cabin". She was trying to show that the stories she wrote about slaves in "Uncle Tom's Cabin" were true. However, later studies showed that Stowe had actually read lots of the books she wrote about in "A Key to Uncle Tom's Cabin" after she had published her novel. It was first published in 1853 by Jewett, Proctor & Worthington.

</doc>
<doc id="233166" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233166" title="Maru the cat">
Maru the cat

Maru the cat is a famous cat on the internet. He is from Japan and he is famous for sliding on his belly. A lot of people like to watch videos of Maru and look at pictures of him on his website. Maru also has a friend named Harry, who is a hedgehog.

</doc>
<doc id="233171" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233171" title="Epistaxis">
Epistaxis

Epistaxis is when blood comes out of the nose. It is more commonly known as a nosebleed. Even though nosebleeds can seem scary, they are usually not serious or life threatening. Most nosebleeds happen in the front of the nose, and these are called "anterior nosebleeds". Sometimes, people get nosebleeds in the back of their noses, called "posterior nosebleeds". These are more serious, and somebody who has one may have to go to the hospital.
Nosebleeds are more frequent during the winter months. During this time, more upper respiratory infections occur and changes in temperature and humidity are larger.
Most nosebleeds are caused by one of the following:
They can also be caused by a reaction to something in the environment.
Many people tilt their heads back during a nosebleed, but this is actually not safe because it can make blood go down their throats and make them choke or get sick. Instead, the best way to deal with a nosebleed is to tilt one's head forward and pinch the bottom of their nose between one's nostrils with a wet piece of tissue paper. 

</doc>
<doc id="233174" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233174" title="Jeong Yak-yong">
Jeong Yak-yong

Jeong Yak-yong, also called Jeong Yag-yong, was a Korean philosopher in the Joseon Dynasty. He was also a thinker in the "Practical Learning", (silhak). Jeong Yak-yong was also one of the earliest Korean Catholic people.
Jeong was born, and died in Namyangju, Gyeonggi province. 
Jeong served the government most of his whole life. He watched over the building of "Hwaseong Fortress" in Suwon in the 1790s. In 1794, he was the secret royal inspector (암행어사) of Gyeonggi province, and he checked and looked for the bad behaving officials. This later inspired his writings.
At different times in his life, Jeong had many kinds of "ho", or . The most famous name was Dasan, which meant "tea mountain." Jeong used it while in his exile near a mountain of the same name, in Gangjin County, on the coast of South Jeolla province. Other pen names of his include Sammi (삼미/三眉), Yeoyudang (여유당/與猶堂), Saam (사암/俟菴), Jahadoin (자하도인/紫霞道人), Tagong (탁옹/籜翁), Taesu (태수/苔叟), Munamirin (문암일인/門巖逸人), and Cheolmasancho (철마산초/鐵馬山樵).
At birth, his father gave Jeong the name Gwinong, (귀농/歸農). Gwinong meant "returning to the land." As a Roman Catholic, Jeong had the baptized name John, or 요한 (Yohan), in Korean.
After his death, the King gave Jeong the special name Mundo (문도/文度). "Mun" meant writing or literature, and "do" meant law.

</doc>
<doc id="233179" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233179" title="Silhak">
Silhak

Silhak (실학) was a teaching that was once very famous in the Joseun Dynasty, in Korea. "Sil" means "actual" or "practical," and "hak" means "studies" or "learning". It also meant "practical learning", like teaching how to farm and about economy.
Silhak was first made when the Joseun Dynasty was having a hard time, and after Japan had made war with them. The people of Korea were very poor, and their economical situation was not good. Also, all the farmland had grown and it was very hard to farm. To prevent all of this trouble, instead of learning neo-Confucianism, some philosophers decided that a new education should be made to help the poor, and they named it Silhak.

</doc>
<doc id="233184" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233184" title="Southern corroboree frog">
Southern corroboree frog

There are two species of corroboree frog, the southern corroboree frog, "Pseudophryne corroboree", and the northern corroboree frog, "Pseudophryne pengilleyi". The southern corroboree frog is a very small frog with warning colouration. It has black and yellow stripes, sometimes with a greenish tinge. It is one of the brightest frogs in the world.
It only lives in an area of about in the Kosciusko National Park in south east Australia. Scientists believe that the total population of corroboree frogs is less than 250. Numbers of the frog have dropped by 80% in the last ten years, and so the International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (IUCN) have listed the southern corroboree frog as being a critically endangered species.
The southern corroboree frog only lives in a small area in the Kosciusko National Park. It mainly lives in Snow Gum ("Eucalyptus pauciflora") forest, and Sphagnum (a type of moss) swamps. These places are very cold, because the Corroboree Frog only lives in areas higher than above sea level. They breed in small ponds and wetlands during the summer months.
The southern corroboree frog has a very distinctive pattern of black with bright yellow stripes. They are very small, only around long when fully grown. The female frog is usually larger than the male and can be as big as They mainly eat bugs, like ants, beetles and mites. They have a very different breeding cycle to most other frogs. Most frogs breed in spring, but these frogs only breed in summer during January and February. They use the wet areas to dig small holes for their mating and nesting. They lay between 16-40 eggs. The eggs hatch 4–6 months later when water levels rise and flood the nests. The frogs live as tadpoles for another 6–8 months. They change into frogs at the start of summer in December. They become sexually active after another two years. The frogs are not known to survive a second breeding season.
Corroboree frogs are the first vertebrates discovered that are able to make their own poisonous alkaloid, pseudo-phrynamine. Most other frogs get it from their diet. The alkaloid is secreted from the skin as a defence against predators, and perhaps against skin infections by microbes.
The southern corroboree frog is Australia’s most endangered frog. Scientists have not discovered a reason for the drop in frog numbers. There are a range of problems that affect the area that they live in. Increased access by people with four-wheel drive vehicles and the development of ski resorts are destroying their habitat. Global warming is also a big problem for them, because they are used to the cold. Global warming may shorten the frog's breeding time during winter, and also destroy their snowy habitat. Holes in the ozone layer may also be a problem, because when there are holes in the ozone it means that more sun rays hit the ground, and so there is less snow. Disease from funguses can kill lots of the frogs. Erosion and pollution of waterways in which they breed can kill the frogs' eggs. They are also affected by wild pigs which destroy the wetlands.
The NSW National Parks and Wildlife Service are now breeding the frogs in laboratories, and then releasing them into the wild when they are fully grown. After the bushfires in the summer of 2002 and 2003 all the eggs in the wild were collected and taken to the Melbourne Zoo for hatching.

</doc>
<doc id="233207" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233207" title="State Library of Victoria">
State Library of Victoria

The State Library of Victoria is the main library of the state of Victoria, Australia. The library is in the capital city of Victoria, Melbourne. It is on Swanston Street, in the northern centre of the central business district. The library holds over 1.5 million books and 16,000 serials. Special books in the library include the diaries of the city's founders, John Batman and John Pascoe Fawkner, and Captain James Cook.
In 1853 the decision to build a state library was the idea of the Lieutenant-Governor Charles La Trobe and Sir Redmond Barry. A competition was held to choose a person to design the new building; local architect Joseph Reed, who later designed the Melbourne Town Hall and the Royal Exhibition Building, won the competition.
On 3 July 1854, the new Governor, Sir Charles Hotham, laid the foundation stone of both the new library and the University of Melbourne. The library opened in 1856, with a collection of 3,800 books chosen by Sir Redmond, the President of Trustees. Augustus H. Tulk, the first librarian, was started work three months after the opening.
The first reading room was the Queen's Reading Room, now called Queen's Hall, which opened in 1859. Temporary buildings built in 1866 for the Intercolonial Exhibition were used until 1909, when work began on a new building to mark the library's Jubilee. This new building was the famous Domed Reading Room, which opened in 1913, designed by Norman G. Peebles. 
Plans for the rebuilding were cut back as there was not enough money for the original design. A new building for the museum was built after World War 1, in a plain classical style.
The reading dome's original high windows were changed and covered in copper sheets in 1959 because water was getting into the building. 
The library was also home to the State's Art Gallery and Museum until the National Gallery of Victoria moved to St Kilda Road in the late 1960s. The new Melbourne Museum was built in the Carlton Gardens in the 1990s.
The library underwent a lot of rebuilding between 1990 and 2004, designed by architects Ancher Mortlock & Woolley. The project cost about AU$200 million. The reading room closed in 1999 to allow for renovation, during which dome's windows were put back. The renamed La Trobe Reading Room reopened in 2003.
The rebuilt library includes a number of exhibition spaces which are used for the permanent exhibitions; "The Mirror of the World: Books and Ideas " and "The Changing Face of Victoria". there is also a display from the Pictures Collection in the Cowen Gallery. The State Library of Victoria is one of the largest exhibiting libraries in the world.
The grassy lawn in front of the library's grand entrance on Swanston Street is a popular lunch-spot for the city's workers and students at the nearby RMIT University. When the library was built, there was a wooden picket fence around the building. In the 1870's a new wrought iron fence and gates were built. The space was opened when this fence was taken away in 1939. 
A number of statues are in the entrance area:
On Sundays between 2.30pm and 5.30pm a speakers' forum takes place in front of the library, where people take turns in speaking on various subjects.
The landmark Domed Reading Room, which opened in 1913 and was designed by Norman G. Peebles. Its octagonal space was designed to hold over a million books and up to 500 readers. It is 34.75 m in both diameter and height, and its oculus is nearly 5 m wide. The dome was the largest of its type in the world on completion. 
In 1965, the La Trobe Building was opened to hold the Library's collection of Australian items. This has now been moved into the La Trobe Reading Room.
The library has a large, world-class collection of books, periodicals, recordings and other materials about art, music and the performing arts.
The library has a chess room that houses a wide range of materials on the history, study and practice of chess. It contains a collection of items from the Anderson Chess Collection, one of the three largest public chess collections in the world. In addition to bookshelves containing a large range of books and magazines about chess, the room has game tables with chessboards and pieces. There are also glass cabinets with historical chess items. The room is meant for both reading, playing and studying.
Many of the library's electronic databases can be used from home to any Victorian who is a State Library User. Databases include the full Encyclopaedia Britannica; Oxford Reference dictionaries and encyclopaedias; multi-subject magazine and journal article databases; newspaper collections of most major Australian and international papers from 2000 onwards; and specialist subject databases. 

</doc>
<doc id="233248" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233248" title="Daxter">
Daxter

Daxter is a PlayStation Portable (PSP) video game by Ready at Dawn. It was given with a limited edition PSP Slim & Lite. As part of the "Jak and Daxter" series of games, Daxter takes place at the beginning of "Jak II".
As of June 11, 2008, the game has sold 2.3 million copies.
The game takes place in the final months of the two-year gap presented in the opening of "Jak II", between the moment when Jak is taken prisoner by the Krimzon Guard and the time in which Daxter finally rescues him. The introduction shows Jak being captured, while Daxter manages to escape. Almost two years later (having no luck of rescuing Jak), Daxter has forgotten all about rescuing his friend. An old man named Osmo, whom Daxter meets, hires Daxter as an exterminator. 
After some missions, Daxter finds his friend Jak in a Prison Zoomer and proceeds to chase after it. He is then cornered by Krimzon Guards, but is rescued by Osmo's son, Ximon. Daxter then receives a bug sidekick named Tik. He then goes to Baron Praxis's palace and gets a map of the prison where Jak is being held. When returning back to the extermination shop, Tik is killed by Kaeden, a bitter man who seemingly wants to steal Osmo's shop, but is really working for an evil mastermind. 
When Daxter tries to stop Kaeden from escaping the shop, Kaeden suddenly blows up the shop with a bomb he placed in the shop earlier. Daxter and Osmo survive, and Daxter promises to stop Kaeden, but only after he rescues Jak. He infiltrates The Prison, and rescues Jak. Daxter finds Kaeden, who reveals himself to be a giant insect, but he is defeated by Daxter. The whole game reveals to be a tale which Daxter told Jak, and his friends, at the bar.
Due to his new job, Daxter now has an electro-swatter, which acts as his melee weapon, and an extermination tank, which sprays bug spray (Which many have confused with Green Eco) to stun enemies. The tank eventually receives several modifications, including doubling as a type of jet-pack that allows Daxter to fly, flamethrower capabilities, and an ultrasonic attachment. The flamethrower modification allows Daxter to hover higher and longer in jet-pack mode. With the ultra-sonic attachment, Daxter can shoot a projectile resembling a blue grenade that causes high radial damage, but uses one fifth of the player's maximum bug spray.
Daxter was very well received by critics. IGN gave it a 9/10 and GameSpot gave it a 9.1/10. It has a 86.2% at Game Rankings. As of June 11, 2008, the game has sold 2.3 million copies.

</doc>
<doc id="233270" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233270" title="Internal pudendal artery">
Internal pudendal artery

The internal pudendal artery goes in the pelvis and in the perineum (the area between the legs of a person). It is an important blood vessel for the perineum. The artery is different in women and in men. It has a lot of branches. Branches are smaller arteries which start from the "parent" artery. In men, it has branches going to muscles, the penis and the urethra (the tube which urine passes through). In women, it has branches going to the labia and the clitoris.

</doc>
<doc id="233275" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233275" title="Kaleidoscope">
Kaleidoscope

A kaleidoscope is a tube with loose, small, colorful objects inside. These objects can be beads or something similar. The inside is made using three long mirrors. A person looks into the kaleidoscope through one end and sees patterns created by reflections of the objects inside.
In 1815, Sir David Brewster began work that led to the invention of the kaleidoscope. At that time, he was doing experiments on light polarization. The kaleidoscope was not patented until two years later. His first design was a tube with pairs of mirrors at one end, pairs of translucent disks at the other, and beads between the two. In 1817, Brewster chose the well-known lens developer Philip Carpenter to be the only manufacturer of the kaleidoscope. It was a big success. Two hundred thousand kaleidoscopes were sold in London and Paris in just three months. Brewster knew that the company could not make as many kaleidoscopes as people wanted. On 17 May 1818, he asked Carpenter to allow them to be made by other manufacturers. Carpenter agreed. At first, the kaleidoscope was meant to be a scientific tool. Later it was used as a toy. Brewster believed he would make money from the kaleidoscope. However, a fault in his patent application allowed others to copy it.

</doc>
<doc id="233292" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233292" title="Conquest of Chile">
Conquest of Chile

The Conquest of Chile is a period in the history of Chile that starts when Pedro de Valdivia went to Chile in 1541 and ends with the death of Martín García Óñez de Loyola, in the Battle of Curalaba in 1598 or alternatively with the Destruction of the Seven Cities. During this period, Spaniards founded cities and they established the Kingdom of Chile. Some cities were founded after the War of Arauco: Santiago (1541), La Serena (1544), Concepción (1551), La Imperial, Valdivia, Villarrica (1552), Los Confines (1553), Cañete (1557), Osorno (1558), Arauco (1566), Castro (1567), Chillán (1580) and Santa Cruz de Oñez (1595). This period ended with the death of Loyola and the loss of their seven cities in Araucanía. The War of Arauco continued but the Spanish were never able to recover their control in the Araucanía, at the south of the River of Bío Bío.

</doc>
<doc id="233295" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233295" title="Regions of Chile">
Regions of Chile

Chile is divided into 15 regions (in Spanish, "regiones"; singular "región"), which are the first-level administrative division in the country. Each region is ruled by an intendant ("intendente"), designated by the President, and a body elected indirectly known as regional board ("consejo regional").
Regions are divided into provinces (second-level administrative division), each of them ruled by a governor ("gobernador"), designated by the President too. There are 54 provinces, in total. Provinces are further divided into communes (third and lowest level administrative division), which are governed by municipalities.

</doc>
<doc id="233298" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233298" title="Promoucaes">
Promoucaes

Promoucaes, Promaucaes, Promaucas or Purumaucas (: wild people); were a pre-Columbian Mapuche tribe that lived in Chile, from the south of the River of Maipo in Santiago, Chile and the River of Itata, (tribes at the north were called "Quillotanes" and "Mapochoes" by the Spanish). They were speakers of Mapudungun like the Moluche and Picunche tribes.

</doc>
<doc id="233314" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233314" title="Symphony of Destruction">
Symphony of Destruction

"Symphony of Destruction" is a heavy metal song written and performed by American metal band Megadeth. It was on the band's 1992 album "Countdown to Extinction", which was nominated for a Grammy Award for best metal album. It appeared in the video game Guitar Hero. 

</doc>
<doc id="233335" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233335" title="Goldsmith">
Goldsmith

A goldsmith is a person who makes objects using gold or other precious metals.
5,000 years ago, ancient Sumerians made bowls out of gold. People have long used gold for making jewelry or sacred objects used in religious worship. 
Goldsmiths use methods such as soldering, sawing, forging, casting, and polishing to make things out of gold. Goldsmiths traditionally teach their trade to apprentices. Today, jewelry arts schools teach goldsmithing and other similar skills.

</doc>
<doc id="233349" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233349" title="Philip Langridge">
Philip Langridge

Philip Langridge (born Hawkshurst, Kent, 16 December 1939; died 5 March 2010 was a British tenor. He sang in many operas. He also sang in many concerts and recitals.
Langridge studied the violin at the Royal Academy of Music from 1958. Two years later he started singing lessons with Bruce Boyce. 
He gave his first concert in 1961, singing in Handel’s Messiah at Surbiton. He sang in the John Alldis Choir, and in the chorus at Glyndebourne Opera. Soon he was singing many solo roles in operas.
Langridge had a very good sense for drama as well as an excellent singing voice. He sang a wide variety of roles including parts in operas by Claudio Monteverdi, Mozart, Ravel, Stravinsky, Janáček, Schoenberg and, especially, Benjamin Britten. Later in life he sang just one role from a Wagner opera: the part of Loge in "Das Rheingold". 
Langridge was a fine concert singer. He often sang in the sacred music of Bach and Handel. He was well known for singing the title role in Elgar's oratorio, "The Dream of Gerontius".
Benjamin Britten wrote much of his vocal music and main operatic roles for his friend Peter Pears. Langridge had the same sort of lyrical tenor voice as Pears, and he became famous for his singing of Britten’s music, e.g. the title role in "Peter Grimes", Peter Quint in "The Turn of the Screw", Captain Vere in "Billy Budd" and Aschenbach in "Death in Venice".
Langridge sang in several operas by Harrison Birtwistle: he sang The Lawyer in the first recording of "Punch and Judy" (1989) and he sang the part of Kong in the first performances of "The Second Mrs Kong" at Glyndebourne in 1994.and Hiereus in "The Minotaur" at the (Royal Opera House in 2008). April 2008) 
Langridge was made Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) for his services to music in 1994. He was married twice. His second wife was the Irish mezzo-soprano Ann Murray.
Langridge died of cancer in 2010.

</doc>
<doc id="233352" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233352" title="Dan Savage">
Dan Savage

Dan Savage is a gay American columnist, journalist and media pundit. Savage has a column on sexuality called "Savage Love" that appears in many newspapers, especially alternative weekly newspapers. He is a strong supporter of same-sex marriage, the right of gay men and women to marry people of the same sex. He has opposed bans on sex toys in states such as Alabama or Mississippi. Savage also opposes the war on drugs. He started the It Gets Better Project in 2010 with his husband Terry Miller. He has written six books.

</doc>
<doc id="233415" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233415" title="Russian Premier League">
Russian Premier League

Russian Premier League is a football league which is top division in Russia. The league has games every year. The current champions are Zenit St. Petersburg. The team with the most titles is Spartak Moscow.

</doc>
<doc id="233421" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233421" title="Baking">
Baking

Baking is a skill or way of cooking food in an oven. Sometimes, though, baking can also be done in hot ashes, or hot stones. It is used for making bread, cakes, pastries, pies, tarts, cookies, and much more. Such foods made by baking are called "baked goods". 
The ingredients used in baking include flour, water, leavening agents (baker's yeast, baking soda, baking powder), shortening (fats, oils), eggs, milk, and sugars. These are all mixed together to create dough or batter, which is then put into a pan or a sheet and heated. Leavening agents produce gas that becomes trapped in the dough. This makes it rise. Shortening makes doughs more easily workable and the bread that comes out in the end more soft and tender. Egg whites are used to help make a light, airy texture.
Baked goods are sold at a bakery. A person who makes baked goods as a job is called a baker. It is also used for making baked potatoes, baked apples, baked beans, some casseroles and pasta dishes such as lasagna, and various other foods, such as the pretzel.
In ancient history, the first baking happened when humans took wild grass grains, and soaked them in water. Then they mixed everything together, and also mashed it. After that, this mixture was poured onto a flat, hot rock, and roasted on hot embers. This new way of making bread was much easier than the other ways of doing so. This was because bread could be made anytime if there was fire. 
Around 2500 BC Egyptians had bread, and may have learned how to make it from the Babylonians. Also, the Greeks around 400 B.C. tarts with patterns and honey was included in Greek food. Dispyrus, another type of baked good, was also made by the Greeks around that time. It was popular. Dispyrus was a donut-like bread made from flour and honey and shaped in a ring. Soaked in wine, it was eaten when hot. The first proof of stone ovens was in Italy, where they made pizza and pasta.
Baking was very popular in the Roman Empire. In about 300 B.C., the pastry cook became a special job for Romans (called the "pastillarium"). Romans loved pastry, which was often cooked for large parties. Baking became so popular during the Roman Empire that someone who could think of a new kind of pastry was given an award. Around 1 AD there were more than 300 pastry chefs in Rome. 
Eventually, because of Rome, the art of baking became known in Europe. It later spread to the eastern parts of Asia, too. Bakers sometimes bake goods at home and then sell them in the streets. In London, chefs sold their baked goods from handcarts. In Paris, the first café of baked goods was made. Baking became a real art in the world. Cakes can be actually mixed in just a few minutes, with only a small bit of skill needed, and it can be lifted fresh from the oven in less than 30 minutes. A basic loaf of bread may take slightly longer time, but it does not demand a lot of time from the cook.

</doc>
<doc id="233426" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233426" title="José Raúl Capablanca">
José Raúl Capablanca

José Raúl Capablanca y Graupera (Havana, Cuba, 19 November 1888 – New York, 8 March 1942) was a Cuban chess player who was World Chess Champion from 1921 to 1927.
Capablanca was a child prodigy with an astonishing natural talent for the game. He grew up into a cultured and charming man, whom the Cuban government made its roving ambassador-at-large. He was a media celebrity: his travels round the world were reported in newspapers, radio and movie newsreels. In his lifetime, he was probably the Cuban best-known to the rest of the world.
In December 1921, shortly after becoming World Champion, Capablanca married Gloria Simoni Betancourt. They had a son, José Raúl Jr., in 1923 and a daughter, Gloria, in 1925. According to Capablanca's second wife, Olga, his first marriage broke down fairly soon.
José Raúl Capablanca was the second surviving son of an army officer. According to Capablanca, he learned the rules of the game at the age of four by watching his father play, pointed out an illegal move by his father, and then beat his father twice. At the age of eight he was taken to Havana Chess Club, which had hosted many important contests, but on the advice of a doctor he was not allowed to play frequently.
Between November and December 1901, he narrowly beat the Cuban Chess Champion, Juan Corzo, in a match. However, in April 1902 he only came fourth out of six in the National Championship, losing both his games against Corzo. In 1905 Capablanca passed with ease the entrance examinations for Columbia University in New York City. He wished to play for Columbia's strong baseball team, and soon was selected as shortstop on the freshman team. In the same year he joined the Manhattan Chess Club, and was soon recognized as the club's strongest player. He was particularly dominant in rapid chess, winning a tournament ahead of the reigning World Chess Champion, Emanuel Lasker, in 1906. In 1908 he left the university to concentrate on chess.
The San Sebastian tournament of 1911 was "one of the strongest five tournaments held up to that time", as all the world's leading players competed except the World Champion, Lasker, who was inactive in serious play at the time. At the beginning of the tournament, Ossip Bernstein and Aron Nimzowitsch objected to Capablanca's presence because he had not fulfilled the entry condition of winning at least third prize in two master tournaments. Capablanca won brilliantly against Bernstein in the very first round, and more simply against Nimzowitsch. He astounded the chess world by taking first place, with a score of six wins, one loss and seven draws, ahead of Akiba Rubinstein, Milan Vidmar, Frank Marshall, Carl Schlechter and Siegbert Tarrasch. His loss, against Rubinstein, was one of the most brilliant achievements of the latter's career. Capablanca was now recognized as a serious contender for the world championship.
In 1911, Capablanca challenged Emanuel Lasker for the World Chess Championship. Lasker accepted his challenge while proposing seventeen conditions for the match. Capablanca objected to some of the conditions, which significantly favored Lasker, and the match did not take place.
In September 1913, Capablanca secured a job in the Cuban Foreign Office, which made him financially secure throughout his life. "He had no specific duties, but was expected to act as a kind of ambassador-at-large, a well-known figure who would put Cuba on the map wherever he travelled".
The St. Petersburg 1914 chess tournament was the first in which Capablanca played World Champion Emanuel Lasker under normal tournament conditions. The St. Petersburg event was arranged in an unusual way: after a preliminary single-round all-play-all tournament of eleven players, the top five were to play a second stage in a double round format, with scores from the preliminary tournament carried forward to the second contest. Capablanca placed first in the preliminary tournament, 1½ points ahead of Lasker, who was out of practice and made a shaky start. Despite a determined effort by Lasker, Capablanca still seemed on course for ultimate victory. However, in their second game of the final, Lasker reduced Capablanca to a helpless position and Capablanca was so shaken by this that he blundered away his next game to Tarrasch. Lasker thus finished half a point ahead of Capablanca and 3½ ahead of Alekhine.
Alekhine commented:
After the breakdown of his attempt to negotiate a title match in 1911, Capablanca drafted rules for the conduct of future challenges, which were agreed by the other top players at the 1914 Saint Petersburg tournament, including Lasker, and approved at the Mannheim Congress later that year. The main points were: the champion must be prepared to defend his title once a year; the match should be won by the first player to win six or eight games, whichever the champion preferred; and the stake should be at least £1,000 (worth about £347,000 or $700,000 in 2006 terms).
In January 1920, Emanuel Lasker and Capablanca signed an agreement to play a World Championship match in 1921. The match was played in March–April 1921; Lasker resigned it after just fourteen games, having lost four games and won none. Vladimir Kramnik thought that Lasker played quite well and the match was an "even and fascinating fight" until Lasker blundered in the last game. Kramnik's explanation was that Capablanca was twenty years younger, a slightly stronger player, and had more recent competitive practice.
Capablanca came second at the New York 1924 tournament, 1½ points behind Emanuel Lasker, though two ahead of third-placed Alekhine, with the score of 14/20 (+10 -1 =9). Capablanca's defeat at the hands of Richard Reti in the fifth round was his first in serious competition in eight years. He made another bad start at the Moscow 1925 chess tournament, and could only fight back to third place, two points behind Bogolyubov and ½ point behind Emanuel Lasker.
A group of Argentinian businessmen, backed by a guarantee from the president of Argentina, promised the funds for a World Championship match between Capablanca and Alekhine in 1927. In the New York 1927 chess tournament, six of the world's strongest masters played each other four times, the others being Alekhine, Rudolf Spielmann, Milan Vidmar, Nimzovich and Marshall, lacking Bogolyubov and Lasker. Before the tournament, Capablanca diffidently wrote that he had "more experience but less power" than in 1911, that he had peaked in 1919 and that some of his competitors had become stronger in the meantime. In the event, he finished undefeated, winning the mini-matches with each of his rivals, 2½ points ahead of second-place Alekhine, and won the "best game" prize for a win over Spielmann.
Since Capablanca had won the New York 1927 tournament overwhelmingly, and had never lost a game to Alekhine, he was regarded by most pundits as the clear favorite in their 1927 World Chess Championship match. However, Alekhine won the match, played at Buenos Aires, by 6 wins, 3 losses, and 25 draws – the longest World Championship match until the World Chess Championship 1984–85 between Anatoly Karpov and Garry Kasparov. Alekhine's victory surprised almost the entire chess world.
After Capablanca's death, Alekhine expressed surprise at his own victory, since in 1927 he had not thought he was superior to Capablanca, and he suggested that Capablanca had been over-confident. Capablanca entered the match with no technical or physical preparation, while Alekhine got himself into good physical condition, and had thoroughly studied Capablanca's play. According to Kasparov, Alekhine's research uncovered many small inaccuracies, which occurred because Capablanca was unwilling to concentrate intensely. Vladimir Kramnik commented that this was the first contest in which Capablanca had no easy wins. Luděk Pachman suggested that Capablanca, who was unused to losing games or to any other type of setback, became depressed over his unnecessary loss of the eleventh game, a long, gruelling endgame, featuring errors by both players.
Immediately after winning the match, Alekhine announced that he was willing to give Capablanca a return match, on the same terms that Capablanca had required as champion – the challenger must provide a stake of US $10,000, of which more than half would go to the defending champion even if he was defeated.
Negotiations for a return match dragged on for several years, often breaking down when agreement seemed in sight. Their relationship became bitter, and Alekhine demanded much higher appearance fees for tournaments in which Capablanca also played.
Capablanca finished fourth, one  point behind the joint winners at Moscow in 1935; Emanuel Lasker's third place at the age of 66 was widely admired. The following year, Capablanca won an even stronger tournament in Moscow, one point ahead of Botvinnik and 3½ ahead of Salo Flohr, who took third place; A month later, he shared first place with Botvinnik at Nottingham, with a mark of (+5 -1 =8), losing only to Flohr; Alekhine came sixth. These 1936 tournaments, the last of Lasker's life, were the only ones in which Capablanca finished ahead of Lasker.
During these triumphs Capablanca began to experience debilitating symptoms of hypertension. and could only finish seventh of the eight players at the 1938 AVRO tournament, an élite contest designed to select a challenger for Alekhine's world title. Capablanca's high blood pressure was not correctly diagnosed and treated until after the AVRO tournament, and caused him to lose his train of thought towards the end of playing sessions.

</doc>
<doc id="233439" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233439" title="Battle of Salamis">
Battle of Salamis

The Battle of Salamis was a battle between an Alliance of Greek city-states and the Achaemenid Empire of Persia. It happened in September 480 BC in the straits between the mainland and Salamis Island. It was part of the Greco-Persian Wars.
Although heavily outnumbered, the Greek Allies were persuaded by the Athenian general Themistocles to bring the Persian fleet to battle again. The Persian king Xerxes was also anxious for a decisive battle. 
The Persian navy sailed into the Straits of Salamis and tried to block both entrances. In the cramped conditions of the Straits the great Persian numbers were an active hindrance, as ships struggled to maneuver and became disorganised. Seizing the opportunity, the Greek fleet formed in line and scored a decisive victory, sinking or capturing at least 200 Persian ships.
As a result, Xerxes retreated to Asia with much of his army, leaving Mardonius to complete the conquest of Greece. However, the following year, the rest of the Persian army was decisively beaten at the Battle of Plataea and the Persian navy at the Battle of Mycale. Afterwards the Persians made no more attempts to conquer the Greek mainland. These battles of Salamis and Plataea mark a turning point in the Greco-Persian wars; from then on, the Greek cities would take the offensive. 

</doc>
<doc id="233442" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233442" title="Lee Joon Gi">
Lee Joon Gi

Lee Joon Gi (이준기) "(born April 17, 1982, in Busan, South Korea)" is a South Korean actor, model and singer. Lee began his career as a model and held minor roles in Korean dramas. He rose to fame as Gong Gil in "The King and the Clown". As of 2007, Lee is one of the top screen stars in South Korea and in 2008, Lee's noble role as Ryung in the action-romance drama "Iljimae" boomed igniting Lee's overseas popularity, especially in Hong Kong and Thailand.

</doc>
<doc id="233449" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233449" title="Río Cachapoal">
Río Cachapoal

Río Cachapoal () is a river in Chile. It is in the Region of O'Higgins. The river gives the name to the Province of Cachapoal.

</doc>
<doc id="233456" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233456" title="O'Higgins Region">
O'Higgins Region

The VI Region of O'Higgins () is one of the fifteen regions of Chile. It has three provinces. It is named in honour of Bernardo O'Higgins Riquelme, one of the founding fathers of Chile.
The capital of the region is Rancagua. The second major town is San Fernando.

</doc>
<doc id="233463" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233463" title="Cue stick">
Cue stick

A cue stick (or simply cue), is a kind of stick used for sports like pool, snooker and carom billiards. It is used to hit a ball, normally the "cue ball". Cues are fixed-up sticks, normally about 58 inches (1.5 m) long and 18–21 ounces (510–600 g). Most cues are made of wood, but sometimes the wood is covered with other materials like carbon fiber or fiberglass. An old term for a cue, used from the 16th to early 19th centuries, is "billiard stick".

</doc>
<doc id="233465" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233465" title="Accumulator">
Accumulator

The accumulator is register for storing results of operations inside the CPU. Accumulator's name or representation depend upon CPU architecture and manufacturer, for example in intel x86 architecture accumulator's name is AX in 16bits or EAX in 32bits mode. An accumulator is manipulated by machine code or assembly for example assembly code: 
"add ax, 3" add 3 in accumulator register. 

</doc>
<doc id="233468" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233468" title="OCaml">
OCaml

Objective Caml (OCaml) is a programming language which is a dialect of ML (programming language). It extends the Caml language so object-oriented programming can be used. 

</doc>
<doc id="233498" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233498" title="Structured Query Language">
Structured Query Language

Structured Query Language (SQL) is a language used to view or change data in databases. The sentences used in this language are called SQL Queries. If we want to add data to the database in a computer, or to remove data from the database, or to just view the data in the database, we can use SQL Queries.
This is a simple SQL Query which is used to show a column named 'my_column' of the data table named 'my_table'. 
Here is an example of inserting information into a table called 'people.' The query first names the table, people, then the columns that data is going to be inserted into, (first name, last name, age, and favorite food), and the data that is going into the columns. SQL knows which data goes into which column by the order the columns are listed.
Here is an example of the same thing, but the columns aren't listed. If this is done, SQL will insert the data in the order the columns are listed.
However, if a programmer does the query in the method that does not name the columns, they need to be careful, because if the columns are not in the order that the listed the data, they could put the wrong type of data in the wrong column, or perhaps the column they put data into may want a different type of data (for example, a column might want number data, but someone might accidentally put letter data into it) and it will break.

</doc>
<doc id="233502" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233502" title="Provinces of Chile">
Provinces of Chile

A province is the second largest administrative division in Chile, after a region. Each region is divided in provinces. Chile has 54 provinces in total. Each province is ruled by a governor ("gobernador") designated by the president. The provinces are also divided into communes which are ruled by a municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="233507" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233507" title="Snow ((Hey Oh))">
Snow ((Hey Oh))

Snow ((Hey Oh)) is a 2006 alternative rock song by the band Red Hot Chili Peppers the song appears on their ninth album "Stadium Arcadium". The song was used as the theme song for WWE's WrestleMania XXIV.

</doc>
<doc id="233512" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233512" title="Kashmir Flycatcher">
Kashmir Flycatcher

The Kashmir Flycatcher, "Ficedula subrubra", is a small passerine bird in the flycatcher family Muscicapidae.
This species breeds in the north-west Himalayas in the Kashmir region of the Indian Subcontinent. It is migratory and spends the winter in the hills of central Sri Lanka and the Western Ghats of India.
This bird eats insects. It is 13 cm long. The male has a grey-brown back with an orange-red throat, breast and sides. It is bordered with black on the throat and breast. Females and first-winter birds have slightly browner upperparts. The red of the underparts may be just a light pink.

</doc>
<doc id="233514" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233514" title="Calliostoma">
Calliostoma

The Top shells (which are called Calliostoma) are marine gastropod molluscs. They can be found world-wide. The name of this genus is derived from the Greek words "kallos" (beautiful) and "stoma" (mouth), referring to the pearly aperture.

</doc>
<doc id="233516" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233516" title="Corvette">
Corvette

A corvette is a small, manageable and lightly armed war ship. During the Age of the Sail, corvettes were smaller than frigates and larger than sloops-of-war, they had normally a single gun deck. Almost all the modern navies use ships smaller than frigates for coastal duty, but not all of them use the term "corvette" (from the French "corvair") or equivalent.

</doc>
<doc id="233525" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233525" title="Sparrowhawk">
Sparrowhawk

The sparrowhawk ("Accipiter nisus") is a small bird of prey in the family Accipitridae. It has a wide distribution in Eurasia and north Africa. 
The adult male sparrowhawk has a blue-grey back and wings. His chest and belly have thin orange stripes. Female and young sparrowhawks have brown backs and wings, with thin brown stripes. The female is up to 25% larger than the male. This is one of the biggest size differences in any bird species. 
The sparrowhawk eats mostly small birds which live in woodland. It can be seen in any habitat and often hunts birds in town and city gardens. Male sparrowhawks eat smaller birds like tits, finches and sparrows. Females eat bigger birds like thrushes and starlings. They can kill birds weighing more than .
The sparrowhawk is seen in Europe, parts of Asia and parts of Africa. Birds that breed in the north migrate south for winter. Birds that live further south stay there, or fly shorter distances.
Sparrowhawks build a nest in woodland. The nest is up to 60 cm (2.0 ft) wide and made from twigs. The female lays four or five eggs with pale blue shells. The chicks hatch after 33 days and leave the nest after another 24 to 28 days.
The proportion of young sparrowhawks which survive to one year old is 34%. More young males die than young females. 69% of adults survive from one year to the next. The average lifespan is four years. 
The number of sparrowhawks decreased in Europe in the 1950s. Chemicals to kill unwanted insects ("pesticides") were put on seeds before they were planted. Small birds ate the seeds and then sparrowhawks ate the small birds. The amount of chemicals in the food chain increased. This affected the sparrowhawks. Some were poisoned and others laid eggs with shells that were too thin. The shells broke before the chicks hatched. The pesticides were banned and the sparrowhawk population increased again. It is now one of the commonest birds of prey in Europe. 
The sparrowhawk's hunting behaviour means people who own homing pigeons or keep birds for food may dislike it. Some people also blame the sparrowhawk for decreases in the numbers of smaller birds. Scientists have found that increased numbers of sparrowhawks did not reduce the numbers of birds living in farmland and woodland in the 1960s. Research in Scotland found that less than 1% of homing pigeons that died were killed by sparrowhawks.
People have used the Sparrowhawk for falconry (hunting using a bird of prey) for more than 500 years. It is difficult to train but brave. The sparrowhawk features in some old German myths. It is mentioned in a play by William Shakespeare and a poem by Ted Hughes.
The sparrowhawk is a small bird of prey with short, broad wings and a long tail. These adaptations help it to fly between trees. Females can be up to 25% larger than males and can be twice as heavy. When females are larger than males, it is called "reverse sexual dimorphism". It is unusual in higher vertebrates but typical in birds of prey.
The adult male is long from beak to tail, with a wingspan of . He weighs . The male has a slate-grey back and wings (sometimes more blue). His chest and belly have thin red stripes but they can look orange from a distance. His eyes are orange-yellow or orange-red. 
The female is much larger – long, with a wingspan of . She weighs . The female has dark brown or grey-brown back and wings, and brown stripes on her chest and belly. Her eyes are bright yellow to orange. 
Young sparrowhawks have a brown back and wings, with rust-coloured edges to the feathers. They have bigger brown stripes and spots on their chest and belly, and pale yellow eyes. 
The Sparrowhawk's pale underparts and darker back and wings are an example of countershading. This colouration counteracts the effect of light coming from above, and helps to make the bird less visible. In fact, countershading is seen in most animals, including the Peregrine Falcon, the Merlin and other "Accipiters". The Sparrowhawk's stripes are typical of markings on birds of prey which live in woodland. 
Sparrowhawks fly in a pattern described as "flap-flap-glide". The glide means that the flight has an up-and-down pattern. In Great Britain, Sparrowhawks living further north have longer wings than birds in the south. The sparrowhawk has a small, hooked beak. It is used for removing the feathers of its prey. The sparrowhawk's long legs and toes help it to catch and eat birds. Its middle toe is very long and is used to grab things.
Most sparrowhawks live for about four years. 34% of young birds survive to be one year old. 69% of adults survive from one year to the next. The oldest known wild sparrowhawk lived for more than 20 years.
Young sparrowhawks (less than one year old) weigh less than adults. They are especially light in the two months after leaving the nest. There is probably a high death rate at this time, particularly for males. This may be because the smaller males catch smaller food. They cannot catch some of the bigger prey that females can. This means they need to eat more often. A female sparrowhawk of average weight can survive for seven days without eating. A male can survive only four days.
The sparrowhawk is part of the family Accipitridae and the genus "Accipiter". Some English people used to call the sparrowhawk the blue hawk because of the male's colour. Other old names include spar hawk, spur hawk and stone falcon.
The Swedish biologist Carolus Linnaeus was the first person to describe the sparrowhawk. He called it "Falco nisus" in 1758. The French naturalist Mathurin Jacques Brisson moved it into the "Accipiter" genus in 1760.
The current scientific name comes from the Latin words "accipiter" (hawk) and "nisus" (the sparrowhawk). 
The sparrowhawk forms a superspecies with the rufous-chested sparrowhawk of eastern and southern Africa, and possibly the Madagascar sparrowhawk. Eurasian sparrowhawks look slightly different in different parts of their range. Birds in the eastern part of the range are larger and paler. Six subspecies of sparrowhawk are generally recognised:

</doc>
<doc id="233576" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233576" title="X86">
X86

x86 is a term used to describe a CPU instruction set compatible with the Intel 8086 and its successors, including the Pentium, Core 2, Core i7, Athlon, Opteron, Sempron, and Phenom. This is the CPU architecture used in most desktop and laptop computers. More recently, workstations and servers have also standardized on x86 processors. In 1985, the original 16-bit x86 architecture was extended to 32 bits with the introduction of the i386 processor. It was extended again to 64 bits in 2003 with the introduction of the AMD Opteron processor. 
Intel adopted the 64-bit architecture in 2004 with the later versions of the Prescott Pentium 4. The different versions are backward-compatible, meaning that a 32-bit x86 CPU can run a 32-bit or 16-bit operating system, and a 64-bit x86 CPU can run a 16, 32, or 64-bit operating system. All x86 CPUs (with the rare exception of some Intel CPUs used in embedded systems) start in 16-bit real mode. A modern operating system (or sometimes the bootloader) switches the CPU into 32-bit protected mode or 64-bit long mode before booting the kernel.
Operating systems in green run only on x86 processors. Operating systems in brown originated on x86 but have since been made for other processors as well. Operating systems in orange did not originate on x86 and were ported to x86.

</doc>
<doc id="233580" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233580" title="Carey Means">
Carey Means

Carey Means is an American voice actor. He is best known for voicing Frylock on the Adult Swim program "Aqua Teen Hunger Force". 

</doc>
<doc id="233585" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233585" title="The Brak Show">
The Brak Show

The Brak Show is a Adult Swim program starring Brak who was on several old Space Ghost cartoons. The show is also about Brak's mom and dad, his friends Zorak and Clarence, his brother Sisto, and his neighbor Thundercleese. At first the show had a plot, but later on became just crazy like it's sister show Aqua Teen Hunger Force. 
Andy Merill and George Lowe appear in all episodes.<br>C. Martin Croker was absent for two episodes.<br>Carey Means was absent for ten episodes.

</doc>
<doc id="233588" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233588" title="Belinda (book)">
Belinda (book)

Belinda is an 1801 novel by the Irish writer Maria Edgeworth. It was first published in three volumes by Joseph Johnson of London in 1801, and was later printed again by Pandora Press in 1986. The book was Edgeworth's second published. The book was noted for showing interracial marriage.
Lady Delacour is a "bel esprit" (woman of wit), who Belinda at first thinks “the most agreeable—no, that is too feeble an expression—the most fascinating person she had ever beheld (known).” Later, however, after Belinda hears about her sad life, she feels sorry for her. Belinda is very kind to Lady Delacour, who begins to like her. Through Belinda's gentleness, Lady Delacour begins to change. She becomes more caring for her husband and daughter Helena. However, Lady Delacour's sudden untrue jealousy towards Belinda and makes her move to the Percivals' house, where Helena is staying at. Later, Lady Delacour finds out that she was completely wrong and had misunderstood Belinda's good intentions. She becomes very ill, and begs for Belinda to forgiver her and come back. Belinda, accepting her apology, comes, and now Lady Delacour does everything Belinda advises her to do, and makes up with her husband, revealing to him how she is ill, that she had been hiding from everybody except herself and Belinda and her maid. Lord Delacour feels worried for her when he hears this. She takes a surgery, and is told that she is actually not ill at all. The bad doctor she had been going to had given her the wrong medicines, and therefore made her sick. Joyfully, she decides to be a good wife, a sweet friend, and a kind mother. She ends the book by saying, while laughing, “Now, Lady Delacour, to show that she is reformed, comes forward to address the audience with a moral—a moral!—yes,
Our tale contains a moral, and no doubt,
You all have wit enough to find it out.”
Her strong character and the very important part she plays in the book make some people think the title should be her name instead of Belinda's.
Belinda Portman is a young lady. She is about seventeen years old. She is “handsome, graceful, sprightly, and highly accomplished.” She has good skills, but is unused to thinking for herself, for her aunt orders her to do everything(though her thoughts are often very different). Belinda is innocent and loving, and loves Clarence Hervey, though she does not even admit it to herself. Mr. Vincent and Sir Philip both want to marry her. She is very forgiving, as seen when she forgives Lady Delacour, but has good self-control over her feelings – for example, she does not blush (turns red) later when people talk about Clarence Hervey, and is not shaken by Mrs. Freke when she said she would be her enemy.
Clarence Hervey is a clever and witty young man, who is gallant, and is, as Belinda said at first, “a most uncommonly pleasing young man.” He is shown to have a warm heart, for he asks Lady Delacour to make his peace with Belinda after he spoke badly about her. He admires Lady Delacour, and tries to change her. But after that, he begins to like Belinda. However, he had been secretly taking care of another girl, Virginia, and now, thinking that he must marry Virginia, he tries to forget about Belinda. But later, Virginia shows him that she loves somebody else. So he tells Belinda that he loves her, and they marry.
Lady Anne Percival is very different from Lady Delacour. She is a gentle, motherly, reasonable lady. Belinda later also tells Mr. Vincent, when he compares Lady Anne Percival and Lady Delacour, “I have never seen any woman who would not suffer by a comparison with Lady Anne Percival.” She loves literature, and that makes her a good wife to Mr. Percival. She is kind and motherly, and loves Helena like her daughter. She also treats Belinda kindly, and thinks carefully before she judges people. She wished for Belinda to marry Mr. Vincent. At first, Lady Delacour did not like her, feeling jealous and thinking that Helena liked Lady Anne Percival better than her. However, later at the end, it is guessed that she becomes good friends with Lady Anne Percival.

</doc>
<doc id="233594" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233594" title="Squidbillies">
Squidbillies

Squidbillies is a cartoon series on the Adult Swim block of the Cartoon Network. It is about a poor family of squids living in the Appalachian region. It was first shown on October 16, 2005. The show was created because of the popularity of the Aqua Teen Hunger Force. So far 50 episodes have been made.

</doc>
<doc id="233595" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233595" title="Cartoon Planet">
Cartoon Planet

Cartoon Planet is a short lived spin-off of the Adult Swim program "Space Ghost Coast to Coast". The show has random skits and songs with the characters Space Ghost, Zorak, and Brak. Zorak and Brak are comic foils for Space Ghost. Moltar, a main character on Coast to Coast, does not appear on the show. In the credits everyone is credited by their first name only. The show has not been released on DVD, because of rights issues other than some segments being extras on The Brak Show Volume One. 
In 2012, the show has been revived but only Brak and Zorak host the show and the programming is Cartoon Network Original shows such as "Ed, Edd n Eddy", "Dexter's Laboratory", "The Powerpuff Girls", and others.

</doc>
<doc id="233598" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233598" title="C. Martin Croker">
C. Martin Croker

Clay "C." Martin Croker (born 1962, Atlanta, Georgia died 2016 ) was an American voice actor and animator for Adult Swim.

</doc>
<doc id="233603" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233603" title="Brent Butt">
Brent Butt

Brent Butt (born August 3, 1966 on in Tisdale, Saskatchewan) is a Canadian actor and comedian. He is best known for portraying "Brent Leroy" in the Canadian sitcom Corner Gas and for his stand-up comedy. Brent Butt has won four won Canadian Comedy Awards.

</doc>
<doc id="233618" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233618" title="Commonly misspelled words">
Commonly misspelled words

The term "commonly misspelled words" (or sometimes, "common misspelled words") is about words in English that are often spelled wrongly.
In writing, some words are often misspelled, such as the wrong spelling "concensus" for "consensus"
found in many webpages on the Internet. Other common misspellings include "equiptment" (for "equipment"),
"independant" (for "independent"),
"readible" (for "readable"),
or "usible" (for "usable").
This list of about 350 words, is based on documented lists of the top 100, 200, or 400 most commonly misspelled words, rather than listing every misspelled word. Each word is followed by examples of misspellings:
Mispronunciation is one of the most common causes of misspelling.
Some spelling errors are because people's typing is not perfect, such as
A misspelling in English might be a legitimate spelling in another language; for example, the word "address" is spelled in German as "Adress" (one letter "d"). "Immigrate" can be written "inmigrate" by speakers of Spanish.

</doc>
<doc id="233620" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233620" title="University of Utah">
University of Utah

The University of Utah is a public, co-ed university in Salt Lake City, Utah.
The University of Utah's athletic team's are called the "Utes", which is named after a tribe of Native Americans called the Ute Tribe and they have 17 varsity teams. 

</doc>
<doc id="233626" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233626" title="Charles Whitman">
Charles Whitman

Charles Joseph Whitman (born June 24, 1941 in Lake Worth, Florida – died August 1, 1966 in Austin, Texas) was a former marine and student who is best known for committing the Tower shooting at the University of Texas at Austin on August 1, 1966 where he killed 14 people and wounded 32 others. It was the deadliest school shooting until the 2007 Virginia Tech massacre.

</doc>
<doc id="233632" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233632" title="Axolotl">
Axolotl

The Axolotl, Ambystoma mexicanum, is the best known of the Mexican mole salamanders: it belongs to the Tiger Salamander complex. The Axolotl shows neoteny: the larvae do not undergo metamorphosis, so the adults stay aquatic, with external gills. 
The species evolved in the lake underlying Mexico City. Axolotls are used a lot in scientific research because they can regenerate most body parts, are easy to breed, and have large embryos. 
Axolotls are closely related to waterdogs, the larval stage of the closely related Tiger salamanders "Ambystoma tigrinum" and "Ambystoma mavortium". These are common in much of North America and also sometimes become neotenic. The mudpuppies, "Necturus", are fully-aquatic salamanders which are not closely related to the axolotl but bear a superficial resemblance.
Wild axolotls are now near extinction due to population growth in Mexico City, and the polluted waters of the lake. Non-native fish, such as African tilapia and Asian carp, have also recently been introduced to the waters. These new fish have been eating the axolotls' young, as well as its primary source of food. The axolotl is currently on the IUCN Red List of threatened species.
Compared with land-dwelling salamanders, the sexually mature adult Axolotl is a chimera (~ mixture) of larval and adult tissues. A mutation in hormone production slows the development of the non-sexual tissues compared to the gonads. So, it ends up as an adult which looks like a larva, except that it is sexually mature. This is an example of neoteny, a type of heterochrony.

</doc>
<doc id="233642" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233642" title="Space Ghost Coast to Coast">
Space Ghost Coast to Coast

Space Ghost Coast to Coast is a parody talk show with characters from the Space Ghost action adventure show from the 1960's. It was the first Adult Swim program, and it had several spin-offs.
Former superhero Space Ghost now hosts his own show. One of his former antagonists, Zorak, now does the music and another antagonist, Moltar, is now the producer and director. Space Ghost interviews several real people.

</doc>
<doc id="233645" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233645" title="Mike Schatz">
Mike Schatz

Mike Schatz is an American voice actor. He is best known for voicing Emory on the Adult Swim program "Aqua Teen Hunger Force" and the movie "Aqua Teen Hunger Force Colon Film movie for Theaters". He also voiced Torpedo Vegas on "Frisky Dingo" and he played a guy in court on an episode of "Squidbillies".

</doc>
<doc id="233647" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233647" title="Matt Maiellaro">
Matt Maiellaro

Matt Maiellaro is the co-creator and writer of the cult television animated Adult Swim shows, "Aqua Teen Hunger Force" and "Perfect Hair Forever", and creator of "12 Oz. Mouse". Maiellaro was a producer and writer for "Space Ghost Coast to Coast" since the show started in 1994.

</doc>
<doc id="233663" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233663" title="All-America">
All-America

In sports, an All-America "team" is a group of amateur athletes who are honored for being the best in the sport. The players who are on these teams are usually selected by members of the media or companies who sponsor the team. In other cases, players become an All-American by achieving a standard such as placing in the top 40 of the NCAA cross country race. Sometimes these teams play in games against other All-American teams, but most All-American teams never actually compete in events. 

</doc>
<doc id="233667" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233667" title="Bear Bryant">
Bear Bryant

Paul William "Bear" Bryant (September 11, 1913 – January 26, 1983) was an American college football coach. He was best known as the head coach of the University of Alabama football team. During his twenty-five years as Alabama's head coach, his teams won six national championships and thirteen conference championships. When he retired in 1982 he held the record for most wins as head coach in college football history. At the University of Alabama, the Paul W. Bryant Museum, Paul W. Bryant Drive and Bryant-Denny Stadium are all named in his honor. 
Before he worked at Alabama, Bryant was head football coach at University of Maryland, the University of Kentucky, and Texas A&M University.

</doc>
<doc id="233669" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233669" title="Robert Neyland">
Robert Neyland

Robert Reese Neyland (February 17, 1892 – March 28, 1962) was an American football coach. He also served in the United States Army and reached the rank of brigadier general. He is one of the few college football head coaches to coach the same school twice with a break in between the jobs. Neyland holds the record for most wins in University of Tennessee history with 173 wins in 216 games, six seasons without losing a game, nine regular seasons without losing a game, seven conference championships, and four national championships. At Tennessee, he has winning streaks of 33, 28, 23, 19, and 14 games.
Neyland is often referred to as one of the best, if not the best, defensive football coaches ever. "Sports Illustrated" named Neyland as the defensive coordinator of its all-century college football team in its "Best of the 20th Century" edition. In 112 of his wins, the other team did not score a point. In 1938 and 1939, Neyland's team set NCAA records when they did not allow a point in 17 straight games. His 1939 team is the last NCAA team in history to hold every regular season opponent scoreless. 
Neyland Stadium at the University of Tennessee is not only named for "The General", but was designed by him. His plans included all expansions that have brought the stadium to its modern size with an over 100,000 seat capacity. Neyland was inducted into the College Football Hall of Fame as a coach in 1956. 

</doc>
<doc id="233670" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233670" title="Bryant–Denny Stadium">
Bryant–Denny Stadium

Bryant–Denny Stadium, in Tuscaloosa, Alabama, is the home stadium for the University of Alabama college football team. The stadium opened in 1929, and was first named Denny Stadium, in honor of former Alabama president George Hutchenson Denny. The stadium's name was changed to Bryant–Denny Stadium in 1975 to honor Alabama coach Paul "Bear" Bryant. It currently can seat 92,012 people, and is the fourth largest stadium in the SEC, the eleventh largest stadium in the United States and the 17th largest non-racing stadium by seating in the world. Since the 1988 football season, the university has sold out every game played at the stadium. In February 2009 the University of Alabama board of trustees gave approval to begin stadium expansion of the south endzone, with room to seat about 101,000, which, when it is completed, will make Bryant–Denny Stadium the largest stadium in the Southeastern Conference.

</doc>
<doc id="233676" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233676" title="Bowl game">
Bowl game

A bowl game is a college football game that is played in the post-season. In NCAA football, a team that wins six games during the season may play in the bowl games.

</doc>
<doc id="233678" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233678" title="Fair catch">
Fair catch

A fair catch is part of American football. A receiver of a punt may signal for a "fair catch" when the ball is in the air. To signal for it, the receiver must wave one arm over his head from side to side. Once he signals for it, no one from the other team is allowed to touch him. When the receiver catches the ball, he may not run with it. The play ends at that spot, and his team takes possession where he caught it.

</doc>
<doc id="233679" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233679" title="Football Writers Association of America">
Football Writers Association of America

The Football Writers Association of America (FWAA) is an organization of about 1,200 sports writers in the United States. They attempt to achieve better working conditions for writers. Each year, the FWAA picks an All-America team of college football players. The organization also selects the Eddie Robinson Coach of the Year, the Bronko Nagurski Trophy winner, the Outland Trophy winner, the Grantland Rice Award winner, a freshman All-America team, and weekly defensive player of the week. as well as developing scholarship programs and surveys for better working conditions. Since 1954, the association has awarded the Grantland Rice Trophy to the college football team they choose to be the National Champion.

</doc>
<doc id="233682" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233682" title="Roster">
Roster

A roster is a list of people. Rosters are often used for sports teams. Anyone who plays on that team is said to be on the roster. Rosters can also be lists of students in a classroom. 

</doc>
<doc id="233683" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233683" title="Zichyújfalu">
Zichyújfalu

Zichyújfalu is a settlement in Fejér County, about 10 km from Lake Velencei, which is more or less easy to reach on road and on railway (Pusztaszabolcs-Székesfehérvár line). The settlement used to be a part of Gárdony but declared its independence in December 1997.
The settlement is first mentioned in writing in 1239, when villa Nowa (Nova) belonged to the Vértes estates of the Csák clan. In 1447 it is mentioned as a noble name as Wyfalw (Újfalu).
The Family Zichy appeared as the landlord in Újfalu during Turkish occupation. After the Turkish rule the serfs of Seregélyes rented the land for some time. In 1784 the owner of the estate, János Zichy, the son of Ferenc Zichy had a castle built in Újfalu and established a deer-park.
The paphrase Zichy in the name of the settlement refers to these earlier landlords, the members of the Zichy family. The hunting residence of de count is also in the village; currently the Mayor's Office functions in this building, therefore the building can only be observed from outside. The park and the forest of the castle offer active relaxation.

</doc>
<doc id="233697" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233697" title="Poison gas">
Poison gas

Poison gas is any gas that is also a poison. Poison gases can kill or injure a person if present in a high enough concentration. There is a diverse range of different poison gases and each has unique properties. Many toxic liquids are also volatile and their vapors are poison gas. "Poison gas" can refer to poisons in chemical weapons, but most of them are in fact liquids, for example mustard gas and VX are viscous liquids that are dispersed into fine mists.
In small amounts, corrosive poison gases usually cause irritation, and may have a smell, but this is not universal. There are several gases that can kill insidiously, without a warning smell or irritation.
All gases other than oxygen can displace air, and cause death by asphyxiation. This does not make them poison gases. Nitrogen and carbon dioxide are two common examples. This has to be taken into account in handling of any compressed or liquified gas. Gases can be also dangerous because they are flammable (easily bursting into flame).
Poison gases can cause injury more easily than solid or liquid poisons because they diffuse (move) in the air, exposing skin, and are easily breathed in. Immediate contact with corrosive gas leads to chemical burns of the skin and lungs. When absorbed into the inside of the human body and into the blood, either by breathing in or through skin, several poison gases cause a poisoning. In a poisoning, medical help is often necessary; simply removing the victim from the gas is not enough to prevent symptoms.
Poison gases are used in industry as chemical reagents. The chemical reactions they can be used for are more important than their toxicity. Today, chemists try to avoid the use of poisonous gases, but it is often not possible. Examples of large-volume industrial poisonous gases are hydrogen sulfide, cracked from oil, chlorine, in diverse chemical uses and to disinfect drinking water, and ammonia, which is a valuable fertilizer into itself and can be converted into a range of other fertilizers, in addition to chemical uses.
Some fumigants (chemicals used to kill pests) are also poison gases, for example phosphine, which is used to kill pests living in grains. The advantage of a gas is that it evaporates after use, so that if food is treated with gas, there is no need to rinse it to remove the poison. Some gasses can kill you and some can't. There is some advantages and disadvantages about gas. 

</doc>
<doc id="233699" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233699" title="Tim Allen">
Tim Allen

Tim Allen (born Timothy Allen Dick on June 13, 1953) is an American actor and comedian.
Allen was born in Denver, Colorado. When he was 13, he moved to Birmingham, Michigan. In October 1978, he was arrested while in possession of 1.4 pounds of cocaine. He was convicted and sentenced to 3-to-7 years in prison and released after 28 months.
Most of Allen's work is in comedy. He is well known for being in "Home Improvement". He also had a role in "The Santa Clause", "Toy Story", and "Galaxy Quest".

</doc>
<doc id="233716" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233716" title="WTTE">
WTTE

WTTE is a television station in Columbus, Ohio. It is part of the FOX television network. They first broadcast in 1984 as a general entertainment station. In 1986, joined the FOX network. They have news called "Good Day Columbus" and FOX 28 News at 10 which is the most watched late news in Columbus, Ohio .

</doc>
<doc id="233743" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233743" title="AND gate">
AND gate

The AND gate is a logic gate that outputs 1 (true) only when both of its inputs are 1 (true). Since 0 is false, AND outputs the product (result of multiplication) of its inputs. That means that if either or both of its inputs are 0, the output will be 0 (zero multiplied by any real number is zero).
There are three symbols for the AND gate:

</doc>
<doc id="233745" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233745" title="Gárdony">
Gárdony

Gárdony, "the capital of Lake Velencei", is a holiday resort on the south side of the lake. It is 45 kilometers from Budapest and 20 kilometers from Székesfehérvár. It has active recreation, entertainment facilities, different kinds of accommodation and restaurants for the whole year.

</doc>
<doc id="233756" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233756" title="Frédéric Bazille">
Frédéric Bazille

Jean Frédéric Bazille (6 December 1841 – 28 November 1870) was a French painter. He was born in Montpellier. He was killed in action in the Franco-Prussian War. It was at the Battle of Beaune-la-Rolande in France while leading his unit into a assault on the German position. He died at the age of 28.

</doc>
<doc id="233765" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233765" title="F major">
F major

F major (or the key of F) is a musical major scale starting on F. Its key signature has one flat.
Its relative minor is D minor and its parallel minor is F minor.
F major is the home key of the English horn, the basset horn, the horn in F, the trumpet in F and the bass Wagner tuba. This means that if you want these instruments to sound in F major, you have to write in C major. Most of these sound a perfect fifth lower than written, except the trumpet in F which sounds a perfect fourth higher. (The basset horn also often sounds an octave and a fifth lower.)
Of the six Overtures Francesco Maria Veracini wrote for Prince Friedrich Augustus in Dresden, most are in either F major or B-flat major because the prince's orchestra had a lot of wind instruments that played best in these keys.

</doc>
<doc id="233767" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233767" title="E minor">
E minor

E minor (Em, Mim) is a minor scale based on the note E. Its key signature has one sharp, F Its relative major is G major.
A lot of classical guitar music is in E minor, because this key is very suited for the instrument. When it is tuned normally, four of the instrument's six strings are part of the tonic chord. The key is also very popular in heavy metal music, because the lowest note on a guitar, E, can be used a lot.
E minor was one of the most-often used keys by Felix Mendelssohn. 
See also: List of symphonies in E minor

</doc>
<doc id="233768" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233768" title="B-flat major">
B-flat major

B major or B-flat major is a major scale starting on B-flat. Its key signature has two flats.
Its relative minor is G minor, and its parallel minor is B minor.
B-flat major is a good key for most wind instruments, especially those for which it is their home key, such as clarinets, trumpets, saxophones, and the flutes in B-flat. Because of this, many works for concert bands (those you might have played in while you were at school) are written in this or a closely related key such as F major or E-flat major.
Haydn's Symphony No. 98, which had both trumpet and timpani, is known as the first symphony that anyone had written in that key. Actually, his brother Michael Haydn had written one earlier. However, Joseph Haydn still gets credit for writing the timpani part at actual pitch with an F major key signature (instead of transposing with a C major key signature), something that made things easier and made more sense.
Five of Mozart's piano concerti are in B-flat major.

</doc>
<doc id="233769" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233769" title="G minor">
G minor

G minor is a minor scale based on G.
Its relative major is B-flat major.
G minor is one of two flat key signatures that needs a sharp for the seventh note (the other is D minor).
During the Baroque period, music in G minor was usually written with a one-flat key signature.
Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart thought that G minor was the most suitable key for showing sadness and tragedy, and many of his minor key works are in G minor, such as the Piano Quartet No. 1 and the String Quintet in G minor. G minor is the only minor key he used as a main key for his numbered symphonies (No. 25, and the famous No. 40). In the Classical period, symphonies in G minor almost always used four horns, two in G and two in B-flat alto. G minor symphonies like Mozart's No. 25 often used E flat major for the slow movement, including Haydn's No. 39 and Vanhal's G minor symphony from before 1771 (Bryan Gm1).
See also: List of symphonies in G minor.
There are many variations of G minor.

</doc>
<doc id="233770" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233770" title="D major">
D major

D major is a major scale based on D. Its key signature has two sharps. Its relative minor is B minor.
D major is good for violin music because of the structure of the instrument, which has its four strings tuned to G D A E. The open strings resonate with the D string, producing a special rich sound.
Because of this, many classical composers chose to write violin concertos in D major. Examples include Mozart's (No. 2, 1775, No. 4, 1775); Ludwig van Beethoven's (1806); Paganini's (No. 1, 1817); Brahms's (1878); Tchaikovsky's (1878); Prokofiev's (No. 1, 1917); Stravinsky's (1931); and Korngold's (1945).
It is also suitable for guitar music, with drop tuning for the lowest string making two Ds as open strings.
For some beginning wind instrument students, however, D major is not a very good key, because it transposes to E major for B flat instruments. E major has four sharps, which is harder for new learners to play.
Still, the clarinet in B-flat is often used for music in D major. It is probably the key with the most sharps that it can play well. However, when some composers write a piece in D minor with B-flat clarinets, they change to clarinets in A if the music changes to D major.
Most tin whistles are in D, because they are often used in music with fiddles.
In the Baroque period, D major was seen as "the key of glory"; so many trumpet pieces were in D major. Examples include concertos by Fasch, Gross, Molter (No. 2), Leopold Mozart, Telemann (No. 2), and Giuseppe Torelli; sonatas by Corelli, Franceschini, Purcell, Torelli; and "The Trumpet Shall Sound" and the "Hallelujah" chorus from Handel's "Messiah".
After the valve trumpet was invented, composers began to write for trumpet in keys with more flats, so Haydn wrote his famous trumpet concerto in the key of E-flat major.
23 of Haydn's 104 symphonies are in D major, making it the most often used main key of his symphonies. A great number of Mozart's unnumbered symphonies are in D major, namely K. 66c, 81/73, 97/73m, 95/73n, 120/111a and 161/163/141a. The symphony came from the overture, and "D major was by far the most common key for overtures in the second half of the eighteenth century."
Scriabin saw D major as golden in color and when he talked to Rimsky-Korsakov, he gave an example from one of Rimsky-Korsakov's own operas where a character sang in D major about gold.

</doc>
<doc id="233771" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233771" title="B minor">
B minor

B minor is a minor scale based on B. The harmonic minor raises the A to A. Its key signature has two sharps.
Its relative major is D major, and its parallel major is B major.
In Baroque times, people thought that B minor was the key of passive suffering. Christian Friedrich Daniel Schubart (1739-1791) said that it was a key that was complaining gently and quietly, something that matches Bach's use of the key in the St. John's Passion. By Beethoven's time, B minor had changed in people's minds: Francesco Galeazzi wrote that B minor was not suitable for music in good taste, and Beethoven labelled a B minor melodic idea in one of his sketchbooks as a "black key".
The chord was famously used as the first chord in Pink Floyd's 1979 hit "Comfortably Numb". The second movement of Rodrigo's Concierto de Aranjuez, one of the most famous compositions for the classical guitar, is in B minor.
It is a common key used in rock, folk, country and other guitarist-based styles because a guitar is naturally tuned so that all the open strings are notes in B minor.

</doc>
<doc id="233773" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233773" title="C minor">
C minor

C minor is a minor scale based on C. The harmonic minor raises the B to B. Its key signature has three flats. When written in jazz notation, its short form is Cm.
Its relative major is E-flat major, and its parallel major is C major.
In the Baroque period, music in C minor was usually written with a two-flat key signature. When this music is printed today, sometimes it is still printed in the same way.
C minor has had the meaning of heroic struggle from Beethoven's time and the composer wrote many of his most emotional, dramatic works in this key. This has also been done by many others, following Beethoven's style.
These are just a few of the well-known works to be written in C minor:

</doc>
<doc id="233774" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233774" title="A major">
A major

A major (or the key of A) is a major scale with a base note of A. Its key signature has three sharps.
Its relative minor is F-sharp minor. The key of A-major is the only key where a Neapolitan sixth chord on formula_1 needs both a flat and a natural accidental.
There are not as many symphonies in A major as in D major or G major, but more than other sharp keys. Beethoven's Symphony No. 7, Bruckner's Symphony No. 6 and Mendelssohn's Symphony No. 4 are almost all the symphonies in this key in the Romantic era. Mozart's Clarinet Concerto and Clarinet Quintet are both in A major. Mozart used clarinets in A major often.
In chamber music, A major is used a lot. Johannes Brahms, César Franck, and Gabriel Fauré wrote violin sonatas in A major. Peter Cropper said that A major "is the fullest sounding key for the violin.", when he was talking about Beethoven's Kreutzer Sonata.
According to Christian Friedrich Daniel Schubart, A major is a key that is good for "declarations of innocent love, ... hope of seeing one's beloved again when parting; youthful cheerfulness and trust in God."
When music for orchestra is in A major, the timpani are normally set to A and E a fifth apart. In most other keys, they are set a fourth apart.

</doc>
<doc id="233775" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233775" title="F-sharp minor">
F-sharp minor

F-sharp minor is a minor scale based on F sharp. Its key signature has three sharps. 
Its relative major is A major.
Many people think it is a melancholy and key.
Harry Farjeon says that F sharp minor is "light red", and that it is the key Mendelssohn uses when he is being passionate.
Johann Mattheson wrote that 'F minor, although it leads to great distress, nevertheless is more and love-sick than lethal. Moreover, it has something abandoned, singular, and about it.'
Very few symphonies are written in this key. Haydn's "Farewell Symphony" is one famous example. George Frederick Bristow and Dora Pejačević also wrote symphonies in this key.
Many piano pieces have been written in F-sharp minor.
Mozart's only composition in this key is the second movement to his Piano Concerto No. 23 in A major. 2 of Chopin's 52 mazurkas, and 1 of his nocturnes are in this key, though he seems to have liked the related key C-sharp minor better. Scriabin's Piano Sonata No. 3 is also in this key, and the 3rd movement of Beethoven's "Hammerklavier" Piano Sonata is too.
Both Reger's and Tippett's second string quartets are in this key, and so is Shostakovich's seventh string quartet.

</doc>
<doc id="233776" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233776" title="A-flat major">
A-flat major

A major or A-flat major is a major scale that starts on A-flat.
Its relative minor is F minor and its parallel minor is A-flat minor.
This is a very peaceful key. It was used often by Franz Schubert. Twenty-four of Frédéric Chopin's piano pieces are in A-flat major, more than any other key.
Charles-Marie Widor considered A-flat major to be the second best key for flute music.
Beethoven chose A-flat major as the key of the slow movement for most of his C minor works. This was also followed by Antonín Dvořák in his only C minor symphony and Anton Bruckner in his first two C minor symphonies. 
Since A-flat major was not often chosen as the main key for orchestral music of the 18th century, passages or movements in the key often kept the timpani tuned the same way as they were in the movement before it. For example, Beethoven's Symphony No. 5 in C minor has the timpani set to C and G for the first movement. With hand-tuned timpani, there is no time to retune the timpani to A flat and E flat for the slow second movement in A flat. In Bruckner's Symphony No. 1 in C minor, however, the timpani are retuned between the first movement in C minor and the following in A-flat major.
Edward Elgar's Symphony No. 1 in A-flat major is probably the best-known symphony in that key. Arnold Bax's last symphony is also in the same key. A-flat major is the major key with the most flats that Domenico Scarlatti used in his keyboard sonatas, though he used it only twice– in K. 127 and K. 130. Felix Mendelssohn and John Field each wrote one piano concerto in A-flat.

</doc>
<doc id="233777" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233777" title="F minor">
F minor

F minor is a minor scale based on F. The harmonic minor raises the E to E. Its key signature has four flats.
Its relative major is A-flat major, and its parallel major is F major.
F minor is a key that people often link with passion. Some famous pieces in the key of F minor are Beethoven's "Appassionata Sonata", Haydn's Symphony No. 49 in F minor, "La Passione", and Vivaldi's The Four Seasons.
In the Baroque period, music in F minor was usually written with a three-flat key signature. Some modern printings of such music keeps it written that way.
The enharmonic equivalent of F minor is E-sharp minor. It is a minor scale based on the musical note E♯. Its key signature has six sharps and one double sharp.

</doc>
<doc id="233778" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233778" title="E major">
E major

E major is a major scale with a base note of E. Its key signature has four sharps. Its relative minor is C-sharp minor.
E major is hard for wind instruments to play. It is quite good for violin, because two of the open strings are A and E, the tonic and subdominant. Other orchestral string instruments can play well in it, and it is also good for the guitar. When writing in E major, clarinets in A should be used instead of clarinets in B-flat to make it easier to play. This is because clarinets are transposing instruments.
Symphonies in E major are quite rare, but the key is often used for concertos. One of them is Felix Mendelssohn's Violin Concerto.
The bells of the Clock Tower in London's Palace of Westminster are tuned to the key of E major.

</doc>
<doc id="233779" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233779" title="C-sharp minor">
C-sharp minor

C-sharp minor or C minor is a minor scale based on C. Its key signature has four sharps.
Its relative major is E major, and its parallel major is C-sharp major.
There are very few symphonies written in this key. One of them is by Joseph Martin Kraus, but he later rewrote it in C minor. Another two are Mahler's Symphony No. 5 (though only the first movement is in C-sharp minor, and the finale is actually in D major) and Prokofiev's Symphony No. 7. Shostakovich's Violin Concerto No. 2 is also in C-sharp minor.
This key occurs more often in piano music. Domenico Scarlatti wrotetwo keyboard sonatas in C-sharp minor, K. 246 and K. 247. But after Beethoven's famous "Moonlight Sonata", the key became more popular for piano. Beethoven used this key again in the outer movements of his String Quartet No. 14 (Op. 131, 1826). However, Johannes Brahms rewrote his C-sharp minor Piano Quartet to be published as Piano Quartet No. 3 in C minor, Op. 60. One of the most famous pieces in this key is Chopin's "Fantaisie-Impromptu". Other works include Chopin's Nocturnes No. 7 (Op. 27, No. 1) and No. 20 (Op. posth.), and his "Raindrop" Prelude in D-flat major (Op. 28, No. 15). Another very famous example of a work in C sharp minor is Rachmaninoff's Prelude in C-sharp minor (Op. 3, No. 2).

</doc>
<doc id="233781" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233781" title="B-flat minor">
B-flat minor

B minor or B-flat minor is a minor scale based on B-flat. Its key signature has five flats.
Its relative major is D-flat major, and its parallel major is B-flat major. Its enharmonic equivalent is A-sharp minor.
B-flat minor is often seen as a "dark" key." Tchaikovsky said that the oboe solo in B-flat minor in the second movement of his Symphony No. 4 was "the feeling that you get when you are all alone".
The old valveless horn could not play easily in B-flat minor. In fact, the only example found in 18th century music is a modulation in the first minuet of Franz Krommer's Concertino in D major, Opus 80.

</doc>
<doc id="233782" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233782" title="B major">
B major

B major is a major scale based on B. Its key signature has five sharps.
B major's relative minor is G-sharp minor, its parallel minor is B minor, and its enharmonic equivalent is C-flat major.
The key signature for B major is the least sharp key signature with three "lines" of sharps. In the treble clef, putting the sharp for A where it looks like it should be, next to the sharp for G, would mean that a ledger line would have to be used. In the bass clef it would be possible to do this without a ledger line, but because sight reading is easier when both staves look the same, it is not usually done in piano music. In the alto clef, used in orchestral music, the B major key signature is usually written in just two "lines" of sharps.
Although B major is usually thought of as a "far away" key because it has many sharps and is quite far from C major in the circle of fifths, Frédéric Chopin thought that it was the easiest scale of all to play, as its black notes fit the natural positions of the fingers well. Because of this, it was often the first scale he taught to beginning piano students, leaving the scale of C major till last because he thought it was the hardest to play.
While B major is not too difficult to play on keyboard instruments and guitar, the key of C-flat major is easier when writing music for the harp, as it is that instrument's home key.

</doc>
<doc id="233783" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233783" title="G-sharp minor">
G-sharp minor

G-sharp minor is a minor scale based on G. For the harmonic minor, the F is raised to F.
Its key signature has five sharps.
Its relative major is B major.
The melodic and harmonic versions of the scale are written in with accidentals as necessary.
G-sharp minor is usually not used in orchestral music except to modulate, but it is more common in keyboard music, like Scriabin's sonatas. For orchestration of piano music (writing it so an orchestra can play it), sometimes the music is transposed to G minor or A minor. If G-sharp minor must be used, B-flat wind instruments should have their part written in B-flat minor, not A-sharp minor. 
In a few scores, 5-sharp key signatures in the bass clef are written with the sharp for the A on the top line.

</doc>
<doc id="233784" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233784" title="G-flat major">
G-flat major

G-flat major is a major scale based on G-flat. Its key signature has six flats.
Its relative minor is E-flat minor, and its parallel minor is G-flat minor. This is usually replaced by F♯ minor because G♭ minor's two double-flats make it generally impractical to use.
Its enharmonic equivalent is F-sharp major, whose key signature also has six accidentals. In writing music in E major for B-flat instruments, it is preferable to use a G-flat rather an F-sharp key signature.
G-flat major is sometimes used as a main key for piano works, such as the impromptus of Chopin and Schubert, but rarely for orchestra.
Austrian composer Gustav Mahler liked to use G-flat major in his symphonies.

</doc>
<doc id="233786" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233786" title="E-flat minor">
E-flat minor

E minor or E-flat minor is a minor scale based on E-flat. Its key signature has six sharps.
Its relative major is G-flat major, and its parallel major is E-flat major. Its enharmonic equivalent is D-sharp minor.
This key is not used much in orchestral music, and usually only to modulate. It is used in some keyboard pieces and has been most popular in Russian pieces. If piano music in this key must be arranged for orchestra, some people recommend transposing it into D minor or E minor.
In book 1 of the "Well-Tempered Clavier" by Johann Sebastian Bach, Prelude No. 8 is written in E-flat minor while the following Fugue is written in D-sharp minor. In book 2, both movements are in D-sharp minor.
One of the few symphonies written in this key is Prokofiev's Symphony No. 6. A few other Soviet composers also wrote symphonies in this key, such as Eshpai, Janis Ivanovs (fourth symphony "Atlantis", 1941), Ovchinnikov and Myaskovsky. Rachmaninov's "Elegie", Op. 3 No. 1 is in E-flat minor, as is his Études-Tableaux Op. 39 #5. These pieces are noted for being dark and mysterious, a mood this key has. This mood is shown even in the later jazz music "'Round Midnight" and "Take Five", which are also in the key.
The second movement to Gustav Mahler's Eighth Symphony has a long orchestral and choral introduction in E-flat minor. The dark orchestral introduction to Beethoven's only oratorio, Christ on the Mount of Olives, is also in this key.

</doc>
<doc id="233788" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233788" title="F-sharp major">
F-sharp major

F-sharp major is a major scale based on F-sharp. Its key signature has six sharps.
Its relative minor is D minor, and its enharmonic equivalent is G major.
This key is not used often in orchestral music except to modulate. It is used more often in piano music, like Scriabin's sonatas. When piano music in this key needs to be arranged for orchestra, sometimes it is better to change it to F or G major. If F-sharp major needs to be used, transposing instruments in B flat should have their music written in A-flat major, not G-sharp major.
The Presentation of the Rose scene in Act Two of Richard Strauss's opera Der Rosenkavalier is written in F-sharp major.
F-sharp major is the key of Beethoven's Piano Sonata, Op. 78, of Chopin's Barcarolle, of Liszt's Hungarian Rhapsody No. 2, of Mahler's unfinished Tenth Symphony, Erich Korngold's Symphony Op. 40, and Scriabin's Fourth Sonata.
In a few scores, the F-sharp major key signature in the bass clef is written with the sharp for the A on the top line.

</doc>
<doc id="233789" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233789" title="D-sharp minor">
D-sharp minor

D-sharp minor is a minor scale based on D . For the harmonic minor, the C is raised to C. Its key signature has six sharps.
E-flat minor is its enharmonic equivalent. Its relative major is F-sharp major, and its parallel major is D-sharp major. This is usually replaced by E-flat major, because D-sharp major's two double sharps make it impractical to use.
Since D-sharp minor and its enharmonic equivalent both have key signatures of six accidentals, neither one is clearly used instead of the other. For example, using the melodic minor version of D-sharp minor on the harp is very difficult. The B-pedal can be set to the sharp position, but there is no double-sharp position to set the C-pedal at. In Book I of "The Well-Tempered Clavier", Bach chose to write the eighth prelude in E-flat minor but the accompanying fugue in D-sharp minor. (In Book II, Bach wrote both the eighth Prelude and Fugue in D-sharp minor.)
Music written in this key is considered very difficult to read, which means that little music was written mainly in this key in the Classical era. E-flat minor is easier for many brass instruments and woodwinds.
The most famous work in this key is Scriabin's famous Etude Op. 8, No. 12. Russian composer Lyapunov must also have liked the key because he wrote the second etude of his Op. 11 set in the key, and also fifteen years later his Variations on a Russian Theme, Op. 49. His early Piano Concerto No. 1, Op. 4 was also in the enharmonic key of E-flat minor.
In a few scores, 6-sharp key signatures in the bass clef are written with the sharp for the A on the top line. This is not done often, because it is different from the treble clef.
This key is not used often in orchestral music, but is used more in keyboard music. When arranging this piano music for orchestra, some people recommend transposing the music to D minor or E minor. If D-sharp minor must be used, B-flat wind instruments should have their parts written in F minor, rather than E-sharp minor.

</doc>
<doc id="233791" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233791" title="A-flat minor">
A-flat minor

A-flat minor is a minor scale starting on A. Its key signature has seven flats.
Its relative major is C-flat major, and its parallel major is A-flat major. Its enharmonic equivalent is G-sharp minor.
A-flat minor is rarely used as the main key of a piece of music. 
More often, pieces in a minor mode that have A as the tonic are written in the enharmonic key, G-sharp minor, because it has a simpler key signature. Because of this, there are few works in A-flat minor.
In some scores, the A minor key signature in the bass clef is written with the flat for the F on the second line from the top.
A-flat minor is also used in Frederick Loewe's score to the 1956 musical play "My Fair Lady"; the Second Servants' Chorus is set in A-flat minor.
Another example of popular music in A-flat minor is Walkin' on the Sun by Smash Mouth.

</doc>
<doc id="233792" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233792" title="C-sharp major">
C-sharp major

C major (or C-sharp major) is a major scale based on C. Its key signature has seven sharps.
Its relative minor is A minor, and its parallel minor is C minor. Its enharmonic equivalent is D major.
When a harp is tuned to C-sharp major, it has all its pedals in the bottom position. Because all the strings are made shorter in this way, it makes it less resonant.
Most composers prefer to use the enharmonic equivalent D-flat major because it has just five flats. However, Johann Sebastian Bach actually chose C-sharp major for Prelude and Fugue No. 3 in both books of the "Well-Tempered Clavier". In Hungarian Rhapsody No. 6, Franz Liszt changes key from D-flat major to C-sharp major near the beginning of the piece. Maurice Ravel used C-sharp major as the tonic key of "Ondine" from his piano suite "Gaspard de la nuit". 
Louis Vierne used C-sharp major in the final piece of Messe solennelle.

</doc>
<doc id="233793" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233793" title="A-sharp minor">
A-sharp minor

A-sharp minor or A minor is a minor scale based on A-sharp. Its key signature has seven sharps.
Its relative major is C-sharp major. Its parallel major is A-sharp major. This is usually replaced by B-flat major, because A-sharp major's three double sharps in the key signature makes it generally impractical. Exceptions include Chopin's Polonaise-Fantaisie in A-flat major, Op. 61, which has a short passage of about 6 bars actually written in A-sharp major, putting in the necessary double-sharps as accidentals. This is part of a theme in B major, which modulates to A-sharp major for a little while.
A-sharp minor has the enharmonic equivalent of B-flat minor. This is often used in most musical compositions instead of A-sharp minor, because A-sharp minor is not a useful key for compositions and is one of the least used minor keys in music. However, there were some composers in the past that have composed music in this key. Christian Heinrich Rinck wrote his Prelude No. 16 from Op. 15 in A-sharp minor.

</doc>
<doc id="233794" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233794" title="F-flat major">
F-flat major

F-flat major is a major scale based on F-flat. Its key signature has eight flats.
Its relative minor is D-flat minor, and its parallel minor is F-flat minor, usually replaced by E minor. 
Part of Richard Strauss' "Metamorphosen" uses F flat major, which one commentator has called "a bitter enharmonic parody" of the earlier manifestations of E major in the piece.
To make reading and writing music easier, F-flat major is usually written as its enharmonic equivalent of E major.

</doc>
<doc id="233795" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233795" title="D-flat minor">
D-flat minor

D-flat minor is a theoretical key based on the musical note D. Its key signature has seven flats and one double flat.
Because it has so many flats, D minor is usually written as its enharmonic equivalent of C minor. For example, Mahler's thematic motif "der kleine Appell" ("call to order") from his Fourth and Fifth Symphonies is written in D minor in Symphony No.4, but in his Symphony No. 5 it is in C minor. In the "Adagio" of his Symphony No. 9 a solo bassoon theme appears first in D minor, but comes back two more times notated in C minor. The "Adagio" of Bruckner's Symphony No. 8, also has phrases that are tonally in D minor but written as C minor.

</doc>
<doc id="233796" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233796" title="G-sharp major">
G-sharp major

G-sharp major is a major scale based on the musical note G sharp. Its key signature has six sharps and one double sharp.
To make reading easier, G-sharp major is usually written as its enharmonic equivalent of A-flat major. However, it does appear as a secondary key area in several works in sharp keys, for example in the Prelude and Fugue in C sharp major from Bach's Well-Tempered Klavier, Book 1. The G sharp minor Prelude and Fugue from the same set end with a Picardy third in G sharp major. 
G sharp major is used for a short time in several of Chopin's nocturnes in C sharp minor. 

</doc>
<doc id="233799" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233799" title="Flat (music)">
Flat (music)

In music, flat, or Bemolle, means "lower in pitch." In music notation, flat means "lower in pitch by a semitone (half step)," and has the symbol (). The Unicode character " <nowiki ♭ ></nowiki> (U+266D) is the flat sign. Its HTML entity is &#9837;.
Under twelve tone equal temperament, "C flat" is the same as, or enharmonically equivalent to, "B natural", and "G flat" is the same as "F sharp".
Double flats also exist, which look like and lower a note by two semitones, or a whole step. Sometimes you will encounter half or three-quarter flats. The Unicode character '&#x1D12B;' <nowiki &#x1D12B; ></nowiki> (U+1D12B) represents the double flat sign.
A triple flat can be found, but it is very rare. It lowers a note three semitones. 
The note "A flat" is shown in musical notation in Figure 1, together with "A double flat". 
In tuning, flat can also mean "slightly lower in pitch". If the same note is played on two instruments at the same time, the lower-pitched one is flat compared to the higher-pitched one.
A half flat, showing quarter tones, is sometimes shown with a flat with a slash () or a reversed flat sign. A three-quarter flat is represented by a half flat and a regular flat.

</doc>
<doc id="233800" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233800" title="Sharp (music)">
Sharp (music)

In music, sharp, or Diese, means higher in pitch. In musical notation, sharp means "higher in pitch by a semitone (half step)," and looks like this:().
Under twelve-tone equal temperament, "B sharp", for instance, is enharmonically equivalent to (sounds the same as), "C natural", and "G sharp" is enharmonically equivalent to "A flat".
Double sharps also exist; these have the symbol and raise a note by two semitones, or a whole step. Less often there are half or three-quarter sharps.
Although very rare and used only in modern classical music, a triple sharp ( ) can sometimes be found. This raises a note by three semitones.
The Circle of fifths tells you how many sharps are in a key signature.
In tuning, sharp can also mean "slightly higher in pitch". If the same note is played on two instruments, and one is slightly higher, it is too sharp compared to the other.
In Unicode, the sharp symbol (♯) is at code point U+266F. Its HTML entity is &#9839;. The double sharp symbol () is at U+1D12A. Some fonts do not show these symbols.

</doc>
<doc id="233801" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233801" title="Theoretical key">
Theoretical key

In music theory, theoretical keys or impossible keys are keys with key signatures that contain at least one double-flats or double-sharps.
Double-flats and double-sharps are used in music as accidentals, but they are rarely placed in the key signature (in music that uses equal temperament), because it would make reading the key signature very difficult.
For example, the key of G major is rarely used to write music down, because its key signature has an F. An equal-tempered scale of G major has exactly the same notes as the A major scale. Key pairs like this are called enharmonically equivalent. So the theoretical key of G major is usually written with the key signature of A major.
A piece of Western music usually has a home key, and a passage within it may modulate to another key, which is usually closely related to the home key. (Usually, close to the original around the circle of fifths.) When the key is near the top of the circle (a key signature of zero or few accidentals), the writing of both keys is easy- a small number of extra sharps or flats is added. But if the home key is near the bottom of the circle (a key signature with many accidentals), enharmonic equivalence may need to be used because simply adding accidentals will result in a key with too many accidentals to be easy to play or write in.
In each of the bottom three places on the circle of fifths the two enharmonic equivalents "can" both be written without double-sharps or double-flats and so do not classify as 'theoretical keys':
But when a relative key is on the opposite side of the circle from its home key, then in theory modulating to that key would involve adding so many sharps or flats that double-sharps and double-flats would have to be written in the key signature. The following six keys (which are the parallel major/minor keys of those above) would require one, two or three double-sharps or double-flats:
For example, if a piece in E major were to modulate up a fifth to B major, which is next to it on the circle and on the same side of the circle, the notation is clear and simple; an extra sharp is added to make five sharps. If it was modulated again, it would become F major, written with six sharps. The next modulation, to C has seven sharps. But the next modulation would be to a theoretical key of G which would need an eighth sharp- for the previous F note to become F in the key signature. To avoid theoretical keys, the new section would usually be written in the enharmonically equivalent key signature of A major.

</doc>
<doc id="233829" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233829" title="President of Chile">
President of Chile

The President of Chile is the chief of state and the head of government in the country. Under the current Constitution (adopted in 1980), the President is elected by popular (by many people) vote, for a period of four years. Immediate re-election is not permitted. The period (previously it was of six years) allows the elections of Presidents to be adjusted in time.
The President has a seat in the Palacio de La Moneda (La Moneda Palace), in the capital of Chile, Santiago.
The current president of Chile is Michelle Bachelet.

</doc>
<doc id="233880" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233880" title="Japanese Regional Leagues">
Japanese Regional Leagues

Japanese Regional Leagues is a football league which is fourth division in Japan.

</doc>
<doc id="233881" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233881" title="Süper Lig">
Süper Lig

Süper Lig is a football league which is top division in Turkey.

</doc>
<doc id="233882" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233882" title="K League Classic">
K League Classic

K-League Classic is a football league which is top division in South Korea.

</doc>
<doc id="233883" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233883" title="Swiss Super League">
Swiss Super League

Swiss Super League is a football league which is top division in Switzerland.
The teams competing in the 2013–14 season are

</doc>
<doc id="233884" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233884" title="Belgian First Division A">
Belgian First Division A

The Belgian First Division A (in the past known as the Belgian First Division and Belgian Pro League, and as the Jupiler Pro League for sponsorship reasons) is a men's football league which is the top division in Belgium.

</doc>
<doc id="233899" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233899" title="New Zealand national football team">
New Zealand national football team

The New Zealand national football team is the national football team of New Zealand. They are commonly known as the All Whites. In New Zealand, football is often called soccer in spoken English. 
In the 2010 FIFA world cup, the All whites played in group F, along with Italy, Paraguay and Slovakia. 
The All Whites played Slovakia to start off with and drew 1-1. The All Whites then played Italy, and surprisingly also drew 1-1, taking all of New Zealand by surprise. NZ then played Paraguay as the deciding match, in this game, Paraguay and New Zealand drew 0-0. This is the first world cup where New Zealand has scored a goal and the first world cup where NZ is undefeated.
The All whites have so much help by the fans, Ricki Herbert and Neil Emblen so I would like to celebrate them for all they have done and support.

</doc>
<doc id="233902" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233902" title="Aaron Nimzovich">
Aaron Nimzovich

Aaron Nimzovich (7 November 1886 – 16 March 1935) was a Jewish Latvian-born Danish chess grandmaster, and a very influential chess writer. He was the foremost figure amongst the "hypermoderns".
He wrote an important text on chess strategy called "My system: a chess treatise", which is still highly regarded. It is a foundation of modern positional chess, and has been read by most chess masters since then. In it he reacted against the more classical views of Siegbert Tarrasch. Later he wrote "Chess praxis" (1929), a collection of his games showing his ideas in practice.
Nimzovich was the subject of a chess biography by English grandmaster Ray Keene, which was translated into Russian in 1986. 

</doc>
<doc id="233948" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233948" title="Yoji Mizuguchi">
Yoji Mizuguchi

Yoji Mizuguchi (born 20 July 1944) is a former Japanese football player and manager. He has played for Yanmar Diesel.

</doc>
<doc id="233956" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233956" title="Dale's Supermarket Sweep">
Dale's Supermarket Sweep

Dale's Supermarket Sweep is a UK game show based on the American Supermarket Sweep TV show format. Between 1993 & 2001 it was filmed at Central's Lenton Lane studios. As of 2007 it is filmed at Maidstone Studios. It is presented by Dale Winton.

</doc>
<doc id="233984" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233984" title="The Sims Bustin' Out">
The Sims Bustin' Out

The Sims Bustin' Out is a 2003 life simulation game released for the PlayStation 2, Xbox, Nintendo GameCube, Game Boy Advance, and N-Gage. It is part of "The Sims" game series. It is the second "Sims" game to be released on a console.

</doc>
<doc id="233985" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233985" title="Goliath">
Goliath

Goliath () was a Philistine warrior in the Old Testament. He was the champion of the warriors of town of Gath. The name refers to Greek name Alyattes.
Goliath was unusually large. His height was said to be "six cubits and a span" - some 290 cm - and he fought as armoured charioteer. The Bible describes how he challenged the Israelite warriors for single-handed duel, but nobody dared to fight with him.
David, who was fourteen years old at this time, finally answered to challenge. He was skilled on use of sling, and he found out a way how he could win him. He accurately slung a stone on Goliath's forehead, just below his helmet. The stone knocked Goliath out. David then ran to unconscious Goliath, pulled his sword off the scabbard, and cut his head off. Seeing a fourteen-year-old boy killing their champion, the Philistine army demoralized.
The Dead Sea Scrolls say Goliaths height was a more credible "four cubits and a span", in modern measurements 202 cm. At the era when man's average height was some 160 cm, he would still have looked like a giant.

</doc>
<doc id="233997" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233997" title="Sukoró">
Sukoró

Sukoró is a holiday resort in Hungary situated at the northern coast of Lake Velencei and at the south foot of Velencei Hills. The victory at Pákozd-Sukoró in the Hungarian Revolution of 1848 established the reputation of the village. The war council before the battle was held in the protected Calvinist Church of Sukoró, where memories are still preserved.

</doc>
<doc id="233998" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233998" title="Cyprus">
Cyprus

"This article is about the island. For the country, see Republic of Cyprus and Northern Cyprus."
Cyprus is a Mediterranean island off the coasts of Syria and Turkey. It is the third-largest island in the Mediterranean; Sicily and Sardinia are larger. It is slightly larger than Puerto Rico. Geographically, it is part of Asia and in the Middle East, but for political reasons, it is sometimes counted as being part of Europe. There are two states on the island:
These states are separated by a buffer zone, which is controlled by the United Nations. In addition to the two countries, there are Akrotiri and Dhekelia, two territories which are under British control, and which are used as military bases. 
In its thousands of years of recorded history, many empires have ruled Cyprus. They include Assyria, ancient Egypt Persia, Alexander the Great, the Roman Empire, the Byzantines, Arab caliphates for a short period, France, the Republic of Venice and the Ottoman Empire.

</doc>
<doc id="234009" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234009" title="Kápolnásnyék">
Kápolnásnyék

Kápolnásnyék is a village in Fejér county, Hungary.
The excavations in the surroundings revealed Bronze-Age artefacts, proving that the area was already populated in ancient times.
The name of the settlement originates from the name of the Nyék tribe (coming to Hungary during the settlement of Hungarian tribes). The first residents probably belonged to a subgroup of the tribe. When István I. defeated Koppány, Nyék became a land of the queen. The name of the settlement is mentioned first in 1193 as Neck. Later the names Kápolnás Nyék, Káposztás Nyék, and Fertőfő Nyék are used to mention this rather insignificant place located between Buda and Fehérvár, which is south of the commercial route. As a border village Kápolnásnyék suffered from double taxation during the Turkish occupation (both Hungary and the Turkish Empire collected taxes). Therefore the population of the village decreased considerably and it even became uninhabited during the Turkish campaign of 1543. The inhabitants returned to the village in 1772. 
During the 19 century Upper and Lower Nyék were differentiated, even after 1861, when the Southem Railway was built. It is mentioned as an independent village first in 1871, to which Pettend was attached in 1898. Mihály Vörösmarty was born here.
The present appearance of the village was formed in the 1930s, when it became a commercial and service background for the booming tourism of Lake Velencei. The phone system, the gendarme patrol, local medical care, the railway station and the mill were established in this period. The settlement suffered serious injuries in World War II, when the majority of the population also died. The village was also behind in development, compared to other settlements of the region and became a part of Velence by the 1970s.
Kápolnásnyék declared its independence in 1990 and has gone though considerable development since then. It once again became the background for the tourism of Lake Velencei, where commercial service facilities are established and the infrastructure is developing rapidly.

</doc>
<doc id="234014" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234014" title="Areopagitica">
Areopagitica

Areopagitica is a book written by English poet John Milton in 1644. He wrote it to protest against censorship. Its full title is "Areopagitica: A speech of Mr. John Milton for the liberty of unlicensed printing to the Parliament of England". Today, his book is called a tract. In the tract, Milton tries to defend the freedom of expression. Today, many people see it as one of the best defenses of the freedom of press ever written.
The tract is named after a speech by Isocrates, a Greek orator of the 5th century. The Areopagus is a hill in Athens, where many councils and tribunals were held. Isocrates wanted to restore one of these tribunals when he wrote the speech. In the speech,Milton argued that the Licensing Order of 1643 should be abolished; censorship had not been part of Greek or Roman societies. Milton uses many passages from the Bible to strengthen his argument. Milton had been censored himself when he tried to publish tracts which were in favor of allowing people to get divorced. 
In "Areopagitica", Milton argues that the status that was there before had worked best: By this law, all publications needed an authors name or that of a publisher. According to Milton, it is easy to find the authors or the publishers with this system. So if anything libelous is published, the books can still be destroyed after the fact.

</doc>
<doc id="234018" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234018" title="Defamation">
Defamation

Defamation is saying or writing something about another person that hurts their reputation. Usually, when people use the word "defamation", it means that the statement is not true. In this case, it is against the law. A statement that is defamation is called "defamatory".
In order to be defamatory, a statement has to claim to be a fact instead of an opinion. For example, saying, "Mr. Jones is mean" cannot be defamatory, because it is someone's opinion. However, if someone says, "Mr. Jones steals candy from children", then the statement is defamatory "if" it is not true, because it would be a fact, not an opinion.
If a defamatory statement is written, such as in a book or in a newspaper, it is called libel. If it is spoken out loud, it is called slander. Somebody who is the victim of defamation can sue the person who wrote or said it.
Defamation is a tool of bullying.
Defamation laws are not the same in every country. In most countries, the burden of proof is on the person claiming that somebody is defaming them. This means they have to prove that what somebody saying about them is false. However, in England, it is the other way around. If somebody claims that a statement is defamation, the person who made the statement has to prove the statement is true.

</doc>
<doc id="234019" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234019" title="Sue">
Sue

Sue may mean:

</doc>
<doc id="234052" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234052" title="Seikima-II">
Seikima-II

Seikima-II (read as "seikimatsu", which means "The End of the Century") is a Japanese heavy metal band formed by Damian Hamada in 1982.
Their music could be described as similar to the music of other heavy metal bands like Iron Maiden and Judas Priest.

</doc>
<doc id="234075" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234075" title="Northern United States">
Northern United States

The Northern United States, commonly referred to as the American North or simply the North, can be a geographic or historical term and definition.
Geographically, the term includes the U.S. states and regions of the United States of America that are located across the northernmost part of the country. It includes, but is not limited to, states along the Canada–United States border.
The United States Census Bureau divides some of the northernmost United States into the Midwest Region and the Northeast Region. The Census Bureau also includes the northernmost states of the Northwestern United States, that are, within the West Region.
Before 19th century westward expansion, the "Northern United States" was considered the present day New England region. By the 1830s it corresponded to the present day Northeastern United States
During the American Civil War, the Northern United States was composed of the U.S. states that remained in the United States of America, the Union states. In this context, "The North" is synonymous with the Union. In this context, "The South" is composed of the states that seceded from the U.S. to form the Confederate States of America. However, which states comprised "The North" in this context can be the subject of historical disagreement. Some slave-holding states that remained in the Union may be excluded.

</doc>
<doc id="234076" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234076" title="Radical">
Radical

Radical, from Late Latin "radicalis" "of roots" and from Latin "radix" "root", may refer to:
Extremism, political standpoints that are perceived as revolutionary or extreme

</doc>
<doc id="234077" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234077" title="Rachel Carson">
Rachel Carson

Rachel Louise Carson (born May 27, 1907 – died April 14, 1964) was an American marine biologist and nature writer. Carson worked for 15 years as a biologist, scientist and editor in the U.S. Bureau of Fisheries and then the United States Fish and Wildlife Service. Her books were very important in helping the environmental movement grow. She was famous for writing "Silent Spring". She also wrote a set of three books about the ocean and what lives in and around it.
"Silent Spring" caught the attention of many Americans. Before this not many worried about environmental problems and conservation. The book looked at problems with DDT and other pesticides (chemicals that kill pests, like mosquitoes and flies). It was thought these pesticides were safe, but they were actually causing many birds to die. DDT stayed in insects and fish which were eaten by birds. The birds then laid eggs with thin shells that would break. Some birds, like the Bald Eagle almost disappeared from the United States. In her book Carson said that without changes in how we use pesticides, there may not be birds left at some time in the future. Instead of hearing birds sing in the spring, it would be quiet, and that is how the book got its title.
This book led to a change in the national pesticide policy and a ban on DDT and some other pesticides. This new grassroots environmental movement, inspired by the book, led to the creation of the Environmental Protection Agency. After her death, Carson was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom by Jimmy Carter. There is a National Wildlife Refuge in Maine named after her.
Rachel Carson was born on May 27, 1907 in Springdale, Pennsylvania and grew up on a family farm. It was on the Allegheny River, near Pittsburgh. Carson liked to read, and was a talented writer from an young age. She also spent a lot of time exploring around her farm. She began writing stories (often with animals in them) at age eight, and had her first story published at age eleven. She liked to read the "St. Nicholas Magazine", which published her first stories. It also published stories by Beatrix Potter, and the books of Gene Stratton Porter, Herman Melville, Joseph Conrad and Robert Louis Stevenson. The natural world, particularly the ocean, was a common part of her favorite books. Carson graduated high school in 1925, at the top of her class of forty-four students.
At the Pennsylvania College for Women (now known as Chatham University), as in high school, Carson was a bit of a loner. She originally studied English, but switched her major to biology in January 1928. She continued writing in the school's student newspaper. Though accepted to graduate school at Johns Hopkins University in 1928, she had to remain at the Pennsylvania College for Women for her senior year because of money problems. She graduated "magna cum laude" (highest honors) in 1929. After a summer course at the Marine Biological Laboratory, she continued her studies in zoology and genetics at Johns Hopkins in the fall of 1929.
After her first year of graduate school, Carson worked in a laboratory with rats and "Drosophila", to earn money for tuition. She wrote her dissertation for her master's degree on how the pronephros in fish developed early in their life. She earned a master's degree in zoology in June 1932. She wanted to continue for a doctorate, but in 1934 Carson had to leave Johns Hopkins to find a full-time teaching job to help support her family. In 1935, her father died suddenly, and Carson had to take care of her aging mother. This made the money problem even bigger (this was during the Great Depression, when jobs were hard to find).
Her biology mentor from college helped her get a part-time job with the U.S. Bureau of Fisheries. Here she wrote for a educational broadcast called "Romance Under the Waters" on the radio (this was before television). It was a seven-minute program that ran once a week for a year. It was about aquatic life (mostly fish), to increase public interest in fish biology and in what the Bureau of Fisheries did. This was a job several people before Carson had not been able to do. Carson also began submitting articles on marine life in the Chesapeake Bay to local newspapers and magazines.
Carson's boss liked what she did, and asked her to write the introduction to a public brochure about the fisheries bureau. He also had her apply to the first full-time job that became available. When she took the civil service exam, she outscored all other applicants. In 1936 she became only the second woman to be hired by the Bureau of Fisheries for a full-time, professional position, as a junior aquatic biologist.
Carson worked for 15 years in the U.S. Bureau of Fisheries and then the United States Fish and Wildlife Service.
Her 1951 bestselling book "The Sea Around Us" allowed her to work full-time as a nature writer. People recognized her as a gifted writer. Her next book, "The Edge of the Sea", and the republished version of her first book, "Under the Sea Wind", were also bestsellers. Together, the three books explore all parts of ocean life, from the shores to the surface to the deep sea.
In the late 1950s, Carson became interested in conservation and the environmental problems caused by new pesticides. At first, she did not want to write about it, but nobody else would write about the problems of pesticides. So she studied the problem, and wrote "Silent Spring" (published in 1962). 
Rachel Carson died young, at the age of 56. She had breast cancer earlier. It was treated, but after several years cancer came back. She died April 14, 1964. 

</doc>
<doc id="234082" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234082" title="Heterochrony">
Heterochrony

Heterochrony (= "different time") is any change in the timing of development in an animal or plant. It is a key concept in developmental biology and evolution, introduced by Ernst Haeckel in 1875. It applies to the time a trait appears in the growth of an organism, or to the timing of gene expression in development.
Its importance in biology is to explain the way closely related animals may come to have quite large differences in shape, and size, whilst nevetheless having a rather similar genome. The main components are the time a process starts and stops in development, and the rate at which the process works. 
In his book "Embryos and evolution" (1930) Gavin de Beer stressed the importance of heterochrony, and especially paedomorphosis, in evolution. Changes to the genes which control timing in development can produce quite striking changes in the adult. de Beer also conceived the idea of "clandestine evolution", which helped to explain the sudden changes in the fossil record which were apparently at odds with Darwin's gradual theory of evolution. If a novelty were to evolve gradually in an animal's juvenile form, then its development would not appear in the fossil record at all. Then, if the species were to undergo neoteny, the feature would appear suddenly in the fossil record, despite having evolved gradually. Stephen Jay Gould commented on this book:

</doc>
<doc id="234087" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234087" title="Neoteny">
Neoteny

Neoteny is a type of heterochrony where bodily development is slowed, but sexual development goes on at the same rate. This results in a sexually mature juvenile or larval form. A classic example is the Axolotl.
It has often been suggested that the human species is, at least to some extent, an example of neoteny. These features of adult humans are different from those of adult great apes, but more similar to those of juvenile apes:
These are some of the neotenous traits in humans: flattened face, broadened face, large brain, hairless body, hairless face, small nose, reduction of brow ridge, small teeth, small upper jaw (maxilla), small lower jaw (mandible), thinness of skull bones, limbs proportionately short compared to torso length, longer leg than arm length, larger eyes, and upright stance.

</doc>
<doc id="234091" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234091" title="Gavin de Beer">
Gavin de Beer

Sir Gavin Rylands de Beer FRS (1899–1972) was a British evolutionary embryologist. He was Director of the London Natural History Museum, President of the Linnean Society, and received the Royal Society's Darwin Medal for his studies on evolution.
In the First World War he served in the Grenadier Guards. Later, he taught at Oxford University zoology department. In 1938, he was made Reader in Embryology at University College London. During the Second World War de Beer again served with the Grenadier Guards reaching the rank of temporary lieutenant colonel. He worked in military intelligence, propaganda and psychological warfare. Also during the war, in 1940, he was elected Fellow of the Royal Society.
In 1945, de Beer became Professor of Zoology and was, from 1946 to 1949, President of the Linnean Society. Then he was Director of the British Museum (Natural History) from 1950 until his retirement in 1960. He was knighted in 1954, and awarded the Darwin Medal of the Royal Society in 1957.
de Beer wrote 25 books, of which these are still noteworthy:

</doc>
<doc id="234094" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234094" title="The Lightning Thief">
The Lightning Thief

The Lightning Thief is a 2005 fantasy–adventure novel. It is based on Greek mythology. It was the first young-adult book written by author Rick Riordan. It is the first book in the "Percy Jackson & the Olympians" series. The series is about the adventures of modern 12-year-old Percy Jackson after he discovers he is a demigod (half-human, half-god). Percy is the son of a mortal woman and the Greek god Poseidon. Percy and his friends go on a quest (adventure) so that a war between the Greek gods Zeus, 
Poseidon and Hades will not happen.
Riordan finished writing his manuscript in 1994. "The Lightning Thief" was first bought by Bantam Books in 1997. Bantam sold it to Miramax Books. Miramax published it on June 28, 2005. The book sold more than 1.2 million copies in the next four years. The book won many awards. In 2007, it was on "The New York Times" Best Seller list for children's books. It was one of the Young Adult Library Services Association's Best Books for Young Adults. It was made into a movie named "". The movie was first shown in the United States on February 12, 2010. The sequel to this book is "The Sea of Monsters".
Planning for both "The Lightning Thief" and the series began when Riordan started making up stories for his nine-year-old son, Haley. He had started studying Greek mythology (stories) in second grade. He wanted his father to tell him stories about them before he went to sleep. Riordan had a Greek mythology teacher in middle school. He remembered some of the myths, which he then told to his son. Soon, Riordan had told him all the stories. When Haley wanted him to make up new stories using the characters from the myths, Riordan created the character of Percy Jackson. Like Percy, Haley had ADHD and dyslexia. He made up the story of how Percy traveled across the United States to search for Zeus' master bolt. After hearing the story, Haley wanted his father to write a book about Percy and his friends.
In June 1994, Riordan finished the story. He started looking for agents to publish it. He went to many local colleges to find an editor before finding an agent. He gave his manuscript to his agent and editor to review. At the same time, he gave the book to some sixth, seventh and eighth graders to read and tell him what was good or bad about it. They named the book and helped Riordan describe how Percy's sword (Riptide) worked. In June 1997, Riordan signed with Bantam Books to prepare the book for publishing. In 2004, Miramax Books bought the book. The money was enough for Riordan to quit his teaching job and spend his time on writing. The book was published on June 28, 2005. It sold over 1.2 million copies. The book had hardcover, softcover and audio editions. It has been translated into many languages. It has been published all over the world.
"The Lightning Thief" is a fantasy–adventure novel which uses the ideas of ancient Greek mythology in today's world. It is written in a fast-paced, humorous (funny) style.
Percy Jackson is a 12 year old boy. He has ADHD and dyslexia. He has been thrown out of many schools. On a trip with his mother, he meets his friend Grover, a satyr (half-goat, half-human). Grover tells Percy's mother that Percy must go to a camp. When they drive towards the camp, a Minotaur (monster) attacks them and grabs Percy's mother. She dissolves into gold sparkles of light, but Grover and Percy escape.
Percy later wakes up. He learns that he is in Camp Half-Blood, which is a secret training camp for demigods. Percy has to live in the Hermes cabin because he does not know which god his father is. He is under the care of Luke Castellan, the cabin counselor (leader). During a game, the children of the war god Ares attack Percy. He is healed when he steps into a river. When Poseidon's trident appears above his head, Percy learns that he is Poseidon's son. After World War II, Poseidon, Hades and Zeus made an oath (promise) not to have any more children because they were too powerful. However, Poseidon broke the oath by having Percy.
Chiron tells Percy to find Zeus' master lightning bolt. Chiron thinks Hades stole the bolt. However, Zeus discovers that Poseidon has broken his oath, and thinks Poseidon told Percy to steal the bolt. He tells Percy that he has ten days until the summer solstice to find it. Before leaving, Luke gives Percy magic shoes. Percy gives them to Grover. Annabeth (a daughter of Athena) and Grover join Percy in his quest to find the bolt.
They decide to travel west to reach the entrance to the Underworld, which is in Los Angeles. They meet many Greek monsters. They also meet Ares. Ares tells Percy that his mother is alive. When they come near the pit of Tartarus, Luke’s shoes try to pull Grover into it, but he escapes. Percy meets Hades, who also thinks Percy stole the Master Bolt. He also thinks Percy stole his Helm of Darkness. Percy knows that Ares has tricked him when he finds the bolt in his backpack. He runs away from the Underworld. He has to leave his mother there. Percy fights and defeats Ares by hurting the god's heel. Ares gives Percy the Helm of Darkness. Percy gives it back to Hades. Olympus is now present at the top of the Empire State Building in New York City. Percy arrives there to give the master bolt to Zeus.
Percy goes back to camp after hearing that his mother is alive. He meets Luke, who says that he stole the bolt for Kronos. He calls a poisonous scorpion which stings and nearly kills Percy. Percy kills the scorpion first. Chiron cures Percy, who leaves camp. He goes to a new school and stays with his mother instead of staying at camp.
"The Lightning Thief" received mostly positive reviews. Common Sense Media said "there are two levels of fun in "The Lightning Thief". One is the fast-paced quest of a young hero and his friends to save the world" and added "another level of fun here – laughing at the wicked ways the author has updated the gods and monsters for the 21st century". However, it criticized some parts of the book. They described the prose as "choppy and attitude-filled" and complained that "[t]he characters aren't emotionally involving". Its overall rating was 4 stars out of 5. "The New York Times" praised "The Lightning Thief" as "perfectly paced, with electrifying moments chasing each other like heartbeats". "School Library Journal" said in its starred review (which is given to outstanding books) that the book was "An adventure-quest with a hip edge" and that "Readers will be eager to follow the young protagonist's next move". "Kirkus" praised the book and said, "Packed with humorous (funny) allusions to Greek mythology and clever updates of the old stories, along with rip-snorting <nowiki>[</nowiki>intense<nowiki>]</nowiki> action sequences, the book really shines in the depiction of Percy – wry, impatient, academically hopeless, with a cut-to-the-chase bluntness one would wish for in a hero of old." Eoin Colfer, author of Artemis Fowl, called it "A fantastic blend (mix) of mythology and modern". "Publishers Weekly" also praised the book, regarding it as "swift and humorous" and added that the book would "leave many readers eager for the next installment." On April 8, 2007, "The Lightning Thief" was ranked ninth on "The New York Times Best Seller list" for children's books. When speaking about the various awards, Rick Riordan said:
"The ultimate compliment for a children's writer is when the kids like it."
"The Lightning Thief" was the winner of the "School Library Journal" Best Book of 2005. It was also one of the books in Chicago Public Library "Best of the Best Books List", 2005. It was also in the VOYA Top Shelf Fiction List. The book was the Red House Children's Book Award Winner (UK), 2006, and also won Askews Torchlight Award (UK), 2006, and the Mark Twain Award (Missouri Association of School Librarians), 2008. It was an "ALA" Notable Book, 2006 and a "New York Times" Notable Book (2005). It received the Rebecca Caudill Young Readers' Book Award in 2009.
In June 2007, 20 Century Fox bought feature movie rights to the book. In April 2007, director Chris Columbus was hired to lead the project. Logan Lerman played Percy Jackson, Brandon T. Jackson played Grover Underwood, the satyr, Alexandra Daddario played the role of Annabeth while Jake Abel was cast as Luke Castellan. Pierce Brosnan played Chiron. The movie is titled "Percy Jackson & the Olympians: The Lightning Thief" and was first shown in the United States on February 12, 2010.
On June 28, 2005, a 10 hour 25 minute audio book version of "The Lightning Thief", read by actor Jesse Bernstein, was published worldwide by Listening Library.
"Kirkus" said in their review, "the narrator’s voice lends a refreshing air of realism to this riotously paced [fast paced] quest tale of heroism that questions the realities of our world, family, friendship and loyalty". "AudioFile Magazine" praised the audiobook, saying both adults and children will be "spellbound" when they listen to "this deeply imaginative tale unfold." "School Library Journal" both praised and criticized the audio book saying "Although some of Jesse Bernstein's accents fail (the monster from Georgia, for instance, has no Southern trace in her voice), he does a fine job of keeping the main character's tones and accents distinguishable".
"The Lightning Thief" is followed by "The Sea of Monsters". There, Percy and Annabeth rescue Grover, who has been taken prisoner by Polyphemus, the Cyclops. They get the Golden Fleece from Polyphemus' island to save the camp. They are joined by Percy's half brother, Tyson, and Clarisse in this mission.
Like "The Lightning Thief", it won several prizes. It was received well by reviewers too. It sold over 100,000 copies in paperback.
"The Lightning Thief" was published in many languages. It was published in French, German, Spanish, Finnish, Swedish, Hebrew and Brazilian Portuguese. In 2008, it was published in Serbian. The French edition is known as "" (OCLC 319924908). The German name of the book is
' (OCLC 254901802). These two, along with the Spanish version ' (OCLC 74884882), were published in 2006. The three other translations of the book, ' (OCLC 231203516), in Finnish, "O ladrão de raios", in Brazilian Portuguese, (in Portugal it is called ' meaning The Thieves of Olympus) and or "Persi G'eḳson ṿe-ganav ha-baraḳ" (OCLC 243824272) in Hebrew were published in 2008.

</doc>
<doc id="234098" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234098" title="Castellón Province">
Castellón Province

Province of Castellón () or Castelló (Valencian/Catalan) is a province in the northern part of the Valencian Community, Spain. It is bordered by the provinces of Valencia, Teruel, Tarragona, and the Mediterranean Sea.

</doc>
<doc id="234100" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234100" title="Asturias">
Asturias

The Principality of Asturias (, ) is an autonomous community. It is in the kingdom of Spain or the former Kingdom of Asturias in the Middle Ages. It is on the Spanish north coast facing the Cantabrian Sea. The capital of the province is Oviedo. Gijón is the biggest city. There is an airport in Asturias, from where you can fly to a few places in Europe. The region has borders with Galicia, León and Cantabria.

</doc>
<doc id="234102" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234102" title="Castile and León">
Castile and León

Castile and León (), known formally as the Community of Castile and León, is one of the 17 autonomous communities of Spain.

</doc>
<doc id="234106" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234106" title="A Coruña Province">
A Coruña Province

A Coruña (also: , and "Corunna" in English) is the most northwestern Atlantic-facing province of Spain. It is one of the four provinces which make up the autonomous community of Galicia. This province is surrounded by the Atlantic Ocean to the west and north. The Pontevedra Province surrounds it to the south and the Lugo Province to the east.

</doc>
<doc id="234109" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234109" title="Córdoba Province (Spain)">
Córdoba Province (Spain)

Córdoba (, '), called Cordova in English, is a province of southern Spain. It is bordered by the provinces of Málaga, Sevilla, Badajoz, Ciudad Real, Jaén, and Granada. Its area is 13,769 km².

</doc>
<doc id="234114" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234114" title="Law &amp; Order: Special Victims Unit">
Law &amp; Order: Special Victims Unit

Law & Order: Special Victims Unit (often shortened to Law & Order: SVU) is an American television spin-off of the original police drama series "Law & Order" which is set in New York City, inside the fictional 16th precinct of Manhattan. 

</doc>
<doc id="234124" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234124" title="Alfred Waterhouse">
Alfred Waterhouse

Alfred Waterhouse (19 July 1830 – 22 August 1905) was a English architect, particularly associated with the Victorian Gothic revival. He is perhaps best known for his design for the Natural History Museum in London, although he also built a wide variety of other buildings throughout the country. Financially speaking, Waterhouse was probably the most successful of all Victorian architects. Though expert within Gothic and Renaissance styles, Waterhouse never limited himself to a single architectural style.

</doc>
<doc id="234134" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234134" title="OSI model">
OSI model

The Open Systems Interconnection model (OSI model) is a method of thinking of computer networking in terms of abstraction layers. Different communication technologies with similar functions are grouped into different logical layers on the OSI Model. Each layer of the OSI Model makes use of functions provided by the layers below it and provides functions that are used by the layers above it.
According to the standard OSI Model there are seven layers. Each layer is dependent upon the layers below it to function.
Some aspects of computer networking, such as management and security, use or are used on every layer.
The Transport Layer is the level at which system reliability and quality are ensured. This layer manages traffic flow through the network layer to reduce congestion on a network, and performs error checking ensuring quality of service by resending data when data has been corrupted. Some of the most popular methods of encryption and firewall security take place on this layer.
The Routing Layer works to coordinate related parts of a data conversation to ensure that large files are transferred. In other words, while the data link layer deals with the method in which the physical layer is used to transfer data, the network layer deals with organizing that data for transfer and reassembly. This layer also handles aspects of Routing Protocols, finding the available [best] path(s) from one network to another to ensure delivery of the data.
The Data Layer is mainly the method in which information from the network is broken down into frames and transmitted over the physical layer. This layer is also responsible for some Error detection and correction and some addressing so different devices can tell each other apart in larger systems.
The physical layer refers to electrical and physical aspects of devices. In particular, it specifies how a device sends and receives information, such as using copper wires or fiber-optic cables. Examples of this include Ethernet or fiber optic cables, phone cords used for dial-up or DSL services, the coaxial cable used to provide broadband internet, the wires used to connect various components of a computer or even the radio signals used in wireless communication. Other functions of the physical layer include the conversion of signals into something that another layer can use (referred to as a bit), and adjusting the signal to allow for multiple users to use the same connection.

</doc>
<doc id="234137" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234137" title="Victoria and Albert Museum">
Victoria and Albert Museum

The Victoria and Albert Museum (often abbreviated as the V&A) in London is the world's largest museum of applied art (decorative arts and design). Named after Queen Victoria and Prince Albert, it was founded in 1852. 
The V&A has a permanent collection of over 4.5 million objects. It covers and 145 galleries. Its collection spans 5000 years of art, from ancient times to the present day, in virtually every medium, from the cultures of Europe, North America, Asia and North Africa. The museum is sponsored by the Department for Culture, Media and Sport.
The holdings of ceramics, glass, textiles, costumes, silver, ironwork, jewellery, furniture, medieval objects, sculpture, prints and printmaking, drawings and photographs are among the largest and most comprehensive in the world. 
The museum possesses the world's largest collection of post-classical sculpture, the holdings of Italian Renaissance items are the largest outside Italy. The departments of Asia include art from South Asia, China, Japan, Korea and the Islamic world. The East Asian collections are among the best in Europe, with particular strengths in ceramics and metalwork, while the Islamic collection, with the Musée du Louvre and Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York, is amongst the largest in the world.
The V&A is in what is called London's "Albertopolis", an area of immense cultural, scientific and educational importance. Near it are the Natural History Museum, the Science Museum, Imperial College, the Albert Hall and the Albert Memorial. 
Since 2001, the Museum has embarked on a major £150m renovation program which has seen a major overhaul of the departments including the introduction of newer galleries, gardens, shops and visitor facilities. As with other national UK museums, entrance to the museum is free.

</doc>
<doc id="234140" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234140" title="Faber Drive">
Faber Drive

Faber Drive is a Juno award nominated band from Canada. They became a band in 2004 when they were discovered by Nickelback frontman, Chad Kroeger and later released their debut album "Seven Second Surgery". They are signed to 604 records which is the area code of the lower mainland of Vancouver.
Their name comes from the lead singer, Dave Faber's last name.
Their newest album is "can'T keEp A SecrEt" (sylized to say "TEASE"), which came to stores in 2009.
Faber Drive's Official website

</doc>
<doc id="234142" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234142" title="Abubakari Yakubu">
Abubakari Yakubu

Abubakari Yakubu (born 13 December 1981) is a Ghanaian football player. He has played for the Ghanaian national team.
145||0
145||0
!Total||16||0

</doc>
<doc id="234160" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234160" title="Gymnocalycium">
Gymnocalycium

Gymnocalycium is a genus of plants in the family Cactaceae.
All of these plants are succulents without leaves. The plants grows in South America (Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Paraguay, Uruguay). In total, there are 50-80 species.
Stems of these plants are round, their diameter is 7–30 cm, their height is 3–25 cm. The color of stems is grey-green or brown-green or grey-brown.
Plants of this genus are popular houseplants.

</doc>
<doc id="234167" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234167" title="Prayer of the Refugee">
Prayer of the Refugee

"Prayer of the Refugee" is the second single from the punk rock band Rise Against's album "The Sufferer & the Witness". It was released worldwide in 2006. The song was first called "Diaspora", with advance copies of the album using that name instead of "Prayer of the Refugee." The song is shown as a re-recorded bonus track in the video game "". The song is also showed in "Slednecks 9" DVD. It's used in "The Compound" segment of the movie.
The album version of the song is available as DLC for the Rock Band series along with "Savior" and "Re-Education (Through Labor)".

</doc>
<doc id="234174" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234174" title="Physical fitness">
Physical fitness

Physical fitness is the ability to be physically active. A person is physically fit if he or she can pass tests designed to measure physical performance. Such tests are necessary for some occupations, such as soldiers and firefighters. 
Physical fitness has two components: general fitness (a state of health and well-being) and specific fitness (the ability to perform specific aspects of sports or occupations).
The President's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports — a study group sponsored by the United States Government — declines to offer a simple definition of physical fitness. Instead, it developed the following chart:
Health related components: those factors that are related to how well the systems of your body work.
Body composition is the relative percentage of body fat compared to lean body mass (muscle, bone, water,etc)
Cardiovascular fitness: the ability of the circulatory system (heart and blood vessels) to supply oxygen to working muscles during exercise.
Flexibility: the range of movement possible at various joints.
Accordingly, a general-purpose physical fitness program must address those issues.

</doc>
<doc id="234178" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234178" title="Mercè Rodoreda">
Mercè Rodoreda

Mercè Rodoreda i Gurguí (October 10, 1908 – April 13, 1983) was a Spanish Catalan novelist.

</doc>
<doc id="234183" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234183" title="Selena (album)">
Selena (album)

Selena is the first studio album by American singer Selena. It was released on October 17, 1989 by EMI Latin. The album was recorded in San Antonio and Houston, Texas. The album was Selena's first album to be released by EMI Latin. She signed a record deal with them earlier in the year. "Selena" got to number seven on the US Regional Mexican Albums chart. By 1996, 24,000 copies had been sold. The album helped Selena to win "Female Vocalist of the Year" and "Female Entertainer of the Year" at the 1990 Tejano Music Awards.
Selena's brother, A.B. Quintanilla III was the music producer and songwriter for the album. Selena wrote "My Love" on her own. "Sukiyaki" was translated from Japanese to Spanish. This was done by Selena's father and manager Abraham Quintanilla, Jr. and Pete Astudillo. The lead single, "Contigo Quiero Estar" got to number eight on the Hot Latin Tracks chart in 1989.
José Behar, president of EMI Latin, went to the 1989 Tejano Music Awards. He was looking for new musicians. After Selena sang, Behar called his boss and told him about Selena. Behar thought he found the next Gloria Estefan. His boss told him that he was "crazy". He said this because Behar was only in Texas for a week. Selena later signed with EMI Latin later that year. She was the first artist to sign with them. Recording started in late 1988 and went on until early 1989. Selena recorded most of the songs in San Antonio, Texas at AMEN Studios. "Sukiyaki" and "My Love" were recorded in Houston, Texas at Sunrise Studios. Selena wrote "My Love" by herself. She wanted the song to be in the album. Her brother A.B. Quintanilla III was the music producer and main songwriter. Their father and manager Abraham Quintanilla, Jr. gave the job to A.B. He believed A.B. was good at producing music. 
The only songs A.B. did not write were "Sukiyaki", "Contigo Quiero Estar", and "No Te Vayas". The original "Sukiyaki" was in Japanese. Selena's lyrics were a Spanish version of an English version of the song by Janice Marie Johnson. "Sukiyaki" had been one of Abraham's favorite songs when he was growing up. "Contigo Quiero Estar" was written by Mexican songwriter Alejandro Montealegre. "No Te Vayas" was written by Reinaldo Ornelas. A.B. wanted "No Te Vayas" on the album because of its reggae sounds. He thought it would make the album "exotic" (different) from other Spanish-language albums. He believed this because of the different music genres they had produced.
"Selena" was released on October 17, 1989 by EMI Latin. In its first week on the US Regional Mexican Albums chart (December 2, 1989), it was at number 17. It got to its highest place on the chart, number 7, on March 24, 1990. It was on the chart for another three weeks. On May 5, 1990, it was on the chart again, at number 14. That was after the release of "Ven Conmigo" (1990). However, it left the charts. It was on the chart again two times in August 1990. "Contigo Quiero Estar", "Mentiras", and "Sukiyaki" were released as singles. The lead single, "Contigo Quiero Estar" got to number eight on the Hot Latin Tracks chart.
At the 1990 Tejano Music Awards, Selena won "Female Vocalist of the Year" and "Female Entertainer of the Year". Her album "Selena" did better than albums from other female singers. As of 1996, 24,000 copies of "Selena" have been sold in the United States. 30,000 copies of "Selena" were shipped. On August 27, 2002, "Selena" was released again. It was part of the "20 Years of Music" series. It had one bonus track ("La Bamba"). It also had commentaries for each track. Selena's family and friends talked about what happened during recordings and choosing songs for the album.
Credits were taken from the album's booklet.

</doc>
<doc id="234186" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234186" title="Ven Conmigo">
Ven Conmigo

Ven Conmigo (English: "Come With Me"), was the third album released by rising Latina superstar Selena, on November 12, 1990, for the CAPITOL/EMI Latin label. This album, was the first to market Selena as a solo artist, no longer identifying her albums with "Selena Y Los Dinos," though they were still very much a part of the mix. The album itself, sold 50,000 units in America, and was certified Gold by the RIAA. Another 242,802 copies were sold on Amazon.com, verifed from their sellers rank.
The group re-recorded "La Tracalera", a cover version of a song by the original Dinos, as well as "Aunque No Salga El Sol," which they had originally recorded, in 1984. The song "Baila Esta Cumbia," was an instant hit in the U.S., and later crossed over to Mexico. Ven Conmigo, was the group's first Gold album. 
A remastered version was released in 2002, with bonus tracks and spoken liner notes by the family and friends, who witnessed the entire production.
The album "Ven Conmigo" was recorded and mixed at "ZAZ Studios" in "San Antiono, Texas. The engineer was "Gilbert Velasquez" who also mixed the album. The album's main photo was taken by "Robert Lopez". The album was produced, arranged, and performaned by A.B. Quintanilla III. The co-arranged was "Ricky Vela" and "Jose C. Ojeda". The midi and computer sequencing was made by "Ricky Vela".
A.B. Quintanilla, III, wrote and produced almost every song on Ven Conmigo. David Lee Garza, the accordion player for the title track, "Ven Conmigo, participated in the writing and production, as well.

</doc>
<doc id="234196" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234196" title="Nadap">
Nadap

The village of Nadap lies on the eastern slopes of Velencei Hills, it is a well oriented, self-contained settlement, with charming rural atmosphere. It is only two kilometers both from the recreation facilities of Lake Velencei and from the M7 motorway, therefore it is easily accessible from Budapest and from Székesfehérvár, too. Each house in the settlement has a great panorama.
The settlements around Lake Velencei are overwhelmed with the spirit of Mihály Vörösmarty. Nadap is not different either, the poet was baptised in the village on 3 December 1800. The baptistery is still in the church today. The inhabitants of the village expressed their admiration for the memory of the poet with a sculpture erected in the Millenium Park.
Nadap also hosts a key cartographical and architectural specialty; it is the home of the etalon for measuring heights in Hungary, called Nadapi szintezési ősjegy (Levelling mark of Nadap).

</doc>
<doc id="234204" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234204" title="Pázmánd">
Pázmánd

Pázmánd is in the easternmost part of Velencei Hills, at the foot of Zsidó Hill (202m).
Archaeological artefacts prove that the village was already been populated the in Iron Age. The name of the village comes from the period when the State was founded; the area was probably awarded as a gift to Knight Pázmány to function as a summer residence.
Little is known about the history of the settlement in the Middle Ages. One thing is sure: when the Turks were expelled from Hungary the fleeing troops slaughtered the families living here, destroyed the Romanesque church and set the village on fire.
At the beginning of the 18 century Tót people (Slovakians) were settled in the area, the village was even called Tót-Pázmánd for some time. The inhabitants of the village declared themselves Hungarians already in the 19 century but their Slovakian roots are still noticeable in their conventions (Sibálás - Easter lashing).

</doc>
<doc id="234206" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234206" title="Socratis Kokkalis">
Socratis Kokkalis

Socratis Kokkalis (born May 27, 1939) is a Greek businessman who has been a member of the Forbes 500 list of the world's 500 richest people. He is the Chairman, CEO and majority shareholder of Intracom Holdings. Intracom is one of the largest multinational technology groups in South-Eastern Europe, and the Chairman and majority shareholder of Intralot S.A., the world's leading gaming technology supplier and lottery licensed operator. He was also the owner and president of Olympiacos CFP, until his retirement in 2010. CFP is the most successful and most supported Greek football club in Greece. He is the President of the Kokkalis Foundation. This is a non-profit organization that promotes education and training, culture and social welfare, medical research and information technology, and athletics, both in Greece and abroad.

</doc>
<doc id="234215" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234215" title="Mikhail Botvinnik">
Mikhail Botvinnik

Mikhail Botvinnik (17 August 1911 – 5 May 1995) was a Soviet Russian grandmaster and three-time World Chess Champion. 
He was an electrical engineer, one of the few chess masters who achieved distinction in another career while playing top-class competitive chess. 
Botvinnik was the first world-class player to develop within the Soviet Union. This put him under some political pressure, but also gave him considerable influence within Soviet chess. He played a major role in the design of the World Chess Championship system after World War II. After his retirement as a player he coached a few select pupils. They included three future World Champions Anatoly Karpov, Garry Kasparov and Vladimir Kramnik.
Mikhail Moiseyevich Botvinnik was born near St. Petersburg into a Jewish family. His father was a dental technician, and a cantor ("hazzan") in the local synagogue. His mother was a dentist, which allowed the family to live outside the Pale of Settlement to which most Jews in Russia were restricted at the time. As a result, Mikhail Botvinnik grew up in Saint Petersburg's Nevsky Prospekt. 
His father forbade the speaking of Yiddish at home, and Mikhail and his older brother Issy attended Soviet schools. Mikhail Botvinnik later said, "I am a Jew by blood, Russian by culture, Soviet by upbringing". 
To test the strength of Soviet chess masters, Nikolai Krylenko organized the Moscow 1925 chess tournament. On a rest day during the event, world champion José Raúl Capablanca gave a simultaneous exhibition in Leningrad. Botvinnik was selected as one of his opponents, and won their game. 
Botvinnik was admitted in 1928 to Leningrad University's Mathematics Department. In January 1929, he played for Leningrad in the student team chess championship against Moscow. Leningrad won and the team manager got Botvinnik a transfer to the Polytechnic's Electromechanical Department.
His early progress was fairly rapid. He won the Leningrad Masters' tournament in 1930 with 6½/8, following this up the next year by winning the Championship of Leningrad by 2½ points over former Soviet champion Peter Romanovsky.
In 1931, at the age of 20, Botvinnik won his first Soviet Championship in Moscow, scoring 13½ out of 17. In late summer 1931, he graduated with a degree in Electrical Engineering. In 1933, he repeated his Soviet Championship win, in his home city of Leningrad, with 14/19. 
Soon afterwards Ilyin-Genevsky, one of the older masters and a member of the Soviet embassy in Prague, arranged a match between Salo Flohr and Botvinnik. Botvinnik fell two games behind by the end of the first six, played in Moscow. However, aided by his old friend Viacheslav Ragozin and coach Abram Model, he levelled the score in Leningrad and the match was drawn. When describing the post-match party, Botvinnik wrote that at the time he danced the foxtrot and charleston to a professional standard. 
In his first tournament outside the USSR, the Hastings International Chess Congress 1934–35, Botvinnik achieved only a tie for 5th-6th places, with 5/9. He wrote that, in London after the tournament, Emanuel Lasker said his arrival only two hours before the first round began was a serious mistake and that he should have allowed ten days for acclimatization. Botvinnik wrote that he did not make this mistake again. 
Botvinnik came first equal with Flohr, ½ point ahead of Lasker and one point ahead of José Raúl Capablanca, in Moscow's second International Tournament, held in 1935. After consulting Capablanca and Lasker, Krylenko proposed to award Botvinnik the title grandmaster, but Botvinnik objected that "titles were not the point". However, he accepted a free car and a 67% increase in his postgraduate study grant, both provided by the People's Commissariat of Heavy Industry. 
An even stronger double-round tournament was played in Moscow in June 1936, and Botvinnik finished second, one point behind Capablanca and 2½ ahead of Flohr. 
In early winter, 1936, Botvinnik was invited to play in a tournament at Nottingham, England. Krylenko authorized his participation and, although his Soviet rivals forecast disaster for him, he scored an undefeated shared first place (+6 =8) with Capablanca, ½ point ahead of the then World Champion Max Euwe and rising American stars Reuben Fine and Samuel Reshevsky, and 1 point ahead of ex-champion Alexander Alekhine. This was the first tournament victory by a Soviet master outside his own country. When the result reached Russia, Krylenko drafted a letter to be sent in Botvinnik's name to Stalin. On returning to Russia Botvinnik discovered he had been awarded the "Mark of Honour". Later, in 1937, Botvinnik drew a match of thirteen games against Grigory Levenfish. 
Botvinnik won further Soviet Championship titles in 1939, 1944, 1945, and 1952, bringing his total to six – a record he shares with Mikhail Tal. In 1945 he dominated the tournament, scoring 15/17; in 1952 he tied with Mark Taimanov and won the play-off match. In post-Soviet Russia the championship is somewhat less strong, as entrants from the non-Russian countries are lacking. All the same, it is still the strongest national championship in the world, and Peter Svidler has won it six times.
Botvinnik influenced the design of the system which would be used for World Championship competition from 1948 to 1963. Viktor Baturinsky wrote "Now came Botvinnik's turn to defend his title in accordance with the new qualifying system which he himself had outlined in 1946". 
On the basis of his strong results during and just after World War II, Botvinnik was one of five players to contest the World Chess Championship 1948, which was held at The Hague and Moscow. He won the tournament convincingly, with a score of 14/20, three points clear, becoming the sixth World Champion. Botvinnik then held the title, with two brief interruptions, for the next fifteen years, during which he played seven world championship matches. 
Botvinnik played no formal competitive games after winning the 1948 match tournament until he defended his title. In 1951, he drew with David Bronstein over 24 games in Moscow, +5 =14 -5, keeping the world title. He struggled to draw this match with Bronstein, and had (by his standards) weak tournament results. Botvinnik did not play in the Soviet team that won the 1952 Chess Olympiad in Helsinki: the players voted for the line-up and placed Botvinnik on second board, with Keres on top board; Botvinnik protested and refused to play. Keres' playing record from 1950 to early 1952 had been outstanding.
In 1954, he drew with Vasily Smyslov over 24 games at Moscow, +7 =10 -7, again retaining the title. In 1957, he lost to Smyslov by 9½–12½ in Moscow, but the rules then in force allowed him a rematch without having to go through the Candidates' Tournament, and in 1958 he won the rematch in Moscow; Smyslov said his health was poor during the return match. In 1960, Botvinnik was convincingly beaten 8½-12½ at Moscow by Tal, now 23 years old, but again exercised his right to a rematch in 1961, and won by 13–8 in Moscow. Botvinnik's play was better than in the 1960 match, mainly due to thorough preparation. Botvinnik changed his style in the rematch, avoiding the tactical complications in which Tal excelled and aiming for closed positions and endgames, where Tal's technique was not so outstanding. Also, Tal's health was variable. Finally, in 1963, he lost the title to Tigran Petrosian, by 9½-12½ in Moscow. FIDE had by then changed the rules, and he was not allowed a rematch. The rematch rule had been nicknamed the "Botvinnik rule", because he twice benefited from it.
In 1970, Botvinnik retired from competitive chess, and he worked on chess-playing software. There was no significant result from this, but his work as a coach to top young players bore fruit. He died of pancreatic cancer in Moscow.

</doc>
<doc id="234255" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234255" title="Hate speech">
Hate speech

Hate speech is communicating in a way that is meant to offend and hurt somebody. It is usually based on a factor such as somebody's race, gender, ethnic group, sexual orientation, gender identity or religion. Some places have laws that make it illegal to use hate speech. Countries such as Canada, France and Germany have stricter laws against hate speech than the United States, where hate speech is usually legal because its Constitution says that people have freedom of speech.
But hate speech is a inciting of discrimination and sometimes a cause of bullying or hate crime and Article 7 of Universal Declaration of Human Rights affirms that all are protected from such a inciting.

</doc>
<doc id="234293" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234293" title="Beatification">
Beatification

Beatification (from Latin "beatus", blessed, Greek μακάριος, "makarios" and Latin "facere", make) is a recognition given by the Catholic Church of a dead person's accession to Heaven and power to help people who pray in his or her name. Beatification is the third of the four steps in the canonization process. A person who is beatified is given the title "Blessed".

</doc>
<doc id="234317" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234317" title="Reading railway station">
Reading railway station

Reading railway station (formerly Reading General) is a major rail junction and station in the English town of Reading. It is on the northern edge of the town centre, close to the main retail and commercial areas, and also the River Thames. Next to the railway station is a bus interchange, served by most of Reading's urban and rural bus services.
Reading was opened on 30 March 1840 by the Great Western Railway. It is a major junction point on the National Rail system, and as a consequence the railway station is a major transfer point as well as serving heavy local traffic. The station is sponsored by the bank ING Direct and the University of Reading. There are many local buses, regional buses and a coach to Heathrow Airport. South West Trains, First Great Western and CrossCountry Trains serve the station.

</doc>
<doc id="234318" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234318" title="Dreamworks Records">
Dreamworks Records

DreamWorks Records was an American record label. Started in 1996 by David Geffen, Steven Spielberg and Jeffrey Katzenberg as a split from DreamWorks SKG. The label worked until 2005 when it was shut down. The label itself also showed a Nashville, Tennessee based subsidiary, DreamWorks Nashville, which worked specifically in country music and was also shut down in 2005. The company's logo was designed by Roy Lichtenstein and was his last commission before his death in 1997.

</doc>
<doc id="234320" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234320" title="The Good Left Undone">
The Good Left Undone

"The Good Left Undone" is the third single from the American punk rock band Rise Against's fourth album, "The Sufferer & the Witness". In June 2007, they said that they would be holding a contest to see who could make the best video for the song. They released a bulletin board over their MySpace account giving information about the contest.
The song got to number six on the "Billboard" alternative rock chart, making it the band's second top 10 single (the first being the last single ""Prayer of the Refugee"") and highest charting single from the album. The song has spent 30 weeks on the chart before its peak, making it the band's slowest climb to the chart's Top 10.

</doc>
<doc id="234324" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234324" title="Revolutions per Minute">
Revolutions per Minute

Revolutions per Minute is the second album by the American punk rock band Rise Against. It has the singles "Heaven Knows" and "Like the Angel" as well as a cover of Journey's single, "Any Way You Want It."
The album had a limited release on vinyl (217 of which were on red vinyl) which is now out of print. It was the band's last release under Fat Wreck Chords before to their move to Geffen Records. This is where they released "Siren Song of the Counter Culture" in 2004. It is interesting to note that inside the album cover, there is a copyright to Transistor Revolt, the band's name before they changed it to Rise Against.

</doc>
<doc id="234326" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234326" title="Wicked">
Wicked

Wicked is a Broadway musical. It is loosely based on characters and concepts created by L. Frank Baum in his children's series of Wizard of Oz books, the 1939 MGM movie, "The Wizard of Oz", and the 1995 novel, "Wicked: The Life and Times of the Wicked Witch of the West" by Gregory Maguire. 
Winnie Holzman wrote the musical's book. Stephen Schwartz wrote the music and lyrics. "Wicked" premiered on Broadway at the Gershwin Theatre in October 2003. It won several awards, including three Tonys.

</doc>
<doc id="234330" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234330" title="Fat Wreck Chords">
Fat Wreck Chords

Fat Wreck Chords is a San Francisco, California based independent record label, made for punk rock. It was started by Fat Mike (lead singer and bassist of the punk rock band NOFX) and his wife, Erin, in 1990.
They have made material for bands such as Descendents, Me First and the Gimme Gimmes, Propagandhi, Rise Against, Lagwagon, Strung Out, No Use for a Name, Less Than Jake, Against Me!, Anti-Flag, Facing The Giants, Return To The Wars, Hallowed Ground, and his own band NOFX.

</doc>
<doc id="234355" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234355" title="PGL (company)">
PGL (company)

PGL is an activity holiday company started by Peter Gordon Lawrence in 1957. They run holidays for schools, individual children, youth groups and families, in the UK, France, Spain, Austria and other places.

</doc>
<doc id="234365" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234365" title="Minato, Tokyo">
Minato, Tokyo

The municipality calls itself "Minato City" in English.
Minato is on Toyko Bay. It borders Shinagawa on the south. Meguro is southwest of the ward. Shibuya is on the ward's western border. Shinjuku, Chiyoda and Chūō are on the norther border. 

</doc>
<doc id="234412" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234412" title="Afghan Hound">
Afghan Hound

The Afghan Hound is a dog from Afghanistan. Other names for them are "Kuchi Hound", "Tāzī", "Balkh Hound", "Baluchi Hound", "Barutzy Hound", "Shalgar Hound", "Kabul Hound", "Galanday Hound", or sometimes, incorrectly, "African Hound". This is a very old dog breed, believed to have existed for thousands of years. It is a type of sighthound, a hunting dog which uses its eyes to spot and chase small animals, like rabbits. They are closely related to other sighthounds, like the Greyhound. Afghan Hounds can run very quickly, and can run short distances at up to 75 kilometers per hour. Nowadays, they are kept as pets, compete as show dogs, and participate in a dog sport called lure coursing, which is similar to rabbit hunting.
Their face is long and skinny, with ears that drop down on the sides of their head. The Afghan Hound is tall and thin, with a long tail that curls and is held high up in the air.
The Afghan Hound is one of the most difficult types of dogs to train. Unlike many kinds of dogs, they do not like to listen to commands, and would rather make their own choices. In "The Intelligence of Dogs", the Afghan Hound came in last place for "working intelligence." This does not mean that the Afghan Hound is stupid; it means that it is easier to encourage other dogs to follow instructions than the Afghan Hound.
They like to run, and because they can run very fast, they need to be kept on a leash or in a fenced area. Fences need to be very high to keep the Afghan Hound from escaping, because they can easily jump several meters in the air. Afghan Hounds cannot live in the same house as a cat or any other small animal, as they will try to chase or hunt it.
This is a quiet dog for indoors, but needs to have regular exercise and play time. They need to have the chance to run in a safe, fenced area at least once a week. If an Afghan gets bored, it can tear things up. This is a friendly dog that is not shy with people or other dogs. Many people who own Afghan Hounds say that they are "clownish" and silly, because they are very playful. Afghan Hounds are known to be very sensitive to injuries and complain a lot when they have them.
Afghan Hounds are mostly very healthy dogs, but do get some diseases more often than others. Because their tails are very long and thin, they can hurt them quite easily. These dogs are very sensitive to anesthetic, so if they are getting an operation, the vet must be very careful with the amount of anesthetic given. Their eyes can develop cataracts, which will make the dog blind if they are not removed.

</doc>
<doc id="234413" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234413" title="Africanis">
Africanis

The Africanis is a group of rare South African dogs. They are not recognized as a breed. The Swahili name for the breed is "". This means "common" or "mixed-breed" or "traditional dog".
The Africanis is a medium-sized dog. It is well-muscled and is a bit longer than it is tall. It has a short coat of fur that can be of any color. This dog can run very fast and also is trainable.

</doc>
<doc id="234423" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234423" title="Earthquake engineering">
Earthquake engineering

Earthquake engineering is the study of the behavior of building structures subject to earthquake impacts. It is a subset of civil engineering.
The main goals of earthquake engineering are:
A properly engineered structure does not necessarily have to be extremely strong or expensive.
The most powerful and affordable tools of earthquake engineering are vibration control technologies and, in particular, base isolation.
To test seismic performance of a building structure with experiments, it is may be put on a shake-table that behaves like the earth shaking. The earliest shake-table experiments were performed more than a century ago 
Tsunami or a chain of fast moving waves in the ocean caused, mostly, by powerful earthquakes is a very serious challenge for people's safety and for tsunami protection of buildings and civil infrastructure. Those waves can flood coastal areas, destroy houses and even swipe away whole towns.
Though tsunami can not be prevented, there are warning systems developed recently which warn the population before the big waves reach the land to let them enough time to rush to safety.

</doc>
<doc id="234424" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234424" title="Numerical weather prediction">
Numerical weather prediction

Numerical weather prediction is the way weather forecasts are made. This is done using computer models of the atmosphere. Such models describe the current weather conditions, and how they change over time using equations. Using the current weather conditions, the equations can be solved, or approximated to tell what the weather will be like in the near future. The relevant physical parameters, such as pressure, temperature, the direction and the speed of the wind are taken to be functions of time. These are modelled with a system of partial differential equations. This is a dynamic system that is solved numerically. Most of these equations are implemented using FORTRAN. The equations are approximated. Since this takes a lot of computing power or time, supercomputers are used for this task, most of the time. 
The atmosphere is modelled as a fluid. The basic idea of numerical weather prediction is to sample the state of the fluid at a given time. The equations of fluid dynamics and thermodynamics can then be used to estimate the state of the fluid at some time in the future.
The results are usually too inaccurate to be used for predicting the weather at any place. For this reason, meteorologists check the values, and compare them to historical data. In other words, they use the data to help produce the weather forecast.
Model Output Statistics is a statistical model that was developed in the 1960s and 1970s. It uses regression analysis for a fully automated forecast. With it, historical data is analysed automatically. One of its applications is called Direct Model Output. MOS uses both historical data and statistical modeling. Predictions beyond about six hours are unreliable. 
Another well-known model is called Global Forecast System (GFS), which is run by the US weather service, NOAA. It gives a forecast four times a day. Since the information is free, the GFS is often used, especially by smaller weather stations.
The atmosphere is a chaotic system. A small change of the input values does not necessarily lead to a small change of the output. This is due to the equations of fluid dynamics that are involved. These equations involved are solved or approximated once with the parameters that were observed. This is done several times more, with parameters that are based on the observed values, but which have been changed slightly. Because the computing power is limited, the "resolution" of such a model is more coarse. Once all the calculations are finished, they are compared to one another. Calculated results that are "similar" indicate that the prognosis is relatively good. In some cases, this means that it is possible to accurately predict the weather for a time of about ten days; in other cases a prediction over even a few days may be difficult.

</doc>
<doc id="234454" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234454" title="Paul Bunyan">
Paul Bunyan

Paul Bunyan is a fictional giant lumberjack. James MacGillivray wrote about Bunyan in 1910, which is the earliest writing about Bunyan that we know about. A few years later, in 1916, William Laughead was writing an advertisement, and decided to use Bunyan in what he was writing, and decided to make him a giant.
James Stevens wrote a book called "Paul Bunyan" in 1925. This book said that French Canadians people made up the Paul Bunyan stories during the Papineau Rebellion of 1837, when they were fighting against England. This would explain why Paul Bunyan's last name is "Bunyan", because "Bunyan" sounds like the French-Canadian slang word "Bonyenne", which is something that they might say when they are surprised, like how people who speak English might say "Good Grief" or "My Goodness". People told other people stories about Bunyan, and the stories would change a little bit as they spread from person to person. Often, Paul Bunyan is shown in pictures with a giant blue ox named Babe. Historians think that Babe was not created until the 20th century for advertising.
According to legend, when Bunyan was born, it took three storks to carry him. (In some stories storks carry babies and drop them off at their parents' houses.). When he became older, he broke every window in the house when he clapped or laughed. When he was seven months old, he sawed the legs off his parent's bed in the middle of the night. Paul and his friend, Babe the Blue Ox, dug the Grand Canyon when Paul was carrying his axe and dragging it behind him. Babe, Bunyan's friend, was a large and very strong animal.
Many different towns say that they are the "home" of Bunyan. Some of these towns are in Minnesota, Michigan, and Wisconsin, although there are towns in other states, too.
In the town of Kelliher, Minnesota, there is a park called Paul Bunyan Memorial Park, where there is a grave site that says that Paul Bunyan is buried there.

</doc>
<doc id="234464" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234464" title="List of Japanese eras">
List of Japanese eras

The List of Japanese eras is a traditional calendar system which began during the reign of Emperor Kōtoku in the 7th century. This calendar has been in use in Japan since the beginning of the 8th century.
The historical Japanese calendar system defines and parses time in terms of ordinal numbers.
Each new was usually started soon after the beginning of the reign of a new emperor. Era names were also changed due to other events. Staring in the reign of Emperor Yōzei, the tradition of naming eras because of good omens changed. Instead, the name of an era might be chosen to ward off something bad.
The first day of the started whenever the emperor decided. This first year continued until the next lunar new year, which is understood to be the start of the "nengō's" second year.
To change a Japanese year to a Western or Gregorian calendar year, find the first year of the "nengō" (see list below). When found, subtract 1, and add the number of the Japanese year. For example, the 23rd year of the Shōwa period ("Shōwa 23") was 1948:

</doc>
<doc id="234478" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234478" title="Appomattox Court House">
Appomattox Court House

Appomattox Court House is a place in Virginia (It is now called Appomattox, Virginia). It is where General Robert E. Lee of the Confederate Army surrendered to Ulysses S. Grant and the Union Army on April 9, 1865, ending the American Civil War. Though the place is called Appomattox Court House, the surrender took place at the McLean House, a private home. 

</doc>
<doc id="234479" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234479" title="Base isolation">
Base isolation

Base isolation is a collection of a building’s units resting on its foundation to provide separation of the building from shaking ground thus improving seismic performance.
Base isolation system consists of "isolation units" with or without "isolation components", where:
1. "Isolation units" are the basic elements of "base isolation system" which provide the mentioned separation effect to a building structure.
2. "Isolation components" are the connections between "isolation units" and other parts of the building having no separation effect of their own.
From the very beginning, the theory of base isolation rested on two pillars: "heavy damping" and "frequency separation". Unfortunately, nobody paid any attention that the heavy damping was a sort of a strong connection between a "substructure" and "superstructure", and that the idea of decoupling them with the help of such connections was of no good. Anyway, to virtually test-drive any design concept of base isolation, some online help is available now.

</doc>
<doc id="234486" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234486" title="Shōō (Kamakura period)">
Shōō (Kamakura period)

, also spelled as "Shō-ō", was a after "Kōan" and before "Einin". The period started in April 1288 and ended in August 1293. During this time, the emperor was .

</doc>
<doc id="234488" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234488" title="Vibration control">
Vibration control

In earthquake engineering, vibration control is a set of technical means for decreasing seismic loads and improving seismic performance of building structures.
All vibration control devices may be classified as "passive", "active" or "hybrid". The first kind is the simplest one and, therefore, widespread. Passive control devices represent different types of "base isolators" and "seismic dampers".
"Base isolators" restrict penetration of potentially damaging seismic waves into a building structure while "dampers" decrease destructive effect of those waves.

</doc>
<doc id="234495" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234495" title="Telephone card">
Telephone card

A telephone card, calling card or phone card for short, is a small plastic card that is used to pay for telephone calls. They usually hold a set value of credit. Some cards can be recharged with more credit.

</doc>
<doc id="234504" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234504" title="Vera Menchik">
Vera Menchik

Vera Menchik (Moscow, 16 February 1906 – London, 27 June 1944) was a British-Czech chess player. Menchik was the first women's world chess champion. She also competed in chess tournaments with some of the world's leading male chess masters, defeating many of them, including World Champion Max Euwe.<ref name="H/W">Hooper, David and Whyld, Kenneth 1992. "The Oxford Companion to Chess" 2nd ed, Oxford University Press, ISBN 0-19-866164-9</ref>
The daughter of a Czech father and British mother, Vera Menchik was born in Moscow. In the aftermath of World War I and the Russian Revolution, her family moved to England in 1921. Her father taught her chess when she was nine and, in the year of her arrival in England at the age of fifteen, she won the British girls' championship. The following year, she became a pupil of Géza Maróczy, the leading Hungarian grandmaster at the time. 
She won the first Women's World Championship in 1927 and successfully defended her title six times in every other championship in her lifetime, and only lost one game, while winning 78 and drawing four games. These were all-play-all tournaments, mostly run alongside Chess Olympiads.
London 1927 (+10 –0 =1). 
Hamburg 1930 (+6 –1 =1). 
Prague 1931 (+8 –0 =0). 
Folkestone 1933 (+14 –0 =0). 
Warsaw 1935 (+9 –0 =0). 
Stockholm 1937 (+14 –0 =0).
Buenos Aires 1939 (+17 –0 =2).
In addition, Menchik won two matches against her rival Sonja Graf for the Women’s World Champion title; (+3 –1 =0) at Rotterdam 1934, and (+9 –2 =5) at Semmering 1937.
Starting in 1929, she participated in a number of Hastings international tournaments. When, the same year, she entered the tournament in Carlsbad, Viennese master Albert Becker ridiculed her entry by suggesting that any player whom Menchik defeated in tournament play should be granted membership into the "Vera Menchik Club". In the tournament, Becker himself became the first member of the "club". In addition to Becker, the "Vera Menchik Club" eventually included grandmasters such as Max Euwe, Mir Sultan Khan, Samuel Reshevsky, Friedrich Sämisch, Lajos Steiner, and virtually every leading British player of the day.
Menchik's greatest success at international tournaments was at Ramsgate 1929, when she finished tied for second with Akiba Rubinstein, just half a point behind former World Champion José Raúl Capablanca, and ahead of her teacher Géza Maróczy. In 1934 she finished third at Maribor, ahead of Rudolph Spielmann and Milan Vidmar. In 1942 she won a match against international master Jacques Mieses (four wins, five draws, one loss). 
Vera was a professional player. From the late 1920s, she was the manager and house professional of the Empire Chess Club, which was situated on the top floor of Whiteleys store in Queensway, West London. In 1939 she was appointed to the new National Chess Centre. 
In 1937, at the age of 31, Vera Menchik married R.H.S Stevenson (1878–1943), 28 years her senior, who was a leading chess organiser and patron. Vera Menchik's younger sister Olga was also a tournament chess player. In 1944, in World War II, with 38-year-old Vera still women's world champion, the two sisters and their mother were killed by a V-1 rocket, which destroyed their home.
The trophy for the winning team in the Women's Chess Olympiad is known as the "Vera Menchik Cup".

</doc>
<doc id="234509" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234509" title="Alexandra Kosteniuk">
Alexandra Kosteniuk

Alexandra Kosteniuk (born Perm, Volga, 23 April 1984) is a Russian chess Grandmaster and former Women's World Chess Champion. She lost her title in 2010.
Alexandra is married, and lives with her husband and daughter in Key Biscayne, Miami, Florida.
Kosteniuk is now ranked only 31st in the current FIDE rating list for women. She is no longer playing regularly. The highest rated woman, Judit Polgar (Hungary), never plays in female events. The second highest rated woman is Humpy Koneru (India); she has never won the women's world championship.

</doc>
<doc id="234517" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234517" title="King's Sutton railway station">
King's Sutton railway station

King's Sutton railway station serves the village of King's Sutton in Northamptonshire, England. It is also the nearest railway station to the town of Brackley. It was opened on 1 December 1873 by the Great Western Railway. The station is managed by Chiltern Railways, who provide services along with First Great Western. It was heavily renovated in 2009, with new fencing, a new shelter and a bridge being added to it.

</doc>
<doc id="234525" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234525" title="Akbash Dog">
Akbash Dog

The Akbash Dog is a large breed (type) of dog which comes from Turkey. It has a white coat of fur. It was bred to protect sheep in the field from thieves and predators. While this dog has been used for this job in Turkey for many hundreds of years, it is not often found outside of Turkey. The Akbash Dog is closely related to other large, white dogs used to protect sheep, such as the Komondor and the Aidi.

</doc>
<doc id="234526" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234526" title="Clapping">
Clapping

A clap is hitting your hands together and making a sound. The harder you hit, the louder the sound, the softer you hit, less the sound.
If hitting by means of hand to hand contact it will make a different sound than if you were to clap against another object, say, your leg. 

</doc>
<doc id="234530" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234530" title="Strung Out">
Strung Out

Strung Out is a punk rock band from Simi Valley, California, United States. They formed in 1992. They are known mostly for their musical style, which has both aspects of punk rock and heavy metal to make their main sound. They have made seven albums on Fat Wreck Chords and appeared on many compilations and skate/surf videos. They have played on the Warped Tour and continue to tour around the world.

</doc>
<doc id="234535" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234535" title="Reading and Leeds Festivals">
Reading and Leeds Festivals

The Reading and Leeds Festivals are two yearly music festivals. They take place in Reading and Leeds in the United Kingdom. They are run by Festival Republic (itself owned by Live Nation and MCD). The festivals take place one at a time on the Friday, Saturday and Sunday. They take place on the August of bank holiday weekend. They share the same bill. Between 1998 and 2007, the two festivals were known as the "Carling Weekend", until parting ways with their sponsor Carling in November 2007.

</doc>
<doc id="234538" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234538" title="Circa Survive">
Circa Survive

Circa Survive is a rock band from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. They formed in 2004. The band has vocalist Anthony Green. He was a singer of Saosin and members of the now-defunct "This Day Forward".
Their first album, "Juturna", was released on April 19, 2005 by Equal Vision Records, which got mixed reviews. However their second album, "On Letting Go", released on May 29, 2007, garnered big reviewer acclaim. Their upcoming album, "Blue Sky Noise", will be released on April 20, 2010 on Atlantic Records as the band has finished their term with Equal Vision Records. 

</doc>
<doc id="234542" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234542" title="The Blind Side (movie)">
The Blind Side (movie)

The Blind Side is a 2009 American drama sports movie directed by John Lee Hancock. It is based on the novel "", which was written by Michael Lewis. It stars Sandra Bullock, Tim McGraw, Quinton Aaron, and Kathy Bates. 
The movie is based on a true story. The story follows football player Michael Oher's life, from growing up in a very poor neighborhood, to being adopted by a rich family, and then going to play for Ole Miss and eventually the Baltimore Ravens.
Bullock won an Academy Award for Best Actress, Golden Globe Award for Best Actress in a Motion Picture Drama and a Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Leading Role.

</doc>
<doc id="234572" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234572" title="Lahaul and Spiti district">
Lahaul and Spiti district

The district of Lahaul-Spiti in the Indian State of Himachal Pradesh consists of the two formerly separate districts of Lahaul and Spiti.

</doc>
<doc id="234573" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234573" title="Presidency division">
Presidency division

Presidency Division is a division in the Indian state of West Bengal. It consists of 6 districts:

</doc>
<doc id="234576" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234576" title="Burdwan division">
Burdwan division

Burdwan Division is a division in the Indian state of West Bengal. It consists of 7 districts:

</doc>
<doc id="234577" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234577" title="List of Presidents of the United States">
List of Presidents of the United States

This list includes all people who have been sworn as President of the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="234578" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234578" title="Jalpaiguri division">
Jalpaiguri division

Jalpaiguri Division is a division in the Indian state of West Bengal. It consists of 6 districts:

</doc>
<doc id="234589" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234589" title="History of chess">
History of chess

The history of chess goes back almost 1500 years. The game originated in northern India in the 6th century and spread to Persia. When the Arabs conquered Persia, chess was taken up by the Muslim world and subsequently, through the Moorish conquest of Spain, spread to Southern Europe. 
In Europe, the moves of the pieces changed in the 15th century. The modern game starts with these changes. In the second half of the 19th century, modern tournament play began. Chess clocks were first used in 1883, and the first world chess championship was held in 1886. The 20th century saw advances in chess theory, and the establishment of the World Chess Federation (FIDE). Chess engines (programs that play chess), and chess data bases became important.
The precursors of chess originated in northern India during the Gupta empire, where its early form in the 6th century was known as Chaturanga. This translates as 'the four divisions', meaning infantry, cavalry, elephantry, and chariotry, represented by the pieces that would evolve into the modern pawn, knight, bishop, and rook, respectively.<ref name="H/W">Hooper, David and Whyld, Kenneth 1992. "The Oxford Companion to Chess" 2nd ed, Oxford University Press. ISBN 0-19-866164-9</ref> 
In Sassanid Persia around 600 the name became "Chatrang" and the rules were developed further, and players started calling "Shāh!" (Persian for 'King') when threatening the opponent's king, and "Shāh māt!" (Persian for 'the king is finished') when the king could not escape from attack. These exclamations persisted in chess as it traveled to other lands.
The game was taken up by the Muslim world after the Islamic conquest of Persia, with the pieces largely retaining their Persian names; in Arabic "māt" or "māta" مَاتَ means "died", "is dead". In Arabic, the game became Shatranj. In all other languages, the name of the game is derived either from "shatranj" or from "shah".
The following table provides a glimpse of the changes in the names and character of chess pieces, as they passed from one culture to another, from India through Persia to Europe:
Changes in the Arabic names of pieces happened over several centuries after the game arrived in Europe. Most changed were the pieces which had no equivalent in Europe, such as the elephant (al-fil), the visier (an advisor: the firzan or wazir), and the chariot (rukhkh). The greatest variety of names was for the elephant, which was not seen in Europe, and so not used in war. In Spain names derived from Arabic lasted for centuries (alfil, aufin, orfil...). Eventually, all but France used a word for "bishop". In a similar manner, vizir eventually became "queen", and the chariot became a word for "castle". Except, that is, in English, where "rook" is obviously a version of "rukh". The following table does not capture all these complicated changes.
The game reached Western Europe and Russia by at least three routes, the earliest being in the 9th century. By the year 1000 it had spread throughout Europe. Introduced into the Iberian Peninsula by the Moors in the 10th century, it was described in a famous 13th century manuscript covering shatranj, backgammon and dice named the "Libro de los juegos".
Buddhist pilgrims, Silk Road traders and others carried it to the Far East, where it was transformed into a game often played on the intersection of the lines of the board rather than within the squares. Chinese chess and Shogi are the most important of the oriental chess variants. However, it was the changes made in medieval Europe which led to our modern game.
The game of chess is really two games. There is the original Indo-Arabic game, and there is the modern game, usually called 'international chess'. The transition between the two happened during the change from the medieval world to the modern world, in the Europe of the later 15th century. In fact, the new game of chess was one of the early topics chosen for the new technology of printing.
In early chess the moves of the pieces were:
The game could be won by 1. Mating the king; 2. By giving stalemate; 3. By capturing all the opponent's pieces. This kept down the number of draws.
In Europe some of the pieces got new names:
About 500 years after chess first reached Europe, after some smaller experiments, there were big changes in the way the pieces moved. The effect was to make the start of the game run faster, and get the opposing pieces in contact sooner. The changes were:
These changes made most of the older chess culture obsolete. The slow development in the openings was replaced by gambits and rapid attacks. The relative values of the pieces are changed. The game can now only be won by mate or resignation by one of the players. Originally, this was not seen as a problem, but as technique improved, so did the number of draws. This became a matter for discussion in the early 20th century. The limited number of ways to win changed what players needed to win in the endgame; many endgames which could be won with the old rules now were drawn.
The first printed work on chess to survive to the present day is Luis de Lucena's "Arte de axedres", printed in Salamanca, Spain. It can be dated to 1496 or 1497. It presents a number of chess problems, some of which are in the old rules ("del viejo"), some in the new rules ("dela dama"). This suggests that the transition is not quite complete, and some readers might not know about the new rules. By 1512, when Damiano published his "Questo libro e da imparare giocare a scachi" in Rome, it only included problems with the new rules, and does not mention the medieval game. The same applies to the Gottingen manuscript, probably written in Spain or Portugal. Though it has been claimed to be earlier, its content suggests it was not written before 1500. England and Germany received the reformed game by 1530. After that, the old game was effectively dead -- in Europe, at any rate. A version of the old game survived in India until recently.
Modern chess theory was slow in developing. After the new moves of the pieces, players spent their time playing gambits, and trying to mate each other. The games of Gioacchino Greco (1600– ~1634) clearly show this. The first ideas as to how to win indirectly, 'positionally', started with Philidor. Modern chess has a lot of indirect manoeuvering of a kind the old Arabic players would have understood. They could not attack directly, because their Alfil and Firzān (our bishop and queen) had such limited moves.
One interesting fact is that the Arabs divided their game into the same three stages which we do today: opening, middlegame and endgame.
At the start of a game, the Arabic masters took a number of moves before the pieces were in contact with the other side.
The table, based roughly on square control, suggests the modern game deploys about 20% more force on the board than the older game. However, this understates the case, since the table does not allow for castling, nor the initial optional double move of the pawn. Also, the pawn promotion to the new queen is hugely significant when it takes place. No exact value can be placed on these elements, but perhaps the modern game makes use of up to a third more force than in the original game.
Single pieces found in archaeology are seldom taken as chessmen; they are much more likely to be general art objects. "Groups" of small objects are more likely chessmen if there are of more than two types. Many board games have used two kinds of pieces, but only chess uses six different kinds. A dig might not turn up all six forms, but more than two is indicative of chess. If the forms have characteristic chess figures (foot soldiers, kings, man on horse) this is even more convincing.
The evidence from archaeology comes mostly from the discovery of early chess sets, and also from rock art: carvings (petroglyphs) and paintings on rock. 
The earliest chessmen found are the Afrosiab collection. In 1977 the Uzbekistan Academy of Archaeology conducted a dig at Afrosiab, near Samarkand. Samarkand is one of the oldest inhabited cities in the world, and at times it has been one of the greatest cities of Central Asia. Samarkand is on the trade route between China and the Mediterranean (the Silk Road), and so it is a logical place for a trader to store some of his precious goods.
The Afrosiab finds include seven chess pieces. They are heavily worn, but they include: two foot soldiers with shields and short swords (= our pawns); a war elephant with chain armour and a rider in full battle-dress (= our bishop); a visier (= our queen) with two horses with armed rider; two mounted riders with sword and shield (= knights); and the Shah, on a three-horse chariot, holding a mace-like symbol of power (= our king). That is five out of the six types of piece, and completely convincing as a chess set. The rukh (rook) is also known: it features a three-horse chariot with two men, one driving, and the other armed with sword and shield. 
This group is dated to the 7th–8th centuries, and probably come from the end of the Sassanid Empire just before the Arabic conquest. They are "representational", meaning they are small carvings (though somewhat crude) of war men and equipment. Later Arabic sets became abstract shapes, in accordance with their religious teaching.

</doc>
<doc id="234601" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234601" title="Shani">
Shani

Shani is one of the Navagraha which are the nine main celestial beings in Hindu astrology, or Jyotiṣa. Shani is embodied in the planet Saturn. Shani is the Lord of Saturday; the word Shani also denotes the seventh day or Saturday in most Indian languages.

</doc>
