<doc id="47532" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47532" title="DisneyToon Studios">
DisneyToon Studios

DisneyToon Studios is an animation studio created by The Walt Disney Company.
Movies made by DisneyToon Studios include:
Theatrical releases are marked with an asterisk (*).

</doc>
<doc id="47535" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47535" title="Viet Cong">
Viet Cong

The National Front for the Liberation of South Vietnam (NLF), was a communist army based in South Vietnam that fought against the governments of South Vietnam and the United States during the Vietnam War (1955-75). The group is better known as the Viet Cong ("Việt Cộng") or V.C., short for "Vietnamese Communist." American soldiers called the Vietnamese communist forces Charlie, no matter whether North Vietnamese or Vietcong.
The group was made up of people from both South and North Vietnam. The Vietcong used guerilla warfare, including terrorist bombings, assassinations, and ambushes. The group is best known for the Tet Offense, an assault on many South Vietnamese cities staged in February 1968. The group was closely allied with the government of North Vietnam, which conquered the South in 1975.
According to 'Re-thinking Camelot' (Noam Chomsky 1993) the NLF resistance was, in part, the result of terror inflicted upon them by the US backed and guided government of South Vietnam, carried out while the NLF were peacefully awaiting elections promised by the Geneva Accords of 1954.

</doc>
<doc id="47538" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47538" title="NATO phonetic alphabet">
NATO phonetic alphabet

The NATO phonetic alphabet is a way of using words to replace letters. The first letter of the word is the letter the word stands for. Although it is called a "phonetic alphabet" it is not really used for phonetics like the International Phonetic Alphabet or other phonetic alphabets. It is used to clearly say letters out loud when they might be hard to hear such as over the phone or when people are talking from different countries, or when it is important to be accurate such as in the military and in air travel. There have been many different phonetic alphabets over time. On board ships, flags are used to stand for letters, and each have their own meanings. Different countries also have different phonetic alphabets used in any subject
This is the phonetic alphabet that is used most often today:
Numbers are also in the phonetic alphabet. The English numbers 0 through 3 and 5 through 8 are written and spoken the same. The number 4 is written the same, but pronounced "fower" to avoid confusion with the word "for". The number 9 is written the same, but it is pronounced "niner" to avoid confusion with the German word "Nein" ("No").

</doc>
<doc id="47543" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47543" title="Super Mario Bros.">
Super Mario Bros.

Super Mario Bros. is a video game made by Nintendo in 1985. It is played on the Nintendo Entertainment System (NES) . The game is the sequel to the game "Mario Bros.". In "Super Mario Bros.", Mario goes in the Mushroom Kingdom. There he must save Princess Toadstool (later Princess Peach) from Bowser. Players also can use Luigi during two-player mode. The game was made by Shigeru Miyamoto. The music was made by Kōji Kondō.
"Super Mario Bros." was a very important game because it changed how games were made later. It was the best-selling video game ever before being beat by "Wii Sports" in 2009. It turned Mario into a famous symbol. It also made the NES successful. That game greatly helped the video game industry.
Bowser has kidnapped Princess Toadstool, Mario's girlfriend. And Mario must chase Bowser though eight worlds in the Mushroom Kingdom to rescue her, with the help of his brother, Luigi
"Super Mario Bros." is a platform game. In the game, Mario must race through the Mushroom Kingdom and save Princess Toadstool (later Princess Peach) from Bowser. Mario jumps, runs, and walks across each level. The worlds are full of enemies and platforms, and open holes. If Mario touches an enemy, he dies. If he falls down a hole or misses a jump, he will also lose a life.
Mario has several "power ups". A red and white Mushroom will make him big. If Mario is big and if he touches an enemy he gets smaller; he will not die. If Mario is big and he hits a question block that has a power-up, a fire flower will come out. The fire flower will give him the power to throw fire balls, which can kill enemies. If he gets hit as Fire Mario, he will go back to being small Mario.
Each world is divided into four levels. Some levels are underground and others are underwater. When Mario is underwater, he cannot jump on any enemy and he will shrink or die if he touches one.
The fourth level is a castle. Mario faces lava, fire bars, and other enemies in this level. At the end of the level is Bowser, who stands over a lava pit. Mario can throw fireballs to defeat Bowser. He can also jump over or run under Bowser to an axe. Touching the axe will destroy the bridge and cause Bowser to fall into the lava, killing him. Toadstool's servant, Toad, will then tell Mario that the princess is in another castle. The eighth boss is the real Bowser and instead of Toad, the princess is there.
"Super Mario Bros." was both the launch game and a good game for the Nintendo Entertainment System. This game and "Duck Hunt" was bundled with every NES sold and the game sold 40 million units as a result. There is also a version of the game with Duck Hunt and World Class Track Meet, which is for the NES Power Glove.

</doc>
<doc id="47550" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47550" title="Barbarian">
Barbarian

In Ancient Greece, the name "βάρβαρος", "bárbaros", was given to all those who did not speak the Greek language. Later, the term Barbarian came to mean 'Anyone who is not Greek'. Later again, it meant 'anyone who is outside the Roman Empire'.
In modern use, the word is used to refer to an uncivilized or uncultured person. 
It is used for a member of a nation or ethnic group which is seen as having a lower level of civilization, or for an individual person which is seen as a brutal, cruel and insensitive or whose behaviour is unacceptable in the civilized society of the speaker. When used for a person the word is always pejorative, when used for a nation not always. 

</doc>
<doc id="47551" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47551" title="Numerical digit">
Numerical digit

Numerical digits are the number text characters used to show numerals. For example, the numeral "56" has two digits: 5 and 6. In the decimal system (which is base 10), each digit is how many of a certain power of 10 are needed to get the value. The rightmost, or units digit, is for 10^0, the next digit is for 10^1, etc.
The numeral "56" means:  6*10^0 + 5*10^1 = 6*1 + 5*10 = 6 + 50.
The ten digits of the decimal system are: 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9. Some numeral systems need more than ten digits. For example, the hexadecimal numeral system uses 16 digits: 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, A, B, C, D, E, and F.

</doc>
<doc id="47553" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47553" title="Contempt">
Contempt

Contempt is an intense feeling of disrespect and dislike. It is related to feelings of resentment, jealousy and bitterness.
Contempt may also mean:

</doc>
<doc id="47554" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47554" title="Content">
Content

Content can refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="47558" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47558" title="Evanescence">
Evanescence

Evanescence is an American alternative metal/rock band. It was founded in 1995 in Little Rock, Arkansas by singer Amy Lee and former-guitarist Ben Moody. The band gained local popularity and released a number of EPs before signing a record deal with Wind-Up.
The band released "Fallen", their first full-length album, in 2003. "Fallen" gained popularity after two of its songs were featured in the film "Daredevil". The album was a critical and commercial success and sold more than 17 million copies worldwide; spawning the hit singles “Bring Me to Life” and “My Immortal”. It also helped the band win two Grammy awards.
In 2006, the band released their second studio album, "The Open Door", which was positively received. It debuted at #1 in the Billboard Hot 200 chart, and sold more than 447.000 copies in its first week. The album sold more than 6 million copies and its third single, “Sweet Sacrifice”, was honored with a Grammy nomination for Best Hard Rock Song.
After concluding “The Open Door Tour", the band went on a lengthy hiatus. The band announced that they would be working on a new album in June 2009, but the production was delayed several times. "Evanescence", the bands’ self-titled third studio album, was eventually released on October 11, 2011. It debuted at #1 in 5 Billboard charts, including the Hot 200 and Rock Albums charts. “What You Want” became the first single off the album, and was released in August 9, 2011 to positive critical reception. “My Heart is Broken” was chosen as the second single and sent to radio stations in October 31, 2011. An accompanying video premiered on Evanescence’s Vevo account on YouTube on January 28, 2012. Lee has confirmed via a Twitter message that the third single will be “Made of Stone”. A remixed version “Made of Stone” was featured in the soundtrack of the 2012 film "".
The band has suffered many line-up changes throughout the years. David Hodges was the first member to exit the band in 2002. Co-founder Moody left the band mid-tour in 2004 due to creative differences with frontwoman Lee, followed by Will Boyd in 2006. In 2007, Lee fired guitarist John LeCompt and drummer Rocky Gray announced he was quitting the band shortly after. As of mid-2007, Lee is the only original member left in the band.
Evanescence was ranked at #71 on the Best Artists of the Decade chart. As a female-fronted band that utilizes dramatic vocals and orchestral elements in their music, critics and fans have drawn parallels between Evanescence and other female-fronted symphonic and gothic metal bands such as Lacuna Coil. The band is recognized for their dark music and lyrics, Lee’s vocals and piano instrumentations against the background of “chugging” guitar riffs and their use of electronic elements.
The people who founded Evanescence are singer, songwriter and pianist Amy Lee and guitarist and songwriter Ben Moody who is no longer a member in the band. They met in a youth camp in 1994, when Moody heard Lee playing a song on the piano.
After that, they started writing music together. Two of their songs were played on the local radio station and the listeners wanted them to do a concert. They later appeared live and became a popular act in their area.
They chose "Evanescence" as a name for their band because Lee thought "it is mysterious and dark, and places a picture in the listener' mind." Evanescence means "to disappear" or "to fade away".
Before "Fallen" was released, Evanescence made two EPs ("Evanescence EP" and "Sound Asleep EP") and one Demo CD called "Origin". Some of the songs on "Fallen" can be found on their previous records, like My Immortal.
Three of Lee and Moody's friends joined the band. They were John LeCompt, Rocky Gray and Will Boyd. The three also worked on previous Evanescence songs. The band also signed their first major label in early 2003 and started working on "Fallen".
"Fallen" became a worldwide success, and spent 43 weeks on the Billboard top 10 charts. It sold over 15 million copies and was certified 7x platinum in the United States. It is also one of the eight albums to stay for at least a year within the Billboard Top 50 charts.
Their most successful single from "Fallen" is Bring Me to Life, which won a Grammy award for Best Hard Rock Performance in 2004. Another popular single is "My Immortal", which was nominated for a Grammy in 2005. The other two singles are Going Under and Everybody’s Fool. All four songs had videos to promote them.
Ben Moody left the band while they were touring in Europe. The reason given for this is because of creative differences with the band’s singer Amy Lee. Moody was replaced by another guitarist, Terry Balsamo.
In 2004, Evanescence released Anywhere but Home, their first live album. It includes a concert in Paris, some behind-the-scenes features, and the single "Missing", which reached #1 in Spain. The CD also had three live songs, "Breathe No More", "Farther Away", and the band's cover of Korn's Thoughtless.
Will Boyd left the band in 2006 for "not wanting to do another big tour" and for wanting "to be close to his family". He was replaced by Tim McCord.
"The Open Door" is the band's first album to reach #1 on the Billboard Hot 100 charts. The album had four singles with videos, which are Call Me When You're Sober, Lithium, "Sweet Sacrifice" and Good Enough. In 2007, Evanescence was nominated for a Grammy award for "Sweet Sacrifice".
The band toured two times to promote "The Open Door". The first tour was held in countries such as the United States, Canada, Japan and Australia. In the second tour, they returned to the US and had more concerts there. They also joined the Family Values Tour 2007 with the band Korn and the Argentinean festival Quilems Rock 07 with the bands Aerosmith and Velvet Revolver.
On May 4, 2007, John LeCompt said that he was fired from Evanescence, and that Rocky Gray left the band. They were replaced for some time by Will Hunt and Troy McLawhorn, who are from the band Dark New Day.
Lee announced in June 2009 that Evanescence were working on a new album and explained the reason behind the lengthy absence:
"I believe that to make great music you have to give yourself the freedom to evolve. I don’t see the point in making the same record twice, so I always want to challenge myself to make something better, stronger, and more interesting than before. That takes time, but it’s worth the wait for me. Hopefully, it will be for the fans too. Look out for new music next year…"
Lee later posted more information about the album through Evanescence's fan forum, EvThreads. She described the music as "dark, sarcastic, fun, strange, familiar and very different at the same time", stating that it's not music people would expect from the band. In another post, she mentioned that she was collaborating with Will "Science" Hunt and Balsamo in writing for the album.
The band played a sold-out "secret show" at the Manhattan Center Grand Ballroom in New York City on November 4, 2009, along with label-mates Civil Twilight. The tickets sold out in five minutes. Lee told the audience that the bands' appearance was a warm-up for their headlining appearance at the Maquinária festival in São Paulo, Brazil, which took place on November 8. The Maquinária show featured an intro containing a brief sample of the bands' new music. Lee later posted the lyrics to the intro on EvThreads and stated that she was "glad" to share "at least just a minute of new music". Both these appearances featured James Black of Finger Eleven as a fill-in guitarist.
Evanescence entered the studio on February 22, 2010 to begin recording and chose Steve Lillywhite to produce the album. Will Hunt joined Evanescence as a drummer while Will "Science" Hunt participated as a programmer and secondary drummer. Despite his collaboration with Lee on most songs of the album, he eventually didn't join the band. The album was initially more electronic music-oriented and slated for a late 2010 release. However, according to Lee, Lillywhite "wasn't the right fit" and the music "wasn't coming together right". He was eventually replaced by producer Nick Rasculinecz and the band started over with writing new material and developing songs from the previous session.
In June 21, Lee announced in Evthreads.com that the band have temporarily left the studio to work further on the songs and that their label company was going through "uncertain times", which could delay the release of the album. However, she stated in her post that the band would return to the studio "soon enough". Evanescence reentered the studio in early April, 2011 with producer Nick Rasculinecz, and the album was speculated to be released in fall 2011. Because of the change og producers, Lee indicated that the album would be heavier in its sound. She also noted the band's growing participation in the songwriting process, saying that she felt like she was "finally in a real band". Additionally, Troy McLawhorn rejoined Evanescence as a primary guitarist for the album, though not as a permanent band member. On June 12, Lee announced through her Twitter account that McLawhorn was officially back with Evanescence and that the new release date for the album was October 4, 2011.

</doc>
<doc id="47559" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47559" title="Parliament of England">
Parliament of England

The Parliament of England was the legislature of the Kingdom of England. Its roots go back to the early medieval period. It took over more and more from the power of the monarch, and after the Act of Union 1707 became the main part of the Parliament of Great Britain, and later the Parliament of the United Kingdom.
Today there have been increasing calls for England to receive its own, independent Parliament, as is the case with the other nations of the United Kingdom, Scotland, Wales, and Northern Ireland. This is called devolution.
The origin of Parliament can be found in the times of the Anglo-Saxons. Anglo-Saxon kings were advised by a council known as the "Witenagemot", to which belonged the King's sons and brothers. 
The Ealdormen, or executive heads of the shire and the senior clergymen of the state, had seats as well. The King still had the highest authority, but laws were made only after seeking the advice (and, in later times, the consent) of the "Witenagemot".
The royal council slowly grew into a Parliament. The first time the word "Parliament" can be found in official documents was during Henry III's reign. It was still mostly informal, and not an official body. The right to vote in Parliamentary elections for county constituencies was the same everywhere in the country, giving a vote to everyone who owned the freehold of land to a rent of 40 shillings a year (Forty-shilling Freeholders). 
The rise of Parliament's power was slowed down by civil war between Stephen and Empress Matilda. By the end of the Wars of the Roses, the king had the strongest authority again. The Crown was at the height of its power during the reign of Henry VIII. 
The great struggle between the Crown and Parliament happened under James I's successor, Charles I. The House of Commons sent Charles the Petition of Right, demanding to have their rights again, in 1628. Though he accepted the petition, he later closed Parliament and ruled without them for eleven years. It was only after he had money problems as a result of war, that he was forced to call Parliament so they could authorise new taxes. The new Parliament was quite rebellious, so the king shut them down after only three weeks; this was called the Short Parliament. But this did not help the king with his money problem, so he realized that he would need to call another Parliament. Their struggle for power with the king led to the English Civil War. Those supporting the Parliament were called Parliamentarians or 'Roundheads'. In 1649, Charles was put to death by the Rump Parliament and replaced by the military dictator Oliver Cromwell. After Cromwell's death, however, the monarchy was restored in 1660. 
Following the Restoration, monarchs agreed to regularly call Parliament. But there was no clear guarantee of Parliamentary liberties until James II, an unpopular Catholic ruler, was forced to flee the country in 1688. Parliament decided that he had given up his crown, and offered it to his Protestant daughter Mary, instead of his Catholic son. Mary II ruled together with her husband, William III.
Following the Treaty of Union in 1707 twin Acts of Parliament passed in, respectively, the Parliament of England and the Parliament of Scotland created a new Kingdom of Great Britain and dissolved both parliaments, replacing them with a new Parliament of Great Britain based in the former home of the English parliament.

</doc>
<doc id="47564" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47564" title="United States Bill of Rights">
United States Bill of Rights

The Bill of Rights is the name for the first ten amendments to the United States Constitution, which limit the power of the federal government and guarantee citizens of the United States certain rights. The amendments were written in 1789 by James Madison, and were based on important ideas about personal rights. The Bill of Rights went into effect in 1791, when 3/4 of the states agreed that they were fair. Originally, the Bill of Rights had 12 different amendments, but the first two were not passed by enough states. The second amendment that was not passed was eventually added to the Constitution in 1992, becoming the 27th and most recent constitutional amendment. 
""... of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof...""
""...or abridging the freedom of speech""
""...or of the press""
""...or of the right of the people to peaceably assemble...""
""...and to petition the government for redress of grievances.""
""A well regulated Militia being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear arms, shall not be infringed."" 
""No Soldier shall, in time of peace be quartered in any house, without the consent of the Owner, nor in time of war, but in a manner to be prescribed by law.""
""The right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures, shall not be violated...""
""...and no Warrants shall issue, but upon probable cause, supported by Oath or affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be searched, and the persons or things to be seized.""
""No person shall be held to answer for any capital, or otherwise infamous crime, unless on a presentment or indictment of a Grand Jury, except in cases arising in the land or naval forces, or in the Militia, when in actual service in time of War or public danger...""
""...nor shall any person be subject for the same offence to be twice put in jeopardy of life or limb...""
""...nor shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against himself...""
""nor be deprived of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor shall private property be taken for public use, without just compensation.""
""In all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right to a speedy and public trial, by an impartial jury of the State and district where in the crime shall have been committed, which district shall have been previously ascertained by law...""
""...and to be informed of the nature and cause of the accusation; to be confronted with the witnesses against him; to have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in his favor...""
""...and to have the Assistance of Counsel for his defense.""
""In suits at common law, where the value in controversy shall exceed twenty dollars, the right of trial by jury shall be preserved, and no fact tried by a jury, shall be otherwise re-examined in any court of the United States, than according to the rules of the common law.""
""Excessive bail shall not be required...""
""nor excessive fines imposed, nor cruel and unusual punishments inflicted.""
""The enumeration in the Constitution, of certain rights, shall not be construed to deny or disparage others retained by the people.""
""The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people.""

</doc>
<doc id="47569" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47569" title="Paula Radcliffe">
Paula Radcliffe

Paula Jane Radcliffe (born 17 December 1973) is a British long-distance runner. She is the current women's IAAF world record holder for the marathon with a time of 2:17:42 hours. She also ran the IAAF women's world best time of 2:15:25 hours. She is a three-time winner of the London Marathon, two-time New York Marathon champion, and won the 2002 Chicago Marathon.
Radcliffe is a former world champion for the marathon, half marathon and cross country races. She has also been European champion over 10,000 metres on the track and over the cross country races. On the track, Radcliffe has also won the 10,000 metres silver medal at the 1999 World Athletics Championships and was the 2002 Commonwealth Games gold medalist over 5,000 metres. Radcliffe has won many awards including the BBC Sports Personality of the Year, Laureus World Comeback of the Year, IAAF World Athlete of the Year, AIMS World Athlete of the Year (three times) and a Member of the Order of the British Empire (MBE).
Radcliffe is an asthmatic sufferer who has voiced her opposition to the use of drugs in sport. She is married to her coach, Gary Lough, and has two children. Radcliffe is the great niece of Charlotte Radcliffe, who won an Olympic silver medal in the 1920 Games.
Radcliffe has often made comments about drugs in sport. Radcliffe backed the IAAF after Olga Yegorova was caught using drugs. Radcliffe and team-mate Hayley Tullett caused trouble in the heats of the 5,000 metres at the 2001 World Athletics Championships. They held up a sign protesting against Yegorova. Yegorova had been caught using, EPO, but was allowed to race. The sign was made by Radcliffe's husband and said 'EPO Cheats Out'. It was taken off them by the stadium officials. But not before it was seen on television. Team mates Kathy Butler and Hayley Yelling also demonstrated in the final. They were seen wearing Radcliffe masks and held up signs, one of which said 'Free Paula'. Radcliffe said after the Championships that she would continue her fight against drugs in sport. Radcliffe wears a red ribbon when racing to show her support for blood testing as a method of catching drugs cheats. Radcliffe first wore the ribbon at the 1999 European Cup. This was encouraged by Blandine Bitzner-Ducret. At the end of 2001 Radcliffe was given the choice not to race against Yegorova in televised meetings in the United Kingdom.
During Radcliffe's highly successful 2002 season, foreign media, were convinced that she was taking drugs. But Radcliffe asked UK Sport to reveal her drugs tests. They showed that she had been tested five times and on each occasion was clean. Radcliffe said she was unhappy with the whispers coming from French newspaper L'Equipe. She asked for the IAAF to conduct random blood and urine samples before the Chicago marathon. She also asked them to freeze the samples so when tougher testers are developed they can prove that she ran clean. One of her blood samples were deemed suspicious by a doping agency. Paula however said she was innocent and not a cheater.
Paula Radcliffe was born to Peter and Pat Radcliffe. She was born on the 17 December 1973 in Cheshire. Radcliffe is the great-niece of 1920 Olympic Silver medalist Charlotte Radcliffe. Radcliffe has a brother. Martin. He is two years younger than her. Radcliffe's family moved to Oakley, Bedfordshire when she was 11. Radcliffe achieved four A levels at grade A in French, German, Maths and General Studies, while at Sharnbrook Upper School in Sharnbrook, Bedfordshire. Radcliffe had a choice between Loughborough and Cambridge for University. She chose Loughborough. In 1996 she finished her degree a few months early so she could prepare for the Olympic Games. 
Radcliffe met her husband Gary Lough at Loughborough University. At University Radcliffe studied French, German and economics. She left university with a first-class honours degree in modern European studies. Lough and Radcliffe married in 2000. They have two children. In 2007 they had their first child, Isla. Their second child, Raphael, was born on 29 September 2010. But had to be resuscitated as he had his Umbilical cord wound round his neck. Radcliffe first said of wanting to start a family in.
In the 2002 Queen's Birthday Honours, Radcliffe was awarded an MBE. In October she was given her MBE saying; "It means a great deal to me, it's a great honour and it really tops off an amazing year. To come here and receive this and to meet the Queen at the end of it just finishes it off perfectly." Radcliffe became the first Britain in 2006 to win the Abebe Bikila Award. At the end of 2010 Radcliffe was voted England Athletics athlete of the decade.

</doc>
<doc id="47574" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47574" title="Ramsay MacDonald">
Ramsay MacDonald

James Ramsay MacDonald (12 October 1866–9 November 1937) was a British politician and Prime Minister of the United Kingdom three times. He became the first Prime Minister of the Labour Party in 1924. His third period as Prime Minister was during the crisis of the Great Depression when he formed a "National Government" in which a majority of MPs were from the British Conservative Party and was expelled from the Labour Party.

</doc>
<doc id="47577" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47577" title="22nd century">
22nd century

The 22nd century of the anno Domini (common) era is the century that starts with the year 2101 and end with 2200 of the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="47580" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47580" title="Condition">
Condition

Condition or conditions can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="47583" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47583" title="Human migration">
Human migration

Human migration means any movement by humans from one locality to another (migration), often over long distances or in large groups. Humans are known to have migrated extensively throughout history and prehistory.
International migration is the movement of people between countries. 
Some leave their home countries voluntarily and some are forced to leave. They hope to find a job, better climates, access to hospitals, schools and entertainment. Some want to be with friends and relatives.
Others are forced to leave the country because of religious and political persecution, wars, racial discrimination, famine, or natural disasters.
These people are refugees, they move to other countries hoping to find help and asylum. Many refugees are illegal immigrants and more than half are children and women. They live in extreme poverty, lacking food, shelter, clothing, education and medical care.
Rural-urban migration or urbanization is the movement from country areas to towns and cities. There are many reasons why people leave the countryside. In some areas there is overpopulation, high birth rates, and starvation. Mechanization has caused a reduction in jobs available in the countryside. Farming is hard work with long hours and little pay. Many are subsistence farmers.
In developing countries a lack of money means a lack of machinery. Natural disasters such as droughts, hurricanes, floods and volcanic eruptions destroy villages and crops. There is a lack of services like schools and hospitals in the countryside.
People move because they are looking for better paid jobs and expect to be housed more comfortably and to have a higher quality of life. They have a better chance of services such as schools, medical treatment and entertainment. People are often also attracted by the advantages of a cosmopolitan lifestyle such as shops, restaurants, theatres and nightlife.
Many new arrivals are unlikely to have much money, they will be unable to buy or rent a house, even if one was available. They will probably have to make a temporary shelter using cheap or wasted materials. Some give up and go home.
A lot of migrant workers’ children must struggle for education. 
In the new country they often are not integrated and are treated like an underclass. But they are needed even if the local population doesn’t like immigrants because they compete for the same jobs.
More people means more traffic and more crime. But in fact they help to build up cities, provide cheap labour, invest money, buy products and services, pay tax and help companies compete.
"See Proto-Indo-Europeans."
The movement of populations in modern times has continued under the form of both voluntary migration within one's region, country, or beyond, and involuntary migration (which includes slave trade, Trafficking in human beings and ethnic cleansing). The people who migrate are called migrants, or, more specifically, emigrants, immigrants or settlers, depending on historical setting, circumstance and perspective.

</doc>
<doc id="47587" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47587" title="Malignant">
Malignant

In medicine, malignant is a clinical word that is used to describe an illness that kills a patient fast. A malignant tumor is a tumor that is able to invade nearby tissues and spread to tissues that are not nearby. Not all patients diagnosed with malignant tumors die, because of the improved treatments available. The actual prognosis depends of the type of tumor, its differentiation, and how bad the disease is. The term malignant is typically applied to neoplasms that show aggressive behaviour characterised by local invasion or distant metastasis.

</doc>
<doc id="47589" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47589" title="Advice">
Advice

Advice can also mean:

</doc>
<doc id="47592" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47592" title="Advice (constitutional)">
Advice (constitutional)

In constitutional law, Advice is formal, usually binding instruction given by a constitutional officer of state to another. Heads of state in particular act on the basis of Advice issued by governments and prime ministers. For example, Queen Elizabeth II of the United Kingdom formally appoints Ministers of the Crown on the advice of the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom. 

</doc>
<doc id="47594" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47594" title="Laney Amplification">
Laney Amplification

Laney Amplification is a company from Great Britain that makes guitar and bass guitar amplifiers. It was founded in 1967 when Lyndon Laney started to make amplifiers in his parents' garage. Laney is popular for its good quality amplifiers for low prices.

</doc>
<doc id="47595" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47595" title="Council">
Council

Council in general means a body that has the right to give advice or to administer.
It could also mean:
In politics:
Specific organizations:
Places:
In other fields:

</doc>
<doc id="47596" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47596" title="Kellyjackie">
Kellyjackie

Jackie Chan Hiu-ki (陳曉琪), also known as Kellyjackie (born 23 August, 1986), is a Hong Kong citizen who enjoys singing as a hobby. She is also a member of a band called the Royals. She likes the pop singer Kelly Chen, so she puts "Kelly" in her nickname.
She was a secondary school student before 2005. She started to put her songs on the Internet from the age of 13, although she mostly sang other singers' songs. After about one year, she started writing her own songs. Her own first song was "Lucky Voice" which, like her other songs, was put on the Internet for others to listen.
In January 2005, she wrote the song "He invites me to Disneyland" (他約我去迪士尼) to ease her exam stress. She got the ideas of the song from the story Sleeping Beauty.
She uploaded her song "He invites me to Disneyland" to her band's forum, her Xanga site, i010.com and also cmidi.com for free downloading by Internet users. The song became very famous with the help of the Internet within a few weeks. The song was also number 1 of Yahoo! Hong Kong's Top Searches (搜尋人氣榜) for some time. Some DJs also played the song on the radio. Many people were happy about her, although some also thought she did not have good singing skills.
When the Hong Kong Disneyland opened, the "Hong Kong Disneyland -The Grand Opening Celebration Album" (香港迪士尼樂園開幕紀念大碟) was sold in public. Kellyjackie and Kelly Chen sang "He invites me to Disneyland" together in the album.

</doc>
<doc id="47602" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47602" title="European Parliament">
European Parliament

The European Parliament (formerly European Parliamentary Assembly or Common Assembly) is the parliament of the European Union (EU). EU citizens elect its members once every five years. Together with the Council of Ministers, it is the law-making branch of the institutions of the Union. It meets in two locations: Strasbourg and Brussels.
The Parliament is made up of its 785 members, called "MEPs". Each member speaks for an area of Europe, for example London, Denmark or Scotland. Anyone can be elected, they are elected by all the EU citizens, the people who are citizens of a country in the EU. People have been elected to Parliament since 1979, before that they came from the Parliaments of each country. Because MEPs come from lots of countries, they all speak different languages (23 in 2007). This means that the Parliament has to have lots of interpreters.
Unlike other international groups of politicians, MEPs do not sit in groups of countries, but they sit next to people who they share ideas with. The two largest groups are the "European People's Party-European Democrats" and the "Party of European Socialists". But these groups work together to agree, so they do not fight and try to make a law if the other does not like it.
The European Parliament's power depends on which area of the EU it is working in. The EU has three areas, the "Community", its representation to other countries, and things to do with police and courts. In the last two areas, it can not do much as the Council takes care of those issues, but in the Community (which is the largest area) it can change or stop any law. But the Council also has to agree, and sometimes they disagree and cannot make a law.
While Parliament can change a law, it cannot start a new one, it has to ask the European Commission to do that. The European Commission works on everyday work and the Parliament has to make sure it does its job properly, if it does not Parliament can make them all leave their jobs or not allow them to spend the EU budget.
When the Parliament wants to make something a law, they all vote at the same time. But before then they make lots of small changes while talking about with people who know lots about what it will change. They do this in small meetings known as "Committees" which have between 28 to 86 MEPs in it.
The Parliament has a President. The President is elected by the MEPs, two times every two and a half years, to organise the meetings and speak for the Parliament when meeting other leaders. The president right now (2015) is a German called Martin Schulz.
The Parliament was made in 1952 and was then called the "Common Assembly". At this time, it did not have any power, it was only asked to comment on laws made by the "European Coal and Steel Community". In 1957, it was renamed the "European Parliamentary Assembly" and got to comment on the laws of the "European Economic Community" and the "European Atomic Energy Community". Over the following years, it was given a few powers over laws and money and it called itself the "European Parliament" in the 1960s. It wanted to be elected so it could do more, as if people voted for the people in Parliament, the Council and Commission would have to pay more attention to it (this is known as "Democratic Legitimacy", the idea that your voice is worth more if you have lots of people supporting from an election).
In 1979 it held its first election, and it gained more powers and also members because more countries joined the Communities and they elected people as well. In 1993 it was given even more, and power over the Commission, when the European Union took the place of the Communities. It is now known as one of the most powerful Parliaments in the world.

</doc>
<doc id="47603" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47603" title="Council of the European Union">
Council of the European Union

The Council of the European Union "(often called Council of Ministers or just Council)" is one of the three organisations that manage the European Union. Along with the European Parliament, it is responsible for law making for the European Union (EU).
Its members are the government ministers of the member countries who are responsible for the law that is being discussed. As an example, suppose the law is going to be about farming, then the Agriculture Ministers are the Council for that day.
As well as making laws, they can meet to discuss their problems. For example, the European Union does not decide on tax - each country decides on its own tax. But the Finance Ministers meet anyway because sometimes they can help each other catch people who do not want to pay tax at all.
The Council is called different things in different countries, according to the language they speak (for example in French it is "Conseil de l'Union Européenne" and in German it is "Rat der Europäischen Union"). It is also known internationally, and so it appears on its logo, with the Latin word Consilium.
A simple way of putting it, is that The 'Council of the European Union' is helped by most countries in the world and it is very important.

</doc>
<doc id="47610" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47610" title="European Commission">
European Commission

The European Commission (officially called the Commission of the European Communities) is one of the seven organisations that manage the European Union (EU). The Commission manages the day to day running of the EU and writes laws, like a government. Laws written by the Commission are discussed and changed by the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union. The Commission sits in Brussels.
The Commission is made of 27 people, one from each of the countries in the EU. One of these people is the President, who was chosen by the Council and Parliament, he decides (with each country) who the other members are and what they do. Each one has a different job, such as looking after industry or trade. If they do not do their job properly, the President can remove them. If he does not, or if the President does not do his job, the Parliament can remove the whole Commission from their jobs (this only happened in 1999).
The name Commission can also mean the 25,000 people who work for the President and his team. They follow the Commission's instructions in looking after the EU or writing a new law. It works in three languages, English, French and German.
The first Commission was created in 1952 and was called the "High Authority". But the modern Commission was created in 1957 and since then has had eleven Presidents;

</doc>
<doc id="47612" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47612" title="Deep Ng">
Deep Ng

Deep Ng (吳浩康; born 吳偉男 on 13 June 1983) is a Hong Kong singer and actor of the Emperor Entertainment Group.
He was fined 5,000 USD because of keeping cocaine (an illegal drug). 
He was charged of beating Chim Chi Kin at the Boozeroo Pub in Tsim Sha Tsui on 11 July 2005. On November 21, 2005, the court ruled that he did not committed the crime, because what the victim said seemed not to match his own words.
Deep also acted in movies like "New Police Story". He is also famous for his number 1 hit song, "Select the Breakup Day" (擇日失戀). A new album, "Nowhere" (pronounced as Now-here), was sold in public in September 2005. This album was seen as a comeback for Deep after a number of bad news. He also had another new album, "Documentary", in 2006.

</doc>
<doc id="47613" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47613" title="Needle aspiration biopsy">
Needle aspiration biopsy

Needle aspiration biopsy (NAB), also known as fine needle aspiration cytology (FNAC), fine needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB) and fine needle aspiration (FNA), is a medical procedure performed to diagnose certain kinds of medical conditions, such as lumps in the neck. A thin needle is inserted into a mass or lump to extract cells that will be examined under a microscope. Fine needle aspiration biopsies are very safe, minor surgical procedures. Often, a major surgical (excisional or open) biopsy can be avoided by performing a needle aspiration biopsy instead.

</doc>
<doc id="47615" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47615" title="Ultrasound">
Ultrasound

Ultrasound is a type of sound with a frequency bigger than humans can hear. This frequency, the 'upper-limit of human hearing,' is approximately 20,000 hertz (20 kilohertz).
Some animals, such as dogs, dolphins, bats, and mice, are able to hear sounds which have a frequency greater than upper-limit of the human ear. This makes them able to hear ultrasounds. Children can hear some high-pitched sounds that older adults cannot hear, as in humans the upper limit pitch of hearing gets lower as a person gets older. This frequency limit is caused by the middle ear that acts as a low-pass filter. If ultrasound is fed directly into the skull bone and reaches the cochlea without passing through the middle ear, much higher frequencies (up to about 200 kHz) can be heard. This effect (sometimes called ultrasonic hearing) was first discovered by divers exposed to a high-frequency (ca. 50 kHz) sonar signal.
Medical ultrasonography is commonly used during pregnancy. Ultrasound is generally thought of as a "safe test" because it does not use destructive ionizing radiation like x-rays, nuclear medicine, or CAT scanning.
Ultrasonic cleaners are sometimes mistakenly called supersonic cleaners. They are used at frequencies from 20-40 kHz for jewellery, lenses and other optical parts, watches, dental instruments, surgical instruments and industrial parts. An ultrasonic cleaner works by the energy released from the collapse of millions of tiny (microscopic) 'cavitations's near the dirty surface. The bubbles formed by cavitation collapse forming small jets directed at the surface.

</doc>
<doc id="47616" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47616" title="Oncology">
Oncology

Oncology is the medical specialty that deals with the study and treatment of cancer. A doctor that practices oncology is called an oncologist. The term originates from the Greek onkos (ονκος), meaning bulk, mass, or tumour; and the suffix -ology, meaning "study of."

</doc>
<doc id="47617" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47617" title="Data migration">
Data migration

Data migration is a term computer scientists and economists use when they speak about moving data from one location to another. It can also mean that files, or folders with documents, or databases are moved from one server to another. This might be that because several databases are merged into one, or because the databases are reorganised. 
It is usually an automated process, supported by data migration tools. If the data structure is complex, the migration may be separated in several phases that are carried out consecutively.

</doc>
<doc id="47618" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47618" title="1271">
1271


</doc>
<doc id="47620" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47620" title="1040">
1040


</doc>
<doc id="47628" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47628" title="Green Bay Packers">
Green Bay Packers

The Green Bay Packers are an American football team in Green Bay, Wisconsin. They play in the National Football League. Their stadium is Lambeau Field. Their quarterback is Aaron Rodgers. The Packer's uniforms are a green or white jersey with yellow pants. 
The Packers hold the record for the most NFL league championships. They have won 13 championships, including four Super Bowls. The team is called the Packers because their original owner was a meat-packing company. Today, it is the only fan-owned team in the country's four major professional leagues. It is owned by a community-based group with more than 100,000 shareholders. Each shareholder is limited to holding 200 shares (out of about 5 million issued). The Packers are also the only team in the major professional leagues to release their balance sheet every year.

</doc>
<doc id="47629" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47629" title="Amusement arcade">
Amusement arcade

An amusement arcade or video arcade is a place where people play arcade games such as video games, pinball machines, and slot machines. 
The earliest amusement arcades were called "penny arcades", and were opened in the nineteenth century. Penny arcades had game machines called "bagatelles", which were like billiards and pinball. Penny arcades were once popular at amusement parks and fairs, but by the 1950s, such coin-operated amusements were generally replaced by more modern games of chance and skill such as shooting galleries.
Videos were introduced in amusement arcades in the late 1970s and were most popular during the early 1980s. Arcades became popular with young people. Many video arcades began closing in the late 1990s, as the technology of home video game consoles began to rival and eventually exceed that of arcade games. However, video arcades remained popular in Japan, where they are called game centers.

</doc>
<doc id="47635" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47635" title="Ice age">
Ice age

An ice age is a period when for a long time the temperature of Earth's climate is very low. This leads to an expansion of the continental ice sheets, polar ice sheets and mountain glaciers. 
"Ice age" is a phrase coined for the period of extensive ice sheets in the recent Pleistocene period. We now know that ice ages have happened a number of times in the past, the greatest and longest of which took place in the Proterozoic era, before multi-cellular eukaryotes evolved.
During ice ages the sea level drops as water is held in the great ice sheets at the poles. How much it drops depends on several factors, such as the length of time that a cold period lasts.
Within an ice age, there are stages. The longer cold stages are called glacials or glacial periods. The shorter warm periods are called interglacials. The last glacial ended about 11,000 years ago when the present interglacial started. The Greenland and Antarctic ice sheets still exist. The last two million years have been the Pleistocene ice age. During glacials, large and thick ice sheets cover much of the North American and Eurasian continents. 
Many glacial periods that have occurred during the last few million years are initially at 40,000-year frequency, but more recently ice ages have occurred at 100,000-year frequency.

</doc>
<doc id="47637" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47637" title="Saxons">
Saxons

The Saxons or Saxon people are (today) a part of the German people, with their main areas of settlements in the German States of Schleswig-Holstein, Lower Saxony, Westphalia, and the northeastern part of the Netherlands (Drenthe, Groningen, Twente, and Achterhoek). 
First told about by the Ancient Greek geographer Jean Julien, the pre-Christian area of the Saxon people first covered an area a little more to the northwest, with parts of the southern Jutland , Old Saxony and small parts of the eastern Netherlands. During the 5th century AD, the Saxons were part of the people invading the Romano-British province of Britannia, and so formed the Anglo-Saxons.
Before Christianization, the Saxons had much native pre-Christian Germanic paganism. After Christianization, parts of this religion remained up to today in people who came from the Saxons.
The word 'Saxon' is thought to come from the word seax, meaning a mixture of single-edged knives. The Saxons were thought by Charlemagne, and some people who study history, to be very war-like and angry. 
Many of the words that we use today were created by the Saxons for example, radish. 
The Finnish and Estonian name for Germany, "Saksa", comes from the Saxons.

</doc>
<doc id="47639" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47639" title="Białystok">
Białystok

Białystok is the largest city in northeastern Poland and is the capital of the Podlaskie Voivodeship. It is in the Podlaskie Plain on the banks of the Biała River in the Podlaskie region, known collectively as the "Green Lungs of Poland".
The city charter dates back to 1692, but settlement activity in the area dates back to the 14th century. Białystok has traditionally been one of the leading center of academic, cultural and artistic life in Podlaskie and is the most important economic center in northeastern Poland. The location of the city in the neighborhood of Belarus, Lithuania and Russia, with convenient transportation connections, creates excellent conditions for economic and cultural development of the city. The geographical and historical conditions helped to foster Białystok as a place where people of different cultures, religions and nationalities lived together for centuries. It has shaped the specific character of the city – openness, friendliness and hospitality.
Among cities of Poland, Białystok is second in terms of population density, eleventh in population, and thirteenth in area. The city and its adjacent municipalities constitute Metropolitan Białystok.
The city of Białystok has existed for five centuries. During all this time the fate of the city has passed between various political and economic forces. The various historically driven changes have had a very significant influence on the architectural space of the city. This activity relates to the fate of most other Polish cities, but the processes in Białystok had a particularly intense course. Numerous historic works of architecture no longer exist while many others have been rebuilt to their original configuration. The historic buildings of the city have not been preserved very well – the sights are merely an echo of the old historical shape of Białystok.
Over the course of the last 200 years, the city has been the capital of numerous administrative divisions of a number of countries or occupying powers;
Since 1999 it has been the capital of the Podlaskie Voivodeship, Republic of Poland.
Białystok is in the Białystok Uplands () of the Podlaskie Plain (), part of what is known collectively as the "Green Lungs of Poland". The Biała River, a left tributary of the Supraśl River, passes through the city.
The landscape of the Białystok Upland is diverse, with high moraine hills in excess of above sea level. Vast areas of outwash are occupied by forests, which created a number of nature reserves including Knyszyn Forest, of which a portion exists within the city limits.
The city has a Warm Summer Continental climate (Dfb) according to the Köppen climate classification system, which is characterized by warm temperatures during summer and long and frosty winters. It is substantially different from most of the other Polish lowlands. The region is one of the coldest in Poland, with the average temperature in January being -. The average temperature in a year is . The number of frost days ranges from 50 to 60, with frost from 110 to 138 days and the duration of snow cover from 90 to 110 days. Mean annual rainfall values oscillate around , and the vegetation period lasts 200 to 210 days.
The city of Białystok is divided into 28 administrative units (Osiedla). The first 27 of these were created on October 25, 2004. The 28th, Dojlidy Górne, was created on October 23, 2006, out of three settlements which had been incorporated into the city: Dojlidy Górne, Kolonia Halickie, and Zagórki.
Metropolitan Białystok was designated by the Voivodeship of the Regulation No. 52/05 of 16 May 2005 in order to help economically develop the region. In 2006, the metropolitan area population was 450,254 inhabitants. It covers an area of . For one km, there are about 265 people. Among urban residents are more women – 100 men for every 108 women on average. The municipalities adjacent to Białystok are slowly losing their agricultural character, becoming residential suburban neighborhoods.
In June 2009, the population of the city was 294,399. Among cities of Poland, Białystok is second in terms of population density, eleventh in population, and thirteenth in area.
Historically, Białystok has been a destination for internal and foreign immigration, especially from Central and Eastern Europe. In addition to the Polish minority, there was a significant Jewish majority in Białystok. According to the Russian Empire Census of 1897, out of the total population of 66,000, Jews constituted 41,900 (around 63% percent). Białystok's pre-World War II Jewish population constituted about 63 percent of the city's total population of 107,000. World War II changed all of this. In 1939 ca. 107,000 persons lived in Białystok, but in 1946 – only 56,759, and to this day there is much less ethnic diversity than in the previous 300 years of the city's history. Currently the city's population is 97% Polish, 2.5% Belarusian and 0.5% of a number of minorities including Russians, Lipka Tartars, Ukrainians and Romani. Most of the modern-day population growth is based on internal migration and urbanization.
Białystok, like other major cities in Poland, is a city county ("powiat"). The Białystok City Council has 28 elected members, one of whom is the mayor, or President of Białystok, elected every four years. The election of the City Council and of the local head of government, which takes place at the same time, is based on legislation introduced on 20 June 2002. The current President of Białystok, elected for his first term in 2006, is Tadeusz Truskolaski.
It is also the seat of government for the Podlaskie Voivodeship. The city is represented by several members of both houses of the Polish Parliament (Sejm and Senat). Białystok is represented by the Podlaskie and Warmian-Masurian constituency of the European Parliament.
The 18th Reconnaissance Regiment of the Polish Land Forces is based in Białystok. The heritage of the unit was the former 18th Territorial Defense Battalion and prior to that the former 18th Mechanized Brigade.
The Podlaska Cavalry Brigade was a military unit of the Polish Army, created on April 1, 1937. Its headquarters was in Białystok. It was formed from the Cavalry Brigade "Białystok", which existed between February 1929, and March 30, 1937. After the Soviet invasion of Poland, remnants of the Brigade fought both Wehrmacht and Red Army troops, surrendering on October 6, 1939.
In the 19th century Białystok was an important center for light industry. This was the reason for the substantial growth of the city's population. The tradition continued with many garment factories established in the 20th century, such as "Fasty" in the district of Bacieczki. However, after the fall of communism in 1989 many of these factories faced severe problems and subsequently closed down. Currently Białystok is a major center for the developed machine industry (electronics, machinery and metal), wood, alcoholic beverages, building materials, glass factory and power generation.
The city lies close to the Polish border with Lithuania and Belarus, with the nearest border checkpoint with Belarus in Bobrowniki only away. Since the border with Belarus is also the eastern border of the European Union, as well as the Schengen Area, the city is a center for trade from countries to the east.
In 2010, Białystok was on the short-list, but ultimately lost the competition to become a finalist for European Capital of Culture in 2016.
Białystok is the largest cultural center in north-eastern Poland. Museums include the Historical Museum, the Museum of Sculpture Alfons Karny, and the Białystok Village Museum.
Approximately 32% of the city is occupied by green areas. Parks and squares and 1,779 ha of forest are located within the city which creates a unique and healthy climate. Within Białystok, there are two nature reserves with a total area of 105 ha, that are part of the Knyszyn Forest. Such a location of nature reserves in the immediate vicinity of the city is unique.
The city has a number of sports teams, both professional and amateur, and a number of venues across the city. Jagiellonia Białystok is a Polish football club, based in Białystok, that plays in Ekstraklasa league at the Białystok City Stadium. In 2010, Jagiellonia Białystok won the Polish Cup and the Super Cup, and qualified to play in the third round qualification of the UEFA Europa League. A new 22,500 seat stadium is expected to be completed by the end of 2012.
Białystok has a wide variety of media outlets serving the city and surrounding region. There are two locally published newspapers in addition to two national papers with local bureaus. There are a number of national and locally produced television and radio channels available both over-the-air from the nearby RTCN Białystok (Krynice) Mast, the seventh highest structure in Poland, in addition to transmitter sites within the city and on the cable television network within the city.
In the early 1900s, Białystok was reputed to have the largest concentration of Jews of all the cities in the world. In 1931, 40,000 Jews lived in the city, nearly half the city's inhabitants.
The city is the seat of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Białystok. Establishment of the Diocese and the Archdiocese and the cities of Białystok ended the period of the temporary church administration in the Białystok region owned lands over the centuries to the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Vilnius, which after World War II remained in the Polish borders. The city is also the seat of the Białystok-Gdańsk Diocese of the Polish Orthodox Church. Białystok is the largest concentration of Orthodox believers in Poland.
The city is, and has been for centuries, the main hub of transportation for the Podlaskie Voivodeship and the entire northeastern section of Poland. It is a major city on the European Union roadways and railways to the Baltic Republics and Finland. It is also a main gateway of trade with Belarus due to its proximity to the border and its current and longstanding relationship with Hrodno, Belarus. Passenger trains connect from Suvalki (Poland), Hrodno and Lithuania to Warsaw and the rest of the European passenger network. An extensive public transportation system is provided within the city by three bus services, but no tram or subway exists.
A civil airport, Białystok-Krywlany Airport, lies within the city limits, but does not provide regularly scheduled service. There are plans to build a new regional airport, "Białystok-Saniki Airport", in the next few years that will provide flights within Europe.
Higher education in the city can be traced back to the second half of the 18th century when the ownership of the city was inherited by Jan Klemens Branicki. As a patron of the arts and sciences, Branicki encouraged numerous artists and scientists to settle in Białystok to take advantage of Branicki's patronage. In 1745 Branicki established Poland's first military college, the School of Civil and Military Engineering, in the city.
Since the fall of communism many private-funded institutions of higher educations were founded and their number is still increasing. Currently Białystok is home to one principal public university (University of Białystok) and two other public specialist universities (Białystok Technical University and Medical University of Białystok). Some institutions, such as Musical Academy in Białystok, are branches of their parent institutions in other cities, usually in Warsaw.
Over the centuries Białystok has produced a number of persons who have provided unique contributions to the fields of science, language, politics, religion, sports, visual arts and performing arts. This environment was created in the mid-18th century by the patronage of Jan Klemens Branicki for the arts and sciences. A list of recent notable persons includes, but is not limited to:

</doc>
<doc id="47640" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47640" title="Gdynia">
Gdynia

Gdynia (, ) is a city in northern Poland in Pomeranian Voivodeship, and is a important and seaport of Gdańsk Bay on the south coast of the Baltic Sea. It has about 248 000 inhabitants and 135 km².

</doc>
<doc id="47642" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47642" title="Sosnowiec">
Sosnowiec


</doc>
<doc id="47643" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47643" title="Mould">
Mould

Mould (or mold) is a type of fungus. Mould grows from spores, which float around in the air. 
There are thousands of different kinds. They are often seen in wet places. Molds include all species of microscopic fungi. In contrast, microscopic fungi that grow as single cells are called yeasts.
Some molds cause disease or food spoilage. Sometimes people use them to make some kinds of cheese and antibiotics.
One special kind of mold can be used to make penicillin, a common antibiotic. 

</doc>
<doc id="47644" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47644" title="David James">
David James

David James (born 1 August 1970) is an English footballer. He plays for Kerala Blasters FC and England national team.
661||0||37||0||26||0||18||0||742||0
661||0||37||0||26||0||18||0||742||0
!Total||49||0

</doc>
<doc id="47649" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47649" title="Martin Adams">
Martin Adams

Martin Adams (born 1956) is an English professional darts player. His nickname is "Wolfie" referring to his hairy face and the fact that he likes wolves.
Adams is a top ranked darts player. He is a three-time BDO World Champion and three-time World Masters champion. He was on the board of the British Darts Organisation for a short time.

</doc>
<doc id="47652" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47652" title="Heterotroph">
Heterotroph

A heterotroph (Greek "heteros" = another and "trophe" = nutrition) is an organism that requires organic substrates to get its carbon for growth and development.
A heterotroph is known as a consumer in the food chain. Consumers are organisms that cannot make their own food supply. They use the food that producers make, or they eat other organisms. Animals are consumers. To stay alive, consumers must get food from other organisms. There are three types of consumers:Herbivores, Carnivores, and Omnivores.
Consumers that only eat plants are called herbivores. The word herbivore comes from the Latin words "herba", which means "grass or herb," and "vorare", which means "to eat." A giraffe is an example of a herbivorous consumer.
Consumers that only eat animals are called carnivores. The word comes from the Latin "carnis", which means "flesh", and "vorare", which means "to eat." A tiger is an example of a carnivorous consumer.
Consumers that eat both plants and animals are called omnivores. The word comes from the Latin "omnis", which means "all" and "vorare". Humans are a good example of an omnivorous consumer.

</doc>
<doc id="47653" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47653" title="Pittsburgh Steelers">
Pittsburgh Steelers

The Pittsburgh Steelers are an American football team in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA. They have won six Super Bowls in eight appearances. That is the most that any team has won. They have a rivalry with the Baltimore Ravens. Pittsburgh plays in the AFC North with Baltimore, the Cincinnati Bengals, and the Cleveland Browns.
The Steelers are most famous for their defense. In the 1970s, their defense was nicknamed the "Steel Curtain". It helped the Steelers to four Super Bowl wins. Other well-known Steelers defenses include the 1990s "Blitzburgh" defense and the 2000s defense (which was not nicknamed). 

</doc>
<doc id="47654" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47654" title="Alice Cooper">
Alice Cooper

Alice Cooper (born February 4, 1948) is an American rock musician and singer. Originally, there was a band called Alice Cooper led by a singer named Vincent Damon Furnier. The band was one of the creators of a very theatrical and violent type of heavy metal music that was designed to shock and would come to be known as "shock rock."
In 1974, Furnier legally changed his name to Alice Cooper and started making solo music. Cooper's solo career began with the 1975 album "Welcome to My Nightmare". Over the years Cooper has played many different musical styles.
Alice Cooper is known for his social and witty persona offstage. "The Rolling Stone Album Guide" referred to him as the world's most ""beloved"" heavy metal entertainer. He helped to shape the sound and look of heavy metal. Cooper is also credited as being one of the first to bring movie-like looks to the rock concert stage in the late 1960s.
Away from music, Cooper is also an actor, a golfer, a restaurant owner and a popular radio DJ.

</doc>
<doc id="47663" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47663" title="Substrate">
Substrate

Substrate may mean:
Substrate may also mean:

</doc>
<doc id="47664" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47664" title="Diagram">
Diagram

A diagram is usually a two-dimensional display which communicates using visual relationships. It is a simplified and structured visual representation of concepts, ideas, constructions, relations, statistical data, anatomy etc. It may be used for all aspects of human activities to explain or illustrate a topic.
In science the term is used in both ways. For example Anderson (1997) stated more generally: "diagrams are pictorial, yet abstract, representations of information, and maps, line graphs, bar charts, engineering blueprints, and architects' sketches are all examples of diagrams, whereas photographs and video are not". On the other hand Lowe (1993) defined diagrams as specifically "abstract graphic portrayals of the subject matter they represent".
Diagrams affect the mind so that the viewer comes to understand them, but not in the way one understands words. Visual thinking or problem-solving is very ancient, and largely automatic. One only has to remember that the brain puts together an image of the world around us based on sensory input, mostly sight. We do not make any conscious decisions: it is done without conscious thought. Diagrams most likely "tap in" to some of these ancient – but largely unknown – routines. 
In fact these normally hidden brain processes do sometimes become apparent. When brain damage affects the visual cortex, or when visual illusions are created, are two classic examples.
The way some diagrams affect thinking is quite important. Mendeleev's periodic table summarised previous research on the elements. Far more important, though, was the way it suggested the properties of elements which were "not yet discovered". This diagram stimulated creative thought, and other examples from the history of science could be given: see Feynman diagram.
There are at least the following types of diagrams:
Schematics and other types of diagrams, e.g.,

</doc>
<doc id="47665" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47665" title="Radom">
Radom

Radom is a city in Poland in Masovian Voivodeship. About 229,000 people live in the city which covers an area of 111 km².

</doc>
<doc id="47666" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47666" title="Kielce">
Kielce

Kielce is a city in Poland in Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship. It has a population of about 215,000 inhabitants and 109 km² of land area..

</doc>
<doc id="47667" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47667" title="Toruń">
Toruń

Toruń is a city in Poland in Kuyavian-Pomeranian Voivodeship.
Districts of Toruń

</doc>
<doc id="47668" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47668" title="Zabrze">
Zabrze

Zabrze is a city in Poland in the Silesian Voivodeship. It has about 188,000 inhabitants and an area about 109 km².

</doc>
<doc id="47669" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47669" title="Bytom">
Bytom

Bytom is a city in Poland in Silesian Voivodeship. About 193,000 people live there. The city is 69 km².

</doc>
<doc id="47670" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47670" title="Gorzów Wielkopolski">
Gorzów Wielkopolski

Gorzów Wielkopolski is a city in Poland in Lubusz Voivodeship. It has about 125 000 inhabitants and is in size.

</doc>
<doc id="47671" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47671" title="Zielona Góra">
Zielona Góra

Zielona Góra () is a city in Poland in Lubusz Voivodeship. It has about 118 000 inhabitants and covers 58 km². Zielona Góra received status of city in 1323. 

</doc>
<doc id="47672" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47672" title="Opole">
Opole

Opole is a city in Poland in Opole Voivodeship. It has about 128,000 people living in it and is 92 km² in area.

</doc>
<doc id="47673" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47673" title="Jutes">
Jutes

The Jutes were a Germanic people who are believed to have come from Jutland (called "Iutum" in Latin) in modern Denmark inclusive Southern Schleswig in Northern Germany and part of the Frisian coast. The Jutes, along with the Angles, Saxons and Frisians, were mentioned amongst the Germanic tribes who sailed across the North Sea to raid and eventually invade Great Britain. 
It is believed that the Jutes settled particularly in Kent and the Isle of Wight. The land where the Jutes, Angles, and Saxons settled became the country of England.

</doc>
<doc id="47684" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47684" title="Grindcore">
Grindcore

Grindcore is a type of heavy metal and hardcore punk music. It was invented in the 1980s by bands such as Napalm Death. Grindcore is a lot like black metal and death metal, but the guitar parts are very simple and are played over and over again in a song. The vocals are usually loud shouts and screams while the drums play fast and loud, around 200bpm. In most cases, grindcore songs will be very short in length - Napalm Death's song 'You Suffer' is the shortest in the world at 1.316 seconds long. Their lyrics are similar to death metal and hardcore punk, which usually sing about pain, suffering, blood, gore or politics, injustice and revolution.
One popular grindcore band is Anal Cunt, who go by "A.C." because their name has a sexual meaning. A.C. sings about racism, violence, and sexism. They produce very controversial songs such as 'You Were Pregnant So I Kicked You in the Stomach' and lyrics which make jokes of the Third Reich.
There are several offshoots of grindcore, including pornogrind, goregrind and deathgrind.

</doc>
<doc id="47685" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47685" title="Lorette">
Lorette

Lorette may refer to the following places:

</doc>
<doc id="47686" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47686" title="Cannibal Corpse">
Cannibal Corpse

Cannibal Corpse is an American death metal band. The band was formed in Buffalo, New York in 1988 by Bob Russay, the first guitarist (who left the band in 1993). The bands themes which consist of necrophilia, gore, rape, and death; are highly controversial within the media. The bands' first 3 albums were banned in Europe until 2006 because of their graphic artwork. They are considered by many to be one of the most influential Death Metal bands in existence. Since their formation in 1988, they have undergone several line-up changes.

</doc>
<doc id="47688" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47688" title="La Grand-Croix">
La Grand-Croix

La Grand-Croix is a town in France. It is near Lorette and Saint-Paul-en-Jarez.

</doc>
<doc id="47689" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47689" title="Saint-Paul-en-Jarez">
Saint-Paul-en-Jarez

Saint-Paul-en-Jarez is a town in France. It is near La Grand-Croix and Saint-Chamond.

</doc>
<doc id="47690" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47690" title="Saint-Chamond">
Saint-Chamond

Saint-Chamond is a town in France. It is near Saint-Paul-en-Jarez and Saint-Jean-Bonnefonds.

</doc>
<doc id="47693" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47693" title="Guayana Esequiba">
Guayana Esequiba

Guayana Esequiba is the name that Venezuela calls a region that it claims in the west of Guyana. Its area is 159,500 square kilometers. Guyana calls this area the six administrative regions of Barima-Waini, Cuyuni-Mazaruni, Pomeroon-Supenaam, Potaro-Siparuni, Upper Takutu-Upper Essequibo and Essequibo Islands-West Demerara. 
Spain made its first claim on this area in a report dated 10 July 1788:
"It has been stated that the south coast of the Orinoco from the point of Barima, 20 leagues more or less inland, up to the creek of Curucima, is low lying and swampy land and, so, reckoning all this tract as useless, very few patches of fertile land being found therein, and hardly any savannahs and pastures, it is disregarded; so taking as chief base the said creek of Curucima, or the point of the chain and ridge in the great arm of the Imataka, an imaginary line will be drawn running to the south-south-east following the slopes of the ridge of the same name which is crossed by the Rivers Aguire, Arature and Amacuro, and others, in the distance of 20 leagues, direct to the Cuyuni; from there it will run on to the Masaruni and Essequibo, parallel to the sources of the Berbis and Surinama; this is the directing line of the course which the new Settlements and foundations proposed must follow."
In 1840, Venezuela claimed all of Guyana west of the Essequibo River – 62% of what was then British Guiana. Britain and Venezuela argued over the boundary between British Guiana and Venezuela for much of the 19th century. On 21 February 1881, in a note to Lord Grenville, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Great Britain at that time, Venezuela suggested a border line starting from a point one mile to the north of the Moruka River, drawn from there westward to the 60th meridian, and running south along that meridian. This would have given the Barima District to Venezuela. The Government of Venezuela, in the case it made to the Arbitration Tribunal, changed its claim on the district just west of the Essequibo, and claimed that the boundary should run from the mouth of the Moruka River southwards to the Cuyuni River, near where it meets the Mazaruni River, and then along the east bank of the Essequibo to the Brazilian border. Britain and Venezuela accepted the decision of the Tribunal in 1899.
Venezuela raised the issue again in 1962, four years before Guyana won independence from Britain. At a meeting in Geneva in 1966, the two countries agreed to hear ideas from a representative of the UN Secretary General on ways to settle the dispute peacefully. There are still diplomatic contacts between the two countries and the Secretary General's representative.
On recognizing the independence of Guyana on 26 May 1966, Venezuela said:
"Venezuela recognises as territory of the new State the one which is located on the east of the right bank of the Essequibo River, and reiterates before the new State, and before the international community, that it expressly reserves its rights of territorial sovereignty over all the zone located on the west bank of the above-mentioned river. Therefore, the Guyana-Essequibo territory over which Venezuela expressly reserves its sovereign rights, limits on the east by the new State of Guyana, through the middle line of the Essequibo River, beginning from its source and on to its mouth in the Atlantic Ocean."
Venezuelan maps drawn since 1970 show all the area from the eastern bank of the Essequibo, including the islands in the river, as Venezuelan territory. On some maps, the western Essequibo region is called the "Zone of Reclamation". 

</doc>
<doc id="47695" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47695" title="Sudeley Castle">
Sudeley Castle

Sudeley Castle is a castle near Winchcombe, Gloucestershire, England, United Kingdom. It was built in 1441 by Ralph Boteler, who had the castle confiscated by Edward IV of England. Edward gave Sudeley Castle to his brother, who later became Richard III of England, who then gave it to his uncle Jasper Tudor, Duke of Bedford.
By the time Henry VIII of England succeeded, the castle was the property of the Crown again. It had been visited by Henry in 1535, with his second wife Anne Boleyn, but had been empty and unattended for some time. When Henry died the castle became the property of his son, Edward VI of England, who gave it to his uncle, Thomas Seymour. Thomas was made Lord of Sudeley and married the King's stepmother, Catherine Parr. During this time Thomas began to regenerate the castle for Catherine's use, but only one room that he had built remains today.
Seymour and Catherine moved into the castle and brought with them ladies to attend on the Queen Dowager, as well as gentlemen of the household and Yeomen of the guard. The castle was then home to over 100 people. Another famous figure who came to live in the castle of Lady Jane Grey, who was a ward of Seymour's, as well as the young Elizabeth I of England.
Catherine died after she had given birth to a daughter, Mary, at Sudeley Castle and was buried in its St. Mary's Chapel. Her grave was discovered in 1728 after the castle and the chapel had been left in ruins by the English Civil War. She was later reinterred by the Rector of Sudeley in 1817. 
Seymour's ambitions led to him being arrested and beheaded, after which Sudeley Castle became the property of Catherine's brother William Parr, who was the Marquess of Nothampton. Parr was stripped of his property and title after being involved in the failed attempt to make Lady Jane Grey Queen of England.
In 1554 Mary I of England gave Sudeley Castle John Brydges, Lord Chandos and it remained as his property throughout the reign of Elizabeth I of England. Elizabeth was entertained three times at Sudeley Castle, which including a spectacular feast in 1592 to celebrate the anniversary of the defeat of the Spanish Armada.

</doc>
<doc id="47696" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47696" title="Godfather trilogy">
Godfather trilogy

The Godfather trilogy refers to the three Mafia movies directed by Francis Ford Coppola about the fictional Corleone crime family;

</doc>
<doc id="47697" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47697" title="Without You">
Without You

"Without You" is a song written by musicians Peter Ham and Tom Evans, which has become a standard since it was first recorded in 1970.
Ham and Evans were members of the rock band Badfinger, and they combined the verse of one unfinished song with the chorus of another, to complete "Without You". Badfinger included their version of the song on their second album, "No Dice", which was released in 1970. Apple Records was Badfinger's record label, and the song was published by a related company, Apple Music.
The song got little attention at first, but when Harry Nilsson recorded a of it, his single became a worldwide hit. Nilsson, Ham and Evans all reached career peaks, and Nilsson won a Grammy Award for his recording.
"Without You" became, and remains, very popular around the world. Many other artists have recorded the song, and several have had hits with it, including Mariah Carey. Apple Music lost the American rights to the song, early in the 21st century.

</doc>
<doc id="47698" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47698" title="Apple Records">
Apple Records

Apple Records was a record label founded in 1968, started by The Beatles. It was a division of the Beatles's company Apple Corps. EMI served as distributors for Apple.
Recording artists who appeared on the Apple label included James Taylor, Mary Hopkin, Badfinger, Billy Preston, Yoko Ono, and members of the Beatles before and after their breakup in 1970.
While the Beatles and their business associates had high hopes for Apple at first, the tensions that caused the Beatles to split also hurt the label. Many of the records released on Apple failed to become popular, either because they did not go over well with listeners, or were not given the promotion they needed or deserved to become hit records. James Taylor "walked out" on his Apple Records contract, and signed with Warner Bros., where he began a long string of hits. Mary Hopkin retired from music after completing her contract. Billy Preston and Badfinger moved on to other record labels.
Apple Records released the last of its non-Beatles records in 1973, and when their distribution deal with EMI ended in 1975, the label went out of business.
The label came back into business in the late 1980s, when the Beatles's music first appeared on compact disc. In 1992, most of Apple's other music also began to appear on CD. Yoko Ono's Apple recordings were not reissued by the label, because her husband John Lennon (a member of the Beatles) had to buy them back from Apple as part of a business settlement. After his death in 1980, Ono became the owner of the recordings. She later reissued them through another label, called Rykodisc.
Apple Records no longer signs new artists or groups, but new Beatles issues continue to appear on the Apple label.

</doc>
<doc id="47700" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47700" title="Germanic peoples">
Germanic peoples

The Germanic peoples are a linguistic and ethnic branch of Indo-European peoples. They came from Northern Europe and are identified by their use of the Germanic languages. Migrating Germanic peoples spread throughout Europe, mixing with existing local populations (such as Celts, but also Slavs/Vends and Romans), forming the future basis of many nations, that are connected by similar languages and common history, and culture.
Latin "Germani" is first used by Julius Caesar.
But the Germanic tribes did not have a self name that included all Germanic-speaking people. In English, "German" is first attested in 1520, replacing earlier use of "Almain" or "Dutch". Dutch is now used in the English language to refer to the language and the inhabitants of the Netherlands.
By the 1st century A.D., the writings of Caesar, Tacitus and other Roman era writers indicate a division of Germanic-speaking peoples into tribal groupings centred on:
The Sons of Mannus Istvaeones, Irminones, and Ingvaeones are collectively called West Germanic tribes. In addition, those Germanic people who remained in Scandinavia are referred to as North Germanic. These groups all developed separate dialects, the basis for the differences among Germanic languages down to the present day.
The division of peoples into West Germanic, East Germanic, and North Germanic is a modern linguistic classification.
The Germanic tribes were each politically independent, under a hereditary king (see Germanic king). The kings appear to have claimed descendancy from mythical founders of the tribes, the name of some of which is preserved:
The early Germanic tribes spoke mutually intelligible dialects, and shared a common culture and mythology (see Germanic mythology), as is indicated by "Beowulf" and the Volsunga saga.
In the absence of large-scale political unification, such as that imposed forcibly by the Romans upon the peoples of Italy, the various tribes remained free, led by their own hereditary or chosen leaders.

</doc>
<doc id="47701" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47701" title="May Pang">
May Pang

May (Fung-Yee) Pang (born October 24, 1950) was a to former Beatle John Lennon and his wife Yoko Ono. She later became Lennon's companion and lover, when he separated from Ono in the mid-1970s. Pang was born in New York, New York to Chinese parents.
Pang was a secretary at ABKCO, a management company started by Allen Klein, in New York City. ABKCO's clients included three of the Beatles: Lennon, George Harrison and Ringo Starr. When Lennon and wife Ono needed an assistant, Pang was sent to England to work for them. She dated musician Peter Ham of Badfinger, and helped Lennon and Ono move to the United States, late in 1971.
During 1973, Lennon and Ono began to have problems in their marriage. Ono trusted Pang, and suggested her as a companion for Lennon, knowing he wanted to see other women. Lennon surprised Ono by taking Pang with him to Los Angeles, where he planned to record an album with Phil Spector. Lennon and Pang lived together for over a year, while he worked on new music, and tried to decide whether to divorce Ono or with her.
Lennon and Ono decided to reconcile early in 1975, and became the parents of Sean Lennon. Even though Pang had been involved with the marketing of several of Lennon's records, and also records by Harry Nilsson and Ringo Starr, she had a hard time finding a new job. She later found out the reason was because many companies were afraid Lennon would not want to do business with them, if he knew she worked there.
Pang finally found a job with Island Records, and later worked for RKO. She married record producer Tony Visconti (the former husband of singer Mary Hopkin), and they started a family. After Lennon's death in 1980, Pang wrote a , titled "Loving John". She also appeared on many talk shows, to discuss her relationship with Lennon.

</doc>
<doc id="47702" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47702" title="Indo-European people">
Indo-European people

Indo-Europeans are those who were native speakers of Indo-European languages. These are Caucasians who are members of those ethnic groups that are descended from the original speakers of the Proto-Indo-European language.
Indo-Europeans are Bronze Age-speakers of Indo-European languages that had not yet split into language families we know today, like Centum and Satem dialects (speakers of languages predating Proto-Indo-Iranian, Proto-Greek, Proto-Celtic, Proto-Italic, Proto-Germanic, Proto-Balto-Slavic etc.)
Speakers of Indo-European languages in historical times and nowadays often are not called by the name Indo-Europeans but with often by the name of their language family like: Anatolians, Tocharians, Aryans (Iranians, Indo-Aryans), Greeks, Celts, Italic peoples, Germanic peoples, Baltic peoples, Slavic peoples, Armenians, Albanians (or subdivisions of these groups).

</doc>
<doc id="47705" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47705" title="Urban area">
Urban area

An urban area is an area where many people live and work close together. The population density is higher than in the surrounding area. It is where buildings are close together. Urban is the opposite of rural, where farm lands and nature are. Urban areas are usually cities and towns. Most of the work available in urban areas is factory and office work. agricultural work is rare because buildings are close together and there is no space for farm lands. 
There are different urban area definitions for each country. The definitions mostly depend on how populated the country is and if the definition shows a true percentage of how urbanized the country is. For example, in Poland an urban area is any place that has the status of a town, whereas in China it is any district, city, or town with a population density higher than 1500 people per square kilometer. The urban population definition for Canadian and Scandinavian countries depends on density. If there is a house every 200 meters it is classified as urban.
A large urban area, with all connected areas (usually developed around some city) is called a Metropolitan area.

</doc>
<doc id="47706" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47706" title="Mary Hopkin">
Mary Hopkin

Mary Hopkin (born 3 May 1950) is a Welsh folk singer. She was born in Pontardawe. She was most famous in the late 1960s and early 1970s. Her first and biggest hit was "Those Were The Days" in 1968.
When The Beatles started their own record label called Apple Records, they were looking for new artists to sign up. Model Twiggy, a friend of the band, had seen Hopkin on a , and recommended her. After Hopkin signed with Apple, Beatle Paul McCartney produced many of the songs for her first album, called "Post Card". Singer-songwriters Donovan and Harry Nilsson, and record producer George Martin, also gave her songs to record.
"Those Were The Days" was McCartney's choice for Hopkin's first single. He chose well, and the song became a hit worldwide. Hopkin recorded other singles, including "Goodbye", "Temma Harbour", "Knock, Knock, Who's There", and a remake of Doris Day's "Qué Sera, Sera", but they were not as successful as her first record. McCartney moved on to a solo career after the Beatles disbanded, and no longer worked with her. Hopkin's second album, "Earth Song/Ocean Song", was largely self-produced.
Hopkin disliked the way Apple Records had promoted her, as a kind of "" , and left the label after two albums and a best-ofs compilation, also titled "Those Were the Days". She retired from music after marrying producer Tony Visconti, but she did appear as a background singer on a few of his productions.
During the 1990s, Apple Records reissued many of their old records, including Hopkin's two original albums. She a new version of "Those Were the Days", with and a detailed booklet.

</doc>
<doc id="47707" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47707" title="Champs-Élysées">
Champs-Élysées

The Champs-Élysées is a long and very famous street in Paris.
It links the Arc de Triomphe and the Place de la Concorde. It is a very popular place: there are many famous cinemas, bars, boutiques, and restaurants. It is also where the Tour de France ends.

</doc>
<doc id="47709" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47709" title="Tom Evans">
Tom Evans

Thomas "Tom" Evans (June 5, 1947 – November 23, 1983) was an English guitarist and songwriter, who had several as a member of Badfinger, during the late 1960s and early 1970s. He was also the cowriter of "Without You", with collaborator Peter Ham, another member of Badfinger.
Evans and Ham wrote most of Badfinger's hits together, including "No Matter What", "Day After Day", and "Baby Blue", which appeared on Apple Records. After leaving Apple, Badfinger's fortunes dipped. Ham committed suicide by hanging in 1975. Evans was , and never got over losing his musical partner. He also hanged himself, in London in 1983.
"Without You" first became a hit in a by Harry Nilsson in 1971, and the song became a standard as time went on. Badfinger's music was mostly forgotten by the 1980s, but became popular again in the 1990s when their old records appeared on compact disc.

</doc>
<doc id="47714" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47714" title="Stephen Euin Cobb">
Stephen Euin Cobb

Stephen Euin Cobb (born February 3, 1955) is an American science fiction author and the host of the award-winning podcast "The Future And You". He was born in Orangeburg, South Carolina. Cobb spent his childhood in Forest Park, Illinois (a suburb of Chicago). He now lives in South Carolina. Cobb is a member of the Beaver Creek Tribe of Native American Indians in South Carolina. His mother served one term as a member of the Tribal Counsel. He is between 1/8 and 1/4 Native American. 
In magazines, Cobb writes about what he thinks our lives might be like in the future. He has written for "Robot Magazine", "H+ Magazine", "Space and Time Magazine", and the online science fiction magazine "Jim Baen's Universe".
On his show, "The Future And You" (which is similar to a radio talk show), he asks authors, celebrities, scientists and other people who write about the future what they think the future will be like for people to live in. 
"Bones Burnt Black" (2004) is his most popular novel (he reads a chapter of it in his show, like an audio book). His first published novel was "Plague at Redhook" (1999). His most popular game is called Death Stacks. Every summer in Charlotte, North Carolina many people come together and play this game to see who can play it the best. The three winners each get a trophy. 

</doc>
<doc id="47729" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47729" title="Solon">
Solon

Solon was a statesman in Ancient Greece. He is one of Seven Sages (or Wise Men) of Greece, because of his political reforms to the laws of Athens. Many of these changes helped the poor people. He lived from 630 B.C.- 560 B.C. He introduced the court and judges. About 594 B.C., the nobles elected Solon to lead Athens. He made reforms that helped prevent a revolt by the poor. First he freed people who had become slaves because of debts. He made a law that no citizen could be enslaved. Solon also organized citizens into four classes based on wealth, not birth. Rich men had more power; yet this was still a fairer system than the old one that limited power to nobles. Solon allowed all citizens to serve in the assembly and help elect leaders. He also reformed the laws to make them less harsh.

</doc>
<doc id="47735" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47735" title="Saint-Jean-Bonnefonds">
Saint-Jean-Bonnefonds

Saint-Jean-Bonnefonds is a village in France near Saint-Paul-en-Jarez and Saint-Priest-en-Jarez.

</doc>
<doc id="47736" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47736" title="Saint-Priest-en-Jarez">
Saint-Priest-en-Jarez

Saint-Priest-en-Jarez is a town in France near Saint-Jean-Bonnefonds and Villars.

</doc>
<doc id="47737" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47737" title="Villars">
Villars

Villars may refer to: 

</doc>
<doc id="47738" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47738" title="Logron">
Logron

Logron is a village in France near Villars and Flacey. In 1999, about 500 people lived there.

</doc>
<doc id="47739" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47739" title="Flacey">
Flacey

Flacey is a village in the French region of Burgundy. It is near Logron and Brognon.

</doc>
<doc id="47749" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47749" title="Diet (assembly)">
Diet (assembly)

A diet is some form of assembly. People in the assembly meet (originally they did that daily, hence the name) to discuss and decide things. Common examples are the Diet of Worms or the Diet of Speyer.

</doc>
<doc id="47750" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47750" title="Omelette">
Omelette

An omelette or "omelet" is a type of food that is mainly eggs, with various fillings. In the United States "omelets" are usually eaten at breakfast. However omelettes can be eaten as a light lunch or late evening meal.
An omelette is prepared from beaten eggs cooked with butter or oil in a frying pan. A thin, flat 'heavy' omelette is usually folded around a filling such as cheese, vegetables, meat, or some combination of these ingredients. In some traditions, omelettes are fried to cook the bottom and then flipped over or in half for final stage of cooking. However, in other traditions, omelettes is baked to cook it evenly or the top is cooked under a broiler. When making an omelette, it is best to use several eggs. Put a little water in with the eggs when you mix them up because the water helps the eggs to produce steam as they cook. The steam makes them lighter and fluffier. Using oil in the bottom of a nonstick omelette pan helps prevent the omelette from sticking. Follow these tips, add your favourite filling, and you will make a tasty omelette quickly and easily.
For a full light and fluffy omolette separate the egg whites and whisk to stiff peaks then fold in the yolks. Cook by frying in a knob of butter on a medium heat until centre starts to dry then fold in half and cook until its hot in the middle.
There are many different types of omelette, often with different names, depending on what is used as a filling.
Arnold Bennett (27 May 1867 - 27 March 1931) was a British writer. Often after having been to the theatre in London he visited the Savoy Hotel's Grillroom. The chef added haddock, cream and Parmesan cheese to the basic omelette and called the new dish "Omelette Arnold Bennett" in his customer's honour.
When Napoleon Bonaparte and his army were marching through southern France, they stopped for the night near the town of Bessieres. A local innkeeper made Napoleon an omelette. Napoleon was so impressed by the cooking he ordered the townspeople to collect all the eggs in the village and to prepare a huge omelette for his army the next day.

</doc>
<doc id="47751" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47751" title="Visa">
Visa

A visa (short for the Latin "carta visa", lit. "the document having been seen") is a permit given by a country that allows someone to go to that country. A visa is a document that is stamped on a person's passport by an embassy. It names the kind of visit and says how long the person can stay. Sometimes, people need to go through an interview held at the embassy before they get a visa.
Many countries require foreign visitors to have a valid passport and a visa before they can enter the country, but there are exceptions (see below for examples of such these).
Visas are associated with the request for permission to enter (or exit) a country, and are thus, for some countries, not the same as actual formal permission for an alien to enter and remain in the country.
Some countries, such as some states of the former Soviet Union, require that their citizens, and sometimes foreign travelers, obtain an exit visa in order to be allowed to leave the country. Until 2004, foreign students in Russia were issued only an entry visa on being accepted to University there, and had to obtain an exit visa to return home. This policy has since been changed, and foreign students are now issued multiple entry (and exit) visas.
Some visas can be granted on arrival or by prior application at the country's embassy or consulate, or sometimes through a specialized travel agency with permission from the issuing country in the country of departure. If there is no embassy or consulate in one's home country, then one would have to travel to a third country (or apply by post) and try to get a visa issued there. The need or absence of need of a visa generally depends on the citizenship of the applicant, the intended duration of the stay, and the activities that the applicant may wish to undertake in the country he visits; these may delineate different formal categories of visas, with different issue conditions.
Some, but not all, countries have reciprocal visa regimes: if Country A requires citizens of Country B to have a visa to travel there, then Country B may apply reciprocity and require a visa from citizens of Country A. Likewise, if A allows B's citizens to enter without a visa, B may allow A's citizens to enter without a visa.
Examples of such reciprocal visa regimes are between:
A fee may be charged for issuing a visa; these are typically also reciprocal, so if country A charges country B's citizens 50 USD for a visa, country B will often also charge the same amount for country A's visitors. The fee charged may also be at the discretion of each embassy. A similar reciprocity often applies to the duration of the visa (the period in which one is permitted to request entry of the country) and the amount of entries one can attempt with the visa. Expedited processing of the visa application for some countries will generally incur additional charges.
This reciprocal fee has become more common in recent years with the decision of the United States to charge nationals of various countries a $100 visa processing fee (non-refundable, even if a visa is not issued). A number of countries, including Brazil, Chile, and Turkey have reciprocated. Brazil requires an advance visa before entry into the country, and that a US citizen be fingerprinted and photographed on arrival—matching U.S. requirements for Brazilians and other foreigners.
The issuing authority, usually a branch of the country's foreign ministry or department (e.g. U.S. State Department), and typically consular affairs officers, may request appropriate documentation from the applicant. This may include proof that the applicant is able to support himself in the host country (lodging, food), proof that the person hosting the applicant in his or her home really exists and has sufficient room for hosting the applicant, proof that the applicant has obtained health and evacuation insurance, etc. Some countries ask for proof of health status, especially for long-term visas; some countries deny such visas to persons with certain illnesses, such as AIDS. The exact conditions depend on the country and category of visa. Notable examples of countries requiring HIV tests of long-term residents are Russia and Uzbekistan. However, in Uzbekistan, the HIV test requirement is sometimes not strictly enforced. 
Developed countries frequently demand strong evidence of intent to return to the home country, if the visa is for a temporary stay, and especially if the applicant is from a developing country, due to immigration concerns.
The issuing authority may also require applicants to attest that they have had no criminal convictions, or that they do not partake in certain activities (like prostitution or drug trafficking). Some countries will deny visas if the travellers' passports show evidence of citizenship or travel to a country which is not recognized by that country. For example, Saudi Arabia will not issue visas to nationals of Israel or those with evidence of visiting Israel.
Common types of visas are:
Less common visas include:
Visas can also be "single-entry", which means the visa is cancelled as soon as the holder leaves the country, "double-entry", or "multiple-entry", permitting multiple entries into the country with the same visa. Countries may also issue re-entry permits that allow temporarily leaving the country without invalidating the visa. Even a business visa will normally not allow the holder to work in the host country without an additional work permit.
Once issued, a visa will usually have to be used within a certain period of time.
The validity of a visa is not the same as the authorized period of stay in the issuing country. The visa validity usually indicates when the alien can apply for entry to the country. For example, if a visa has been issued January 1st and expires March 30th, and the typical authorized period of stay in a country is 90 days, then the 90-day authorized stay starts on the day the passenger reaches the country, which has to be between January 1st and March 30th. The traveller could therefore stay in the issuing country until July 1st. 
Once in the country, the validity period of a visa or authorized stay can often be extended for a fee if the immigration authorities choose to do so. Staying longer than the period of authorized stay given by the immigration officers is considered illegal immigration even if the visa validity period is not over (i.e. for multiple entry visas) and a form of being "out of status" and the offender may be fined, prosecuted, deported, or even blacklisted (banned) from entering the country again. 
Entering a country without a valid visa or visa exemption may result in being arrested and removed (deportation or exclusion) from the country. Doing things that are not authorized by the status of entry (for example, working while having a non-worker tourist status) can result in the individual being deemed removable, in common speech an illegal alien. Such violation is not a violation of a visa, despite the common misuse of the phrase, but a violation of status, hence the term "out of status."
Even having a visa does not guarantee that somebody can enter ah ost country. The border crossing authorities make the final determination to allow entry, and may even cancel a visa at the border if the alien cannot demonstrate to their satisfaction that they will abide by the status their visa grants them.
Visa and immigration laws may be very different among countries. As such, aliens are advised to check with immigration lawyers for visa and immigration laws governing the countries they wish to enter and eligibility to receive visas or other immigration benefits.
Many countries have a mechanism to allow the holder of a visa to apply to stay longer in that country. For example, in Denmark a visa holder can apply to the Danish Immigration Service for a Residence Permit after they have arrived in the Country. In the United Kingdom applications can be made to the Border and Immigration Agency. In certain circumstances, it is not possible for the holder of the visa to do this, either because the country does not have a mechanism to prolong visas or, most likely, because the holder of the visa is using a short stay visa to live in a country. In such cases, the holder often engages in what is known as a visa run; leaving the country for a short period in order to apply for a new visa prior to their return or so that they can be given a fresh permission to stay when they re-enter.
A visa may be denied for a number of reasons, including (but not limited to) if the applicant:
Possession of a valid visa is a condition for entry into many countries, however various exemption schemes do exist. In some cases visa-free entry may be granted to holders of diplomatic passports even as visas are required by normal passport holders ("see: Passport").
Some countries have reciprocal agreements such that a visa is not needed under certain conditions, e.g. when the visit is for tourism and for a relatively short period. One example of this is the Visa Waiver Program of the United States. Such reciprocal agreements may stem from common membership in international organizations or a shared heritage:
Other countries may unilaterally grant visa-free entry to nationals of certain countries in order to facilitate tourism.
Visa-free travel between countries also occurs in all cases where passports are not needed for such travel. 
Normally, visas are valid for entry only into the country which issued the visa. Countries that are members of regional organizations or party to regional agreements may however issue visas valid for entry into some or all of the member states of the organization or agreement:

</doc>
<doc id="47759" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47759" title="Andranik Ozanian">
Andranik Ozanian

Andranik Toros Ozanian, or Zoravar Andranik, (February 25, 1865 – August 31, 1927) was an Armenian military general and freedom fighter. He was seen by Armenian people as a national hero.
He was born in Şebinkarahisar, Ottoman Armenia (present-day Giresun Province, Turkey). After losing his wife and son at an early age, he joined the Armenian freedom movement in the Ottoman Empire, and participated in various political parties.
Andranik participated in the Balkan Wars of 1912-1913, within the Bulgarian army, alongside general Garegin Njdeh as a commander of Armenian auxiliary troops of 1912-1913. After his arrest and jailed; he spent some time in Istanbul. During World War I, he participated in the Caucasus Campaign and was appointed as general of the Armenian volunteer units of the Russian army. He participated in 20 different offensives where he gained fame due to his courage and the tactics he came up with to defeat the opposing forces.
He was the commanding officer of the Armenian volunteer units, which helped the Van Resistance take control of the Van on May 6, 1915. He helped re-capture the city from Ottoman forces during the Battle of Van. He was also the commander of the battalion that took the city of Bitlis (see: Battle of Bitlis) from the Ottoman forces that was under control of Mustafa Kemal. 
After declaration of Democratic Republic of Armenia (DRA), he organized volunteer units against the Ottoman army, and fought alongside those units. Declaration of Treaty of Batum was in diffuse as Andranik, was fighting against the Ottoman Empire with his army. He refused to accept the borders stated by the treaty. His activities were concentrated at the link between Ottoman Empire to Azerbaijan Democratic Republic at Karabakh, Zanghezur and Nakhichevan. Ozanian struck back at the Ottoman Fronts, Army of Islam.
Andranik, tried several times to seize Shusha. Just before the Armistice of Mudros was signed, Andranik was on the way from Zangezur to Shusha, to control the main city of Nagorno-Karabakh. In January 1919 Armenian troops advancing, the British forces (Lionel Dunsterville) ordered Andranik back to Zangezur, and gave him the assurances that this conflict can be solved with the Paris Peace Conference, of 1919.
In 1919 he left Armenia in order not to take part in the political struggles for power in the recent Republic of still those its opinions contradicting policy to carry Armenia for the last time and went oneself into exile to Fresno, California, United States.
He immigrated to Fresno, California. Andranik Ozanian lived in Fresno for 18 years until his death on August 31, 1927. His remains were moved to Paris in 1928, and returned to Armenia in 1999, where he was buried at the Yerablur military cemetery.

</doc>
<doc id="47779" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47779" title="Angles">
Angles

The Angles were a Germanic people of unknown origin. Their name seems to be connected with Angeln, a modern district in Schleswig-Holstein, Germany. The Angles, together with the Jutes, Saxons and Frisians, were among the Germanic tribes who sailed across the North Sea in the 5th century to invade Britain. The various tribes were later called "Anglo-Saxon".

</doc>
<doc id="47782" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47782" title="Angeln">
Angeln

Modern Angeln, (Danish: Angel; Latin: Anglia, which also means in direct translation from Latin: England), is a peninsula in Schleswig-Holstein, Germany. 
Ancient Angeln may have been somewhat larger than the Angeln of today, but following the ancient sources it included the territory of modern Angeln.
Angeln has an importance far beyond its small area, as it seems to have been the original home of the Angles who invaded the southern part of Great Britain, which was named after them, England. And so the name of the major world language, English, seems to have taken its name from this little region.
Following the departure of the Angles from Anglia about 350, the region was occupied by Danish settlers not later than the 8th century.

</doc>
<doc id="47783" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47783" title="Commonwealth">
Commonwealth

A commonwealth is a group of people or of groups with a common aim to improve themselves, help each other and share knowledge and resources.
The word can refer to several organisations:
It is also part of the official name of some countries
or part of the official name of some US states and territories
In history the Commonwealth of England was the name of England between 1649 and 1660, when England had no king

</doc>
<doc id="47787" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47787" title="Frisian people">
Frisian people

The Frisians are a group of people of northwestern Europe, living in an area known as Frisia. They are mainly in the Dutch areas of Friesland and Groningen and, in Germany, East Frisia and North Frisia. They are said to be a tall, big-boned and light-haired people with a rich history and folklore.
The Frisians were able to make an agreement with the Romans at the River Rhine in 28 CE. Sixteen years later they defeated the Romans under Tiberius at the Battle of Baduhennawood. The Frisii were known and respected by the Romans and were written about by several writers. Tacitus wrote about the Germanic peoples in 69 CE, describing the habits of the Germanic people, as well as listing a lot of Frisian groups by name. Of the many groups he listed, the Frisians are the only ones that have kept their old name.
The Frisians probably used boats. The North Sea from Britain to Eastern Denmark, was called "Mare Frisia" at that time. Small groups of Frisians settled the lands around them and their homes have been found in England, Scotland, Denmark, Germany, Belgium, France and The Netherlands.
Their land followed the edge of the North Sea from the mouth of the Rhine river up to that of the Ems. The Ems was the eastern edge of their land according to Ptolemy's "Geographica".
In the 5th century, the Anglo-Saxons went through Frisian territory to invade Great Britain. A lot of Frisians moved with them. The Frisians who stayed in Europe moved into the lands where the Anglo-Saxons used to live.

</doc>
<doc id="47789" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47789" title="Alba Iulia">
Alba Iulia

Alba Iulia (Latin: "Apulum", German: "Karlsburg"/"Weißenburg", Hungarian: "Gyulafehérvár", former ) is a city in Alba County, Transylvania, Romania. It has a population of 66,369 people. It is found on the Mureş River. 

</doc>
<doc id="47790" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47790" title="Balance">
Balance

Balance may mean:

</doc>
<doc id="47791" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47791" title="Vampire bat">
Vampire bat

Vampire bats is a subfamily of bats. Unlike other bats, vampire bats feed on blood. Currently, there are three species of bats known to do this. All of them live in the Americas, in Mexico, Brazil, Chile and Argentina. Of the three known species, one feeds on the blood of mammals, the other two on the blood of birds.
The common vampire bat lives in large groups, of up to 100 animals. They have developed complex social behaviour. 
Vampire bats commonly spread diseases, most notably rabies. The saliva of the vampire bats contain chemicals that prevent the clotting of the blood of the victim; this has been used to develop drugs to help the patients of strokes and heart attacks.
The false vampire bats are not vampire bats; they do not feed on blood, some eat fruits, others devour small animals.
Vampires may be modelled on bats.

</doc>
<doc id="47793" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47793" title="Prehistoric Britain">
Prehistoric Britain

Prehistoric Britain was a period in the human occupation of Great Britain that ended with the Roman invasion of Britain in AD 43.
Britain has been inhabited for hundreds of thousands of years. None of the pre-Roman inhabitants of Britain had any written language, so their history, culture and way of life are known only through archaeological finds. 
The first written record of Britain and its inhabitants was by the Greek navigator Pytheas, who explored the coastal region of Britain around 325 BC. Ancient Britons were however involved in extensive trade and cultural links with the rest of Europe from the Neolithic onwards, especially in exporting tin.
Palaeolithic Britain is the period from almost 750,000 years ago until around 10,000 years ago. This huge length of time saw many changes in the environment, several glacial and interglacial periods which greatly affected human settlement in the region. 
There is evidence from bones and flint tools found in coastal deposits near Happisburgh in Norfolk and Pakefield in Suffolk that "Homo erectus" was present in what is now Britain around 700,000 years ago. At this time, southern and eastern Britain was linked to continental Europe by a wide land bridge allowing humans to move freely. The current position of the English Channel was a large river flowing westwards and fed by tributaries that would later become the Thames and Seine. 
The extreme cold of the following Anglian glaciation is likely to have driven humans out of Britain altogether. A warmer time period lasted from around 300,000 until 200,000 years ago. The more advanced flint technology permitted more efficient hunting. 
There is little evidence of human occupation during the subsequent Ipswichian interglacial between around 130,000 and 110,000 years ago. 
Neanderthal occupation of Britain was limited and by 30,000 BC the first signs of modern human (Homo sapiens) activity. The most famous example from this period is the burial of the Red Lady of Paviland in modern day Wales. A final ice age covered Britain between around 70,000 and 10,000 years ago with an extreme cold snap between 22,000 and 13,000 years ago which may have driven humans south out of Britain altogether. The environment during this ice age period would have been a largely treeless tundra, eventually replaced by a warmer climate, perhaps reaching 17 degrees Celsius (62.6 Fahrenheit) in summer which encouraged the expansion of birch trees as well as shrub and grasses.
The dominant food species were the Wild Horse ("Equus ferus") and Red Deer ("Cervus elaphus") although other mammals ranging from hares to mammoth were also hunted. 
By 10,500 years ago the climate was becoming cooler and dryer. Food animal populations seem to have declined although woodland coverage expanded. Tool manufacture in the Final Upper Palaeolithic revolved around smaller flints and bone and antler work became less common. However, the number of known sites is much larger and more widely spread. Many more open air sites are known such as that at Hengistbury Head.
Around 10,000 years ago the ice age finally ended. Temperatures rose, probably to levels similar to those today, and forests expanded farther. By 8,500 years ago, the rising sea levels caused by the melting glaciers cut Britain off from continental Europe for the last time. The warmer climate changed the Arctic environment to one of pine, birch, and alder forest.
Farming of both crops and domestic animals was adopted in Britain around 4,500 BC at least partly because of the need for reliable food sources.
Traditionally the arrival of the Neolithic in Britain has been seen as a wave of immigration from the continent. Modern archaeology now considers that farming along with pottery and settled living was in fact adopted by the native population who were related to the similarly newly-farming Neolithic people across the water. Links with continental Europe are demonstrated by finds of axes made from exotic stone such as jadeite. 
Analysis of the mitochondrial DNA of modern European populations shows that over 80% are descended in the female line from European hunter-gatherers. Less than 20% are descended in the female line from Neolithic farmers from the Middle East. In 1997 DNA analysis was undertaken on a tooth from a Mesolithic man whose remains were found in Gough's Cave at Cheddar Gorge. His mitochondrial DNA was of a type found in 11% of modern European populations. 
Such findings have cast doubt on the traditional view of successive waves of mass immigration annihilating earlier peoples. 
In any case, the Neolithic Revolution, as it is called, introduced a more settled way of life and ultimately led to societies becoming divided into differing groups of farmers, artisans and leaders. 
The construction of the earliest earthwork sites in Britain began during the early Neolithic (c. 4400 BC- 3300 BC) in the form of long barrows used for communal burial. 
The Middle Neolithic (c. 3300 BC-c. 2900 BC) saw the development of cursus monuments close to earlier barrows. The earliest stone circles and individual burials also appear.
New enclosures, called henges were built, along with stone rows and the famous sites of Stonehenge and Silbury Hill reached their peak. Industrial flint mining such as that at Cissbury and Grimes Graves began.
In around 2,700 BC a new culture arrived in Britain, often referred to as the Beaker culture. Beaker pottery appears in the Mount Pleasant Phase (2,700 BC - 2,000 BC) along with flat axes and burial practices of inhumation. The megalithic phases of Stonehenge date to this period.
Britain had large reserves of tin in the areas of Cornwall and Devon in what is now southwest England, and thus tin mining began. By around 1,600 BC the southwest of Britain had a trade boom as British tin was exported across Europe.
The Beaker people were also skilled at making ornaments from gold, and examples of these have been found in graves of the wealthy Wessex culture of southern Britain.
In around 750 BC iron working techniques reached Britain from southern Europe. Iron was stronger and more plentiful than bronze, and its introduction marks the beginning of the Iron Age. Iron working revolutionised many aspects of life, most importantly agriculture. Iron tipped ploughs could churn up land far more quickly and deeply than older wooden or bronze ones, and iron axes could clear forest land far more efficiently for agriculture.
About 900 BC, British society changed again. The Celtic culture had by 500 BC covered most of the British Isles. The Celts were highly skilled craftsmen and produced nicely patterned gold jewellery and weapons in bronze and iron.
Iron Age Britons lived in organised tribal groups, ruled by a chieftain. 
As people became more numerous, fights broke out between opposing tribes. This led to the building of hill forts. The first had been built about 1,500 BC. Britain exported hunting dogs, animal skins and slaves.
The last centuries before the Roman invasion saw refugees from Gaul (modern day France and Belgium) known as the Belgae, who were displaced as the Roman Empire expanded.
From around 175 BC they settled in the areas of Kent, Hertfordshire and Essex and brought with them pottery making skills far more advanced than anything produced previously. The Belgae were partially Romanised and were responsible for creating the first settlements large enough to be called towns.
About 100 BC, iron bars began to be used as currency, coinage was developed, based on continental types.
As the Roman Empire expanded northwards, Rome began to take interest in Britain. See Roman Britain for the history of this period.

</doc>
<doc id="47796" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47796" title="Domesday Book">
Domesday Book

The Domesday Book is the record of the great survey of much of England, and parts of Wales, completed in 1086, done for William I of England, or William the Conqueror. 
The Domesday Book (also known as "Domesday", or "Book of Winchester") was a record of all taxable land in England, together with such information as would indicate its worth. 
As the scribes went round England, they were protected by William's armed men. Each group was led by a Royal Commissioner, who took a list of standard questions. A 'jury' of local nobility and citizens answered the questions. All answers were written down in Latin.
Information was collected from the start of 1086, and working up into the complete volume started later that year. William died in 1087 before the writing-up work was completed.
William the Conqueror wished to know the details of the land he had conquered, England. He let his knights and barons have big areas of land, and wanted rent money from them. The Domesday Book was a record of every farm, village and house so that he knew how much rent he should get. Only some small villages in the country side are not in the book. Major cities like London and Winchester are also not in the Domesday Book, perhaps because of their size, or because (not owning land), the people could not be taxed. 
The Domesday book gave the names of King William's friends and even listed the number of pigs on a piece of land. But it was not like a modern census. It did not give the names of all the people. It listed the heads of each household, but left out Londoners, monks, nuns, and anyone living in castles. In effect, it listed only people he could get rent from, and who might supply men to fight in his army.
The Domesday Book is two volumes. One of the books was called "Great Domesday", and the other was called "Little Domesday". The draft of the second volume, Little Domesday, was never worked up, but no doubt was used for tax collection just the same.
The Domesday book got its name because its lists were so complete that it reminded people of the Last Judgment (which people also call Doomsday, or Domesday) in Christianity, when lists of what people have done go before God for people to be judged.

</doc>
<doc id="47800" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47800" title="LD50">
LD50

The name LD is an abbreviation for "Lethal Dose, 50%" or median lethal dose. It is the amount of the substance required (usually per body weight) to kill 50% of the test population.
The test was created by J.W. Trevan in 1927 but has been phased out. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has begun to approve non-animal alternatives to LD50, in response to research cruelty concerns and the lack of validity/sensitivity of animal tests as they relate to humans.

</doc>
<doc id="47802" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47802" title="Dahlerau train disaster">
Dahlerau train disaster

The Dahlerau train disaster was a railway disaster that happened on 27 May 1971. It happened in Dahlerau, which is a part of Radevormwald in Germany.
A passenger train carrying pupils was travelling on the railway line from Wuppertal to Radevormwald on the evening of 27 May 1971.
The pupils belonged to the final year of a school in Radevormwald and were returning from a trip to Bremen. Around 21:00, the train had just left the railway station in "Wuppertal-Beyenburg" and was a few minutes away from the railway station in "Dahlerau". Farther south, a freight train was traveling from Radevormwald to Wuppertal, and had just arrived outside the Dahlerau station. The freight train would have to wait in the station to allow the passenger train to pass. This was necessary because the passenger train was 30 minutes late and there was only one track on the railway line outside the station.
The dispatcher in the station would have to go outside and show a red lantern to the freight train, because there were no signals in the station. Nobody knows for sure what happened, but the freight train went right through the station and onto the track where the passenger train was running. The driver of the freight train later told that the dispatcher in the station had shown him a green light. This was the signal not to stop.
The dispatcher had seen what happened and tried to hold the train back with emergency signals, but he failed and the train disappeared behind a curve. He went into his office to call the station in Wuppertal-Beyenburg, but the passenger train had already left Beyenburg. The dispatcher knew what would happen, and called the police. Meanwhile, about 800 metres north of the station, the two trains crashed. The passenger train was crushed to 1/3 of its length, because it consisted of light railbuses and the freight train locomotive was five times as heavy.
Police, firefighters and ambulances arrived quickly, but had problems rescuing people. This was because the crash happened on a hillside. The parents of the pupils had also heard of the accident and had come to search for their children. In all, 25 people were injured, many of them badly. 46 people died in the accident. Of these 46, 41 were pupils, two teachers, one was a mother who travelled with the children, and two were working for the railway. Only one person walked away from the accident without injuries. 
So many people had died that they had to be put in a gymnasium.
The dispatcher died a few weeks after the crash. He had a car accident, but police said it was not suicide. Because the dispatcher could not be asked, investigating the crash was difficult and took about a year. In the end, it was decided that human error was the cause for the accident. Nobody could find out the exact happenings on that evening, and so the case never went before a court. The passenger train was badly damaged and had to be destroyed. The locomotive of the freight train was repaired and stayed in service until 2001.
The victims were buried on 2 June 1971. More than 10,000 people attended the funeral, and all shops in Radevormwald were closed on that day. Many important people went to the funeral, like Chancellor Willy Brandt, and the Minister of Transport. The victims were buried together in a large grave on the Radevormwald cemetery. Later, a memorial was built near the graves as well.
The Deutsche Bundesbahn, the company who ran the trains, changed the lanterns used by the dispatchers. They would not show a red light any more, so that red and green could not be confused any more. They also built the successors of the type of railbus that crashed sturdier, because some people said they had been built too light.
The line from Wuppertal to Radevormwald was closed in 1976.

</doc>
<doc id="47804" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47804" title="Walter Guinness, 1st Baron Moyne">
Walter Guinness, 1st Baron Moyne

Walter Edward Guinness, 1st Baron Moyne DSO & Bar PC (29 March 1880-6 November 1944) was a British politician. Guinness was born in Dublin, Ireland. 
From 1907 to 1931 he was Conservative MP for Bury St Edmunds, and saw service in World War I at Passchendaele, earning a medal and bar (second award).
He was killed in 1944 in Cairo, Egypt by the Jewish terrorist group Lehi. His assassination was said to be a message to the British government against British imperialism. Guinness was selected because he was believed to be anti Jewish and made statements supporting sending all Jews in Europe to the African island of Madagascar.

</doc>
<doc id="47810" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47810" title="Modern Talking">
Modern Talking

Modern Talking was a German dance pop duo consisting of Thomas Anders and Dieter Bohlen. Their music was often classified as Europop. Modern Talking is, by sales, the most successful and popular group in Germany, and they a number of hit singles reaching the top-5 in many countries. Some of their most popular and widely known singles are "You're My Heart, You're My Soul", "You Can Win If You Want", "Cheri Cheri Lady", "Brother Louie", "Atlantis Is Calling (S.O.S. for Love)" and "Geronimo's Cadillac". 
Modern Talking's first period of activity was from 1984 to 1987. The duo reunified in 1998 and made a successful comeback, releasing more music from 1998 to 2003. Modern Talking's sound, however, was rather different from its original 1980s sound after its reunion. The duo came back in 1998 recording their materials based on what the demand was in central European music markets at the time in the late 1990s, which required their original 1980s mellow Europop sound to switch into 1990s up-tempo Eurodance. The duo released singles which again entered the top-10 not only in their home country but also abroad. Some of those singles were "You're My Heart, You're My Soul '98", "Brother Louie '98", and "You Are Not Alone".

</doc>
<doc id="47816" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47816" title="2004 Indian Ocean earthquake">
2004 Indian Ocean earthquake

The 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake, also called the Sumatra-Andaman earthquake, was a great underwater earthquake. It happened at 00:58:53 UTC (07:58:53 local time) December 26, 2004. 
The epicenter of the earthquake was off the west coast of Sumatra, Indonesia. At first, the earthquake was measured as a 9.0 on the Richter scale. Later, scientists said it was as high as a 9.3. In modern times, only the Great Chilean Earthquake of 1960 has been more powerful. The Indian Ocean earthquake was the longest ever recorded. It lasted between 500 (8.3 minutes) and 600 (10 minutes) seconds. It was so powerful that it caused the entire Earth to vibrate. It started other earthquakes as far away as Alaska.
The large movement of earth under the water caused a very large and powerful tsunami. The tsunami was called the "Asian tsunami", or the "Boxing Day tsunami" in Australia, Canada, England, and South Africa because it happened on Boxing Day. It spread all over the Indian Ocean. The tsunami caused heavy damage to countries such as Malaysia, Thailand, Indonesia and Sri Lanka. It also devastated the eastern coast of India, such as the states of Tamil Nadu, Orissa and Andhra Pradesh.
Waves as high as 30m (100ft) killed many people and damaged or destroyed a lot of buildings and other property. Over 225,000 people died or were not found after the tsunami. The wave did damage in East Africa as far away as South Africa (8000km/ 5000mi) where as many as 8 people died because of high water caused by the wave. Because of how much damage was caused and the number of people the earthquake affected, over $7 billion (USD) was donated to help rebuild the areas damaged.

</doc>
<doc id="47824" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47824" title="History of Taiwan">
History of Taiwan

Taiwan (minus the Pescadores) is an island of eastern Asia. Its first people were related to Oceanic people with small numbers of Chinese. After the arrival of the Dutch in the 1600s, many Chinese moved to Taiwan to work. Few European people moved to Taiwan, and the native people married with Chinese or moved away from the west side of the island. When the Qing dynasty began in China, a supporter of the old Ming dynasty hid in Taiwan. Eventually the Qing came to Taiwan, defeated him, and added Taiwan to China. Taiwan remained Chinese territory through most of the Qing dynasty until it was taken by Japan in 1895. Taiwan became a colony of Japan for fifty years until the end of World War Two. For a brief time it was under the control of China through the Guomindang government, but that government lost a civil war and moved to Taiwan. The rule of the Guomindang is considered controversial in the modern day. Some criticize its treatment of the people of Taiwan, but others focus on positive political and economic change that it made. In the 1980s, the government Taiwan has became more democratic. This has also become controversial because it has allowed different political parties to compete. The Democratic Progressive Party gained influence in the government. During this time, Taiwan has officially been called the Republic of China but has acted independently of China. The People's Republic of China demands that Taiwan must become a part of China, while most Taiwanese debate the appropriate political status for today. These perspectives create a complicated situation in the politics of Taiwan.
The original people to move to Taiwan can be called the Aboriginal people. They have many similarities with others societies called Austronesian. Chinese historians have mentioned Taiwan several times since its Three Kingdoms period, although it was considered a land of barbarians.
About 50000 years ago was called the "Old Stone Age" in Taiwan. At that time, people hit rocks against each other to make tools. The most famous culture of Taiwanese old stone age is Changping Culture. The Changping culture's monument is the Eight Gods' Hole Monument in Taitung Conty.
About 5000 years ago was the "New Stone Age". People in New Stone Age sharpened stones to make tools. We can take New Stone Age into three parts. The most famous cultures are the Tapenken culture, the Beinan culture, and the Yuanshan culture. The Tapenken culture monument is the Tapenken Monument (also known as T.P.K.) in Taipei, the Beinan culture's monument is the Puyuma Relics in Taitung Conty, and the Yuanshan culture's monument is the Yuanshan Monument in Taipei City.
About 2000 years ago was the "Metal Age". In the Metal Age, people used metal to make tools, and started trading. The most famous culture in Metal Age is the Thirteen Hangs Cultures. Its monument is the Thirteen Hangs Monument in Taipei County.
In the 17th century, the Dutch took control of Taiwan. During this time, it was a Dutch colony and it encouraged Chinese people to move there. Few Chinese had lived on Taiwan until this time. As more Chinese moved to Taiwan there was conflict with the Aboriginal people. The Aboriginal people either married with Chinese or moved away from the west of Taiwan. During the time of Dutch control, Spain also briefly held northern Taiwan but the Dutch removed them in 1642. 
In 1644, the Qing Dynasty began ruling China, and Ming Dynasty's courtier, Koxinga landed Taiwan, removed the Dutch, and ruled Taiwan. He turned it into a place to resist the Qing Dynasty. This period is called "the period of Ming Zheng", or the Kingdom of Tungning, the Kingdom of Yanping. One year later, the Qing Dynasty ended the Kindom of Tungning. The Qing Dynasty ruled Taiwan for 212 years until 1895. 
Japan first showed interest in Taiwan in the 1870s. It tested the strength of the Qing Dynasty's control in 1871. Some ship-wrecked Okinawan fishermen were killed by Aboriginal people in southern Taiwan and Japan demanded compensation. Okinawa had secretly paid tribute to both China and Japan. In this situation Japan claimed Okinawa was part of Japan and it must protect its own people. There was no war but China stated it could not control barbarian people. Japan used this excuse to demand Taiwan after it defeated China in the First Sino-Japanese War. Taiwanese people rebelled without the support of China and created the Republic of Formosa that lasted for about one year. Japan crushed Taiwanese resistance, but it was the beginning of Taiwanese nationalism.
In 1945, the Republic of China won the Second Sino-Japanese War. The Allied Powers agreed to divide the territory of the Japanese Empire, and Taiwan would be returned to Chinese control. The Chinese civil war occurred at this time, and in 1949 the Guomindang lost and escaped to Taiwan. Taiwan was ruled by this one party until democratic reforms began in the 1980s.

</doc>
<doc id="47828" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47828" title="Katana">
Katana

A katana is a Japanese long sword used by samurai warriors. It is the most important sword of the three swords worn by samurai: katana, wakizashi, and tanto. The katana was popular from 1400 A.D. until 1876, when the samurai were abolished as a social class. 
In Japanese, "katana" means a "long sword" and it represents a blade, which is a little curved, with a single edge and a very sharp point. 
There are several types of katanas:
A traditional katana is made of a type of high carbon steel called tamahagane, which is made by smelting a type of Japanese iron ore, called iron sand, in a large furnace called a tatara.
This steel is sent to a smith who breaks it down to small pieces and layers the steel according to carbon content, they smelt this in their forge and repeatedly fold the steel in order to homogenise it. The most important part of the forging is the tempering, when the sword is quench-hardened. In ancient times it was said that the soul of the sword was put into the katana at this point. The sword is sometimes given a rough polish by the smith and then sent to a professional polisher for polishing (usually to a mirror finish). After polishing, the sword to be fitted.
Today katanas are mainly made of carbon steel of different quality. But there are some swords made of zinc and aluminum alloys, which are able to resist some external forces and are only used for decoration or non-tameshigiri practice. To determine the quality of a katana it is enough to check its "resistance" (how much it bends when it is hit), "elasticity" (the ability of katana to return to its original shape), and the "endurance" of the blade after striking (how long it lasts).
Generally, katana is designed for cutting, but it was widely used for stabbing too. This depended mainly on the length of the tang (the handle). The katana could be easily used for cutting if it was made for using with both hands. It was used for stabbing when the katana was made for using with one hand. 
As a rule, katana was worn under the belt on the left side of a right-handed man. The sword was in its sheath or scabbard (the cover), with its blade facing up. That way the sword could be drawn and cut the opponent in one movement. Alternatively, the scabbard might be held freely in the left hand: in action the sword would be drawn and the scabbard thrown down. This allows for free movement in battle.
To pull the katana a few inches out of its scabbard was an aggressive move signalling willingness to fight.
Katana was very important in Japanese society. This sword was thought to be the "soul" of its master. Only a samurai was allowed to have a katana. A simple man with a katana sword could be killed at once. 
There was a tradition of wearing, taking care and taking the katana out of its scabbard. Samurai kept their katana on a special stand for swords, called katana-kake. This stand was used for both katana and wakizashi. The blade had to have its point up, just as when wearing the sword; the handle (called the tang) had to be turned to the left. This made katana available for handling any time it was needed. 
The art of handling a katana was developed in martial arts like "kenjutsu" and "iaijutsu". Today, this art is practiced in "iaido" and "kendo" martial arts. The last one is the art of dueling with bamboo or wooden sword. Old schools of handling katana swords still exist. The most famous are: "Kashima Shin-ryu, Kashima Shinto-ryu, Tenshin Shoden Katori Shinto-ryu". 
The most appreciated technique of handling a katana is a school called "Nitto Ryu". This school taught how to use both a katana and a wakizashi during a fight. The most famous samurai who improved this art was "Miyamoto Musashi".

</doc>
<doc id="47834" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47834" title="Lindisfarne">
Lindisfarne

Lindisfarne (often called Holy Island), is a tidal island off the north-east coast of England. It is connected to the mainland of Northumberland by a causeway and is cut off twice a day by tides – something well described by Sir Walter Scott:
According to the 2001 census it had a usual population of 162.
Large parts of the island, and all of the adjacent inter-tidal area, are protected as Lindisfarne National Nature Reserve to help safeguard the internationally important wintering bird populations. 
Grey seals are frequent visitors to the rocky bays at high tide.
The monastery of Lindisfarne was founded by Irish-born Saint Aidan. He was brought from Iona off the west coast of Scotland to Northumbria around AD 635 by King Oswald of Northumbria. It became the base for Christian evangelising in the North of England and also sent a successful mission to Mercia. Monks from the community of Iona settled on the island.
Northumberland's patron saint, Saint Cuthbert, was a monk and later Abbot of the monastery, and his miracles and life are recorded by the Venerable Bede. Cuthbert later became Bishop of Lindisfarne.
In the early 700s the famous illuminated manuscript known as the Lindisfarne Gospels (an illustrated Latin copy of the Gospels of Matthew, Mark, Luke and John) was made, probably at Lindisfarne.
Later, a monk named Aldred added an Anglo-Saxon translation to the Latin text. This made (late 10th century) the earliest surviving Old English copies of the Gospels.
In 793 a Viking raid on Lindisfarne scared many people throughout the Christian West. The year 793 is often called the beginning of the age of Viking raids. A very famous passage in the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle reads:
"In this year fierce, foreboding omens came over the land of Northumbria. There were excessive whirlwinds, lightning storms, and fiery dragons were seen flying in the sky. These signs were followed by great famine, and on January 8th of the same year, the ravaging of heathen men destroyed God's church at Lindesfarne."
Eventually the monks fled the island. They took with them the body of St Cuthbert, which is now buried at Durham Cathedral. The priory was re-established in Norman times as a Benedictine house and continued until its dissolution in 1536 under Henry VIII. It is now a ruin in the care of English Heritage, who also run a museum/visitor centre nearby. The neighbouring parish church (see below) is still in use.
Lindisfarne also has the small castle, based on a Tudor fort and open to visitors.
J.M.W. Turner, Thomas Girtin and Charles Rennie Mackintosh all painted on Holy Island.

</doc>
<doc id="47835" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47835" title="Peter Lorre">
Peter Lorre

Peter Lorre (born was Ladislav (László) Löwenstein, June 26, 1904 – March 23, 1964) was a Hungarian-American actor. He did many film noir movies in the 1940s and 1950s. 
Lorre's family was Jewish. Lorre was born in Rózsahegy (Rosenberg) in a country called Austria-Hungary. Now the place where he was born is in the country Slovakia. 
He began acting in theaters in Vienna, Breslau, and Zürich. In the 1920s, he moved to Berlin to work as an actor. In 1931, the movie director Fritz Lang chose Lorre to act in a movie about a serial killer who kills children called "M".
When the Nazis came to power in Germany in 1933, Lorre had to leave Germany. Lorre went to England to be safe from the Nazis. Lorre got work as an actor in a movie by Alfred Hitchcock called "The Man Who Knew Too Much". Lorre only knew a little English. At first, it was hard for him to act in English movies.
In the 1940s, Lorre moved to Hollywood, California (USA). Hollywood is a town where many movies are made. Lorre acted in many movies, playing foreign characters. Lorre played the role of Joel Cairo in the movie "The Maltese Falcon" (1941) and played the role of "Ugarte" in the movie "Casablanca" (1942). Lorre played the character of Dr. Einstein in the movie" Arsenic and Old Lace" (1944).
Lorre got married three times: Celia Lovsky (1934 - 13 March 1945, divorced); Kaaren Verne (25 May 1945 - 1950, divorced) and Annemarie Brenning (21 July 1953 - 23 March 1964, his death). He had his only child with Annemarie, a daughter named Catharine (1953-1985).

</doc>
<doc id="47837" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47837" title="History of Tamil Nadu">
History of Tamil Nadu

The history of Tamil Nadu goes back to the early stone age. The region of Tamil Nadu (now one of the states in the south of the Republic of India) has been under continuous human habitation since prehistoric times.
The civilisation of the Tamil people is among the oldest in the world and has been influenced by, influenced, and coexisted with many external cultures.
The three Tamil dynasties of Chera, Chola and Pandya were all of ancient origins. Together they ruled over Tamil Nadu with a unique culture and language, contributing to the growth of "Sangam Literature", some of the oldest literature in the world.
They had extensive oversee trade contacts with the Roman and Greek empires later on. These three dynasties were in constant struggle with each other as they wanted hegemony over the land.
Invasion by the Kalabhras during the third century disturbed the tradition, and order of the land by displacing the three traditional ruling dynasties. These occupiers were overthrown by the Pandyas and the Pallavas, who restored the kingdoms. The Cholas, who came back from obscurity in the ninth century by defeating the Pallavas and the Pandyas, rose to become a great power and extended their empire over the entire southern peninsula. At its height the Chola empire had spread from Bengal in the northeast to Sri Lanka in the south. The Chola navy held sway over the Sri Vijaya kingdom in Southeast Asia.
Rapid changes in the political situation of the rest of India occurred due to the incursions of Muslim armies from the northwest marked a turning point in the history of Tamil Nadu. With the decline of the three ancient dynasties during the fourteenth century, the Tamil country became part of the Vijayanagara Empire. Under this empire the Telugu speaking Nayak governors ruled the Tamil land. The brief appearance of the Marathas gave way to the European trading companies, who began to appear during the seventeenth century and eventually assumed greater sway over the indigenous rulers of the land. The Madras Presidency comprising of most of southern India including what is now Tamil Nadu, was created in the eighteenth century and was ruled directly by the British East India Company. After the independence of India by Mohandas (Mahatma) Gandhi, the Tamil Nadu state was created based on linguistic boundaries, due to a Telugu man who wished the Telugu speaking land bordering Tamil Nadu to become its own state, which it did, Andra Pradesh was born. This caused a chain reaction because the other languages also wanted their own states. This led to state boundaries because of linguistic reasons, and gave birth to many other linguisticly devised states, including Tamil Nadu.
Although there is very little concrete historical evidence that has been found so far for the period prior to 600 CE, the history of the Tamil people probably predates this period. Various legends became prevalent after the tenth century CE regarding the antiquity of the Tamil people. According to "Iraiyanar Agapporul", a tenth/eleventh century annotation on the Sangam literature, the Tamil country extended southwards beyond the natural boundaries of the Indian peninsula comprising of 49 ancient "nadus" (divisions). The land was supposed to have been destroyed by a deluge. The Sangam legends also added to the antiquity of the Tamil people by claiming tens of thousands of years of continuous literary activity during three "Sangams". However, there have been no direct archaeological finds supporting these legends.
The prehistoric period during which the Palaeolithic civilisations existed in the Tamil Nadu region has been estimated to span the period from about 50,000 BCE until around 3000 BCE. For most part of the lower Palaeolithic stage, humans lived close to river valleys with sparse forest cover or in grassland environments. The population density was very low and so far only two localities of this lower Palaeolithic culture have been found in south India. One of these is in Attirampakkam valley in the northwest of Chennai in Tamil Nadu. Archaeological research has uncovered evidence of fossil remains of animals and primitive stone implements around the northern Tamil Nadu that could be dated to belong to around 300,000 BCE. Humans in South India, belonging to the species of "Homo erectus", lived in this primitive 'old stone age' (Palaeolithic) for quite a long time, using only crude implements such as hand axes and choppers and subsisting on food he hunted and gathered instead of actively growing it according to his needs.
The ancestor of modern humans ("Homo sapiens sapiens") who appeared around 50,000 years ago was more developed and could fabricate thinner flake tools and blade-like tools using a variety of stones. From about 10,000 years ago, humans made still smaller tools called Microlithic tools. The material used by the early humans to make these tools were jasper, agate, flint, quartz, etc. In 1949, researchers found such microliths in Tirunelveli district.
In Tamil Nadu, the Neolithic period had its advent around 2500 BCE. Humans of the Neolithic period made their stone tools in finer shapes by grinding and polishing. The Neolithic humans lived mostly on small flat hills or on the foothills in small, more or less permanent settlements but for periodical migration for grazing purposes. They gave the dead proper burials within urns or pits. They were also starting to use copper for making certain tools or weapons.
Humans started using iron for making tools and weapons. The Iron Age culture in peninsular India is marked by Megalithic burial sites, which are found in several hundreds of places.
Ancient Tamil Nadu contained three monarchical states, headed by kings called "Ventar" and several tribal chieftaincies, headed by the chiefs called by the general denomination "Vel" or "Velir". During the third century BCE, the Deccan was part of the Mauryan kingdom, and from the middle of the first century BCE to second century CE the same area was ruled by the Satavahana dynasty. The Tamil area had an independent existence outside the control of these northern empires.
The names of the three dynasties, Cholas, Pandyas, and Keralaputras or Cheras are mentioned in the Pillars of Ashoka (inscribed 273–232 BCE) inscriptions, where they are mentioned among the kingdoms, which though not subject to Ashoka, were on friendly terms with him.
Karikala Chola was the most famous early Chola. He is mentioned in a number of poems in the Sangam poetry.
Pandyas ruled initially from Korkai, a sea port on the southernmost tip of the Indian peninsula, and in later times moved to Madurai. Pandyas are also mentioned in Sangam Literature, as well as by Greek and Roman sources during this period. The early Pandyas went into obscurity at the end of the third century CE during the incursion of the Kalabhras.
The kingdom of the Cheras comprised of the modern state of Kerala, along the western or Malabar Coast of southern India. Their proximity to the sea favoured trade with Africa.
Internal and external trade was well organised and active.
After the close of the Sangam era, from about 300 to about 600 CE, there is an almost total lack of information regarding occurrences in the Tamil land. Some time about 300 CE, the whole region was upset by the appearance of the Kalabhras. These people are described in later literature as 'evil rulers' who overthrew the established Tamil kings and got a strangle hold of the country. They did not leave many artefacts or monuments. The only source of information on them is the scattered mentions in Buddhist and Jain literature.
Jainism and Buddhism, took deep roots in the society, giving birth to a large body of ethical poetry.
Writing became very widespread and "vatteluttu" evolved from the Tamil-Brahmi became a mature script for writing Tamil.
The medieval period of the history of the Tamil country saw the rise and fall of many kingdoms, some of whom went on to the extent of empires, exerting influences both in India and overseas. 
The Hindu sects Saivism and Vaishnavism became more dominant, with temples being built and Dravidian architecture being supported by empires replacing the significance of Nastik Jainism and Buddhism of the previous era. Some of the output of villages throughout the kingdom was given to temples that reinvested some of the wealth accumulated as loans to the settlements.
Tamil script replaced the "vatteluttu" script throughout Tamil Nadu for writing Tamil. Both secular and religious literature flourished during the period.
The seventh century Tamil Nadu saw the rise of the Pallavas under Mahendravarman I and his son "Mamalla" Narasimhavarman I. The Pallavas were not a recognised political power before the second century. After the fall of the Satavahanas, they began to get control over parts of Andhra and the Tamil country. The Pallavas were at their finest during the reigns of Narasimhavarman I and "Pallavamalla" Nandivarman II.
During the sixth and the seventh centuries, the western Deccan saw the rise of the Chalukyas based in Vatapi. The Pallavas had the more difficult existence of the two as they had to fight on two fronts - against the Pandyas as wells as the Chalukyas.
Pandya Kadungon (560 - 590) is credited with the overthrow of the Kalabhras in the south. Pandya Cendan extended their rule to the Chera country. His son Arikesari Parantaka Maravarman (c. 650 - 700) had a long and prosperous rule. He fought many battles and extended the Pandya power.
After some decades of expansion, the Pandya kingdom was large enough to pose a serious threat to the Pallava power.
The Pandya power continued to grow under Srimara and encroached further into the Pallava territories. 
Around 850 rose Vijayalaya, made use of an opportunity arising out of a conflict between Pandyas and Pallavas, captured Thanjavur and eventually established the imperial line of the medieval Cholas. Vijayalaya revived the Chola dynasty and his son Aditya I helped establish their independence. He invaded Pallava kingdom in 903 and killed the Pallava king Aparajita in battle, ending the Pallava reign. The Chola kingdom under Parantaka I expanded to cover the entire Pandya country. However towards the end of his reign he suffered several reverses by the Rashtrakutas who had extended their territories well into the Chola kingdom.
The Cholas went into a temporary decline during the next few years due to weak kings, palace intrigues and succession disputes.
European settlements began to appear in the Tamil country during the Vijayanagara Empire. In 1605, the Dutch established trading posts in the Coromandel Coast near Gingee and in Pulicat. The British East India Company built a 'factory' (warehouse) at Armagaon (Durgarazpatnam), a village around 35 miles North of Pulicat, as the site in 1626. 
The conflict between the British and the French had as result in 1765 the Emperor of Delhi issued a "firman" (decree) recognizing the British possessions in southern India.
Although the Company was becoming increasingly bold and ambitious in putting down resisting states, it was getting clearer day by day that the Company was incapable of governing the vast expanse of the captured territories. In 1784 Pitt's India Act made the Company subordinate to the British Government.
The next few decades were of rapid growth and expansion in the territories controlled by the English. The Anglo-Mysore Wars of 1766 to 1799, the Anglo-Maratha Wars of 1772 andPolygar Wars of 1800-1805 Dheeran chinnamalai,the Tamil king won three polygar wars against Britishers and at last he was hanged along with his two brothers.Then Britishers took entire control of Tamil Nadu by settling east India company after the death of chinnamalai the brave Tamil king.
The discontent in the various districts of the company territories exploded in 1857 into the Sepoy war. Although the rebellion had a huge impact on the state of the colonial power in India, Tamil Nadu was mostly unaffected by it. 
In 1858 the British Crown assumed direct rule in India.
Failure of the summer monsoons and administrative shortcomings of the Ryotwari system resulted in a severe famine in the Madras Presidency during 1876 - 1877.The government instituted a famine insurance grant, setting aside 1.5 million Rupees. Other civic works such as canal building and improvements in roads and railway were also undertaken to minimise effects of any future famines.
The growing desire for independence began to gradually gather pace in the country and its influence in Tamil Nadu generated a number of volunteers to the fight against the British colonial power in the struggle for Independence. Notable amongst these are Tiruppur Kumaran, who was born in 1904 in a small village near Erode. Kumaran lost his life during a protest march against the British.
In 1916 Dr. T.M. Nair and Rao Bahadur Thygaraya Chetty released the "Non-Brahmin Manifesto" sowing the seeds for the Dravidian movements.
The trauma of the partition did not impact Tamil Nadu when India was granted Independence in 1947. There was no sectarian violence against various religions. There had always been an atmosphere of mutual respect and peaceful coexistence between all religions in Tamil Nadu. Congress formed the first ministry in the Madras Presidency. C. Rajagopalachari (Rajaji) was the first Chief Minister. Madras Presidency was eventually reconstituted as Madras State.
The Madras state was named Tamil Nadu (the land of the Tamils) in 1968.
Ethnic conflict in Sri Lanka during the 1970s and the 80s saw large numbers of Sri Lankan Tamils fleeing to Tamil Nadu. 
The politics of Tamil Nadu have gone through three distinct phases since independence. The domination of the Congress Party after 1947 gave way to the Dravidian populist mobilisation in the 1960s. This phase lasted until towards the end of the 1990s. The most recent phase saw the fragmentation of the Dravidian political parties and led to the advent of political alliances and coalition governments.

</doc>
<doc id="47841" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47841" title="Leo Fender">
Leo Fender

Clarence Leonidas Fender (August 10, 1909 - March 21, 1991), also known as Leo Fender, was an American instrument maker.
He founded a company called Fender Electric Instrument Manufacturing Company. It makes electric guitars, electric bass guitars, and electric guitar amplifiers. Leo Fender designed electric guitars which he called the " Telecaster" and the "Stratocaster." Fender also designed the first bass guitar, which he called the "Precision Bass". In the 1960s, Fender designed another bass guitar, which he called the "Jazz Bass". 
All of these instruments (the "Telecaster, Stratocaster, Precision Bass," and the "Jazz Bass") became popular. Fender Electric Instrument Manufacturing Company sold thousands and thousands of these instruments. Many rock and pop music bands from the 1960s to the 2000s use these electric guitars and electric bass guitars.

</doc>
<doc id="47842" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47842" title="Fret">
Fret

A fret is a thin metal strip found on string instruments. Guitars, mandolins, and banjos have frets.
Frets are mounted on the long necks of the instrument. The frets help the musician playing the instrument to know where to place their fingers on the instrument.
On historical instruments and some non-European instruments, pieces of string tied around the neck are frets.
Frets divide the neck into sections related to a musical framework. On instruments such as guitars, each fret marks one semitone in the standard western system where one octave is divided into twelve semitones.

</doc>
<doc id="47843" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47843" title="Amplifier">
Amplifier

The word amplifier (sometimes called an amp) usually refers to an electronic amplifier. Electronic amplifiers make a signal from a radio or electric musical instrument (such as an electric guitar or an electric bass guitar) louder and stronger. Amplifiers are also hidden in any electronic thing that makes sound with loudspeakers. This includes televisions, radios, computers, and mp3 players, to name a few.
Devices similar to the electronic amplifier are made in mechanical engineering. The power assisted steering and braking on a motor car utilise mechanical amplifiers to multiply the amount of force applied by the driver. 
Amplifiers ability to use low impedance speakers may vary. Typical impedance is 8 ohms.
Classification can be done by current loss when amplifier is on but does not get signal. Example: A-class amplifier takes more current without signal than B-class amplifier but A-class amplifier have smaller distortion.
There is also several distortion types. 
Electronic amplifiers make a signal from the radio or electric instrument louder and stronger by using transistors or vacuum tubes. Electronic amplifiers have to be connected to electrical current or a battery to work. Once the signal from the radio or electric instrument has been made louder and stronger, the signal needs to be connected to a loudspeaker so that people can hear it.
When an amplifier tries to make the sound louder than it can, it adds distortion to the sound. Some amplifiers are made to add controlled distortion. Distortion from transistors sounds different than distortion from tubes. Distortion from tubes is often said to be more musical. Because of all this, more expensive amplifiers often add controlled distortion with tubes. Many of these amplifiers use transistors for a "clean" sound (without distortion).
From the 1920s until the 1950s, electronic amplifiers used vacuum tubes. However, electronic amplifiers with vacuum tubes were heavy, and they produced a lot of heat. They also broke down a lot. 
Since the 1960s, most electronic amplifiers have been built with transistors. Transistors are lighter, cheaper, and more reliable.

</doc>
<doc id="47844" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47844" title="Ruda Śląska">
Ruda Śląska

Ruda Śląska is a city in Poland in Silesian Voivodeship. It has about 147 000 inhabitants and 77 km².

</doc>
<doc id="47845" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47845" title="Rybnik">
Rybnik

Rybnik is a city in Poland in Silesian Voivodeship. About 141,000 people live there. The city is about 148 km².

</doc>
<doc id="47846" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47846" title="Tychy">
Tychy

Tychy is a city in Poland in Silesian Voivodeship. It has about 132 000 inhabitants and 81 km².

</doc>
<doc id="47847" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47847" title="Dąbrowa Górnicza">
Dąbrowa Górnicza

Dąbrowa Górnicza is a city in Poland in Silesian Voivodeship. Around 131,000 people live here.

</doc>
<doc id="47848" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47848" title="Płock">
Płock

Płock is a city in Eastern Poland in the Masovia Voivodship. About 128,000 people live there and it is 88 km² big.

</doc>
<doc id="47849" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47849" title="Loudspeaker">
Loudspeaker

A loudspeaker, which is also called a speaker, is an item that is used to create the sound in radios, television sets, and electric musical instrument amplifier systems. 
Loudspeakers use both electric and mechanical principles to convert an electrical signal from a radio, television set or electric musical instrument into sound. For a loudspeaker to produce sound, the signal from the radio, television set, or electric musical instrument needs to be connected to an electronic amplifier. 
Loudspeakers are usually built by using stiff paper cone, a coil of thin copper wire, and a circular magnet. The cone, copper wire, and magnet are usually mounted in a rectangle-shaped wood cabinet. The coil of copper wire moves back and forth when an electrical signal is passed through it. The coil of copper wire and the magnet cause the rigid paper cone to vibrate and reproduce sounds.
Inside loudspeaker can be audio crossover.
Some loudspeakers are designed for lower-pitched sounds, such as "woofer" loudspeakers or "subwoofer" loudspeakers. Other loudspeakers, which are called "tweeters", are designed to reproduce high-pitched sounds (such as the sound of a whistle or a bird singing).
Loudspeakers for electric musical instruments are usually much stronger and heavier than loudspeakers for radios or television sets. Loudspeakers main function is to convert electrical signals given to it into sound signals.
Alexander Graham Bell invented the first loudspeaker in 1876. Bell invented the loudspeaker because he needed a device that would amplify sound for the telephone. In 1878, Ernst Siemens from Germany invented an improved type of loudspeaker.

</doc>
<doc id="47850" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47850" title="Chorzów">
Chorzów

Chorzów is a city in Poland in Silesian Voivodeship. It has about 115,000 inhabitants and an area of 33 km².

</doc>
<doc id="47851" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47851" title="Wałbrzych">
Wałbrzych

Wałbrzych (pronounce: ['vawbʒix], German: "Waldenburg") is a town in southwestern Poland situated in the Lower Silesian Voivodeship. It has about 126 000 inhabitants and 84 km². The city belonged to Germany until 1945. The original German population being expelled after WW II.

</doc>
<doc id="47852" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47852" title="Organ trio">
Organ trio

An organ trio is a type of jazz band with three musicians. Usually a jazz organ trio consists of a Hammond organ player, a drummer, and either a jazz guitarist or a saxophone player. 
Organ trios popular in the United States in the 1950s and 1960s. Organ trios usually performed jazz music that had influences from blues music. Organ trios are usually led by the organ player, who is called the leader of the trio.
Important organ trio leaders from the 1950s were organists such as Jimmy McGriff, Jimmy Smith, and Jack McDuff. In the late 1960s, organist Larry Young had a jazz fusion style organ trio. In the 1970s, Tony Williams had a jazz fusion band called "Lifetime" which was an organ trio. In the 1990s and 2000s, organist Joey DeFrancesco is an organ trio leader. 
The word "organ trio" is also used to refer to the type (or "genre") of music played by organ trios from the 1950s and 1960s. For example, a person might say "I want to listen to some organ trio music." This would usually mean that they want to listen to music by Jimmy McGriff, Jimmy Smith, Jack McDuff, or other well-known organ trio leaders.

</doc>
<doc id="47854" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47854" title="Hegemony">
Hegemony

Hegemony (pronounced with a soft or hard 'g') is the power of one group over other groups. Hegemony is mostly used to refer to relationships between different nations (or countries). This might be direct dominance, such as through military might, but may be indirect dominance, such as when a nation can dictate the terms of trade to its advantage.
This word is most often used when talking about international relations. Hegemony often describes the relationship of a great power to nearby less powerful countries. The term is Greek, and was first used about the influence of a great city over the cities which were allied to it. Examples are the Peloponnesian League of Sparta (6th to 4th centuries BC); the short-lived Delian League of Athens, and the League of Corinth headed by Philip II of Macedon.
A hegemonic relationship is usually described as less than an empire, but more than a regional power. This means a hegemon may not actually take over other nations, but has the power to greatly influence what they do. On the other hand, a global hegemon is more powerful than, say, Iran is in the Middle East.
A hegemon is king or ruler with personal power, not a democratic position. 

</doc>
<doc id="47859" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47859" title="James Callaghan">
James Callaghan

Leonard James Callaghan, Baron Callaghan of Cardiff, KG, PC, (27 March 1912 – 26 March 2005), was Labour Prime Minister of the United Kingdom from 1976 to 1979.
He is the only Prime Minister to have held all four of the Great Offices of State. He died of pneumonia a day before his 93rd birthday.
He was an MP from 1945-1987.

</doc>
<doc id="47863" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47863" title="Fulgencio Batista">
Fulgencio Batista

General Fulgencio Batista y Zaldívar (January 16, 1901 – August 6, 1973) was the military leader of Cuba from 1933 to 1940. He was President of Cuba from 1940 to 1944. In 1940 he won the election. He then became the country's leader from 1952 to 1959. In 1952 he did a coup. His authoritarian government during this time caused opposition despite his attempt to placate critics with a 'show' election in 1954 were he ran without opposition. The opposition included the entire coalition that had overthrown Machado. Fidel Castro's guerrilla movement overthrew Batista. This is known as the Cuban Revolution. Batista died of a heart attack.

</doc>
<doc id="47864" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47864" title="Sock puppet">
Sock puppet

A Sock puppet is a simple type of made with an adult sock. Most sock puppets have some fabric or plastic facial features added to the sock, such as eyes or a mouth. Some sock puppets may also have accessories such as a hat or clothing. Sock puppets are operated by putting a person's hand inside the sock.
In Canada, Ed the Sock is a sock puppet who has appeared on Canadian television shows since 1987. Ed the Sock appears in a weekly Toronto television series called "Ed's Night Party!". In the 1950s, comedian Soupy Sales made two sock puppets famous; 'White Fang' and 'Black Tooth'. Ventriloquist and puppeteer Shari Lewis delighted children with her lovable sock puppets 'Lamb Chop', 'Charlie Horse' and 'Hush Puppy'. They appeared on TV and in person for over four decades. 1950s TV sock puppets 'Kukla' and 'Ollie' appeared with a real person, Fran, who appeared in front of the stage in the long-running program Kukla, Fran and Ollie.

</doc>
<doc id="47878" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47878" title="Smoke">
Smoke

Smoke is a cloud of very small, solid particles that is made when something is burned with a flame, such as wood or paper.
Smoke can be bad because if it goes into the lungs of a person, it can hurt their lungs or even kill them (for example, in a house fire). Most people think that they are always able to see smoke, but people cannot see some types of smoke: they are invisible.
When people smoke tobacco in cigars or cigarettes, they are burning the tobacco and inhaling the smoke. Tobacco smoke can hurt the mouth, throat, and lungs. It can cause mouth, throat, or lung cancer. It can also cause emphysema and bronchitis (trouble breathing). They continue doing it because the smoke also has a narcotic.
Factories and power plants produce large amounts of smoke into the atmosphere which pollutes the air. Eventually the toxic chemicals in smoke fall to the ground, and then they pollute the soil and the water. When the air, soil and water are polluted with toxic chemicals, the chemicals also get absorbed by plants and animals (including humans).
When Dry ice is put into water, the dry ice boils and makes fog. Movie makers and other show people use this to simulate smoke.

</doc>
<doc id="47882" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47882" title="Friedrich Kellner">
Friedrich Kellner

August Friedrich Kellner (born February 1, 1885 in Vaihingen an der Enz, Germany, died November 4, 1970 in Lich) was a German social democrat. He worked as a justice inspector. In the time of the Nazis in Germany, he wrote a secret diary. This became known as the Diary of Friedrich Kellner. After the war he said why he wrote it:
August Friedrich Kellner was born on February 1, 1885 in Vaihingen, a town next to the Enz River and not far from Heidelberg. He was the only child of Georg Friedrich Kellner, a baker from the village of Arnstadt in Thuringia, and Barbara Wilhelmine Vaigle from Bissingen. Friedrich’s parents belonged to the Evangelical Lutheran faith.
When Friedrich was four years old, his family moved to Mainz. There his father became the master baker at "Goebels Zuckerwerk".
In December 1902, when he was 17 years old, Kellner graduated from Goethe High School. He began work as a junior clerk in the courthouse in Mainz. He worked there from 1903 until 1933. He became a justice secretary, then an accountant, and finally a justice inspector.
In 1907 and 1908 Kellner had to fulfill his military reserve duty. He was assigned to the 6th Infantry Company of the Leibregiments Großherzogin (3. Großherzoglich Hessisches) Nr. 117 in Mainz.
In 1913 Friedrich Kellner married Pauline Preuss. She was from Mainz. Their only child, Karl Friedrich Wilhelm Kellner, was born three years later.
When the First World War began in 1914, Kellner was called back to active duty. He was an officer substitute in the Prinz Carl Infantry Regiment (4. Großherzoglich Hessisches Regiment) Nr. 118, in Worms. He fought in France at the battle of the Marne. Later, he was wounded near Reims. He was sent to St. Rochus Hospital in Mainz to recover.
Kellner was loyal to the Kaiser’s regime, but still he welcomed the birth of the German democracy after the war. He became a political organizer for the leading political party, the Social Democratic Party of Germany (SPD). From those first days of the Weimar Republic, he spoke out against the danger of extremists, against Communists and the National Socialists (the Nazis). Kellner would show his opposition at rallies by holding Adolf Hitler’s book, Mein Kampf, above his head. He then shouted to the crowd: “Gutenberg, your printing press has been violated by this evil book.” On more than one occasion Kellner was beaten by the Nazis for expressing his views. 
Adolf Hitler wanted revenge against his political opponents. So two weeks before Hitler became Chancellor, Kellner took his wife and son into the country for safety. They moved to the village of Laubach, in Hesse. He worked in Laubach as the chief justice inspector in the district court. This means that he was in charge of the administration of the courthouse. In 1935 his son went to live in the United States because he did not want to go into Hitler’s army. 
In November 1938 there was a pogrom (an attack) against the Jews. This became known as Kristallnacht, the Night of the Broken Glass. Friedrich and Pauline Kellner tried to help their Jewish neighbors. The Kellners were warned by the Nazi leaders that they would suffer the same fate as their neighbors if they continued their resistance. Kellner was told he and his wife would be sent to a concentration camp if he continued to be a "bad influence" on the people of Laubach. A report written by the district Nazi leader, Hermann Engst, shows that authorities were planning to punish Kellner at the end of the war. Because he could not continue to speak out openly, Kellner wrote down his thoughts in a secret diary. He wanted his son, and the coming generations, to know that democracy must not give in to dictatorships. In the diary, he warns everyone to resist tyrants and terrorism, and to not believe in their propaganda.
The diary has 10 volumes with a total of 861 pages. It contains 676 individually dated entries. The entries are from September 1939 through May 1945. More than 500 newspaper clippings are pasted on the pages of the diary. 
Friedrich Kellner was an eyewitness to the events of his time. In his diary, he also offers a guide for future generations to prevent totalitarianism. He warns everyone to resist any ideology that would take away their personal freedoms, and he warns everyone to turn away from any belief that ignores the sanctity of human life.
One of the most important entries in the diary was written on October 28, 1941. Most Germans after the war said that they knew nothing about the Holocaust. However, very early in the war Kellner recorded this in his diary. He showed that even in the small towns, normal people knew what was happening:
At war’s end, Kellner helped to establish the SPD in Laubach, and he became the regional party chairman. He was the deputy mayor of Laubach in 1945 and 1946. From 1956 to 1960 he was First Town Councilor and deputy mayor. 
Friedrich Kellner was the chief justice inspector and administrator of the courthouse in Laubach until 1947. For the next two years he was the district auditor in the regional court in Giessen. He retired in 1950, but he continued to be a legal advisor in Laubach.
Kellner’s son, who had emigrated to America, died in 1953. In 1960 Kellner’s grandson, Robert Scott Kellner, traveled to Germany to meet his grandfather. Kellner gave his ten-volume diary to his American grandchild. He wanted him to translate it into different languages and bring it to the attention of the public.
On November 4, 1970, Friedrich Kellner died. He was buried at the side of his wife in the Mainz cemetery.
In 2007, the Canadian film company, CCI Entertainment of Toronto, made a documentary film about both Friedrich Kellner and his grandson Robert Scott Kellner. The film is called, "".

</doc>
<doc id="47885" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47885" title="1996 Summer Olympics">
1996 Summer Olympics

The 1996 Summer Olympics, officially known as the Games of the XXVI Olympiad, were held in Atlanta, United States from July 19 to August 4. 
Eric Rudolph, a Christian fundamentalist, bombed the Centennial Olympic Park on July 27. Alice Hawthorne was killed in the explosion when a nail from the bomb penetrated her skull. Melih Uzunyol, a Turkish cameraman, had a fatal heart attack while running to the scene. The bomb wounded 111 others.
These were the top 10 teams at the 1996 Summer Olympics.
 Host nation (United States)

</doc>
<doc id="47886" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47886" title="1984 Summer Olympics">
1984 Summer Olympics

The 1984 Summer Olympics, officially known as the Games of the XXIII Olympiad, were held in Los Angeles, United States from July 28 to August 12.

</doc>
<doc id="47887" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47887" title="1932 Summer Olympics">
1932 Summer Olympics

The 1932 Summer Olympics, officially known as Games of the X Olympiad, were held in Los Angeles, United States. 
U.S. President Herbert Hoover did not attend the games. Despite this snub, the games were thought to be a success because the LA Olympics did not end up in debt.
Los Angeles was the first to provide an athletes' "village".
A total of 37 nations sent athletes to compete at the Los Angeles games.

</doc>
<doc id="47889" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47889" title="1992 Summer Olympics">
1992 Summer Olympics

The 1992 Summer Olympics, officially known as the Games of the XXV Olympiad, were celebrated in Barcelona, Spain from 25 July to 9 August.

</doc>
<doc id="47890" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47890" title="1988 Summer Olympics">
1988 Summer Olympics

The 1988 Summer Olympics, officially known as the Games of the XXIV Olympiad, were held in Seoul, South Korea from September 17 to October 2.

</doc>
<doc id="47921" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47921" title="Charles Aznavour">
Charles Aznavour

Charles Aznavour (born 22 May 1924) is an Armenian-French singer, songwriter and actor. He is one of France's most popular and long lasting singers, and also one of the most well-known French singers in other countries. He has appeared in more than 60 movies and written more than 1000 songs (including 150 in English, 100 in Italian, 70 in Spanish, and 50 in German). He has sold over 100 million albums. Aznavour started his final tour in late 2006.Aznavour was born as Shahnour Vaghinag Aznavouryan in Paris, the son of Armenian immigrants Michael Aznavouryan & Knar Baghdasaryan. His parents introduced him to the world of theatre at an early age. He dropped out of school at the age of nine, already aspiring to the life of an artist. He began to perform at this time, and soon took the stage name "Aznavour". His big break came when the singer Edith Piaf heard him sing and arranged to take him with her on tour in France and to the USA. Aznavours voice is shaded towards the tenor range, but possesses the low range and coloration more typical of a baritone, contributing to his unique sound.
movie director Levon Mkrtchyan
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tHEd5L1i6gg

</doc>
<doc id="47926" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47926" title="Pallava dynasty">
Pallava dynasty

The Pallavas dynasty rose in Tamil Nadu (South India) during the seventh century under Mahendravarman I and his son Mamalla Narasimhavarman I. The Pallavas were not a recognised political power before the second century. After the fall of the "Satavahanas", they began to get control over parts of Andhra and the Tamil country. The Pallavas were at their finest during the reigns of Narasimhavarman I and Pallavamalla Nandivarman II.

</doc>
<doc id="47939" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47939" title="Pandya dynasty">
Pandya dynasty

The Pandyan kingdom பாண்டியர் was an ancient Tamil state in South India of unknown antiquity. Pandyas were one of the three ancient Tamil kingdoms (Chola and Chera being the other two) who ruled the Tamil country from pre-historic times until end of the 15th century. They ruled initially from Korkai, a sea port on the southern most tip of the Indian peninsula, and in later times moved to Madurai.

</doc>
<doc id="47940" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47940" title="Rockabilly">
Rockabilly

Rockabilly is an early type of rock and roll music which developed in the 1950s in the United States. Rockabilly was very popular amongst teenagers. Many parents of teenagers did not like rockabilly music, because rockabilly music had lyrics which talked about rebelling against rules, sex and drinking alcohol. Rockabilly musicians often wear slicked-back hair, jeans, and leather jackets.
Rockabilly music has musical styles from blues music and country music. It uses the acoustic guitar, the electric guitar, the double bass, drums, and singing. Some Rockabilly songs also use the piano or the harmonica. Rockabilly music usually has a strong rhythm from the double bass being played in a "slap" style. Rockabilly singers often use a wide range, with high notes and many shouts like “go man go” and "yeah!"
One of the earliest musicians who played rockabilly music was Elvis Presley. Another famous rockabilly musician was Carl Perkins, who wrote the popular song "Blue Suede Shoes". Jerry Lee Lewis was a piano player who sang. Jerry Lee Lewis was known for his crazy behavior on stage, which audiences liked. Lewis would play the piano with his feet, elbows and butt.
Gene Vincent was a rockabilly musician who wore black leather and sang songs about sex and getting into trouble. Vincent's most popular song is “Be-Bop-A-Lula”. Eddie Cochran wrote songs about teen life, and had hit songs like “Summertime Blues” and “C’mon Everybody.”
Rockabilly became popular again in the 1980s, when bands such as the Stray Cats became popular. In the 1990s and 2000s, there are still many bands playing rockabilly music or music influenced by rockabilly, such as Tiger Army.

</doc>
<doc id="47945" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47945" title="Blu-ray Disc">
Blu-ray Disc

Blu-ray Disc is a high-density optical disc format similar to DVD. Blu-ray is the type of disc used for PlayStation 3 games and for playing high-definition (HD) movies. In the past, there were other standards for such movies, such as the HD DVD format. Blu-ray won what is called the "format war". 
A dual-layer Blu-ray disc can store up to 50GB (gigabytes) of data. This is over five times the capacity of a DVD, and over 70 times more than a CD or VCD.
The disc was developed by the Blu-ray Disc Association (BDA). a group of consumer electronics, personal computer and media manufacturers. The format was developed to enable recording, rewriting and playback of high-definition video (HD), as well as storing large amounts of data.
While current optical disc technologies such as DVD, DVD±R, DVD±RW, and DVD-RAM rely on a red laser to read and write data, the new format uses a blue-violet laser instead. This is where the name is from.

</doc>
<doc id="47947" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47947" title="Stray Cats">
Stray Cats

The Stray Cats were a Rockabilly band from the United States. They had several hit songs in the 1980s. The Stray Cats played a style of pop music called Rockabilly, which mixes 1950s-style rock and roll, blues music, and country music together. The Stray Cats' music is like the 1950s Rockabilly songs by Elvis Presley and Carl Perkins. Three of the bands' hit songs were "Runaway Boys," "Rock This Town," and "Stray Cat Strut."
The Stray Cats band was formed in 1979 by Brian Setzer, with two of his school friends Leon Drucker (who used the stage name "Lee Rocker") and James McDonnell (who used the stage name "Slim Jim Phantom"). These young men lived in Massapequa, New York.
The Stray Cats wore blue jeans and leather jackets, and had their hair slicked back. The Stray Cats had a singer who played electric guitar, a double bass player, and a drummer.

</doc>
<doc id="47948" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47948" title="United States National Security Advisor">
United States National Security Advisor

The National Security Advisor, officially known as the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, serves as the top advisor to the President of the United States on national security issues. This person serves on the National Security Council within the President's Executive Office.
The National Security Advisor is appointed by the President, and does not have to be approved by the United States Senate. The current National Security Advisor is Susan Rice. Rice replaced Tom Donilon on June 5, 2013 after Barack Obama became President of the United States.
List of National Security Advisors and the Presidents under whom they served:

</doc>
<doc id="47949" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47949" title="Chera dynasty">
Chera dynasty

The Chera dynasty (Tamil: சேரர் Malayalam: േചര ) was one of the ancient Tamil dynasties who ruled the southern India from ancient times until around the fifteenth century CE. The Early Cheras ruled over the Malabar Coast, Coimbatore, Karur and Salem Districts in South India, which now forms part of the modern day Kerala and Tamil Nadu states of India.

</doc>
<doc id="47950" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47950" title="Chola dynasty">
Chola dynasty

The Chola dynasty (சோழர் குலம்) was a Tamil dynasty that ruled in southern India until the 13th century. The dynasty came from the fertile valley of the Kaveri River. 
"Karikala Chola" was the most famous among the early Chola kings, while "Rajaraja Chola", "Rajendra Chola" and "Kulothunga Chola" I were famous emperors of the medieval Cholas.
The Cholas were at the height of their power during the tenth, eleventh and twelfth centuries. Under Rajaraja Chola I (Rajaraja the Great) and his son Rajendra Chola, the dynasty became a military, economic and cultural power in Asia. The Chola territories stretched from the islands of the Maldives in the South to as far North as the banks of the Ganges River in Bangladesh.

</doc>
<doc id="47955" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47955" title="Ayn Rand">
Ayn Rand

Ayn Rand (Alisa Zinov'yevna Rosenbaum, February 2, 1905 – March 6, 1982) was a Russian-born American writer, screenwriter, playwright and philosopher.
She published several popular books in the United States during the mid-1900s, including her two best-selling novels, "Atlas Shrugged" and "The Fountainhead", plus "We the Living" and "Anthem". Her novels promoted a viewpoint of laissez-faire capitalism as a political and social goal. It is a kind of political philosophy known in the U.S.A. as libertarian conservatism. She called this philosophy 'objectivism'.
Her husband was American actor and artist Frank O'Connor.
Rand was born in St. Petersburg, Russia and grew up during the Russian Revolution, in the years after World War I. She left Russia to visit relatives in Chicago in the United States when she was 21 years old. She did not want to return to live under Communism, and stayed in the US. She changed her name, partly to protect her family in Russia. Rand moved to California to become a movie writer.
Movies at the time did not have sound, and stories were mimed on camera. Dialogue was not important, so Rand could write simple stories while she improved her English language skills.
Rand met Frank O'Connor on a movie set, when they both appeared as extras. When O'Connor married Rand in 1929, she could live permanently in America. She later became an American citizen. O'Connor gave up his acting career, to work full-time so Rand could write full-time. Later he retired, when Rand's work made a good income. He began painting late in his life. He died in 1979.
Rand was a longtime tobacco smoker. She had lung cancer, but she recovered from the disease after surgery. She died of cardiovascular disease in New York City on March 6, 1982.
Rand's first book was "We the Living". It is about life in Russia during and after the Russian Revolution, and how life in the later Soviet Union destroys the dreams and hopes of its main characters, who are mostly young people.
Her second book was "Anthem", which is a science fiction novella, a dystopian story about a man named Equality 7-2521 who lives in a future society. In that place, everybody is given their name by the government, and nobody can use the words "I" or "me". He escapes from this society with a partner, to live freely in a house in a hidden place.
Her stage play "Woman on Trial" (better known as "Night of January 16th") used audience members as a jury, to decide the play's outcome (by voting the lead character guilty or not guilty) each time it was performed. Some celebrities, such as Helen Keller, appeared as jury members.
Her third novel was "The Fountainhead". It is about an architect, who wants to have control over his building designs, and does not like when he has to compromise his building designs. "The Fountainhead" became a best-seller, and was made into a movie starring Gary Cooper and Patricia Neal.
Her fourth novel was "Atlas Shrugged". It is her longest book. It was also a best-seller. It tells a story about a worldwide economic crisis. This is caused by the best minds in business, industry, and science, and after a while all thinking people, quitting their jobs and disappearing. This is a protest against government regulations that get in the way of their work or make it harder to do.
The more that governments get in the way, the worse conditions become, until society collapses. A new future begins when the people who disappeared return, and governments adopt laissez-faire principles, that do not try to control how businesses work, or misuse innovations.
After writing "Atlas Shrugged", she wrote non-fiction books about her Objectivist ideas. She published "The Objectivist ", which then became "The Objectivist" magazine, with contributions by other writers. She also published "The Ayn Rand Letter", a later newsletter about her ideas. Rand's views are typical libertarian–conservative views. Freedom of the individual, the evils of 'large' government, the economic benefits of low taxes and 'small' government, the 'open' society: these are values which run through all her work.
Rand invented a philosophy that she called "Objectivism". She was against communism, socialism, and collectivism, which are political systems where a community or the government of a country takes charge of distribution of that country's goods and products.
She opposed altruism, which she viewed as a form of self-sacrifice. She favored a form of rational selfishness.
She also thought that countries should have very small governments. Rand did not think that welfare payments to poor people were a good thing, because this involves using force to take money away from others. She believed that charity (giving money away) could be a good thing if the person giving the money wanted and chose to do it, but she did not think that people should be expected or forced to give away their money.
She was against religion, and was an atheist.

</doc>
<doc id="47957" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47957" title="Laubach">
Laubach

Laubach is a town in the district of Giessen, in Hesse, Germany. Laubach is known as a “Luftkurort," which means “fresh air resort.” Laubach is a small town. It has a population of about 10,000 people. It is 23 km east of the city of Giessen. Surrounding Laubach are the small towns of Hungen, Grünberg, Schotten and Lich.
The Laubach woods are part of the foothills of the Vogelsberg (Bird Mountain). Laubach is an area of interest to tourists because it has many historic and colorful half-timbered ("fachwerk") buildings. The main attraction is the castle. The castle was built in the thirteenth century. It belongs to the Count Solms-Laubach family. One of the largest private libraries in Europe is inside the castle. The castle library has more than 120,000 books and manuscripts. In the Johann Gutenberg Museum in Mainz is an original Gutenberg Bible which came from the castle library. The castle grounds include a large park. There is a lake for swans in the park. The park is open to the public without charge.
The Evangelical Lutheran Church in Laubach used to be named St. Maria. The oldest part of the church was built in the twelfth century. The church was renovated in the eighteenth century. Inside the church is a baroque organ.
The main street of Laubach is Friedrichstrasse. On this street is the former district courthouse, and the city hall, and the Heimat Museum.
The Heimat Museum is the local history museum. It was originally built near the town of Gonterskirchen in 1750 by Count August Solms-Laubach. The building was moved to its present location in 1832. For many years it was a school. Now it is a museum. In the museum is a permanent exhibit honoring Friedrich Kellner.

</doc>
<doc id="47958" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47958" title="Alexander Litvinenko">
Alexander Litvinenko

Alexander Valterovich Litvinenko (4 December 1962 or 30 August 1962 – 23 November 2006) was a lieutenant-colonel in the Russian Security Service. Later he was a Russian dissident and writer. 
Litvinenko worked for the KGB and the FSB through the 1980s and 1990s. Later, he accused his bosses of planning to assassinate Russian billionaire Boris Berezovsky. As a result, he was arrested, but later released by Russian authorities. Afterwards, he fled to the United Kingdom and was given British citizenship.
While he was in Russia, Litvinenko tried to publish a book in which he said President Vladimir Putin rose to power with help of the FSB. He said the FSB tried to cover this up by frightening Russians by bombing apartment buildings in Moscow. He said the FSB then pinned the blame on terrorists operating from Chechnya. 
On 1 November 2006, Litvinenko suddenly became sick and was hospitalized. He died in London three weeks later, as a result of poisoining by polonium-210. The news of his death spread around the world, and many felt the poisoning was done by the Russian government. Vladimir Putin and Kremlin spokesmen have repeatedly denied this, and many new leads have been taken upon during the case. Although there are some suspects and theories in the murder, no official arrest has been made yet.
Unlike most common radiation sources, polonium-210 emits only alpha particles. These do not penetrate even a sheet of paper or human skin. Thus they are invisible to normal radiation detectors. Hospitals only have equipment to detect gamma rays. Both gamma rays and alpha particles are classified as ionizing radiation, and can cause radiation sickness. 
An alpha-emitting substance can cause damage only if taken in (as food or drink) or inhaled (breathed in). It acts on living cells like a short-range weapon. Litvinenko was tested for alpha-emitters using special equipment only hours before his death.
Boris Berezovsky

</doc>
<doc id="47966" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47966" title="Coprophilia">
Coprophilia

Coprophilia is a sexual fetish people feel when they come into contact with feces. Coprophilia can be said to be liking the smell, taste, or feel of feces in a sexual way. The feeling can be either through touching the skin or through rubbing the penis head against feces. Enjoyment can also be made from the feeling of feces passing through the anus.
Eating feces is also known as coprophagia. This is bad for one's body. A person who eats feces is at risk of getting sick through hepatitis, infection, and AIDS. Those with a weak immune system should not eat feces. There are also social problems with eating feces. It causes bad breath and is a taboo.
There are people who make movies involving coprophilia. This is called scatology. Scatology is common in British and Japanese sex movies.

</doc>
<doc id="47973" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47973" title="Kalabhra dynasty">
Kalabhra dynasty

The Kalabhra dynasty ruled over entire Tamil country in South Indian between the 3rd and the 6th century C.E..
They won over the ancient Chola, Pandya and Chera dynasties and replaced them. There is little information about their origin and details about their reign. They did not leave any monuments. The only source of information on them are to be found in Buddhist and Jain literature. They were displaced around the 7th century by the revival of Pallava and Pandya power.
Hindu scholars and authors who wrote in the 7th and 8th century C.E. when Pandya and Pallava had taken over again have written very little about the Kalabhra in their texts. Perhaps therefore the period of their rule is known as a ‘Dark Age’ – an interregnum.

</doc>
<doc id="47974" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47974" title="NASCAR">
NASCAR

NASCAR (National Association for Stock Car Auto Racing) is an auto racing governing organization in the United States. The three largest racing series run by NASCAR are the Sprint Cup, the Xfinity Series and the Camping World Truck Series.
The Sprint Cup Series is the highest level of racing in NASCAR. Because it has been known by many different names in its history, it is often called the "Cup Series". Drivers race in 36 races a year, and the driver with the most points at the end of the year is awarded the Sprint Cup. The closest championship battle was in 2011, and was won by Tony Stewart, who finished the season tied in driver points with Carl Edwards. Stewart won the Cup with five race wins on the season to Edwards' one. This ended a streak of five Sprint Cup wins by Jimmie Johnson. Kyle Busch won the 2015 Sprint Cup Series Championship.
The series began in 1949 as the Strictly Stock Series, and became the Grand National Series the next year. In 1971, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company became the series sponsor, and named it the Winston Cup Series after one of its cigarette brands. After the 2003 season, a new sponsorship deal was reached with Nextel Communications, a mobile phone company, and the series became the Nextel Cup Series. The current Sprint Cup name was first used in 2008, after Nextel was purchased by another phone company, Sprint, to form Sprint Nextel.
The car that has won the most was the 1957 Chevrolet with 59 wins.
The Xfinity Series is often called the minor series of NASCAR. Drivers who wish to drive in the Sprint Cup often race here first. Drivers race in 35 races, and the driver with the most points at the end of the year becomes the Xfinity Series champion.
The series grew out of NASCAR's Sportsman division, created in 1950 as a short track racing division. It became a national touring series in 1982. The new series was sponsored by Anheuser-Busch, first as the Budweiser Grand National Series and then as the Busch Grand National Series beginning in 1984. In 2003, NASCAR chose to drop the "Grand National" part of the name, making the competition the Busch Series. After Anheuser-Busch told NASCAR it would not renew its sponsorship after the 2007 season, Nationwide Insurance became the new sponsor starting in 2008. It left at the end of 2014 and the series became the Xfinity series in 2015. Chris Buescher was the 2015 Xfinity Series champion.
The Camping World Truck Series is pickup truck racing. This series is often known simply as the "Truck Series". The drivers race in 25 races a year. The driver with the most points at the end of the year is called the Camping World Truck Series Champion.
The series began in 1995 with American department store Sears as sponsor, using its well-known Craftsman brand of tools. The first season was known as the SuperTruck Series presented by Craftsman; the name changed to Craftsman Truck Series the next year. Sears ended its sponsorship of the series after the 2008 season. Camping World, which sells camping supplies and parts and services for recreational vehicles, became the new sponsor in 2009.
Erik Jones was the 2015 champion of the truck series.
The unofficial racing that became NASCAR started during the Prohibition Era of the 1920's. From 1920 to 1933, it was illegal for people in the United States to sell or drink alcoholic beverages. Even though it was illegal, people still made beer and whiskey (or also known as "moonshine"), and the makers needed people to drive their illegal whiskey to their customers. The drivers were known as "bootleggers". These bootleggers were known for making their cars' engines faster and driving fast. Eventually, they got together and started racing to see whose car was the fastest. These unofficial races became NASCAR.

</doc>
<doc id="47977" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47977" title="Monument">
Monument

A monument is a statue, building, or something else made to remember a person or important event. They are often designed as artistic objects to improve the look of a city or place. 

</doc>
<doc id="47978" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47978" title="Monument (disambiguation)">
Monument (disambiguation)

Monument may mean:

</doc>
<doc id="47979" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47979" title="Wikinews">
Wikinews

Wikinews is a free-content news source wiki and a project of the Wikimedia Foundation. The news articles are written by users working together with each other. Old articles are archived, and frozen so that people cannot change it anymore. Every article has a talk page where people can talk about the news in the article.
Wikinews is under the license of Creative Commons Attribution 2.5 License, which is different from the license that the other Wikimedia projects are under.

</doc>
<doc id="47980" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47980" title="1980 Summer Olympics">
1980 Summer Olympics

The 1980 Summer Olympics, officially known as the Games of the XXII Olympiad, were held in Moscow, Soviet Union from July 19 to August 3.
These are the top 10 best countries in the 1980 Summer Olympics.

</doc>
<doc id="47982" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47982" title="500s">
500s


</doc>
<doc id="47983" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47983" title="480s">
480s


</doc>
<doc id="47984" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47984" title="930s">
930s

Below are some of the important events that happened from 930 to 939.

</doc>
<doc id="47985" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47985" title="890s">
890s


</doc>
<doc id="47986" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47986" title="950s">
950s

Below are some of the important events that happened from 950 to 959.

</doc>
<doc id="47987" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47987" title="Jenna Jameson">
Jenna Jameson

Jenna Jameson (born Jenna Marie Massoli on April 9, 1974) is an American porn star. She grew up in Montana. She started making pornographic movies in 1993. Within three years, she had won the three awards in the adult movie industry. She has since won more than 20 adult movie awards, and has been inducted into both the X-Rated Critics Organization and Adult Video News Halls of Fame.
In 2004, she wrote an autobiography, "How to Make Love Like a Porn Star: A Cautionary Tale". The book was at the top of the "New York Times" Best Seller list for six weeks.

</doc>
<doc id="47988" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47988" title="Klingon Language Institute">
Klingon Language Institute

The Klingon Language Institute (KLI) is an organization who helps to teach and learn the Klingon language. Klingon is a language that has been made for the television show "Star Trek". In the television show, the Klingons are a fictional (made-up) alien people who do not come from Earth. 
The KLI is in Flourtown, Pennsylvania (USA). The organization started in 1992. For many years, students of the KLI got a small book called ' (Klingon for "language science") four times a year. Today, they can only get this booklet through the internet. Each year they have a meeting called " (the Klingon word for "big meeting"). Every student of the KLI can go to this meeting. At the meeting, they can speak and learn the Klingon language.
At the "" of the year 2003, a documentary movie about the KLI was made. Its name is 
"Earthlings: Ugly Bags of Mostly Water". This movie was shown at the Cannes Film Festival in France.
The leader of the KLI is its founder Lawrence M. Schoen, Ph.D.
From time to time a so-called Beginners' Grammarian is chosen from the best Klingon speakers. His duty is to help and teach the beginners of the Klingon language, especially in the Klingon email discussion group, which anyone can use. When his duty is over, he can still be called "Grammarian". Today, the KLI has about 20 of those former Beginners' Grammarians.
The KLI talks very often with Marc Okrand, the person who made the Klingon language. Since the third he has visited each one. When he is there, the students give him a list with words that they like to know. Not all the words are translated into Klingon. When he makes these new words, members of the KLI can read them in ".
Rich Yampell (known to people who speak Klingon as " or "Captain Krankor"), a software engineer currently living in Bellevue, Washington, is probably the world's first person to speak Klingon in normal conversation. He is the author of the book "The Grammarian's Desk," published in 1996 by the Klingon Language Institute, a collection of the columns he wrote for the Institute's scholarly journal "." Yampell is also the author and co-author of many songs, such as the Klingon Anthem " " (music and lyrics), " " (music and lyrics), "" (music).
Dr. d'Armond Speers is an American computational linguist (a word dude who works with talkie boxes) and a member of the KLI. 
He graduated from Georgetown University in 2002. His final work topic was "Representation of American Sign Language for Machine Translation." 
Dr. Speers has tried to teach his child in Klingon; He only spoke to him in Klingon, and his wife spoke to him in English. When the child became older, he did not want to learn Klingon any more, because there was nobody to talk in Klingon.
Dr. Lawrence M. Schoen is the founder and current director of the KLI. He makes the Institute's journal "". He has organized almost every , only two were organized by somebody else.
He obtained a bachelor's degree in psycholinguistics from California State University, Northridge, and then master's and doctoral degrees in psychology from Kansas State University. He has worked as a professor, teaching and doing research, at New College of Florida, Lake Forest College, Chestnut Hill College, and West Chester University. More recently he serves as the director of research and chief compliance officer for the Wedge Medical Center. 
He also writes books about science fiction, and is a member of SFWA. In the year 2007 he was nominated for the John W. Campbell Award for Best New Writer. 
He lives in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania USA. There he has a post office box in Flourtown, the international headquarters of the KLI.

</doc>
<doc id="47998" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47998" title="Journalism">
Journalism

Journalism is a type of writing. The term is used to describe the activities of newspapers, news shows on television, news shows on radio, and news magazine. 
There are many different news and information jobs in the field of journalism, such as the jobs of newspaper reporter, television news anchor, writer, editor, sub-editor, illustrator, and photographer. Most people use journalism to express themselves and put their feelings into what they are writing.
People who work in journalism jobs are called journalists.

</doc>
<doc id="48005" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48005" title="Tim Berners-Lee">
Tim Berners-Lee

Tim Berners-Lee (Sir Timothy John Berners-Lee, OM, KBE, FRS, FREng, FRSA) is the inventor of the World Wide Web. The WWW is the system that delivers webpages over the internet. He created a new computer language called HTML (Hypertext Markup Language) which most web pages are written in. The first web page was available on 6 August 1991. 
Berners-Lee now leads the World Wide Web Consortium. That is an organization that looks after the World Wide Web.
He is the author of the book "Weaving the Web". He is a director of The Web Science Research Initiative (WSRI), and a member of the advisory board of the MIT Center for Collective Intelligence. In April 2009, he was elected as a member of the United States National Academy of Sciences, based in Washington, D.C. In 1999, Time Magazine named Berners-Lee one of the 100 Most Important People of the 20th Century.
In March 2000 he was awarded an honorary degree from the Open University as Doctor of the University.
Tim Berners-Lee was born in London, on 8 June 1955. He is the son of Conway Berners-Lee and Mary Lee Woods. First, he attended Sheen Mount primary school. Then he went on to Emanuel School in London, from 1969 to 1973. After that, he studied at Queen's College, Oxford, from 1973 to 1976. While he was there, he received a first-class degree in Physics.

</doc>
<doc id="48006" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48006" title="Assimilation">
Assimilation

Assimilation can mean: 

</doc>
<doc id="48007" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48007" title="Assimilation (biology)">
Assimilation (biology)

Assimilation in biology, is the combination of two processes which get nutrients for cells.
The first (in animals) is eating and digesting food. Food is absorbed and broken down. This is done by physical breakdown (chewing and stomach churning), then chemical breakdown by enzymes and acids) The results are absorbed into the bloodstream.
The second process of is the chemical alteration of substances in the bloodstream by the liver. Many compounds needed by cells are done by this second process. Both the liver and cellular secretions can be very specific in their action. This second process is where the absorbed food reaches the cells via the liver.

</doc>
<doc id="48009" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48009" title="Vaihingen">
Vaihingen

Vaihingen an der Enz is a town in southern German state of Baden-Württemberg. It is on the banks of the Enz river between the large cities of Stuttgart and Karlsruhe. About 30,000 people live there.
Vaihingen is an old city, going back as far as the year 799 a.d.. Vaihingen was formally established as a town by Count Gottfried von Vaihingen in the year 1252. After theReformation, Vaihingen became a Protestant city. During the Thirty Years' War (1618-1648), Vaihingen became a battle ground between the Protestants and Catholics. The Revolution of 1848 hurt the economy in Vaihingen. Many people left Vaihingen to look for work in other towns. In the early 1900s, a railroad connection was made to Vaihingen. That brought more people, and also businesses, to Vaihingen. In 1938 Vaihingen became the regional center.

</doc>
<doc id="48010" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48010" title="Integration">
Integration

Integration may be any of the following:

</doc>
<doc id="48011" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48011" title="Cultural assimilation">
Cultural assimilation

Cultural assimilation, or 'assimilation' for short (but that word also has other meanings), is an intense process of consistent integration when members of an ethno-cultural group, typically immigrants, or other minority groups, are "absorbed" into an established, generally larger community. This means a loss of all or many characteristics which make the newcomers different. A region or society where assimilation is occurring is sometimes referred to as a "melting pot." 
From a historical perspective Assimilation is the process by which an individual or minority group loses its original culture when absorbed into another culture; in the context of colonialism, a policy of total integration of colonies into the colonizing country.
It is often remembered as a painful or coercive event.

</doc>
<doc id="48012" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48012" title="New wave music">
New wave music

New Wave (or New Wave music) is a style of rock music that developed in the late 1970s and early 1980s. New wave music was inspired by the punk rock movement.
New Wave music is rock music mixed with other types of music, such as punk rock music, funk, disco, beat and ska. 
New wave bands such as the Talking Heads were anti-corporate, experimental, and had complex lyrics. Other new wave bands included Blondie, Television, Patti Smith, The Jam, The B-52's, Devo, Jungle Street, and Elvis Costello.
In essence, New Wave maintained the rebellious and energetic side of punk rock, yet was less raw and aggressive. Whilst a lot of New Wave was lyrically complex, much New Wave was pop-based, containing simple melodies and catchy hooks. Additionally, New Wave music was also very electronic in nature, and made strong usage of synthesizers. New Wave is a broad term, and as such, New Wave artists varied greatly in style, ranging from pure rock, to synthpop, to reggae-influenced music. New Wave, as a genre, additionally had a strong visual aesthetic, and is noted for the colourful fashions which New Wave artists would sport in the 1980s.
When MTV started broadcasting in 1981, many New Wave bands had their music videos played on television. This made New Wave music more popular. A well-known New Wave video is "Whip It" by Devo.

</doc>
<doc id="48013" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48013" title="Apple Corps">
Apple Corps

Apple Corps Ltd. is a multimedia company started 1968 by The Beatles. It grew out of their earlier company, Beatles Ltd., and included NEMS Enterprises, the company started by Beatles manager Brian Epstein.
The Beatles started Apple in 1967, because they wanted to help other musicians, writers, artists and other creative people to succeed. They knew many talents were not discovered, because the business side of their fields were controlled by large corporations. Many corporations cared more about making money than developing new ideas. The Beatles hoped to find and develop the best new talents. Brian Epstein helped to work out the plans for Apple, but died before the company was founded. Epstein's family sold NEMS Enterprises to the Beatles, because they did not wish to keep the company without him.
Apple's first business venture was a retail store, called the Apple Boutique. It was on Baker Street in London, England. The outside of the building was painted with a strange mural, and inside clothes and other items were for sale. The mural and clothes were designed by an artistic trio called The Fool. More things were stolen than sold in the boutique, and it was not profitable. Other local businesses did not like the mural outside, and got the city to order it removed. The Beatles decided to close the store, and gave away everything that had been for sale.
Apple bought a townhouse at 3 Savile Row in London, and it became Apple's headquarters. The Beatles spent nearly as much time there as they did at Abbey Road Studios. Nearly all the people who worked for them had offices in the building, and they planned to turn the basement into a recording studio. "Magic Alex", a Greek-born designer, was in charge of making the recording studio, and also electronics products that Apple could sell, such as an apple-shaped transistor radio.
Apple Corps set up many divisions. Two of these were Apple Films and Apple Records. Apple Films handled the television movie "Magical Mystery Tour", and also music videos (then called "promos") for new Beatles songs. Later Apple Films produced movies like "Born to Boogie" and "Son of Dracula".
Apple Records turned out to be the most successful part of Apple Corps, mostly because of the Beatles's record sales. EMI had a recording contract with the band, but they agreed to become distributors for Apple Records. Apple would choose, sign up, and promote recording artists, while EMI would press their records and send them to stores. Hundreds of artists and bands sent in demoes to Apple, hoping to be signed up. As it turned out, most of the artists chosen were handpicked by the Beatles, their friends, or people who worked for them. 
Badfinger, who were Apple's biggest-selling group besides the Beatles, were managed by Mal Evans, who had been the Beatles's road manager. Jackie Lomax was an old friend from Liverpool. Mary Hopkin was referred to Apple by Twiggy, a popular fashion model. Billy Preston played keyboards with Little Richard, who toured with the Beatles years earlier. The London chapter of the Radha-Krishna Temple had singers, who recorded an album with George Harrison released on Apple. Other bands and artists were also signed to Apple Records (including Yoko Ono, the wife of John Lennon), but most of their records never became hits.
After Brian Epstein died, the Beatles had not sought a new manager. They believed they could handle their own affairs, working together with just their helpers and their normal business contacts. Over time, this proved to be a bad idea. Small disagreements between the band members turned into major problems at Apple, and agreements could not always be worked out. Many of the people hired to work for Apple caused more problems than they solved, or cost the company money. Magic Alex dreamed and talked big, but could not deliver on the promises he made. Even his recording studio at Apple had to be completely rebuilt, because he had not planned it well or asked for outside help.
The problems between the Beatles led to their breaking up early in 1970. Apple had been part of those problems, and each Beatle lost interest as he saw his hopes for Apple would not work out. Without their input, Apple soon wilted. Its divisions closed one by one. Apple Records's artists went to other labels, or retired from recording. Paul McCartney sued to dissolve the Beatles's business interests. The lawsuit went on for years. The rebuilt Apple Studio was well-liked, and a good place to work on recordings, but closed its doors by 1975. Apple's townhouse headquarters was sold. (A photograph of its front door, covered with graffiti, later appeared on a Ringo Starr album cover.)
In 1975, the Beatles dissolved their partnership, but decided to keep Apple Corps incorporated. It became the agency in charge of Beatles-related merchandise, such as collectibles, memorabilia, and new releases of old recordings by the band. Apple also owns the rights to most filmed and videotape of the Beatles, including their public appearances and concerts.
Apple Records reissued many of their non-Beatles recordings on compact disc in the early 1990s, again using EMI as distributors. A television miniseries, "The Beatles Anthology", appeared in 1995, produced by Apple. It was a long documentary of the band's history, and included rare concert and video scenes. A companion book was published later.
Apple Corps was most recently in the news, because of a lawsuit between Apple Corps and Apple Computer Inc., an unrelated company. The two companies had trouble in the past, over the use of the Apple name. They made a deal that Apple Computers would not act as a music company. When Apple Computer Inc. began to sell their iPod, and set up their iTunes music store, Apple Corps believed they had broken their agreement, and took them to court. Apple Computers won the case, but the two companies later worked out a new deal. This deal now means that the Beatles music is now on the iTunes store, whereas it was not there before.

</doc>
<doc id="48014" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48014" title="Blondie">
Blondie

Blondie is an American new wave pop-rock band who were most popular in the 1970s and 1980s. The lead singer of the band is Debbie Harry. Their best-known hit was "Call Me!". The group's music mixes pop, rock and disco.

</doc>
<doc id="48015" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48015" title="Patti Smith">
Patti Smith

Patti Smith (born Patricia Lee Smith on December 30, 1946) is an American singer and poet. She was an important member of the punk rock music trend in the 1970s. Her first album "Horses" was produced by John Cale.

</doc>
<doc id="48016" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48016" title="Talking Heads">
Talking Heads

Talking Heads were a new wave band from the United States from the late 1970s. Their music had a big influence on other rock music bands.

</doc>
<doc id="48017" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48017" title="Devo">
Devo

Devo is an American new wave pop music band formed in Ohio. Their best-known lineup consisted of Gerald Casale, Mark Mothersbaugh, Bob Mothersbaugh, Robert Casale, and Alan Myers. They had popular songs in the 1970s and 1980s. Devo had a big influence on the new wave music movement.
Devo often used various keyboards (called synthesizers) in their songs, including the Moog synthesizer.
Their most famous song was called "Whip It". That song was released in 1980.
Devo occasionally performs concerts for the public.

</doc>
<doc id="48019" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48019" title="Illegal drugs">
Illegal drugs

Illegal drugs are drugs which have limitations on their ownership or use by a government, and are illegal in certain situations (meaning a person is not allowed to have them). A drug is any chemical that affects the human body or mind when it is swallowed, breathed in, or consumed in another way. A "psychoactive" drug is a drug that affects the brain. Some controlled drugs are allowed if you have permission (called a "prescription") from a doctor. Other drugs are illegal—meaning you are never allowed to have them. Individual countries and places have different laws about different drugs, and there are also international treaties against some drugs. The most used drugs are not illegal. 
There are many categories (types) of psychoactive drugs. These categories have subcategories (categories within categories). For example, benzodiazepines and opiates are both subcategories of depressants. Some drugs such as ketamine have elements of two categories (hallucinogens and depressants). Every drug is different, so it is important to know the effects of each individual drug, not just the general group.
Hallucinogens change the way people see, hear, feel or think. The three main groups of hallucinogens are: psychedelics, dissociatives and deliriants. Each group has different effects. They may cause hallucinations, when a person imagines something that is not really there.
Stimulants speed up the central nervous system. People using stimulants may feel happy and excited, and have more energy, concentration or motivation. Stimulants make it difficult to sleep.
Depressants are drugs which slow down the central nervous system. People using depressants may feel happy and content, as well as sleepy and relaxed. Depressants often slow down bodily functions such as breathing and heart rate, and may make it hard to speak (slurred speech) or move properly in large enough doses, in which case they may be harmful. 
Antipsychotics are drugs which balance people's moods or stop hallucinations. Many anti-psychotics are legal prescription drug such as anti-depressants (which are used to help to stop people feeling depressed).
People might use drugs as medicine if they are sick and the drugs help make them better. People might also use drugs recreationally (to have fun). These usually are illegal drugs. Some people use drugs to make themselves more productive or to help themselves stay awake- in this case they would use a stimulant such as amphetamines or caffeine.
Some people use drugs for spiritual or religious reasons - some Christians use small doses of wine (alcohol) as part of their religious ceremonies, and members of the Native American Church use Peyote (a type of cactus that contains the drug mescaline). Some Hindus use cannabis (a plant that contains two main chemicals called THC and CBD) as part of their religious rites.
Some people also use drugs because they are addicted. This will be explained further below.
The law is different in each country. A drug can be legal in one country and illegal in another. For instance, in Ecuador, cannabis is legal to have and in the United States of America it is illegal to have cannabis in most states. In the United Arab Emirates no one is allowed to have alcohol, but in the United States adults are allowed to have alcohol. Some drugs are only legal if you have permission (called a "prescription" or "recommendation") from a doctor to have them as medicine. If a person is caught by the police with controlled drugs they are not allowed to have, they may be taken to court and get fined (they have to pay money to the government), or even go to jail (or in some countries, they may be executed). It is important to know what the law says about drugs in your country or religion/state.
Drugs can have many different effects on a person's health. Some drugs such as tobacco (a plant that contains a drug called nicotine) and alcohol directly cause hundreds of thousands of people to die every year. Other drugs such as cannabis or psilocybin mushrooms (sometimes called "magic mushrooms") cause no deaths. However even if a drug doesn't cause any deaths directly, there are other health effects to be aware of. Someone who has taken a drug and is experiencing its effects is said to be "intoxicated". People who are intoxicated may do things they otherwise would not do, and they may be unable to safely drive or operate machinery. If an intoxicated person does drive a car/vehicle or operate machinery it may cause accidents, depending on how much of the drug they have had and how affected they are.
Overdosing is when a person takes too much of a drug at once and it becomes very dangerous for their health - they might even die. Some drugs (such as heroin, alcohol and aspirin) are easy to overdose on, while others are nearly impossible to overdose on (LSD, cannabis). Many drugs can cause long term health effects separate from just their short term effects, for instance smoking tobacco can cause cancer, and abusing alcohol can cause liver damage.
Many drugs are used as medicine to help make sick people better. For instance opiates (like morphine, heroin and codeine) are analgesics (pain killers). Nitrous oxide and ketamine are used as anaesthetics to put people and animals to sleep during a surgical operation. Amphetamines can even be legally prescribed by a doctor for attention disorders in some countries, such as the United States.
Using two drugs together can sometimes cause positive or negative reactions (including life-threatening ones). Generally it is best to ask a medical professional such as a doctor before combining two drugs.
Addiction is when a person takes a drug constantly because they think they need it and find it very hard to stop. Dependence is when a person's body adapts to a drug so that the body is more resistant and starts craving the drug all the time - if a dependent person stops taking that drug, they may feel very sick, or rarely, even die without medical help. Addiction and dependence can happen separately to each other, and people can be come addicted to things that are not drugs (such as gambling, sex or just about any activity). Addiction and dependence can sometimes make it very hard for a person to live a normal life. Some psychoactive drugs are known to be very addictive (they often cause addiction: such as alcohol, heroin, tobacco, methamphetamine and cocaine) whereas other drugs are known to be slightly less addictive (such as khat, cannabis and caffeine) or not addictive at all (such as LSD and Psilocybin mushrooms).
There are many different ways of using drugs. Different drugs can be used in different ways, depending on the drug. Some drugs are available in different forms and each form can only be used a certain way - for instance crack cocaine (cocaine in a "base" form) works much better when smoked or vaporized, and powder cocaine (cocaine in a "salt" form) is usually snorted. Drugs can be taken:
Orally is the slowest method of using a drug as it must be digested in the stomach first. Injecting a drug (IV) is the fastest and the most likely to lead to an overdose. It is important to always use clean needles when injecting - injecting with used or dirty needles can spread deadly infections such as Hepatitis C or HIV.
Depending on the drug, smoking can lead to cancer (for instance smoking tobacco can cause cancer). Smoking can also sometimes lead to emphysema (a disease of the lungs), depending on what is being smoked. Insuflating a drug can lead to ear, nose and throat conditions depending on the drug being used. Eating a drug can sometimes cause mouth-related problems such as tooth decay.

</doc>
<doc id="48021" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48021" title="Crack (drug)">
Crack (drug)

Crack (or crack cocaine) is an illegal drug which is made from cocaine. Cocaine is mostly an illegal drug that comes from the leaves of a plant called coca. When people smoke crack, they have a feeling called "being high." The name "crack" comes from the cracking sound the drug makes as it is smoked. The cracking sound is caused by evaporating water escaping. In most parts of the world, production (making crack), possession (having crack), and distribution (selling or giving away crack) are illegal.
Crack is a very addictive drug. People can get both physically and psychologically addicted to crack (meaning that the body and the mind can both become addicted to, or "hooked on," the drug.) Using crack is dangerous for many reasons. The drug can cause physical problems (like heart and lung problems or rotted teeth) and psychological (or mental) problems, like depression and psychosis (not understanding what is real and what is not real). An overdose of crack - taking too much of the drug - can cause death. Also, because crack is illegal, people have to break the law in order to get it, and they can get sent to jail if they are caught. People may also do other illegal things in order to get crack or to get money to buy crack, because the urge to get the drug is so strong in people who are addicted.
Crack is called a "gateway drug" because people who use crack are more likely to use other drugs, like cocaine and heroin. Using crack along with other illegal drugs, or alcohol, is even more dangerous than using crack by itself.
Crack is such a strong and addictive drug that a person can become addicted the first time they use crack. When a person tries to quit using crack, they go through a process called withdrawal that is very hard to go through. Withdrawal happens when a person's body or mind is used to having a drug in its system all the time, and suddenly the drug is not there any more. Because crack can cause both physical addiction (when the body is hooked on the drug) and psychological addiction (when the mind is hooked on the drug), quitting crack can cause both physical withdrawal (which causes physical symptoms in the body) and psychological withdrawal (which causes symptoms in the mind). Symptoms of (or problems caused by) physical withdrawal can include nausea (feeling like throwing up), vomiting (throwing up), and pain in the muscles. Psychological withdrawal can make a person feel very depressed, anxious (worried and not able to relax), agitated (restless and "keyed up"), or tired. When a person is withdrawing from crack, the urge to use crack will be very, very strong, and it is very hard for the person to fight off these urges and keep away from using the drug again.
Crack cocaine is inhaled from a small glass pipe. This is often called a stem. It has a funnel-shaped 'bowlpiece' where the drug is put to be smoked. There is a 2 to 3 inch long stem attached that the smoke travels through on the way to the consumer. These stems may be used in waterpipes, such as 'bongs' or 'bubblers', in which case about a 1/2 inch of the stem is submerged in the water and the smoke is sucked out through the water to the consumer. These stems are also used to inhale methamphetamine. When used for crack cocaine or methamphetamine, the stem is generally used as a standalone unit, without any water or attachment of any sort. After prolonged use, the glass from the stem may deteriorate from exposure to heat as well as acidity, and may become brittle and break or crack easily.

</doc>
<doc id="48023" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48023" title="Twiggy Lawson">
Twiggy Lawson

Twiggy Lawson (born Leslie Hornby19 September 1949, in London, England) is a English actress, fashion model and singer. Her childhood nickname Twiggy came from her thin legs. In the 1960s, when she first became famous she weighed only .
As an actress, she starred in "The Boy Friend", and had featured roles in "The Blues Brothers" and "Young Charlie Chaplin". She recently appeared as herself, on "America's Next Top Model", as one of the judges.

</doc>
<doc id="48031" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48031" title="Special effect">
Special effect

Special effects is a term for the things used in movies to create images that do not exist. There are many different types of special effects, for example, making little models or using computer animation.
Action movies often use special effects to create images that would be dangerous or cost a lot of money to create in real life. For example, if an action movie shows a very big battleship blowing up in flames, it would be expensive to buy a battleship and dangerous to blow it up. For this reason, most action movies use special effects if they want to show something blowing up in flames. A movie maker could make a little model of a battleship that is only a few yards or meters long, and then blow it up while filming with the motion picture camera. This would be cheaper and safer.
Science fiction movies also often use special effects. They usually tell imaginary stories that take place in the future, on other planets. It would be impossible to actually make a science fiction movie on another planet. For this reason, filmmakers use special effects to create images that look like other planets. For example, for a science fiction movie about a world with three suns, the filmmaker could hire computer experts to create an image of three suns which would appear in the background of the movie scenes. 
Using a computer to create special effects is called "Computer Generated Imagery" (CGI) or "Computer animation". Most science fiction movies from the 2000s use a lot of CGI sequences.

</doc>
<doc id="48042" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48042" title="Revolutions of 1848 in the German states">
Revolutions of 1848 in the German states

The Revolutions in the German states developed in most of the 38 states of Germany that were loosely bound together in the German Confederation after the Congress of Vienna in 1815. To these states belonged Austria as well though Hungary that was part of the Austrian-Hungarian Empire was not part of the German Confederation.
These revolutions had as example the French Revolution of 1848 in February 1848, when King Phillipe of France abdicated the throne.
The biggest successes of the German revolutions happened in March in Berlin and Vienna. The result was the election of a German National Assembly in Frankfurt am Main.
But it was in Berlin too where the Prussian king Frederick William refused to become emperor of a united German state.
Austria and Prussia withdrew their delegates from the Assembly, and the Assembly itself slowly disintegrated afterwards.

</doc>
<doc id="48044" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48044" title="Abdication">
Abdication

Abdication is the act of resigning from an office (official job), especially from being the leader of a country. The word is normally used for kings and queens who decide to give up their position which brings an end to a reign. The term is also used for popes.
A similar term for an elected or appointed official is resignation.
King Edward VIII of the United Kingdom is an example of a king who abdicated. 

</doc>
<doc id="48047" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48047" title="Beta Columbae">
Beta Columbae

Beta Columbae is part of the Columbae constellation. The Columbae constellation is known as "The Dove".

</doc>
<doc id="48050" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48050" title="Philadelphia Eagles">
Philadelphia Eagles

The Philadelphia Eagles are an American football team in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The Eagles joined the National Football League in the year 1933. They have appeared in two Super Bowls (XXXIX and XV) but have not yet won a Super Bowl. They have won three championships in 1948, 1949, and 1960. Sixteen Eagles players have become Pro Football Hall of Famers. Donovan McNabb was the quarterback for the Eagles from 1999-2009. He was traded to the Washington Redskins on April 4, 2010. Michael Vick was also an Eagles quarterback. Sam Bradford is the starting quarterback for the Philadelphia Eagles.
The Eagles were named after the Bald Eagle, a symbol of the USA. The city of Philadelphia played a large part in the early history of the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="48056" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48056" title="YouTube">
YouTube

YouTube is a free video sharing website that lets people upload, view, and share videos. Videos can be rated with a like or dislike, videos can be commented if logged in to an account, and the number of times a video has been watched (known as "views") is put on the site. Users who have accounts can also subscribe to channels. At the moment, Google (a search engine company) owns and operates YouTube. Many different types of videos can be put onto the website, such as educational content, animations, and funny stuff. YouTube was started on February 15, 2005 by three former workers of PayPal.
YouTube is blocked in many schools because it allows children to search for videos online that would otherwise distract them from their lessons, much like how other social networking sites and game sites are blocked for the same purpose. But at a higher level than schools (and in workplaces), even some governments have blocked YouTube access to their country's public, but their reasons can vary. 
On December 3, 2006, the government of Iran blocked YouTube and several other sites in an attempt to stop films and music from other countries from being seen.
Turkey blocked YouTube on March 6 2007 for letting videos that were insulting or discriminating to Turks and Atatürk, who is the founder of modern Turkey, to be shown, because of a "virtual war" between Greeks, Armenians, Kurds and Turks on YouTube, with people from each side posting videos to hurt the other. The video that caused banning alleged Turks and Atatürk to be 'gay'. The video was first mentioned on Turkish CNN and the Istanbul public prosecutor sued YouTube for being mean to Turkishness. The court suspended access to YouTube while waiting for the removal of the video. The ban was strongly criticized. YouTube lawyers sent documentary of removal to court and users could access the website again on March 9 2007.
During the week of March 8, YouTube was blocked in Thailand. Many bloggers (people who have a "diary" online) believed the reason YouTube was blocked was because of a video of the former Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra's speech on CNN. However, the government did not confirm or give reasons for the ban. YouTube was accessible from March 10.
On the night of April 3, YouTube was again blocked in Thailand. The government said it was because of a video on the site that it said was "insulting" to King Bhumibol Adulyadej. The Ministry of Information and Communication Technology claimed that it would unblock YouTube in a few days, after websites containing references to this video are blocked instead of the entire website. Communications Minister Sitthichai Pookaiyaudom said, "When they decide to withdraw the clip, we will withdraw the ban." Soon after this incident the internet technology blog Mashable was banned from Thailand over the reporting of the YouTube clips in question.
YouTube is being sued by Brazilian model and MTV VJ Daniela Cicarelli (better known as Ronaldo's ex-fiancée) on the grounds that the site is making available a video footage made by a paparazzi, in which she and her boyfriend are having sex on a Spanish beach. The lawsuit says that YouTube has to be blocked in Brazil until all copies of the video are removed. On Saturday, January 6, 2007, a legal injunction ordered that filters be put in place to prevent users in Brazil from going to the website.
The effectiveness of the measure has been questioned, since the video is not available only on YouTube, but rather has become an Internet phenomenon. On Tuesday, January 9, 2007, the same court overturned their earlier decision, ordering the filters to be taken down, even though the footage was still forbidden, but without technical support for its blockage.
On May 25, 2007 the state-owned company Maroc Telecom blocked all access to YouTube. There were no reasons given why YouTube was blocked. But the guesses are that it might have something to do with some pro-separatist group Polisario clips (Polisario is the Western Sahara independence movement) or because of some videos that criticized King Mohammed VI. This block did not concern the other two private internet-providers, Wana and Meditel. YouTube became accessible again on May 30th, 2007 after "Maroc Telecom" unofficially announced that the denied access to the website was only a "technical glitch".
In Australia, some schools, including all secondary schools in Victoria, have YouTube blocked from student access, after fights have been posted on YouTube.
Currently in China the government has blocked YouTube. For several years it has been unblocked but since the past five years it has been blocked.
According the site's terms of service, users may upload videos only if they have the permission of the copyright holder and of the people in the video. Pornography, defamation, harassment, commercials and videos that encourage criminal conduct may not be uploaded. The uploader gives YouTube permission to give out and change the uploaded video for any purpose, and they do not have permission anymore when the uploader deletes the video from the site. Users may view videos on the site but are not allowed to save them on their computers.
On June 19, 2007, Google CEO Eric Schmidt was in Paris to launch the new localization system. The interface of the website is available with localized versions in 90 countries, and a worldwide version.
The interface of the YouTube website is available in 76 language versions including, Amharic, Armenian, Bengali, Burmese, Khmer, Laotian, Mongolian, Persian and Uzbek, which do have local channel versions.

</doc>
<doc id="48068" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48068" title="Greenwich">
Greenwich

Greenwich is a district of London. It is in the Borough of Greenwich, about 8.9 km east south-east of Charing Cross. The Royal Observatory there is the basis for the Greenwich Meridian (0° longitude) and Greenwich Mean Time (GMT).
Greenwich is a town with a long history. It became the site of a royal palace, the Palace of Placentia, from the 15th century. This was the birthplace of many members of the Tudor dynasty, including Henry VIII and Elizabeth I. The palace became ruined during the English Civil War. It was rebuilt as a hospital by Sir Christopher Wren. These buildings became the a military college in 1873, which lasted until 1998. The town became a popular resort in the 17th century. Many rich houses were built there, such as Vanbrugh Castle (1717). Estates were built above the town centre.
Greenwich was part of Kent until 1889 when the County of London was created.
Maritime Greenwich is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. It is on the River Thames. The site includes buildings along the riverfront, and surrounding the 17th century Queen's House. The group include the complex of the Royal Hospital for Seamen, the Royal Observatory and the Royal Park.
The Royal Hospital was laid out to a master plan created by Christopher Wren. The hospital complex was built over many decades. Other architects who added to this long-term project included Nicholas Hawksmoor.
The core of this group of buildings is the Queen's House which was designed by Inigo Jones. This was the first Palladian building in Britain.
The Royal Observatory is now the baseline for the world's time zone system and for the measurement of longitude around the globe.
The Royal Park is a symmetrical design in an irregular landscape around the buildings of the World Heritage Site. The park was created by André Le Nôtre.
The park and grounds behind the buildings on the river held the competitions for the horse-related events of the 2012 Summer Olympics.

</doc>
<doc id="48079" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48079" title="Catch Me If You Can (movie)">
Catch Me If You Can (movie)

Catch Me If You Can is a 2002 American biographical crime drama movie. It stars Leonardo DiCaprio and Tom Hanks. The movie was directed by Steven Spielberg. It is based on the 1980 book by Frank Abagnale.
"Catch Me if You Can" is set in 1963. Frank Abagnale is played by Leonardo DiCaprio. Frank is sixteen years old. Carl Hanratty is played by Tom Hanks. Carl is an FBI investigator. When Frank's parents get divorced, Frank decides to leave his house change his name. He buys a pilot uniform and forges (makes a fake copy of) a pilot licence. He travels with PanAm airlines to many countries. He pays with forged cheques in the USA. 
Then Frank decides to work as a doctor. He again forges the documents. In the hospital he meets a girl. He works as a lawyer, so that he can marry the girl from the hospital. Carl Hanratty is at the wedding. Carl reveals to the girls' father who Frank is. In the meantime, Frank tells his wife the truth about his life and what he has done. Carl searches the house, but Frank has already left. Frank escapes and moves to Mont-de Marson, France where he lives with his mother for a while. On Christmas Day, Carl Hanratty knocks on the door and he tells Frank that he is arresting him. Frank goes quietly with Carl. When Frank leaves jail, he works with Carl Hanratty, helping Carl to catch criminals who forge cheques and other documents.

</doc>
<doc id="48081" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48081" title="Armorica">
Armorica

Armorica or Aremorica is the name given in ancient times to the part of Gaul that includes the Brittany peninsula and the territory between the Seine and Loire rivers

</doc>
<doc id="48082" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48082" title="Gaul">
Gaul

Gaul () was the name given in ancient times to the area of Western Europe that included northern Italy, France, Belgium, western Switzerland and the parts of the Netherlands and Germany on the west bank of the Rhine river. Many Celtic tribes lived in the region and were known by the Romans simply as "Gauls". 
In English, the word "Gaul" () may also mean a Celtic inhabitant of that region, although the expression may be used for all ancient speakers of the Gaulish language as well. In this way, "Gaul" and "Celt" are sometimes used in the same sense.
Gauls under Brennus attacked Rome with the Battle of the Allia (390 BC). 

</doc>
<doc id="48083" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48083" title="Danelaw">
Danelaw

The Danelaw (from the Old English "Dena lagu", Danish: "Danelagen" ) is an 11th century name for an area of northern and eastern England under the administrative control of the Danish Viking empire (or Danes, or Norsemen) from the late 9th century until the early 11th century.

</doc>
<doc id="48084" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48084" title="Jorvik">
Jorvik

Jórvík was the Viking name for the English city of York and the kingdom centred there.
York had been founded as the Roman legionary fortress of "Eboracum" and revived as the Anglo-Saxon trading port of "Eoforwic". It was first captured in November 866 by a large army of Danish Vikings.

</doc>
<doc id="48085" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48085" title="Mutton">
Mutton

The terms lamb, mutton or hoggett are used to describe the meat of a domestic sheep. The meat of a sheep a year old or younger is generally known as "lamb", whereas the meat of an older sheep is either "hoggett" or "mutton" depending on its age and characteristics. In some countries all such meat is referred to as "lamb". All of these are known as sheepmeats.
The meat of a lamb is taken from the animal between one month and one year old, with a weight of between 5.5 and 30 kilograms. This meat generally is more tender than that from older sheep and is often eaten more often in some western countries, most often on Easter.
Hoggett and mutton can taste more flavorful than lamb because they contain a higher concentration of species-characteristic fatty acids; many therefore prefer the stronger flavour of older animals . 

</doc>
<doc id="48086" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48086" title="Prion">
Prion

A prion is an infectious protein. The word is short for "proteinaceous infectious particles". 
All known prion diseases in mammals affect the structure of the brain or other neural tissue. At present they are untreatable and always fatal.
Prions cause many forms of encephalitis, or brain disease, such as scrapie, Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease (Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy) and kuru. Prions work by changing the shape of proteins in the infected animals. While normal proteins have lots of alpha helices, or twisted parts, changed proteins have lots of beta sheets, or flat parts. The word is pronounced "pree-on".
Because prions are proteins. and proteins cannot reproduce themselves, it is a mystery how prions work. A vast amount of molecular biology research is going on to find out how they reproduce themselves, with no clear result at present. 

</doc>
<doc id="48087" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48087" title="Hashish">
Hashish

Hashish is a sticky, thick, dark-colored resin (like sap) which is made from the flower of the female cannabis plant, "Cannabis sativa". The cannabis plant's leaves and flowers contain chemicals known as cannabinoids. The cannabinoids include THC which gives a person who smokes or eats parts of the cannabis plant a feeling of euphoria (makes the user feel good or happy), CBD, which gives the user a feeling of relaxation or sedation, and CBG which is responsible for giving the user red/droopy eyes. The name "hashish" comes from an Arabic word meaning "dry weed". 
The two main drugs made from the cannabis plant are marijuana and hashish. Hashish has much more of the chemical THC (which makes users feel good or happy) than marijuana. Hashish is an illegal drug in the United States, Canada, and many other countries. It is controversial, since some people think it should be legal, some think it should be legal only for medical purposes, and some think it should not be legal at all.
To make hashish, workers rub cannabis blossoms with their hands to get the resin to stick to their hands, and then the resin is collected. Another way to make hashish is to sift the ground-up, dried leaves through a screen and compress the powder resin to make a "brick".
A more modern method of producing hashish is through alcohol extraction. In this method cannabis plants are ground up and covered in isopropyl alcohol or butane and left to sit. The resulting mixture is then evaporated off the alcohol leaving the active terpenoid and terpene compounds which can be used immediately or cooked into bricks. 
When a person wants to use hashish, they usually smoke it by putting a small piece of hashish in a joint with tobacco or marijuana. Then the person lights the paper roll with a flame and inhales the smoke that comes out, exhaling 1-3 seconds after holding in the smoke.
Another way that people use hashish is by putting a small piece of hashish in a pipe or bong (water pipe) then lighting it with a flame, inhaling the smoke. Some people also eat hashish, usually by mixing it into food or baked goods.
The legality of hashish use varies by country. In the USA, there are conflicting state and federal laws concerning the use of the drug. Some states allow medicinal use but these state laws are superseded US federal law which prohibits all use of hash and marijuana. 
Hashish is not legal in the Netherlands, but there are no criminal laws against having a small amount of cannabis (marijuana or hashish). This is because the Netherlands has decided that having cannabis should not be a crime. Some other countries are starting to "decriminalize" marijuana as well (make using it or having it no longer be a crime).
In some countries, such as Canada and the United States, sick people with serious diseases can legally use marijuana if they have a prescription from a medical doctor. When people with serious medical conditions such as AIDS or Multiple Sclerosis smoke marijuana, it helps to improve their mood and increase their appetite.
Hashish has much more of the chemical THC (which is a short form for "delta-9-tetra-hydro-cannabinol") than marijuana. THC is the chemical (or drug) which causes people who take hashish or marijuana to feel euphoria (happy). Hashish is a much stronger drug than marijuana. 
When people smoke hashish (in a cigarette, a tin or glass pipe, or other forms of smoking apparatus like a bong) or eat hashish, certain sensations come about. One can start feeling any of the following depending on the strain or origin: happy, relaxed, feeling silly, cloudy (not able to think clearly) which can be descriptive of the type of high experienced. The term of "getting high" could mean that the effects are a more mental stimulation while other types that are for "getting stoned" tend to render the user in a relaxed and observational state. The two types of this "High", are called 1.) a heady high or 2.) couchlock. A heady high does exactly what it sounds like by creating mental stimulation that sometimes leads to exaggerated imagination and potential over analysis on simple subjects. When one "over does it", the stimulation can lead to various degrees of dizziness, euphoria and a sensation of feeling uncoordinated. In a "couchlock" state, one becomes extremely focused on a singular action or topic, sometimes leading to an unproductive state. The latter is achieved depending on the strain of marijuana or hashish, and also depends on the amount of the drug taken.
Since hashish is much stronger than marijuana, users may get strange visions or thoughts (hallucinations). Some people who take a large amount of hashish may start feeling scared, strange, or paranoid (worried that something bad is going to happen).
In the 19th century, hashish was used as a source of inspiration by Charles Baudelaire's Club des Hachichins. This was a group of French writers.
Smoking any drugs such as marijuana, hashish, or tobacco is bad for the lungs. Smoke hurts the lungs and the throat because the smoke has tar in it and contains chemicals that can cause cancer in the lungs or mouth if the person smokes over a long time period. A person who only eats hashish will not hurt their lungs or throat. A relatively newer process of inhalation which is much safer than smoking is vaporizing the Hashish. This method is based on increasing the temperature of the Hashish to about 190-195 degrees Celsius which is about the temperature THC vaporizes at but is far below the point when "carbons" begin being burned. The end result is the THC compound being breathed in combined with air rather than the THC compound being breathed in with smoke.
Most other illegal drugs, such as heroin, crack, and cocaine are very addictive. This means that if a person starts taking heroin, meth, or cocaine, the person will want to keep taking more of the drug, even if it is making them sick (ill). Legal drugs such as tobacco and alcohol are also found to be addictive. Tobacco has additives that make it more harmful than cannabis and hash.
Hashish and marijuana are not physically addictive like heroin, cocaine and cigarettes; however, users may develop a psychological addiction.
Long term impacts of use can also include:
Hashish is often just called "hash". Slang terms vary from one country to country. A pipe used for smoking hashish is often called a "pipe". A water pipe for smoking hashish is called a "bong". There are also many slang terms for hashish smoking, such as "getting faded", "blown" or "blazing". Many slang terms for cannabis intoxication, such as "getting high", "getting stoned", "getting ripped", "toking bowls" and "spliffing" are shared for hashish as the effects of cannabis / marijuana and hashish are the same.

</doc>
<doc id="48091" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48091" title="William Pitt the Younger">
William Pitt the Younger

William Pitt the Younger (28 May 1759 – 23 January 1806) was a British politician of the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries. He was Chancellor of the Exchequer from 1782-1783, 1783-1801 and 1804-1806. He was Prime Minister from 1783 to 1801, and again from 1804 until his death. He is known as "William Pitt the Younger" to distinguish him from his father, William Pitt the Elder, who also served as Prime Minister of Great Britain.

</doc>
<doc id="48098" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48098" title="Jean-Paul Sartre">
Jean-Paul Sartre

Jean-Paul Charles Aymard Sartre (21 June 1905 – 15 April 1980) was a French existentialist philosopher, novelist, playwright, screenwriter, and critic. He won the Nobel Prize in Literature for 1964, but refused it. saying "a writer should not allow himself to be turned into an institution". He was a Marxist and an atheist.
Sartre was born in Paris, France. He studied philosophy at the "École Normale Supérieure", an élite (high quality) education establishment. In 1929, Sartre graduated with a doctorate in philosophy. Sartre served in the French Army from 1929 to 1931.
In 1929 at the École Normale, he met Simone de Beauvoir, who studied at the Sorbonne. She went on to become a noted philosopher, writer, and feminist. The two became inseparable and lifelong companions.
In 1938, Sartre wrote the novel called "La Nausée" (Nausea). This story explains the way of thinking of existentialism. Existentialism is a way of thinking about human freedom.
In 1939 Sartre was drafted into the French army. France was at war with Germany, because Germany had invaded France (World War II) Sartre was captured by German troops in 1940, and Sartre spent nine months as a prisoner of war in a camp. Sartre was released from the prison camp (jail) in 1941. Then Sartre began working as a teacher again. He made friends with other writers and thinkers such as Merleau-Ponty, Jean-Toussaint and Dominique Desanti, and Jean Kanapa.
In 1943, Sartre wrote a book about philosophy (ways of thinking) called "L'Être et le Néant", which means "Being and Nothingness". In this book, Sartre said that when people tried too hard to conform to the rules of society (or of their country), then people did not really make their own decisions.
In 1945, Sartre started a newspaper called "Les Temps Modernes" (Modern Times), which had articles about politics, art and literature. He also began writing a group of novels (stories) called "Les Chemins de la Liberté" (The Roads to Freedom). In 1946 Sartre wrote a book about philosophy (ways of thinking) called "Existentialism is a Humanism", which explains existentialism.
In the 1950s and 1960s, Sartre became involved in politics. Sartre said that France should leave Algeria, a country where France had many soldiers. In the 1960s, Sartre said that the Vietnam War was bad. In 1960, he wrote the "Critique de la raison dialectique" (Critique of Dialectical Reason). In the 1960s, Sartre had many arguments with Louis Althusser, a man who also believed in communism.
Sartre died of oedema of the lung in 1980 in Paris. His body is buried in Cimetière du Montparnasse in Paris. His funeral was attended by 50,000 people.

</doc>
<doc id="48100" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48100" title="John Steinbeck">
John Steinbeck

John Ernst Steinbeck (February 27, 1902 - December 20, 1968) was an American writer. Steinbeck won the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1962. Some of his most famous works are "Of Mice and Men" (1937) and "The Grapes of Wrath" (1940), which won a Pulitzer Prize. In these two books, Steinbeck writes about migrant workers during the Great Depression.
Steinbeck used naturalism in his books. His characters and stories came from real events from the early 20th century. His work shows his wide range of interests, such as politics, history, philosophy and mythology.
Seventeen of his works were made into Hollywood movies. Steinbeck also tried screen writing, which is writing for movies. He received an Academy Award nomination for Best Writing in Alfred Hitchcock's 1945 movie, "Lifeboat".
Steinbeck was born to John Ernst Steinbeck Sr., a first-generation German American. He attended Stanford University until 1925 when he left the university in order to become a writer. His first work, "Cup of Gold", came out four years later, but was not successful. He married Carol Henning the following year.
Steinbeck first gained success with the novel "Tortilla Flat" in 1935. The story was about two men living in Monterey, California during the Great Depression. The book won the California Commonwealth Club's Gold Medal. It was made into a movie seven years later, starring Spencer Tracy, Hedy Lamarr, and John Garfield.
Steinbeck continued to write on the subject of the Great Depression. Two years later, Steinbeck wrote "Of Mice and Men", considered as one of the best works of American literature in the twentieth century. His story dealt with the lives of two migrant laborers with big dreams in California. It was turned into a Hollywood movie in 1939, starring Lon Chaney Jr. as "Lennie" and Burgess Meredith as "George". That year, Steinbeck followed up with another book, "The Grapes of Wrath". The book is about the Joad family and their travels from Oklahoma to California during the Dust Bowl in search of work. The novel won the Pulitzer Prize and movie adaptation won two Academy Awards, and is ranked #7 on the American Film Institute's list, "100 Years...100 Cheers: America's Most Inspiring Movies". There was controversy with the book, though. Many people felt that Steinbeck's liberal opinions misrepresented the truth of Dust Bowl migrations. He had this student that his name was Oscar Perez and they would both do the job together.
Steinbeck continued to write from 1940s to 1960s. He wrote such works as "The Moon is Down", "The Pearl", "Cannery Row", "East of Eden" and "The Winter of Our Discontent". In 1962, Steinbeck won the Nobel Prize in Literature for "his realistic and imaginative writing, combining as it does sympathetic humor and keen social perception."
Two years later, he was awarded the "United States Medal of Freedom" by President Lyndon B. Johnson. Steinbeck died on December 20, 1968 in New York at the age of 66, of a heart disease.

</doc>
<doc id="48102" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48102" title="Akira Kurosawa">
Akira Kurosawa

Akira Kurosawa (March 23, 1910 – September 6, 1998) was a Japanese movie director. Kurosawa's movies are liked in Japan. Kurosawa's movies are also liked by people in other countries. He made 30 movies in 50 years. He is thought to be one of the most important movie directors.
In many of his famous movies, including "Rashomon" and "The Seven Samurai", he worked with the actor Toshiro Mifune.
Kurosawa started in the Japanese movie industry in 1936. Before he worked a little bit as a painter. After years of working on many movies as an assistant director and scriptwriter, he became a director in 1943. This was during World War II with the popular action movie "Sanshiro Sugata" (a.k.a. "Judo Saga"). 
"Rashomon", was first shown in Tokyo in August 1950. On September 10, 1951 it was the surprise winner of the Golden Lion at the Venice Film Festival. It then was shown in Europe and North America. Because the movie was so well liked, it made people in the western world want to see more Japanese movies. This helped make other Japanese movie makers become successful. In the 1950s and early 1960s, Kurosawa directed about one movie each year.
In 1990, he accepted the Academy Award for Lifetime Achievement. After he died, he was named "Asian of the Century" in the "Arts, Literature, and Culture" category by "AsianWeek" magazine and CNN.

</doc>
<doc id="48103" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48103" title="Science fiction movie">
Science fiction movie

Science fiction films are movies which tell stories about the future, outer space, robots, or aliens. Science fiction movies often use special effects to show images of alien worlds or other planets far away.
Science fiction movies are related to science fiction books. Some science fiction movies tell stories about strange or different ways of thinking or ways of living. Other science fiction movies tell stories about politics.
Some SF movies can also be another kind of movie, too. 

</doc>
<doc id="48108" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48108" title="Reading, Pennsylvania">
Reading, Pennsylvania

Reading is a city in the American state of Pennsylvania. It is the fifth largest city in Pennsylvania with 80,506 at the July 2008 mark. It is located in Berks County. There were more jobs when it was more populated. Yuengling is available as well.

</doc>
<doc id="48109" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48109" title="Swanage">
Swanage

Swanage is a seaside town on the east-south coast of England. The town, in Dorset, has a population of around 10,001 people. The town has a wide range of tourist attractions: A steam Railway, Durlston Country Park (Nature reserve), Victorian Pier, two public swimming pools, tennis courts, Indoor & Outdoor bowling greens,and Corfe Castle.
There is a nudist beach close to Swanage Bay

</doc>
<doc id="48111" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48111" title="Old English">
Old English

The Old English language, often called Anglo-Saxon, was spoken in England from 450 to 1100. It was spoken by the Anglo-Saxons who came to England from what is now Germany and Denmark. 
Old English is very different from Modern English; it has many more Germanic words, and its grammar is more difficult and closer to Old German. Old English slowly turned into Middle English after the Norman Conquest of 1066.
Beowulf is written in Old English.

</doc>
<doc id="48114" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48114" title="Scottish people">
Scottish people

Scottish people are people native to Scotland. They almost all speak English, but some of those living in the Highlands and the islands may speak Gaelic, a Scottish Celtic language.
Robert Burns is the national poet of Scotland.

</doc>
<doc id="48117" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48117" title="Hungen">
Hungen

Hungen is a town in the district of Gießen, in the state of Hesse, Germany. It is southeast of Gießen. It is northeast of Friedberg. Other towns near Hungen are Laubach Nidda, Wölfersheim and Münzenberg.
The first documented mention of Hungen is in the year 782. In 1806 it became part of the Grand Duchy of Hessen.
Interesting buildings in Hungen are the Hungen Castle, the Evangelical Church, and the "Hauptbahnhof," (the main railroad station). Also in Hungen can be seen parts of the town's medieval boundary wall.

</doc>
<doc id="48120" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48120" title="Bremerhaven Hauptbahnhof">
Bremerhaven Hauptbahnhof

Bremerhaven Hauptbahnhof is the central railway station in Bremerhaven, Germany.
The station lies on the line from Bremen to Cuxhaven. The line from Bremen was built in 1862, and a station for that was built in Geestemünde. At the time, Geestemünde did not belong to Bremerhaven, but was a separate town. The line from Geestemünde to Cuxhaven was then built in 1896. 
Because there were too many trains in the old station and it is connected only with single-track, it was decided to knock down the old station. The new station, which is now Bremerhaven Hauptbahnhof, is opened in 1914. Because it still was in Geestemünde, but not as far away as the old station, it was called Geestemünde-Bremerhaven. 
In 1924, some other towns joined Bremerhaven, and the city got a new name, Wesermünde. The station got a new name, Wesermünde-Bremerhaven, because of that.
In 1944, in the middle of World War II, the hall over the railway tracks was destroyed by a bomb that was thrown from an American plane. The hall was not built again after the war.
Wesermünde received another name and was called Bremerhaven from 1947, and the station received the new name too and was now called Bremerhaven Hauptbahnhof. That means "Bremerhaven Central Station", and it was called that way because it was now in the middle of the new, large city.
Electric cables were put in the station in 1966, so that electric trains could run. Trains that were carrying soldiers of the US Army often ran to Bremerhaven in the 1970s, because the US Army had large barracks in the city.

</doc>
<doc id="48121" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48121" title="Duchy">
Duchy

A duchy is a territory or domain ruled by a duke or duchess. Historically, some duchies in Continental Europe were sovereign, while others (especially in France and Britain) were subordinate districts of a kingdom. 
Traditionally, a "grand duchy", such as Luxembourg, was generally independent and sovereign. Sovereign duchies were common in the Holy Roman Empire and German-speaking areas. In France, a number of duchies existed in the medieval period. Queen Elizabeth II of the United Kingdom still holds the medieval French title of "Duke of Normandy"; the only lands still attached to the Duchy of Normandy are the Channel Islands. 
In medieval England, the territories of Lancashire and Cornwall were made duchies, with certain powers given to their Dukes. 

</doc>
<doc id="48122" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48122" title="Bam Bam Bigelow">
Bam Bam Bigelow

Scott Charles Bigelow (September 1, 1961 - January 19, 2007) was an American professional wrestler. He was more commonly known as Bam Bam Bigelow. He was famous for his time in the World Wrestling Federation (WWF) (now World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) ) and World Championship Wrestling (WCW) in the late 1980s and early 1990s.
On the morning of January 19, 2007, Bigelow was found dead in his home at about 10:00 A.M. in Hudson, Florida. He was 45 years old. At the time of his death, Bigelow had been suffering from an infection and diabetes. He was 45 years old. The autopsy results showed that Bigelow's death was due to multiple drugs found in his system including toxic levels of cocaine and an anti-anxiety drug. Bigelow was also suffering from a heart problem.

</doc>
<doc id="48125" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48125" title="Anglo-Norman language">
Anglo-Norman language

The Anglo-Norman language is the name given to the special sort of the Norman language spoken by the Anglo-Normans, the descendants of the Normans who ruled the Kingdom of England following the conquest by William of Normandy in 1066. This langue d'oïl became the official language of England and later developed into the unique insular dialect now known as the Anglo-Norman language.
Anglo-Norman was the spoken language of the Norman nobility and was also used in the courts.

</doc>
<doc id="48128" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48128" title="Langues d'oïl">
Langues d'oïl

Langues d'oïl (which literally means in English: "languages of yes") is the linguistic and historical name for the Gallo-Romance languages which developed from Latin in the northern territories of Roman Gaul that now are occupied by northern France, part of Belgium and the Channel Islands.
"Langue d'oïl" (in the singular), "Oïl dialects" and "Oïl languages" (in the plural) refer to all the ancient northern Gallo-Romance languages as well as their modern-day descendants. The most widely spoken modern Oïl language is French, and others include Norman, Walloon, Picard, Gallo, Poitevin-Saintongeais, Champenois.
They share many common linguistic features. One of these is that "Oïl" (pronounced [wil], or [wi] as in modern French "oui"), was the ancestor of the word for "yes" used in all the Oïl languages ("oc" was and still is the word used in territories to the south, and that is why the Occitan language is also called "langue d'oc" (literal English translation: "language of yes")).

</doc>
<doc id="48131" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48131" title="Ring">
Ring

A ring is a piece of jewelry that is usually worn on the finger. 
It is usually made of metal such as gold, silver, platinum, but can be made of other things, for example, bone or glass. Many rings have gemstones on them, for beauty and decoration on your finger. It is a fashion accessory and sometimes a sign of importance (status). The Lord Chancellors of England were given a ring when taking office, and returned it when leaving the position. The ring identified them as the second most important person in the kingdom.
In most religions, senior clergy have rings of their office. It is standard practice for members of a church to kneel and kiss the ring as a sign of faith and obedience.
Rings have been used for engagements and weddings since prehistoric times.
The engagement ring is meant to be a sign of luck and happiness. Both men and women used to wear an engagement ring to show that they were going to be married, but more recently only women have worn them. A diamond ring is seen as being especially lucky, as the sparkle of the diamond is said to come from the fires of love. A pearl in a ring is unlucky, as the pearl is a sign of tears. Because the ring is round and does not have an end, it is seen as a symbol of love which never ends. These are, of course, superstitions. However, a wedding ring is a public symbol of a legal relationship, and in many societies rings have that kind of function.

</doc>
<doc id="48135" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48135" title="Descendant">
Descendant

The term descendant or descendent has several meanings, some of which are listed below. As a noun, it must be spelled "descendant".
Primary meaning:
It can also mean, by extension:

</doc>
<doc id="48136" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48136" title="Gallo-Romance languages">
Gallo-Romance languages

The Gallo-Romance branch of Romance languages includes French and several other languages spoken in modern France and northern Italy and Spain. According to certain linguists, it also includes Occitan and Catalan; others group these two together as a separate Occitano-Romance branch, or place Catalan within the Ibero-Romance group. The Gallo-Romance languages, along with the Ibero-Romance and Rhaeto-Romance groups, form Western Romance.

</doc>
<doc id="48141" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48141" title="Capital accumulation">
Capital accumulation

Capital accumulation means the gathering of objects of value; the increase in wealth; or the creation of wealth. In this context capital can be understood as assets used for profit.
In economics capital accumulation is often seen as the same as investment.
But capital accumulation can refer as well to 
Non-financial capital accumulation is an essential factor for economic growth, since additional investment is essential to enlarge the scale of production and increase employment opportunities.
Rosa Luxemburg insisted that capital accumulation is the cause of the imperialism on her essay ""The Accumulation of Capital".

</doc>
<doc id="48143" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48143" title="Investment">
Investment

Investment or investing means that an asset is bought, or that money is put into a bank to get a future interest from it. Investment is total amount of money spent by a shareholder in buying shares of a company. In economic managment sciences, investments means longer-term savings.
It is a term used in business management, finance and economics, related to saving or deferring consumption. Literally, the word means the "action of putting something in to somewhere else" (perhaps originally related to a person's garment or 'vestment').
The major difference in the use of the term investment between the economics field and the finance field is that economists refer to a real investment (such as a machine or a house), while financial economists refer to a financial asset, such as money that is put into a bank or the market, which may then be used to buy a real asset. Advisors, who tell people how to manage their investments, might say that even when an investment is losing money because of bad times, not to give up and withdraw it. Instead, wait for the situation to improve. This is a risk for each person to decide.
The investment decision (also known as "capital budgeting") is one of the fundamental decisions of business management.

</doc>
<doc id="48144" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48144" title="Battle of Bannockburn">
Battle of Bannockburn

The Battle of Bannockburn, fought on 23 and 24 June 1314, was an important Scottish victory in the Wars of Scottish Independence. A smaller Scottish army defeated a much larger and better armed English army.
When King Alexander III of Scotland died in 1286, his heir was his granddaughter Margaret, Maid of Norway. King Edward I of England arranged to have his son, Edward II of England, become her husband and share the crown of Scotland in 1289. But Margaret died on her way from Norway to Scotland in 1290. This began a period in Scotland called the First Interregnum (1290–1292). Scotland was without a monarch. Edward I was invited to choose who would be king from among the candidates who had any claim to be king. He chose John of Scotland. But Edward now claimed power over the Scottish king. Balliol could do nothing without Edward's approval. In July 1295 the Scottish Parliament met and took most of the power away from John Balliol and gave it to a group of men they elected called the "Council of Twelve." This group made an agreement with King Philip IV of France called the Auld Alliance. King Edward gathered his army at Newcastle and prepared to invade Scotland. He brought his army to Berwick and captured the town and castle. John Balliol sent King Edward letters refusing to recognize Edward's right to rule Scotland. After Edward had captured all the castles in Scotland, John Balliol surrendered to him. John Balliol was sent to prison in London, then later Edward allowed him to live in France. In 1296 Edward made every man in Scotland who owned land promise to be loyal to him. Scotland remained without a king of their own until 1306 when Robert the Bruce declared himself king of Scotland defying Edward I. Just before doing this Robert the Bruce had been involved in a dispute with John Comyn. The two met before the altar in Greyfriars Church in Dumfries in 1306 and in a fight John Comyn was killed. Robert the Bruce was crowned king three weeks later at Scone. Accused of murdering Comyn, Bruce was excommunicated by the Pope. Edward sent his men after Bruce but was unable to capture Him. A series of border skirmishes and wars went on. In 1310 Edward again invaded Scotland but with little effect. Between 1310 and 1314 a large number of castles were captured from the occupying English soldiers by Bruce and his followers.
In the Spring of 1313 Edward Bruce, brother of the Scottish King began a siege of Stirling Castle, which was held by Sir Philip Mowbray for the English king. By the middle of summer the Scots were still not able to defeat the castle. Edward Bruce made an agreement with the castle commander, Mowbray. It said that if the castle was not relieved by the English by 24 June the following year it would be surrendered to Bruce. Edward Bruce went to his brother to tell him the good news. But the Robert Bruce saw this as a mistake. It gave King Edward II of England a year to get ready an army to march into Scotland. Up to this point the king of Scotland had avoided pitched battles with the English army. All King Robert could do is prepare for what was sure to come. In October 1313 King Robert made everyone in Scotland take an oath of loyalty to him or lose their lands. The English king was now in danger of losing everything in Scotland. On 28 November 1313 Edward II announced he would assemble an army to be in Scotland before 24 June 1314.
Edward's first aim was to bring needed food, weapons, and fresh soldiers to Sterling Castle before they had to surrender. He began gathering the largest army a king of England had ever led. He had 2,500 heavy cavalry each followed by one or more mounted squires. Edward brought 3,000 of his best Welsh longbowmen. Finally he had 15,000 foot soldiers each with a sword, shield and spear. His army numbered over 20,000 and began marching from Berwick on 17 June 1314 and formed ten divisions. He had reached Edinburgh on 21 June where the army was re-supplied by Edward's ships. By 22 June the army made an exhausting march to Falkirk, only 10 miles from Sterling Castle. Edward's army moved on the old Roman road, which ran through an ancient forest known as the Tor Wood, over the Bannock burn and into the New Park, a hunting preserve enclosed at the time of Alexander III.
Bruce's army, like William Wallace's before him, was chiefly composed of infantry armed with 18-foot long pikes. It was divided into three main (infantry) battalions, and a fourth larger battalion commanded by the king himself serving as the reserve unit. The second battalion was commanded by Thomas Randolph, 1st Earl of Moray. The third was led by Edward Bruce, the king's brother. The fourth division was commanded by Sir James Douglas and his cousin Walter the Steward. The light cavalry of 500 strong was commanded by Robert Keith, Marischal of Scotland. Each infantry division formed into a Schiltron formation. Each man carried the pike upright and the outside ranks would lower theirs to form a lethal wall of sharp metal points. The schiltron could withstand an attack by knights on horses. But Bruce also trained them to attack.
Bruce's army had been gathering in the Tor Wood, an area that gave good natural cover. Bruce then moved his army just to the north to the New Park. This was more heavily wooded area where his movements could be concealed. It could also provide cover for a retreat if needed. The Scottish king chose his ground very carefully. The Bannock burn (or stream), which the English army had to cross on the way to Stirling was a natural obstacle. Parts of it were too deep for infantry or cavalry to cross. The area was also covered with marshy boggy ground difficult to ride over. Sir Thomas Gray called it "an evil, deep, wet marsh". On the east side was a sharp drop of 50 feet or more. The trees of the New Park were on the west side. Also, pits were dug as traps to break a cavalry charge. No matter which way the English cavalry tried to go they would be tangled up and be easy targets for the Scottish infantry. 
The only approach was over the old road from Falkirk to Sterling. This route was the only solid ground on which heavy cavalry could be moved.
Bruce's three main divisions numbered about 1,000 strong each. His own reserve division was at double strength or about 2,000 strong. The Marischal's light cavalry was about 500 horse and there was a small group of archers. Together the Scottish army numbered between 5,000 and 6,000 men. This was about one-fourth the size of Edward's force.
The English army reached Tor Wood on June 23rd and stopped. They were met by Sir Philip Mowbray, the English commander of Stirling Castle. He told the king there was no need for battle. Edward had fulfilled his obligation to relieve the castle by coming within three leagues. Also he had seen Bruce's preparations and warned of trying to attack the Scots with heavy cavalry. Like Edward II and his commanders, Mowbray thought the Scots would retreat when they saw the size of Edward's great army. The vanguard of Edward's forces under Gloucester had already crossed the ford over the Bannockburn towards the Scottish lines. An English knight Henry de Bohun was riding ahead of his companions when he caught sight of 
the Scottish king inspecting some of his lines. De Bohun lowered his lance and charged. Robert the Bruce was mounted on a small palfrey and armed with a battle-axe He could have simply moved behind his men and let them repel the charging warhorse and rider. Instead he turned his horse and rode towards de Bohun. At the last moment Bruce swerved his horse to one side, missing de Bohun's lance. He then rose in his stirrups and brought down his axe with such force he cut through de Bohun's helmet killing him instantly. There was a stunned silence by both armies then a great cheer rose among the Scottish soldiers. Then the highlanders of Bruce's own division charged the English cavalry who were still lining up. The horses of the Earl of Gloucester and several others stumbled as they fell into the hidden pits. The earl was rescued but the English cavalry fled from the charging Scots. King Robert stopped their charge and they returned to their lines. This showed how well-disciplined the Scottish soldiers had become.
When King Robert returned his brother and his commanders criticized the king (as much as they dared) for risking his life that way. Robert the Bruce did not answer them. He only stared at his now broken battle-axe. Looking around the king saw English cavalry moving around their left. He pointed out the cavalry and said to Thomas Randolph "a rose has fallen from your chaplet". Immediately Randolph rode to his men and moved the schildton onto the open ground in the path of the English knights. When their leader Sir Henry Beaumont saw the Scots approaching he said "let us wait a little; let them come on; give them room." Sir Thomas Gray replied "I doubt that whatever you give them now, they will have all too soon." Sir Henry said to Thomas Gray, "if you are afraid then be off!" Sir Thomas replied "it is not from fear that I shall fly this day" and along with several other knights charged the Scottish schiltron. Many were killed, being impaled on the spears. Sir Thomas himself was captured. The remainder of the English knights surrounded the schiltron and attacked the Scots from every angle. But the schiltron held and the English in frustration began throwing their weapons at the Scots. When Sir James Douglas, commanding the left schiltron saw his friend in trouble and begged Bruce to go to his rescue. But by the time he returned to his man Randolph was winning the day. Moving forward Randolph's schiltron split the English cavalry in two. Half of the remaining English fled back to the English lines while half fled to Sterling Castle. After losing just one Yeoman, the Scots took off their helmets to rest from the heat of the day.
Sir Alexander de Seton had secretly left the King of England's Army and came to Robert the Bruce that night. He wished to no longer serve the king of England and offered to join the Bruce. He pledged on his life that the English were discouraged and if Bruce attacked them tomorrow, he would win the battle.
The English moved from the bogs south and east of the burn to harder ground. They had to water all the warhorses, draft horses and oxen. By the time the move was finished it was nearly dawn. But the tidal rivers around them had risen and they could not cross them as they did earlier. The English were now cramped into a small space where they could not move freely.
 
Robert the Bruce saw where the English spent the night. Their narrow front gave the Scottish army an advantage if the English did not move before morning. Morning found the English had not moved. Not long after daybreak on 24 June, three Scots divisions came out of the woods and began moving towards the English. The English mounted their horses in great confusion. When the Scots schiltrons began attacking the English lines the knights and soldiers could not maneuver. They were so crowded men were being pushed into the Bannock burn behind them.
Overnight the Earl of Gloucester and Edward II had been in an argument. Gloucester thought the English soldiers should rest another day before doing battle. The king accused him of being disloyal. Gloucester was still angry when the trumpets sounded the signal to assemble. So without putting on his surcoat he mounted his horse and charged into the schiltron commanded by Edward Bruce. The Scots did not recognize him without his surcoat and so did not spare him. The Earl and several of those with him were killed trying to break through the wall of spears.
The other two Scottish divisions moved up to join Edward Bruce. Randolph moved up on Bruce's left side. James Douglas came up next to Randolph. Together all three schiltrons filled the narrow . They pushed forward into the confused English. Wounded horses without their knights were running back into the English lines. Edward's army was now so crowded they could hardly move. The Scots were pushing into them from the front. The back ranks were being pushed into the water and marshes.
Up to this point in the battle the English and Welsh longbowmen (archers) had not been used to their full advantage. They were moved to the right side of the English lines. From here they could fire arrows into the Scottish army with great effect. But Robert the Bruce had provided for this event. His 500 light horsemen led by Keith, the Marischal, quickly scattered the English and Welsh archers. many of the English and Welsh archers ran back to the English lines. This caused more confusion and the infantry also begin to run away. The Scottish king now sent in his reserve division behind Douglas. When the English saw another large force of Scots joining the battle they began . Everywhere King Edward looked his forces were losing the battle.
The Earl of Pembroke and sir Giles d'Argentan were guarding the English King. As the battle was now lost they needed to get the king to safety. They led him off the battlefield and towards Sterling Castle. At the same time several Scots recognized the king and tried to capture him. The king fought them off with his . He broke free and rode to Sterling Castle a short distance away. At the castle Sir Philip Mowbray did not allow King Edward to enter. He told the king he now had to surrender the castle and the king would be taken prisoner. But Mowbray gave Edward II a knight to guide the king and his party to safety. Edward, with 500 of his cavalry turned towards Linlithgow. Sir James Douglas got permission from Robert the Bruce to pursue the English king. With a group of Keith's Douglas kept close behind Edward as he fled south. As he pursued the English king, Douglas and his men encountered Sir Lawrence de Abernethy who with 80 men was on his way to join Edward at Bannockburn. On finding out the king had lost the battle he and his men joined Douglas in trying to capture Edward. The English tried to bait them into a fight at Winchburg but Douglas stayed on their flank (side).Even with Abernethy's men the Scots were not strong enough to take on Edward's knights. The chase continued all the way to Dunbar Castle. Loyalties on the border were very uncertain at this time. The local earl had sided with Edward. So the king was allowed to escape in a boat back to England with only a few of his closest followers. The rest of his 500 horsemen were left to find their way back to England as best they could.
Another large group of Edward's knights escaped to Bothwell Castle. There they were welcomed by the castle commander, Walter Gilbertson. But Gilbertson soon changed sides and took all the English prisoners. The remainder of Edward's large army scattered in every direction. In trying to escape the Scottish schildrons, many were drowned in the Bannockburn and the River Forth. A large number were taken prisoner and later ransomed. The English baggage train was left behind. It's silver, gold, and luxuries the noblemen brought with them was worth a fortune alone. Along with the ransoms paid for their prisoners this brought sudden wealth to Scotland.
The wars with England were still not over. It would be another 14 years until Scotland was free of English rule. But to the Scots the Battle of Bannockburn was a major victory. Before the battle Robert the Bruce was considered by many a usurper (pretender). He only had limited support in Scotland. After Bannockburn Robert the Bruce became a national hero. He had the support of most of Scotland. However his political rivals in Scotland suffered. Perhaps no one more than the Comyn family and supporters. Both John Comyn of Badenoch and Edward Comyn of Kilbride were killed at Bannockburn. With them died any hope of an English victory returning this family to power.
The English dead at Bannockburn were buried with honors according to their rank. There were over 500 returned to England in exchange for ransom. And Scottish prisoners in England were returned in exchange. Robert the Bruce's wife, daughter and sister were returned. The border wars continued but from 1314 to 1328 the focus shifted to the north of England. The purpose of all the raids was to get Edward II to recognize Robert the Bruce as king of Scotland. Also for England to give up their claims to Scotland and recognize their independence. The English learned their lesson from Bannockburn. The Scots apparently didn't. In the later Battle of Dupplin Moor and Halidon Hill the same tactics that brought victory at Bannockburn brought them defeat. William Mackenzie wrote: "Never did the arms of England suffer so complete a disaster; never did the arms of Scotland repeat so remarkable a performance."

</doc>
<doc id="48145" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48145" title="Wars of the Roses">
Wars of the Roses

The Wars of the Roses (1455–1487) was a series of civil wars, fought over the throne of England, between supporters of the House of Lancaster and supporters of the House of York. Both houses were branches of the Plantagenet royal house, tracing their descent from King Edward III.
The main reason for the war was that King Edward III had many sons, as shown in the family tree below. His oldest son, who was known by the nickname, "The Black Prince", died first, and the throne passed to the Black Prince's son, Richard, who became King Richard II of England in 1377 at the age of only ten. He grew up to be a weak and unpopular king, and one of his actions was to send his cousin Henry into exile. Henry later returned, while Richard was away in Ireland, and took over the country. When Richard returned, Henry tricked him into giving himself up. Richard was put in prison, where he died, and Henry became King Henry IV of England. 
Although Henry IV reigned until his death, and was followed by his son, King Henry V, the next king in line, King Henry VI was only a baby. King Henry VI then took over from Henry V, and was crowned in 1422. Henry VI ruled for many years, but was considered a bad king by some of his people, and was overthrown by Edward, a distant relative, with help from the Duke of Warwick. Edward was in the house of York and Henry was in the House of Lancaster, so the war was fought between these groups. 
Edward and Warwick made a good team until Edward (who was crowned Edward IV) married a commoner, named Elizabeth Woodville. This made Warwick very angry, and Warwick eventually became King Edward's enemy, by helping the Henry retain the throne. Edward's brother George changed sides too because he was married to Warwick's daughter, Isabel. Warwick, who was called the Kingmaker because he had put Edward on the throne, proved his loyalties to the wife of Henry by betrothing Anne Neville, his other daughter, to Henry's son Edward of Lancaster. This was good for Anne because Henry's son was heir to the throne so she could become Queen. Warwick also fought Edward and won so put Henry VI on the throne, although he only stayed on the throne for a short time.
Anne went to France to get married but when she got there she learnt that her father, Warwick, had been killed in battle by King Edward and that the House of Lancaster had been severely weakened. Also, George had returned to the House of York so Anne was on a different side to her sister. The House of Lancaster was then run by Margaret of Anjou, the wife of Henry VI, and also the Queen of France. She tried to invade Britain with her army but she was intercepted by King Edward, and her son, Edward of Lancaster was killed. Margaret was arrested and imprisoned and Anne managed to prove her loyalties to the House of York. Later on she married Edward's brother Richard. When Edward IV died in 1483, his son Edward V took over, but was murdered in the Tower of London along with his brother Richard. Edward IV's brother Richard then became King, as the other brother, George, was also dead. Richard was King for 2 years with his new wife, Anne Neville, before being killed by Henry VII, a distant relative of Henry VI and heir to the Lancastrian throne. 

</doc>
<doc id="48147" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48147" title="Matchbook">
Matchbook

A matchbook is a small cardboard container that holds a quantity of matches inside and has a coarse striking surface on the exterior. 
A flap on the front is lifted to access the matches, which are attached to the interior base in a comb-like pattern and must be torn away before use. (In the matchbox, by contrast, the matches are arranged loosely in the interior tray.)
Matchbooks are often covered with advertising logos or various artistic decorations, and they have served as collector's items and free souvenirs. 

</doc>
<doc id="48148" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48148" title="Friedrich Kellner Diary">
Friedrich Kellner Diary

The Diary of Friedrich Keller is a journal written during the Second World War. The author, August Friedrich Kellner, was a justice inspector in the courthouse in Mainz. He was also a political activist for the Social Democratic Party of Germany between 1918 and 1933. After Hitler banned the party, the family moved to Laubach. 
When Hitler ordered the invasion of Poland in September 1939, Kellner began his secret diary. He named his diary "Mein Widerstand," which means "My Opposition." In the diary, he wrote down what he saw and heard about what happened in Nazi Germany. He wrote it so that people later would know about it. 
The diary has ten volumes, with a total of 861 pages. There are 676 dated entries. Included in the diary are more than 500 newspaper clippings.
At the end of World War Two, most Germans said they knew nothing about the mass murders of the Jews. But as early as October 28, 1941, Kellner wrote the following entry in his diary:
There is not much in the diary about the Kellners’ personal lives. Instead, Friedrich Kellner wrote about the political atmosphere of a country run by terrorists. He also wrote about the leaders and people in other nations who remained indifferent to what Hitler and Mussolini were planning. Kellner was very angry that millions of people had to die because a few politicians in the democracies failed to confront Hitler and his allies. Kellner was also angry at the famous aviator Charles Lindbergh, and the car manufacturer Henry Ford, and at others who blindly expressed admiration for Adolf Hitler. “The whole world let themselves be fooled by this man,” Kellner wrote on May 3, 1942. 
Friedrich Kellner expected America and England to come to the rescue. On June 25, 1941, he wrote:
<br>
Friedrich Keller wrote the diary to expose the crimes of the Third Reich. He believed his diary could serve as a warning for future generations to oppose dictatorships and their totalitarian ideology.
After the war, Friedrich Kellner helped to reestablish the Social Democratic Party. He became chairman of the Laubach branch. He retired from politics in 1960, at the age of seventy-five.
In 1968, he gave his diary to his American grandson, Professor Robert Scott Kellner, to take to America for safekeeping. He told him:

</doc>
<doc id="48151" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48151" title="My Opposition: The Diaries of Friedrich Kellner">
My Opposition: The Diaries of Friedrich Kellner

My Opposition: the Diaries of Friedrich Kellner is a 2007 documentary movie by Abella Entertainment Ltd. of Toronto, Canada. It is produced and directed by Fern Levitt and Arnie Zipursky. Leonard Asper is an executive producer. The movie is distributed by CCI Entertainment.
The documentary tells the story of Chief Justice Inspector Friedrich Kellner ( ) who wrote a secret diary during World War II. The diary records the crimes of the Nazis. The movie uses interviews, historical footage, and re-enactments of events to tell how Friedrich Kellner risked his life to write the diary. The story is also about Kellner’s American grandson, Robert Scott Kellner, who was abandoned as a child but later found his grandfather in Germany. Part of the movie is about the grandson’s attempt to bring the Friedrich Kellner diary to the attention of the public.
The movie begins with Friedrich Kellner as a political activist for the Social Democratic Party of Germany before the war. He campaigns against Adolf Hitler and the Nazis. The re-enactments show Kellner trying to stop the riots against the Jews during Kristallnacht. Kellner is brought before a tribunal, and he is threatened with imprisonment in a concentration camp. The movie shows Kellner’s active and passive resistance against the Third Reich. One scene shows him distributing leaflets that had been dropped from American planes. When World War II comes to an end, Kellner helps to restore the SPD. He becomes the chairman of the party in his region. Interwoven in the story about Friedrich Kellner is the story of his grandson.
The documentary was filmed on location in Mainz and in Laubach, Germany, and in Texas.

</doc>
<doc id="48156" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48156" title="Nobel Prize in Economics">
Nobel Prize in Economics

The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel, informally called the Nobel Prize in Economics, is a prize awarded each year for outstanding contributions in the field of economics. The prize was not one of the awards set out in the will of Alfred Nobel. The winners of the prize receive their diploma and gold medal from the Swedish monarch at the same December 10 ceremony in Stockholm as the Nobel laureates in physics, chemistry, physiology or medicine, and literature. The amount of money awarded to the economics laureates is also equal to that of the other prizes.

</doc>
<doc id="48167" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48167" title="Lindsey Jacobellis">
Lindsey Jacobellis

Lindsey Jacobellis (born August 19, 1985 in Danbury, Connecticut) is an American snowboarder. She competed in the 2006 Winter Olympics and won the silver medal.

</doc>
<doc id="48168" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48168" title="Axis of Evil">
Axis of Evil

Axis of Evil is a term first used by US President George W. Bush in his State of the Union speech on January 29, 2002 to describe the governments of Iraq, Iran, and North Korea. He used this term because he believed that they backed terrorism and were trying to buy weapons of mass destruction.

</doc>
<doc id="48169" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48169" title="State of the Union Address">
State of the Union Address

The State of the Union Address is a speech the president of the United States of America gives every year, usually in January. In the speech the president talks about how the country is doing and what plans he will be proposing for that year.
According to tradition, president speaks with its appeal annual. The US Constitution it does not set clear terms such appeals. Article II, Section 3 of the US Constitution reads «He shall from time to time give to the Congress Information of the State of the Union, and recommend to their Consideration such Measures as he shall judge necessary and expedient».

</doc>
<doc id="48172" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48172" title="Ninja">
Ninja

A Ninja is a kind of spy or assassin who lived in Japan beginning in the 14th century. 
Ninja (or shinobi) were a mystery in the History of Japan. The correct Japanese word for these warriors was shinobi-no-mono. Ninja is easier to say; this is why it is more widely used. Ninja warriors created secret associations and participated in many political killings. Their mystery comes from two ideas: 1) they always participated in secret spy operations and political killings; 2) ninja were hired by heads of armies as paid warriors (mercenaries). The art of fighting which was used by ninja was called ninjitsu, which was a combination of shinobi-no-jitsu and shinobi-jitsu.
Ninja were considered more than ordinary men who were able to fly and who possessed supernatural skills. Ninja existed during the entire history of Japan, but ninja only became specially trained people at the beginning of the 15th century. They mainly trained in the regions of Iga and Koga. 
Ninja were involved in samurai wars and were hired by samurai for different missions, but at the same time samurai did not accept them as noble warriors because most of the ninja came from lower social levels. They were dangerous and could not be controlled. Their methods of fighting did not fit the samurai code. The samurai code is a code of honor. For example, the samurai warrior would show his rank and would only fight a samurai of equal or higher rank. Japanese land lords (daimyo) widely used the services of the Iga and Koga ninja in the period of 1485-1581. But in 1581, one of the three daimyo who united Japan – Oda Nobunaga attacked ninja from Iga province. The ninja remained alive and ran to the provinces Kii and Mikawa, where Tokugawa Ieyasu protected them. Later, Oda Nobunaga was killed by a samurai named Akechi Mitsuhide, who later became an enemy to Tokugawa Ieyasu.
The art of ninja fighting was transmitted from father to son, or from master (sensei) to the best students. But in the middle of 17th century, Nakagawa Sosuntzin created a ninja school in the Mutsu Province. It was called Nakagawa-ryu and taught the ninjitsu method of fighting. Nakagawa Sosuntzin himself trained a group of 10 men, which he called Hayamiti-no-mono (men of the short hit). Ninja were taught many more things than a samurai. They had to be skilled at handling swords, spears, bows and many more; but also they had to know about explosive and poisonous substances, to be a good path finder and to survive in different situations. Usually they were trained from young age and maintained their physical shape. A ninja who could read and write was very appreciated. 
It tends to be thought that a ninja usually wore black clothes which helped him to hide in the dark, however, they wore dark red or brown clothes, which are more quiet than black at night. In usual days, a ninja never wore showy dress and pretended to be another job, for example, a merchant, a traveling monk, a monkey showman and so on. If they had to fight on the battlefield, they put on a light armor, which protected them, but also permitted easy movement. On their feet they wore Japanese socks which separated the big toe (the socks were called tabi). The ninja outfit had many pockets for helpful gear. Chain armor was normally beneath their cloak in-case danger came their way like an ambush.
The diversity of ninja weapons and attributes is much wider than that of the samurai. The main weapon of ninja was the sword. Ninja swords were usually shorter than samurai katana and had a straight blade. When they climbed, the sword was put on the left shoulder, putting the handle of the sword was close to the left ear. Ninja also used different types of throwing knives, and a weapon for their fists called tagaki. They used metallic claws on their feet which helped them to climb and made their kicks more dangerous.
They are also very close to the other form of Japanese killer, a samurai.
As with Robin Hood or King Arthur, the ongoing presence of ninja in pop culture movies and manga often differs widely from their true origins.

</doc>
<doc id="48173" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48173" title="USS Arizona Memorial">
USS Arizona Memorial

The USS "Arizona" Memorial is in Pearl Harbor, Hawaii. It is to remember the sailors killed when Pearl Harbor was attacked on December 7, 1941 by the Japanese. During the attack 1,177 sailors were killed on the USS "Arizona". The memorial is located on top of the sunken USS "Arizona". People can walk over the ship to look at it.

</doc>
<doc id="48174" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48174" title="USS Arizona (BB-39)">
USS Arizona (BB-39)

The USS "Arizona" (BB-39) was an American battleship from the Pennsylvania Class. The building of the ship was started in 1913 and it was commissioned in 1916. It fought in World War I. The USS "Arizona" is best known for its sinking during the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941. The attack was the event that caused the United States to join the fighting in World War II. The wreck is still at the floor of the harbor. It is the site of a memorial to those who died that day.
USS "Arizona" (BB-39) was one of three ships in the history of the United States Navy to be named USS "Arizona". It was the only one of the three to be named that after Arizona became a U.S. state. 

</doc>
<doc id="48175" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48175" title="War crime">
War crime

A war crime is a crime that happens in context of or associated with war. There are international laws of war that say what people can do during wars and what they cannot do. A war crime breaks these rules. 
Today, these rules are international laws called the Geneva Conventions and the Hague Convention.
To be a war crime, a crime must be part of a plan, or the crime has to be committed against many people.
The idea of what a "war crime" is has changed over time. For example, during World War I, using poison gas in combat was not thought of as a war crime. Now it is.
In 2002, the International Criminal Court (ICC) was created. Its goal is to look into and, if possible, punish people for war crimes. When the ICC was created, it came up with a longer list of war crimes. For example, its list was the first one to include types of sexual abuse like forcing women into sexual slavery.
Here are some examples of crimes that the ICC lists as war crimes.
These are war crimes whether they are committed against enemy soldiers or civilians or neutral persons.
These are war crimes whether they are committed against enemy soldiers or civilians or neutral persons.
War crimes against civilians include:
War crimes against enemy soldiers include:
War crimes against neutral persons include:
This table shows some examples of war crimes.
<br><br>

</doc>
<doc id="48178" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48178" title="Senate">
Senate

In a modern democracy, a senate is a group of people who are part of a legislature. A legislature passes or changes laws for their country, state, or other area. Members of a senate are called senators. Some legislatures are Bicameral, meaning they have two groups of people (working in separate places) called "houses". A senate can be called a "House of Senators". The other house of such legislatures is called a "House of Representatives", House of Commons, or Assembly. In such legislatures, both houses must pass the same bill to make it a law. Modern democratic systems having legislatures with senates include the United States of America (U. S.), Canada, Australia and many states in the U. S. The senators are elected by citizens in areas the senators represent. 
The first ever senate was the Roman Senate. 
Senate is also the name of the ruling body of some universities.

</doc>
<doc id="48186" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48186" title="Kano">
Kano

Kano is a city in Nigeria. It is the center of the Kano State. Kano is the third largest city in Nigeria, after Ibadan and Lagos. About 3,626,204 people live in Kano.
It has long been the economic centre of northern Nigeria, and a centre for the sale of groundnuts. Kano is known for the Bayero University and a railway station with trains to Lagos, moving through Kaduna, while Kano International Airport can be found nearby. Kano has long been a centre for Nigeria's Islamic culture; one of the country's finest mosques lies in the city.
It is also the site where the Kano river project was developed. This is a large irrigation scheme.
The city of Kano was founded around A.D. 1000 as an Hausa city of its own. Kano remained a big emirate, or Muslim kingdom, until the making of the country, Nigeria, in 1903. Kano became known for its trade in gold, leather, ivory, salt and slaves within the area. This perhaps is the reason for the city's wealth and power in the 14th century, when Islam gained a growing following. By the 15th century, the first Central Mosque had been built in the city.

</doc>
<doc id="48203" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48203" title="Battle of Bosworth Field">
Battle of Bosworth Field

The Battle of Bosworth or Bosworth Field was an important battle during the Wars of the Roses in 15th century England. It was fought on 22 August 1485 between the Yorkist King Richard III, the last of the Plantagenet dynasty, and the Lancastrian Henry Tudor, 2nd Earl of Richmond, who wanted to become king. It ended in the defeat and death of Richard and the beginning of the Tudor dynasty. Historically, the battle is thought to have marked the end of the Wars of the Roses, although further battles were fought in the years that followed as Yorkists unsuccessfully tried to become king again.
The Battle of Bosworth is an important part of William Shakespeare's play "Richard III". The action of the play ends with this battle.

</doc>
<doc id="48205" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48205" title="Escherichia coli">
Escherichia coli

Escherichia coli or E. coli is a bacterium that can be found in human intestines. Scientists have studied "E. coli" very extensivley, and know more about how "E. coli" cells work than any other organism. "E. coli" is not always harmful. In fact, the only known harmful strand is O157.
"E. coli" normally grow in soil and in the large intestines of many mammals, including humans. Most strains of "E. coli" do not cause disease, but instead help animals get vitamins and digest food. Some strains of "E. coli" cause sickness in people. "E. coli" are not usually in food or water. When food has not been prepared with clean equipment, "E. coli" can grow in the food. When "E. coli" are found in water, this may mean that the water has touched sewage. 
It is named after Theodor Escherich, who discovered it in 1885. It was officially named after him in 1919.
The following signs and symptoms of an "E. coli" infection normally happen within three days; however, some people may carry the infection and show no signs at all.
The best treatment for "E. coli" is plenty of fluids to avoid dehydration.

</doc>
<doc id="48207" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48207" title="Borg (Star Trek)">
Borg (Star Trek)

The Borg are a fictional race of cyborgs in the Star Trek universe. The Borg use nanoprobes to assimilate others, like humans or vulcans, into their group consciousness. The Borg's group consciousness is led by the Borg queen, who's role is similar to that of a queen bee in a bee hive.

</doc>
<doc id="48208" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48208" title="House of Plantagenet">
House of Plantagenet

The House of Plantagenet ruled England in some form or another from the reign of Henry II, beginning in 1154, until the House of Tudor came to power when Richard III fell at the Battle of Bosworth Field in 1485.
It goes back to the Angevin counts (from 1360, dukes) of the western French province of Anjou. Three dynasties belong to it: Angevins, House of Lancaster (Lancastrians) and House of York (Yorkists). Lancastrians and Yorkists fought against each other the Wars of the Roses to get the crown for their dynasty alone.

</doc>
<doc id="48209" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48209" title="Angevin">
Angevin

Angevin is the name of the residents of Anjou, a former province of the Kingdom of France, as well as to the residents of Angers. It is also used for three different medieval dynasties which go back to counts (from 1360, dukes) of the western French province of Anjou (of which "angevin" is the adjectival form), but later came to rule far greater areas including England, Ireland, Hungary, Croatia, Poland, "Kingdom of Naples and Sicily", and Kingdom of Jerusalem ("see Angevin Empire"). 
The first of these Angevin dynasties, the House of Plantagenet, ruled England in some form or another from the reign of Henry II, beginning in 1154, until the House of Tudor came to power when Richard III fell at the Battle of Bosworth Field in 1485. 

</doc>
<doc id="48213" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48213" title="Count">
Count

A count is a nobleman in most of European countries, equivalent in rank to a British earl, whose wife is also still a "countess" (for lack of an Anglo-Saxon term). The word "count" comes from French "comte" which in turn comes from the Latin "comitas", "companion" (of the emperor).
A woman having this title or the wife of a count is called countess.

</doc>
<doc id="48216" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48216" title="Budgerigar">
Budgerigar

The Budgerigar (nicknamed budgie) is a small parrot. It belongs to the tribe of the wide-tailed parrots (Platycercini). Budgerigars are often called "parakeets", especially in American English. The term "Parakeet" refers to many types of small parrots with long flat tails. The budgerigar is found in the drier parts of Australia. It has lived there for over 5 million years. It is commonly kept as a pet. Budgies are intelligent birds and can be taught to mimic human speech.

</doc>
<doc id="48220" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48220" title="Endocarditis">
Endocarditis

Endocarditis is an inflammation of the inner layer of the heart. Endocarditis most often affects the heart valves. The heart valves are a part of the human body that does not get blood. This is odd because they are a part of the heart itself. Because of this, if one of the valves gets infected with a bacteria or protozoa, the body can not defend itself against that bacteria. This can cause the valve to not work the way it should.

</doc>
<doc id="48221" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48221" title="Tetracycline">
Tetracycline

Tetracycline is a family of antibiotics discovered as natural products in 1945. It is a broad-spectrum antibiotic because it works against a range of bacteria.
Tetracyclines was first prescribed in 1948. It is produced naturally by the "Streptomyces" genus of Actinobacteria. It is a protein synthesis inhibitor.
In 1950, Harvard University professor Robert Burns Woodward worked out the chemical structure of the related oxytetracycline (Terramycin). The patent protection for its production was also first issued in 1950.
Tetracycline is an antibiotic used to treat a number of bacterial infections. It is commonly used to treat acne and rosacea. Historically it was important in reducing the number of deaths from cholera. It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines.

</doc>
<doc id="48225" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48225" title="Hemoglobin">
Hemoglobin

Hemoglobin (or haemoglobin) is a protein in red blood cells which contains iron. It is used to transport oxygen around the human body. Hemoglobin is found in the red blood cells of all vertebrates apart from white-blooded fish. It also occurs in some invertebrates.
Hemoglobin is involved in the transport of other gases. It carries some of the body's respiratory carbon dioxide (about 20-25% of the total). 
Red blood cells get their color from hemoglobin, which is red. There are millions of hemoglobin molecules in each red blood cell and millions of red blood cells in the human body. When hemoglobin has oxygen attached, it is called oxyhemoglobin. 
The most common type of hemoglobin in mammals contains four such subunits. Each subunit of hemoglobin is a globular protein (globin) with a heme group inside it. Each heme group has one iron atom. This binds one oxygen molecule. So the complete hemoglobin molecule has four globin chains, four heme molecules, and four iron atoms. When hemoglobin is in the lungs, it picks up oxygen in its hemes, and carries it to the rest of the body. 
Its structure took years to work out. Max Perutz and John Kendrew worked out the structure of myoglobin first. That muscle globin is smaller, with only one heme group.

</doc>
<doc id="48226" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48226" title="Cornea">
Cornea

The cornea is the front part of the eye. It is the clear transparent section of the eye which that covers the iris, pupil, and the eye chamber. It is a very special form of tissue because the cornea is clear, has no blood vessels, and has nerves with no myelin sheaths on them.
The cornea, with the lens, refracts light. The cornea and the lens bend light so the image strikes the retina. The cornea does about two-thirds of this refraction.
Dua's layer is a newly discovered layer of the cornea. It was described in June 2013. It is the sixth layer of the cornea to be discovered. Despite its thinness, the layer is very strong, and air cannot get through it.

</doc>
<doc id="48227" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48227" title="WASSCE">
WASSCE

c
c
The 'West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) is a type of exam in West Africa. It is made by the West African Examinations Council (WAEC). It is only given to students who live in the five English-speaking West African countries,Nigeria,Ghana,Sierra Leone,The Gambia and Liberia.
There are two different types of the exam:
Note: It is highly recommended students are familiar with the WAEC Syllabus for each subject they intend to write on the WASSCE exam. Practicing with WASSCE past questions is also essential to one's success on the test.
The grades below are given on the WASSCE certificates for the students who finished their exams. They also depend on how well the students did in their exams.

</doc>
<doc id="48230" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48230" title="Sergei Prokofiev">
Sergei Prokofiev

Sergei Sergeyevich Prokofiev () (born Sontsovka, Ukraine 23 April 1891; died Moscow 5 March 1953) was a Russian composer and pianist who came from Ukraine. During his lifetime, Ukraine was part of Russia. Together with Dmitri Shostakovich he is one of the greatest Russian composers of the 20th century. Children all over the world love to listen to his musical story "Peter and the Wolf" and the music for "Lieutenant Kije", but he wrote many other great works including symphonies, concertos, piano sonatas, ballets and operas.
Prokofiev was born into an educated family, and his mother recognized very early her son's musical gifts. His father was a college-educated agronomist who managed the farm-site of his employer in the Ukrainian steppe. His mother played the piano reasonably well in her son's opinion. The young Sergei started composing at a very early age. By the time he was eleven he had written two operas and a series of small piano pieces he would later call "little puppies". Soon he was writing music with unusual time signatures and in unusual changes of key.
Prokofiev's formal musical education began when, as a young boy, he started taking lessons from Reinhold Glière. In 1904 he went to study at the Conservatory in St Petersburg. He was a brilliant student, but he often disagreed with the way the professors were teaching. He was bored with the lessons in orchestration from Rimsky-Korsakov and the counterpoint lessons from Liadov although he could have learned more from these great men. His main friends were the composers Nikolai Myaskovsky and Boris Asafiev. He often showed them his latest piano compositions which sounded very modern. Many of St. Petersburg's newspaper critics did not like his music, while others felt he showed great promise and was sure to be a "futurist".
Prokofiev spent the summer of 1909 back at home in the small Russian farming village of Sontsovka in what is now Ukraine where his father was an estate manager. He worked in a way that was to be typical of him all his life: he carefully kept a diary until the middle 1930s, was an excellent chess player and writer, kept making changes to a number of his earlier works. He often borrowed music from one composition and put it in another, or used unfinished works in new compositions.
When he returned to St Petersburg he took piano lessons from a teacher at the St. Petersburg Conservatory called Anna Esipova. She worked hard to discipline him in his playing although he did not appreciate her efforts. He also took conducting lessons from Nikolai Tcherepnin who taught him to like late-Romantic composers such as Scriabin and Debussy. He wrote some music himself in this style, but most of the music he wrote at this time sounded very harsh and dissonant and, although he was becoming quite famous, many people hated it. When he finished his studies at the Conservatoire he won its top prize (the Rubinstein Prize) with his "First Piano Concerto", although the examiners had found it hard to agree and Rimsky-Korsakov said that Prokofiev was "gifted but immature".
Prokofiev travelled to London where he met many famous people including Diaghilev who had a very skilled ballet group called Ballets Russes. The composer Igor Stravinsky had been writing ballet music for Diaghilev’s dancers. Prokofiev particularly loved Stravinsky’s "Rite of Spring" and it influenced his music. He wrote an opera "The Gambler" based on the novel by Brusilov but the singers and the orchestra did not understand his music and refused to perform it. One of the first works of Prokofiev to become known all over the world was his First Symphony known as the "Classical Symphony". He made the music sound like that of composers from the Classical period such as Haydn. This symphony is still very popular today.
He composed the music in peter and the wolf
In 1917 the Russian Revolution took place. The country was in a chaotic state so Prokofiev went to the United States. After a journey which took four months via the Transsiberian railway, Tokyo and San Francisco, he arrived in New York. His first real success came from his connections with Cyrus McCormik in Chicago. His first major commission was the opera "The Love for Three Oranges" for the Chicago Lyric Opera. It was popular in Chicago but not in New York City where he really wanted to make his reputation. He soon traveled to Paris to see Diagalev again whom he had met earlier in London. His first ballet for him was "Ala and Lolly" which Diagalev did not like and would not perform. This ballet later became Prokofiev's "Scythian Suite". His next ballet was more successful, "The Tale of the Buffoon". He also wrote his "Third Piano Concerto" which is his most popular concerto for piano. Prokofiev lived off and on in Paris for fourteen years, but he often went on tour, performing his works on the piano. In 1928 his "Third Symphony" was first performed, much of which was based on music from his opera " The Fiery Angel" which was never performed completely in his lifetime. In the late-1920s he was invited back to Russia. Although many Soviet people tried to persuade him to stay there he decided to remain in the West where he was starting to have a very successful career. It was not until 1936 that he finally decided to move back to Russia. Life was not easy in the Soviet Union for all types of creative people such as musicians, poets, writers and film makers. Composers were expected to write music which would make ordinary people happy and make them feel proud of their country and of the communist revolution. Any music that did not do this was called “decadent” or “formalist”. Many artists where punished for creating works that did not do what the socialist politicians expected of them. Prokofiev had never been interested in politics, and he thought the politicians would leave him in peace so that he could write the kind of music he liked.
Back in Russia Prokofiev settled in Moscow. He wrote several children’s pieces including "Peter and the Wolf". He was asked to write music for two important jubilees: the 20th anniversary of the Revolution and the centenary of Pushkin’s death. He took great care over this music. Much of what he wrote was to be directed by Meyerhold, but Meyerhold was arrested, later tortured and murdered so the whole project never happened. Some of the music written for the Pushkin centenary was later used in his opera "War and Peace", the "Stone Flower" ballet and Symphonic Waltzes. He also wrote a very large piece called "Cantata for the Twentieth Anniversary of the October Revolution", using words by Marx, Lenin and Stalin for a total of 500 performers. The music included realistic effects such as gun shots, machine-gun fire and sirens. However, many critics said that the music was vulgar, and it was not performed until 1966, long after Prokofiev’s death. He tried to make the soviet authorities pleased by writing a "safe" opera called "I am the Son of the Working People" but the politicians stopped it during its early auditions. The opera was going to be produced by Meyerhold, but again it never happened because Meyerhold was arrested and executed.
The World War II was a time of change for Prokofiev for several reasons. In 1941 his marriage to Lina Llubera came to an end and his new companion Mira Mendelsohn, and later wife, saw him through his last years. Lina was a foreigner and marriage to foreigners was made illegal (forbidden) at that time. In 1948 she was arrested, charged with being a spy, and sent to a labour camp. On the other hand, Mira had lived her entire life within the Soviet system and was much more aware of how to survive in the politacally-charged times. In 1945, shortly after the premier of his Fifth Symphony, he had a stroke which was the beginning of a period of bad health. He spent a lot of time away from Moscow where it was unsafe. The first signs that his health was to be poor occurred in Alma-Ata in 1943 when he had a fainting spell. He was an workaholic and this, plus the pressures placed upon him by the Soviet system, forced him to withdraw from an active social life in Moscow. Prokofiev lived with Mira for the rest of his life. Lina was freed from the labour camp after Stalin’s death. Later she left the Soviet Union and she died in London in 1989.
During the war Prokofiev composed a lot of his best music. He wrote his last piano sonatas as well as working on his operas "Betrothal in a Monestary" after Sherican, and "War and Peace" (based on the novel by Tolstoy) and writing his film music for both Eisenstein’s "Alexander Nevsky" and "Ivan the Terrible" and composing his Fifth Symphony. The first performance of this symphony, given on 13 January 1945, was the last time he conducted in public. He spent the rest of his life in a house in the country to the west of Moscow, although during his last winters he lived in Moscow close to his doctors. Even in these last years he was not to find peace. Stalin’s rule of terror had serious effects on all Soviet artists. In 1948 a committee of the Communist Party spoke out against several Soviet composers including Prokofiev. They said that his music was “formalist” and “alien” to the Soviet people. His opera “War and Peace” was not allowed to be performed because it was neither lyrical nor patriotic enough. The works he wrote in his last years were mostly ones which the politicians officially approved. His last great work of this period is the "Symphony-Concerto" for cello and orchestra which used a lot of music from the unsuccessful "Cello Sonata", and greatly revised with the help of the cellist Mstislav Rostropovich.
Prokofiev died of a brain haemorrhage on 5 March 1953. His death was hardly mentioned in the newspapers because the dictator Josef Stalin died on the same day.

</doc>
<doc id="48233" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48233" title="Arab Christians">
Arab Christians

Arab Christians are people who speak Arabic or of Arabic-speaking origin and have the religion of Christianity.
Most Christian Arabs live in the Middle East, where Islam is the biggest religion. The largest number of Arab Christians are in Egypt (around 8 millions). In Arab populations of these places (the Americas, Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, and America), a big number of these Arabs are Christians. In Brazil, there are more than 12 million Arabs, and most of these people are Christian.
Arab Christians faced significant persecution with the onset of the Islamic invasion after the death of the Prophet Muhammad. Conversion was often required for those who could not pay a substantial tax known as the 'jizya'. Furthermore, during various periods in the history of the Islamic world, Arab Christians were subject to at times brutal and humiliating persecution. Despite this, many Christians chose not to change their religion to Islam. Instead, they kept Christianity as their belief. As Muslims call them the "People of the Book" (with Jews). Today, Christians in the area face significant persecution that is only getting worse. In most countries they are required to obey Islamic "Shari'ah" law. In some countries, notably Egypt, political approval is required for the construction or renovation of a church - such restrictions are not present in the construction of Mosques. Countries in the Arabian Gulf, most notably Saudi Arabia, do not allow for the construction of churches or the public practice of Christianity - although that is slowly changing in progressive areas like the UAE. Coptic Christians in Egypt continue to face significant discrimination in the workplace and have a hard time reaching to the upper echelons in universities, corporations, and government offices. 
Arab Christians have been around before Arab Muslims. This is because there were many Arab tribes that became Christians since the first century. They were the Nabateans (whose ancestors were Aramean) and the Ghassanids (who were of Qahtani origin and spoke Yemeni-Arabic and Greek). They protected the south-eastern parts of the Byzantine Empire in north Arabia. 
Arab Christians made important contributions to the Arab world, and they still do. Some of the best poem writers at certain times were Arab Christians, and many Arab Christians were doctors, writers, government staff, and people who knew a lot about literature.

</doc>
<doc id="48243" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48243" title="Synthesizer">
Synthesizer

A musical synthesizer is an instrument that uses electricity to make musical sounds. Very often synthesizers have a keyboard like that of a piano. When playing a piano keyboard, sounds are made by hitting soft hammers against strings pulled very tight. When playing a synthesizer keyboard, sounds are made by turning electrical oscillators on and off. Since "synthesizer" is such a big word, the word is usually shortened to "synth".
An oscillator is something that "vibrates", or repeats the same pattern. The pendulum of a clock, for example, is a very slow oscillator. A piano string "oscillates" when struck by a hammer.
Electric oscillators might be made using transistors. They turn electricity into electrical patterns, or signals, that repeat over and over. When different keys are pressed, different notes are heard. This is done by making the signal from the oscillator repeat at different rates. 
The signal can be boosted in strength and sent straight to a loudspeaker. But the sound of a simple signal can be boring after a while. Sounds can be made more interesting in many ways.
By combining many of these methods, synths can now sound very much like older instruments. For one example, special synths called "drum synths" are used just to make the sounds a drummer might make. Synths can also make many new sounds never heard before.
In the early 2000s, computers got fast enough so "software synths" could be made. These are computer programs designed to look and work like a synth. They tend to be less expensive, so more can be used. Most of these programs can be downloaded for free, however this may be illegal.
There are special tools available to play synths. For example, a thing called a "wind controller" lets players of wind instruments use their special skills. But there is still a need for more ways to control synths to make them more expressive.

</doc>
<doc id="48244" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48244" title="John Foxe">
John Foxe

John Foxe (1516 – 8 April 1587) is remembered as the author of "Foxe's Book of Martyrs".
Foxe was born in Boston, Lincolnshire, England into a prominent family. In 1535 Foxe was admitted to Magdalen College School. He became a fellow in July 1539. 
Foxe resigned from his college in 1545, after referring to it as "a prison." During his time at Oxford he became an evangelical, meaning that he converted to Protestant beliefs not accepted by the Church of England under Henry VIII. As he wanted to leave Oxford, Foxe looked to other evangelicals for help but received only advice and a little money. Foxe married Agnes Randall on February 3, 1547.
With the death of Henry VIII in January of 1547 Foxe's prospects (and those of the evangelical cause generally) changed for the better. Foxe was ordained deacon by Nicholas Ridley on June 24, 1550.
In the fall of 1554 Foxe moved to Frankfurt, where he lived with Anthony Gilby in the English colony of Protestant refugees. 
Foxe then removed to Basel where he lived and worked with John Bale and Lawrence Humphrey.
In 1559, when Mary I had died Foxe returned to England. He lived for some time at Aldgate, London, in the house of his former pupil, Thomas Howard. Foxe started publishing works of religious controversy and worked on a new martyrology, which would become the "Foxe's Book of Martyrs". 
Foxe was ordained priest by Edmund Grindal, now Bishop of London, on January 25, 1560, and he moved to Norwich to live with its bishop, John Parkhurst. On March 23 of the following year the first edition of Foxe's Book of Martyrs was published.
Foxe was one of the earliest students of Anglo-Saxon, and he and Day published an edition of the "Saxon gospels" with the help of Archbishop Parker. 
Foxe died on 8 April 1587 and was buried at St. Giles's, Cripplegate.

</doc>
<doc id="48246" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48246" title="Evangelicalism">
Evangelicalism

The word evangelicalism mostly means religious practices and traditions which are found in conservative Protestant Christianity.
Evangelicalism is typified by an emphasis on evangelism, a personal experience of conversion, biblically oriented faith and a belief in the importance of Christian faith to cultural issues. In the late 20th century and early 21st century, Protestant people, churches and social movements have often been called "evangelical" in contrast to Protestant liberalism.
In continental Europe the word Evangelical is often understood to mean Protestant or even Lutheran as a literal translation of the German "evangelisch". In Germany, the Protestant religious group known as Lutherans in the USA and other places throughout the world are exclusively referred to as "die Evangelischen" or the Evangelicals belonging to the Evangelical Church in Germany. 

</doc>
<doc id="48274" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48274" title="920s">
920s


</doc>
<doc id="48275" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48275" title="940s">
940s

Below are some of the important events that happened from 940 to 949.

</doc>
<doc id="48276" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48276" title="910s">
910s


</doc>
<doc id="48277" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48277" title="Canopic jar">
Canopic jar

Canopic jars were used to store the internal organs of a mummy in Ancient Egypt. The lid had the head of a baboon, human, falcon or a cow—representing the sons of Horus. These jars were used to store organs which were removed from a dead person, these were the stomach, the intestine, the liver and the lungs, because they were thought to be useless in the afterlife.They only did the mummyfication process to important people. The jars were placed in the tombs with the bodies.

</doc>
<doc id="48278" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48278" title="Fellow">
Fellow

A fellow is a member of a group of learned people who work together at university or other academic institutions. However, there are no precise rules for how the title is used, and each academic institution grants the title as it sees fit. 

</doc>
<doc id="48285" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48285" title="Millipede">
Millipede

Millipedes are a very long type of arthropod. Millipedes are segmented. Most have between 20 to over 100 segments, and have flattened bodies. Except for the first few segments, each segment has 2 pairs of legs, as a result of each segment being the fusing (coming together) of two. 
So far, about 12,000 different species of millipedes have been described. with 10,000 identified, and there is an estimated 80,000 total species of millipede on Earth. The animals are detrivores, they eat what is left over from plants. 
Most of the time, their food is decaying leaves and other dead plant matter. Most millipedes are poisonous. This protects them from being constantly eaten because of their slow movement. Generally, they are not a pest, although young seedlings in greenhouses can be sometimes eaten by these creatures. "Xenobolus carnifex "is known for its common infestation of thatched roofs in India. Several species swarm houses and farms, causing damage.
Some millipedes have fangs that allow them to directly prey on plants. 
The primary defense mechanism of millipedes is to roll up into a spiral-shaped circle, protecting their more delicate organs from being hurt by an armor-like skin. Millipedes can secrete liquids that can burn their predators for protection. 
Bristly millipedes lack armor-like skin, and instead have bristles (small spiky hairs) that protect them from insects, like detaching a bristle when it goes through the body of an ant. 
They can easily be told apart from centipedes because centipedes move faster, have only have one pair of legs per segment, and eat animals instead of just plants, although a very small amount of millipede species are omnivores, feeding on insects, earthworms, or snails. 
Scientists who study millipedes are called diplopodologists, and the scientific study (like astronomy or biology) of millipedes is known as diplopodology.
A millipede species," Pneumodesmus newmani," was the first animal species to live constantly on land that lived 428 million years ago.
Millipedes are the most common in temperate, wet deciduous forests, but are also often found in coniferous forests and high-altitude alpine environments, some species live in deserts, and even fewer in caves. Many live under stones, fallen leaves, and in woodpiles, plus other dark damp locations in forests.
Some species of bristly millipedes have been known to live in the common small cracks of tree bark.
Millipedes, due to their herbivore (plant-eating) and, with some species, limited omnivore capabilities, do not bite humans, although some of the defensive liquids that they give out might cause minor irritation and burns on human skin. On the eyes, these can be much worse, and direct exposure can lead to very bad problems.
They also appear in various folklore, remedies, and traditional usages around the world.

</doc>
<doc id="48286" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48286" title="Edwy of England">
Edwy of England

Edwy All-Fair or "Eadwig" (941? – 1 October 959) was the King of England from 955 until his death. Edwy was the eldest son of King Edmund I and Saint Elgiva. Edwy was chosen in 955 to succeed his uncle Edred as King.
His short reign as King was marked by conflict. He had problems within his family, the Thanes, and the Roman Catholic Church, under the leadership of Saint Dunstan and Archbishop Odo. Edwy died at the age of eighteen or nineteen, and was succeeded by his rival brother, Edgar, who re-unified the kingdom.

</doc>
<doc id="48288" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48288" title="Oda the Severe">
Oda the Severe

Saint Oda or Odo, called the Good or the Severe (d. 958) was a 10th century Archbishop of Canterbury in England.

</doc>
<doc id="48289" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48289" title="Magdalen College School, Oxford">
Magdalen College School, Oxford

Magdalen College School is an independent school for boys. It is on the edge of central Oxford, England. It was founded as part of Magdalen College, Oxford by William Waynflete in 420.
The school was originally founded by William Waynflete to educate the sixteen boy choristers of Magdalen College, Oxford University who sang in the college's chapel. Important Old Waynfletes include William Tyndale, Sam Mendes, Alex Lennox, Tim Hunt, and Ben Goldacre.

</doc>
<doc id="48290" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48290" title="Edward V of England">
Edward V of England

Edward V (2 November 1470– 1483) was the King of England from 9 April 1483 until he was removed two months later, on 25 June 1483. 
Edward was born at Westminster while his father, King Edward IV of England, was in exile in Burgundy. The King, Henry VI, said his mother and his sisters would be safe if they stayed at the abbey. When Edward IV came back and took over the throne again, Edward became his heir and was given the title "Prince of Wales". Edward IV thought it would be right for the Prince of Wales to rule Wales, so he sent little Prince Edward to live in Ludlow Castle, where the Council of Wales met. The prince was helped by his uncle, Anthony Woodville, Earl Rivers, and began to learn how to be a ruler. His mother, Queen Elizabeth, was often with him, and his father, the king, also visited.
The prince spent most of his time at Ludlow until he was twelve, when his father the king suddenly died. The prince had to go straight to London to take the throne, and his uncle, Earl Rivers, went with him. On the way, they were met by another of his uncles, Richard, Duke of Gloucester. The Duke was a younger brother of King Edward IV, and the king had given him the title of "Lord Protector" in the hope that he would look after Prince Edward until he was old enough to be the real king.
Instead of arranging a coronation for the new king, Duke Richard decided to take the throne for himself, and became King Richard III. He sent Prince Edward to live in the Tower of London and wait for his coronation. He also got Edward's younger brother, Prince Richard, Duke of York, to come and live at the Tower. Earl Rivers was executed by Richard. Gloucester was able to convince people that the two young princes were not the legal heirs to the throne. On 25 June 1483, the Parliament said that Richard, Duke of Gloucester, was the legal king. 
This was because Edward and his other brothers and sisters was declared illegitimate. After Edward IV had died, it was revealed that he had been engaged to a woman named Eleanor Butler, so Edward IV's marriage to his mother Elizabeth Woodville was seen as bigamy.
After a few months, the two boys disappeared, and what happened to them is still a mystery today. Most people think that the two boys were murdered. They became known as the Princes in the Tower. It is most likely they were killed by their uncle, Richard III. It is also possible that they were killed by Henry VII, who became king two years later.
In 1674, during building work at the Tower, a wooden chest was found under a staircase in the White Tower. It contained the bones of two young boys. It has never been proved that these are the missing princes, but King Charles II had the bones buried in Westminster Abbey. In 1933 the bones were looked at again by scientists who believed that they were the two princes.

</doc>
<doc id="48291" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48291" title="Lincolnshire">
Lincolnshire

Lincolnshire ( or ; abbreviated Lincs) is a county in the east of England. It borders Norfolk, Cambridgeshire, Rutland, Leicestershire, Nottinghamshire, South Yorkshire, the East Riding of Yorkshire, and (for just 19 metres or 20 yd, England's shortest county boundary) Northamptonshire. Its county town is the ancient city of Lincoln.

</doc>
<doc id="48292" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48292" title="Norfolk">
Norfolk

Norfolk is a low-lying county in East Anglia in the east of southern England. It has borders with Lincolnshire to the west, Cambridgeshire to the west and southwest and with Suffolk to the south. Its northern and eastern boundaries are the North Sea coast, including The Wash. The county town is Norwich. Norfolk is home to the Norfolk Broads, a famous tourist and wildlife spot. 

</doc>
<doc id="48293" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48293" title="ISO 3166-2">
ISO 3166-2

ISO 3166-2 is a standard. It was made by the International Organization for Standardization. It extends ISO 3166 to a national level. ISO 3166 is about abbreviating geographical names like countries to two or three letter codes, or numbers. ISO3166-2 does the same with provinces on a per-country level.
Below is a full table of the ISO 3166-2 codes for each country, with three columns:

</doc>
<doc id="48294" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48294" title="Leicestershire">
Leicestershire

Leicestershire (abbreviated Leics) is a county in central England. It takes its name from the heavily populated City of Leicester, its traditional administrative centre, although the City of Leicester is today administered separately from the rest of Leicestershire. The county borders onto Lincolnshire, Rutland, Northamptonshire, Warwickshire, Staffordshire, Derbyshire, and Nottinghamshire.
Leicestershire was recorded in the Domesday Book.

</doc>
<doc id="48295" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48295" title="Northamptonshire">
Northamptonshire

Northamptonshire (abbreviated Northants or N'hants) is a county in central England with a population of 629,676 (2001 census). It has borders with Warwickshire, Leicestershire, Rutland, Cambridgeshire, Peterborough, Bedfordshire, Buckinghamshire (including the Borough of Milton Keynes), Oxfordshire, and Lincolnshire (England's shortest county boundary: 19 metres). The county town is Northampton.
Northamptonshire has often been called the county of "squires and spires" due to its wide variety of historic buildings and country houses.
Northampton is by far the largest town in the county, with a population of 194,122. This is followed by Corby (53,174), Wellingborough (48,428), Kettering (47,000), Rushden (25,849) and Daventry (22,367). Most of the county's population is concentrated in a central north-south.
Cherwell Edge in Northamptonshire () is near the River Cherwell, north-west of Banbury, England. The once heavily wooded hill and valley was mostly cleared many years ago. The area now also covers the nearby Cherwell Edge Golf Club that was recently built by it too. The golf club is used by various local residents.
These are the main settlements in Northamptonshire with a town charter, a population over 5,000, or otherwise notable.
Two major canals - the Oxford and the Grand Union — join in the county at Braunston.
A branch of the Grand Union Canal connects to the River Nene in Northampton.
Two trunk railway routes, the West Coast Main Line and the Midland Main Line traverse the county.
Before nationalisation of the railways in 1948 and the creation of British Railways, Northamptonshire was home to three of the "Big Four" railway companies; the London, Midland and Scottish Railway, London and North Eastern Railway and Great Western Railway. Only the Southern Railway was not represented.

</doc>
<doc id="48314" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48314" title="Earl">
Earl

An Earl (or Jarl) was a title for nobility used by Anglo-Saxons and Scandinavians. It originally meant "chieftain" and it referred especially to chieftains set to rule a territory in a king's stead. In Scandinavia, it stopped being used in the Middle Ages, whereas, in Britain, it became synonymous with the continental count.
Today, an earl is a member of the British peerage, and is below a Marquess, but above a Viscount. A British Earl is the same as a continental Count. Since there is no feminine form of Earl, the wife of an Earl has the rank of Countess (the continental equivalent).

</doc>
<doc id="48321" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48321" title="Lobster">
Lobster

Lobsters are large crustaceans that live in the sea. They form the family of Nephropidae, which is sometimes also called Homaridae. Lobsters are an economically important type of seafood.
Several different groups of crustaceans are known as lobsters. When people talk about lobsters, most of the time they mean "clawed lobsters", for example the genus "Homarus". Clawed lobsters are not closely related to squat lobsters, spiny lobsters or slipper lobsters, which have no claws ("chelae"). The closest relatives of clawed lobsters are the reef lobster "Enoplometopus" and the three groups of freshwater crayfish.
Smaller kinds of lobsters are sometimes called "lobsterettes". Lobsters are invertebrates. They have a hard exoskeleton (outer skeleton), which protects them. Similar to most arthropods, lobsters must shed (or lose) this skeleton before they can grow. This process of shedding is called "moulting". When lobsters "moult", they are weak and easy to attack. Some lobster species' colors change when they are moulting.
Lobsters live between the shore and the edge of the continental shelf. They live on rocky, sandy, or muddy bottoms (of the water).They usually live alone in cracks or under rocks.
Lobsters usually eat live food, which includes fish, mollusks, other crustaceans, worms, and some plant life. Lobsters scavenge (eat dead plants and animals) when they need to. Lobsters also eat other lobsters (cannabalism) when they are not free; lobsters do not eat other lobsters in the oceans. People have found lobster skin in the stomachs of some lobsters. This is because lobsters eat the skin they shed when they moult.  . Lobsters grow all their lives. Some lobsters live for over 100 years , and some become very very big. The Guinness World Records says that the largest lobster was from Nova Scotia, Canada and weighed 20.14 kg (44.4 lb).
Similar to most arthropods, lobsters are "bilaterally symmetrical" - they are the same on the left and right sides. But lobsters who have claws often have claws of different sizes, for example the king crab. These unequal claws are for special actions. When a fisherman catches a lobster, the lobster's claw is often full and fleshy, not small. Lobsters have a cephalothorax which is the place where their head connects to the thorax. The carapace covers the cephalothorax and the thorax. The carapace is made of chitin. A lobster's head has two pairs of antennae and three pairs of jaws. Lobsters use their antennae to feel where they are. They cannot see very well. The abdomen of the lobster includes legs and a tail fan.
Lobsters usually move slowly by walking on the bottom of the sea floor. However, when they are in danger and need to escape, they swim backwards quickly by curling and uncurling their abdomen. Lobsters can move at a speed of 5 metres per second.

</doc>
<doc id="48324" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48324" title="Spiny lobster">
Spiny lobster

Spiny lobsters, also known as rock lobsters are a family (Palinuridae) of about 45 species of crustaceans, in the Decapoda Reptantia. Spiny lobsters are also called "crayfish", "sea crayfish" or "crawfish".
Although they superficially resemble true lobsters in terms of overall shape, and that they also have a hard carapace and exoskeleton, the two groups are not closely related. Spiny lobsters can be easily distinguished from true lobsters by their very long, thick, spiny antennae, and by their complete lack of claws ("chelae"); true lobsters have much smaller antennae and claws on the first three pairs of legs, with the first being particularly enlarged. Like true lobsters, however, spiny lobsters are edible and are an economically significant food source; they are the biggest food export of the Bahamas .
Spiny lobsters are found in almost all warm seas, including the Caribbean and the Mediterranean Sea, but are particularly common in Australasia, where they are referred to commonly as crayfish or sea crayfish ("Jasus novaehollandiae" and "Jasus edwardsii"), and South Africa ("Jasus lalandii"). A new species, "Palinurus barbarae" was described in 2006.
The largest spiny lobster on record was over 1 m (3 ft) long and weighed over 11.8 kg (26 lb).
Spiny lobsters tend to live in crevices of rocks and coral reefs, only occasionally venturing out at night to seek snails, clams, crabs, sea urchins or carrion to eat. Sometimes, they migrate "en masse", in long files of lobsters across the sea floor. Potential predators may be deterred from eating spiny lobsters by a loud screech made by the antennae of the spiny lobsters rubbing against a smooth part of the exoskeleton . Spiny lobsters usually exhibit social habit by being together. However recent studies indicate that healthy lobsters move away from infected ones and leaving the diseased lobsters to fend for itself .
The furry lobsters ("e.g." "Palinurellus") are sometimes separated into a family of their own, the Synaxidae, but are usually considered members of the Palinuridae. The slipper lobsters (Scyllaridae) are their next closest relatives, and these two or three families make up the Achelata. Genera of spiny lobsters include "Palinurus" and a number of anagrams thereof: "Panulirus", "Linuparus", "etc." (Palinurus was also a helmsman in Virgil's Æneid.)

</doc>
<doc id="48327" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48327" title="Bromeliad">
Bromeliad

Bromeliads are a family of tropical plants which includes the pineapple and several colourful houseplants. They are nearly all from Latin America and the Caribbean islands, except for Spanish moss from the southern United States, and a single kind from Africa.
Pineapples (Latin name: "Ananas"). See Pineapple.
Air plants (Latin name: "Tillandsia") are very curious because they do not need any roots to stay alive. Instead they soak up moisture from the air around them through tiny, silvery scales on their leaves. They have so many of these scales that the whole plant can look grey. In the wild they grow on tree banches in rainy and misty areas. In the Caribbean there is a kind that grows on telephone wires!
Urn plants (Latin name: "Aechmea") are easy to keep. They grow to about 60 cm across, but because the stiff, green-and-grey leaves have spiny edges, they need to be out of the way. Urn plants got their name because they have a hole in the middle made by the ring-shaped arrangement of their leaves. This central urn fills up with rainwater in the wild and is often home to insects and frogs. Its flowers are held high on a single stem, and protected by a globe of small, pink leaves which lasts for several months.
Vriesias (Latin names: "Vriesia" and "Guzmania") are like urn plants, but they have no spines and their leaves are softer. They are often sold in flower shops (and sometimes in supermarkets) and are very easy to look after. Their flowers grow on a single stem, protected by flattened, colourful leaves. It is better not to fill the central space with water, as these soft-leaved plants might rot. instead their soil should be watered.
Spanish moss (Latin name: "Tillandsia usneoides") is a grey plant found hanging from trees in the swamps of the southern United States, especially in Louisiana but as far east as coastal Virginia. To the south it spreads as far as Chile and Argentina. It gained its current name from Spanish and French colonisers in the Gulf of Mexico. The French called it "Barbe Espagnole" ("Spanish beard") to insult their rivals, and the Spanish in turn called it "Cabello francés" ("French hair"). Today "Spanish moss" survives as a mild version of the French taunt, although some call the plant "Graybeard".
Bromelia, the plant which gives its name to the family, is the only other bromeliad with edible fruit. Its berries taste a bit like pineapple, but are less tasty, and there are not very many on each plant.
Fascicularia is the only bromeliad that can be grown in frosty areas. It is not killed by frost if it is kept dry in the winter.
Pitcairnia is the only wild bromeliad outside the Americas. One species, "Pitcairnia feliciana", was discoved living in West Africa. It is probably descended from seeds carried by migrating birds.
Puya is the largest bromeliad. It can grow up to nine metres tall. It lives in the Andes mountains, and is sometimes eaten by bears for its nectar. In Chile the young leaves of some puyas are eaten in salads.

</doc>
<doc id="48335" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48335" title="Eucalyptus">
Eucalyptus

Eucalyptus is a genus of trees. There are over 700 species of eucalypts, and almost all of them are in Australia. Eucalypts can be found in almost every part of the Australia, and they are adapted to many different habitats.
"Eucalyptus" is one of three similar genera that are commonly referred to as "eucalypts", the others being "Corymbia" and "Angophora".
Many species, but far from all, are known as gum trees because they exude copious sap from any break in the bark. 
Eucalypts have many local names, like 'gum trees', 'mallee', 'box', 'ironbark', 'stringybark' and 'ash'.
Eucalypts have special flowers and fruits that no other trees have. When it flowers a bud cap made of petals grows around the flower until it is ready to open. Then the bud cap falls off to reveal a flower with no petals.
The woody fruits are called gumnuts. They are roughly cone-shaped and open at one end to release the seeds.
Nearly all eucalypts are evergreen but some tropical species lose their leaves at the end of the dry season. The leaves are covered with oil glands. These oils are often used to treat coughs and colds.
Many eucalypts also change the shape of their leaves as they get older. Young eucalypts have round leaves. When one to a few years old, the leaves of most kinds become longer and spearhead or sickle shaped. A few kinds keep the round leaf shape all their lives. Most species do not flower until the adult leaves starts to appear.
The bark dies every year. In smooth-barked trees most of the bark falls off the tree, leaving a smooth surface that is often colourfully marked. With rough-barked trees the dead bark stays on the tree and dries out. Many kinds of eucalyptus trees have smooth bark at the top but rough bark lower down. These different kinds of bark are used to arrange the eucalypts into groups - this is useful because there are hundreds of kinds of eucalypts, and breaking down the group in this way makes the group easier to understand.
The different groups are:
Today, specimens of the Australian Mountain Ash, are among the tallest trees in the world at up to 92 metres in height and the tallest of all flowering plants: taller trees such as the coast redwood are all conifers. There is evidence that at the time of European settlement of Australia some Mountain Ash were indeed the tallest plants in the world.
Most eucalypts cannot survive frost, or can only stand light frosts down to -3 °C to -5 °C. The hardiest eucalypts are the so-called Snow gums such as "Eucalyptus pauciflora" which is capable of withstanding cold and frost down to about -20 °C. Two sub-species (wild varieties) of this tree can survive even colder winters.
Several other kinds, especially from the high plateau and mountains of central Tasmania, have produced extreme cold-hardy forms. It is seed from these hardy strains that are planted for ornamental trees in colder parts of the world.
An oil found in eucalyptus leaves is a strong, natural disinfectant, which is used in some medicines, but can be poisonous if too much is taken. Several marsupials, such as koalas and some possums, are partly resistant to it. These animals can tell which plants are safe to eat by their smell.
Eucalypts make a lot of nectar, providing food for many insects.
Eucalypts have a habit of dropping entire branches off as they grow. Eucalyptus forests are littered with dead branches. The Australian Ghost Gum "Eucalyptus papuana" is sometimes called the "widow maker", due to the high number of tree-felling workers who were killed by falling branches. Many deaths were actually caused by simply camping under them, as the trees shed whole and very large branches to save water during droughts. For this reason, you should "never" camp under large eucalyptus branches.
On warm days eucalyptus oil vapour rises above the bush to create the well-known distant blue haze of the Australian landscape. Eucalyptus oil catches fire very easily, and bush fires can travel quickly through the oil-rich air of the tree crowns. The dead bark and fallen branches are also flammable. Eucalypts are well adapted for periodic fires - in fact most species are dependent on them for spread and regeneration. They do this in several ways: by sprouting from underground tubers, hidden buds under their bark and from seeds sprouting in the ashes after the fire has opened them.
Eucalypts began between 35 and 50 million years ago, not long after Australia and New Guinea separated from Gondwana. Their coming coincides with an increase in fossil charcoal deposits (which might mean that fire was important to them even then), but they remained a minor component of the rainforest until about 20 million years ago, when the gradual drying of the continent and lessening of soil richness led to the growth of a more open forest type, with mainly "Casuarina" and "Acacia" trees. With the arrival of the first humans about 50 thousand years ago, fires became much more frequent and the fire-loving eucalypts soon came to account for roughly 70% of Australian forest.
Eucalypts grow back quickly after fire. 
The two valuable timber trees, Alpine Ash and Mountain Ash, are killed by fire and only grow back from seeds. The same fire which had little impact on forests around Canberra has resulted in thousands of hectares of dead forests.
Eucalypts have many uses which have made them important. Because of their fast growth, the main benefit of these trees is the wood. They provide many uses, such as planting in parks and gardens, timber, firewood and pulpwood. Fast growth also makes eucalypts suitable as windbreaks.
Eucalypts draw a very large amount of water from the soil. They have been planted (or re-planted) in some places to lower the water table and reduce the amount of salt in the soil. Eucalypts have also been used as a way of reducing malaria by draining the soil in such places as Algeria, Sicily mainland Europe and California. Drainage removes swamps which provide a habitat for mosquito larvae, but such drainage can also destroy harmless habitats by accident.
Eucalyptus oil is refined from the leaves by steaming. It can be used for cleaning, deodorising, and in very small amounts in food supplements, especially sweets, cough drops and decongestants. Eucalyptus oil is an insect repellent (Fradin & Day 2002).
The nectar of some eucalyptus produces high quality honey. In the western United States the flowering is in late January, before the flowering of other nut and fruit trees; this means that its nectar can be easily made into its own kind of honey, which is said to have a buttery taste.
The ghost gum's leaves were used by Aborigines to catch fish. Soaking the leaves in water releases a mild tranquiliser which stuns fish, making them easy to catch.
Eucalyptus is also used to make the digeridoo, a musical wind instrument made popular by the Aborigines.
Eucalypts were first introduced to the rest of the world by Sir Joseph Banks, botanist on the Cook expedition in 1770. They have since been introduced to many parts of the world. Several species have become invasive (spreading out of the area they were planted in) and are causing major problems for local wildlife.
In Spain, they have been planted in pulpwood plantations, replacing native oak woodland. As in other such areas, while the original woodland supports kinds of native animal life, the eucalypt groves cannot support the local wildlife, leading to silent forests and the decline of wildlife populations. On the other hand, eucalypts helps several industries, such as sawmilling, pulp, and charcoal making.
In the 1850s many Australians traveled to California to take part in the California Gold Rush. Much of California has similar climate to parts of Australia, and some people had the idea of introducing eucalypts. By the early 1900s thousands of hectares of eucalypts were planted with the encouragement of the state government. It was hoped that they would provide a renewable source of timber for construction and furniture making. However this did not happen partly because the trees were cut when they were too young and partly because the Americans did not know how to process the cut trees to prevent the wood from twisting and splitting.
One way in which the eucalypts, mainly the blue gum, proved valuable in California was in providing windbreaks for highways, orange groves, and other farms in the mostly treeless central part of the state. They are also admired as shade and ornamental trees in many cities and gardens.
"Eucalyptus" forests in California have been criticized because they drive out the native plants and do not support native animals. Fire is also a problem. The 1991 Oakland Hills firestorm which destroyed almost 3,000 homes and killed 25 people was partly fueled by large numbers of eucalyptus in the area close to the houses.
In some parts of California eucalypt forests are being removed, and native trees and plants restored. Some people have also illegally destroyed some trees and are suspected of bringing in insect pests from Australia which attack the trees.
In 1910 eucalypts were introduced to Brazil for timber substitution and the charcoal industry. Regrettably the long term effects were not studied, and in the present the eucalyptus is causing problems because of its high consumption of water. This causes the soil to dry out, killing many local plants which the local animals need to survive.

</doc>
<doc id="48345" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48345" title="Cell theory">
Cell theory

Cell theory is a way to describe the biology of living things. Cell theory says that the cell is the basic unit of life. Cells by themselves are alive, but they can also be part of a larger living thing. The smallest living organisms (like bacteria but not viruses) and the biggest ones (like humans and whales) are all made of cells. Very small organisms like bacteria and amoebas are only made of one cell each, so they are called unicellular organisms ("uni" means "one"). Larger organisms are made of many cells, and they are called multicellular organisms.
Cell theory has three basic points: 
Cells are born from older cells, in a process called cell division. Cells contain information that is passed from the parent cell to the daughter cells, so that the daughter cells can do what they need to do. This information is carried on molecules called DNA.
Because cells are alive, they must be able to eat and do other things to stay alive. All cells have chemical ways of consuming food. These are part of its metabolism.
Even though there are many kinds of cells, they have some similarities too. Many of the chemicals inside of them are the same.
Cells were discovered by Robert Hooke (1635–1703). He used a compound microscope with two lenses to look at the structure of cork, and to look at leaves and some insects. He did this from about 1660, and reported it in his book "Micrographica" in 1665. 
Many other naturalists and philosophers tried out the new instrument. The structure of plants was investigated by Nehemiah Grew (1641–1712) and Marcello Malpighi (1628–1694). Grew's major work was "The anatomy of plants" (1682). It is not clear who first saw animal cells, Malpighi, Jan Swammerdam (1637–1680) or Antonie van Leeuwenhoek (1632–1723).
Leeuwenhoek's discoveries and drawings of 'little animalules' opened up a whole new world for naturalists. Protozoa, and microorganisms generally were discovered. Christian Gottfried Ehrenberg's book "Die Infusionsthierchen" summarised what was known in 1838. Lorenz Oken (1779–1851) in 1805 wrote that infusoria (microscopic forms) were the basis of all life. 
The work of the Czech Jan Purkyně (1787–1869) and his student and collaborator Gabriel Valentin (1810–1883) was "unjustly denigrated by the nationalistic Germans. They have a claim to some priority in the cell theory". 
Johannes Müller (1801–1858) also made great contributions. It was, however, his student Theodor Schwann and Matthias Schleiden (1804–1881) who got the credit for the cell theory, despite the fact that some of their observations were not correct, and their credits to previous workers were "a travesty". As understood now, the cell theory includes these important ideas:
The key works of Schwann and Schleiden were published in 1838 and 1839.
These ideas still are the basic ideas of cell theory.

</doc>
<doc id="48357" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48357" title="Silicone">
Silicone

Silicones () are polymers that include any inert, synthetic compound made up of repeating units of siloxane. This is a functional group of two silicon atoms and one oxygen atom frequently combined with carbon and/ or hydrogen. They are typically heat-resistant and rubber-like. Silicones are used in sealants, adhesives, lubricants, medicine, cooking utensils, and thermal and electrical insulation. Some common forms include silicone oil, silicone grease, silicone rubber, silicone resin, and silicone caulk. Silicone is also used for cosmetics. Silicone has very little to do with the element silicon ().

</doc>
<doc id="48360" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48360" title="Oxfordshire">
Oxfordshire

Oxfordshire (short Oxon, from the Latinised form "Oxonia") is a county in the South East of England, bordering on Northamptonshire, Buckinghamshire, Berkshire, Wiltshire, Gloucestershire, and Warwickshire.
It is divided into five local government districts: Oxford, Cherwell, Vale of the White Horse (after the "Uffington White Horse"), "West Oxfordshire" and "South Oxfordshire".
The county has a major tourism industry. The area is known for the concentration of motorsport companies and facilities. Oxford University Press has headed a concentration of print and publishing firms; the university is also linked to the concentration of local biotechnology companies.
The main centre of population is the city of Oxford. Other significant settlements are Bicester, Banbury, and Chipping Norton to the north of Oxford; Witney to the west; Thame and Chinnor to the east; and Abingdon, Wantage, Didcot and Henley-on-Thames to the south. Future population growth in the county is hoped to be concentrated around Banbury, Bicester, Didcot and Witney, near the South Midlands growth area.
The highest point of the county is Whitehorse Hill, in the Vale of White Horse, reaching 856 feet (261m).
The county of Oxfordshire was formed in the early years of the 10th century.
Historically the area has always had some importance, it has been good agricultural land resting between the main southern cities and Oxford (whose name came from Anglo-Saxon "Oxenaford" = "ford for oxen"). The area was part of the Cotswolds wool trade from the 13th century. The Great Western Railway reached Didcot in 1839. Morris Motors was founded in Oxford in 1912 and MG in Abingdon in 1929. The importance of agriculture as an employer has gone down in the 20th century; today less than one percent of the county's population are involved.
The Vale of the White Horse and parts of South Oxfordshire south of the River Thames were historically part of Berkshire, but were added to the administrative county in 1974.
</div>

</doc>
<doc id="48364" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48364" title="Minnie Mouse">
Minnie Mouse

Minnie Mouse is a cartoon character. She is Mickey Mouse's girlfriend. They were both created by Walt Disney. Her birthday is on 18th November 1928. But she only first appeared in 1928, in “Plane Crazy”. She is also known as Princess Minnie and Maestro Minnie. Minnie's favorite foods are cheese, chocolate and cake. She loves listening to jazz music. 
Minnie Mouse’s parents are both farmers. Marcus Mouse is her father’s name. His name was first used in the comic strip story “Mr. Slicker and the Egg Robbers” (published 22 September- 26 December, 1930). But Minnie’s mother’s name is Margie Mouse. Minnie Mouse also has a sister called Mandie Mouse. Minnie Mouse has twin nieces, Millie and Melody, Mandie's daughters, they are rarely seen now and when they are seen they are on their own without the other twin. Marshal Mouse, Marcus Mouse's father and Minnie Mouse's grandfather, was also a farmer. He is also seen in "Mr Slicker and the Egg Robbers".
Minnie Mouse has two pets, a dog and a cat. The dog is called Fifi. Fifi has 5 puppies with Mickey’s dog, Pluto. Pluto was Mickey’s first dog; he was called Rover at that time. She also has a cat called Figaro. This is the same cat which appears in the Disney movie Pinocchio.It has been recently discovered that she has adopted two new pets, a lizard and a snake, their names are Lolly and Pop, respectively. This due to her sudden fascination with reptiles.
Walt Disney said in a interview in 1933 that in private Mickey and Minnie are married. He also said that many people asked him about this. Depending on the movie, Minnie and Mickey are married or sometimes not married but always married and not married.
From 19th January 1942 to 2nd May 1942 there was a comic magazine called “The Gleam”. In this magazine once it said that Minnie’s real name was Minerva Mouse. But the Walt Disney head office said that there is no register about her real name as Minerva. There is not much information about Minerva, but she is similar to Minnie’s character. Therefore many people miss understood that Minerva was Minnie’s real name. Formally Minnie’s name is only registered as “Minnie Mouse”.
However some sources say that Minerva is Minnie’s real name, and that Minnie’s full name is Minerva “Minnie” Mouse.
More likely is that Minnie's original name was the German/Dutch Wilhelmina, which is about the only name for which Minnie is the "official" abbreviation (http://www.thinkbabynames.com/meaning/0/Minnie). Possibly, this fact was suppressed during the 1930s, as Germany became more unpopular due to its political and racial leanings.
It seems that Minnie’s closest friends are Daisy Duck, Donald Duck’s girlfriend, and also sometimes Clarabelle Cow. She often goes shopping with Daisy and she spends a lot of time with her. Her friendship with Daisy is more of a product of recent cartoons, as they never interacted with each other during the classic shorts. Minnie also has another friend called Honor the Hippo and they keep their secrets in bits of moss on the pavement. Minnie's other friend Carly the Cat has a middle parting in her long hair. 

</doc>
<doc id="48365" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48365" title="Notostraca">
Notostraca

The order Notostraca has just two living genera in it. "Triops" and "Lepidura". The two genera are considered 'living fossils', as they have not changed in outward form since the Triassic.
Notostracans, or tadpole shrimps, are omnivores living on the bottom of temporary pools and shallow lakes. They live in pools of water on every continent except Antarctica. They grow very quickly, and can reach adulthood in a week. "Triops" only live for a short time; a record-breaking female only lived to be 100 "days". When their pools dry up,adult tadpole shrimp die. Their eggs, however, stop developing for a time. When they are in water again, they come to life, and new "Triops" are hatched. This is because of a state known as diapause, where eggs can lie dormant for up to twenty years before hatching again.
The fossil record of Notostraca is extensive. They occur in a wide range of geological deposits, reaching back to the Carboniferous. The lack of major morphological change since 250 million years ago has led to Notostraca being described as living fossils.
The Notostraca abandoned filter feeding in open water, and took up a benthic lifestyle in muddy waters, taking up food from particles of sediment and preying on small animals.
Notostracans keep the ancient condition of having two separate compound eyes. These touch but do not become united, as does happens in other groups of Branchiopods.

</doc>
<doc id="48370" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48370" title="Porphyria">
Porphyria

Porphyria is the name for certain medical conditions or diseases, which have been known since the days of Hippocrates. Those who suffer from the disease can not make certain substances in the blood. They have disorders of certain enzymes which normally work in the production of porphyrins and heme. 
The condition is usually caused by a genetic deficiency, but chemicals which affect metabolism may also cause it. Arsenic is an example. It can be triggered by various drugs or by some environmental conditions. The disease causes skin problems, or some diseases of the nervous system, or both. Severe pain is often present. Drugs are available that can at least treat the symptoms. This disease is most common in European countries and often affects the skin. When someone is affected by porphyria they will start to lose their hair about two weeks after having an attack. There is no cure for the hair loss. However, there is medication available to help prevent attacks.

</doc>
<doc id="48371" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48371" title="Diatom">
Diatom

Diatoms (Greek: "dia" = through + "temnein" = to cut: "cut through") are a big group of eukaryotic algae. They are one of the most common types of phytoplankton. Most diatoms are unicellular, although some form chains or simple colonies. Diatom cells are encased within a unique cell wall made of silica (SiO). These walls, called frustules, take many forms, some quite beautiful and ornate. They usually consist of two asymmetrical sides with a split between them, which gives the group its name.
Diatom chloroplasts were probably derived from those of red algae. The fossil record of diatoms starts in strata of the Lower Jurassic, ~185 million years ago. Molecular clock evidence suggests an earlier date for their origin. The entire genomes of two species of diatom have been analysed. The analysis reveals that hundreds of genes in both species came from bacteria.
Diatoms have some practical uses. Diatom communities are a popular tool for monitoring environmental conditions, past and present. They are commonly used in studies of water quality. They are also of interest to nanotechnology.

</doc>
<doc id="48375" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48375" title="Decapitation">
Decapitation

Decapitation or beheading is the act of cutting off the head from the rest of the body of a living thing. "Beheading" usually means that the removal of the head is intentional. It is generally done during a murder or execution with an axe, sword, or guillotine. If the removal of the head is an accident or unintentional, it is called "decapitation". It can happen because of an auto accident, explosion, factory accident, a mistake during a hanging or some other violent accident.
Decapitation is always fatal, that is, the result is always death. This is because it causes all other organs to stop receiving nervous signals from the brain that are needed to function, while the supply of blood, and therefore oxygen, to the brain itself is also cut off.
Decapitation can also describe the removal of a head from a body that is already dead. In these situations, the head is usually a trophy or a public display of warning.
Beheading was the usual means of death penalty in Scandinavian countries in the past. Noblemen were behaded with a sword, commoners with an axe. The last execution by beheading in Finland occurred in 1822, when a farmhand Tahvo Putkonen was beheaded for murder. The last beheading in Sweden occurred in 1910, when Johan Andersson-Ander was guillotined for murder. Also Germany, France and Belgium favoured beheading in the past. In those countries was carried out by guillotine.
Last beheading in Europe occurred 1977, when a Tunisian murderer Hamida Djandoubi was guillotined in France. 
Some countries, especially Arab countries or former French colonies, still use beheading as the means of execution. In Saudi Arabia, the convicts are beheaded with a sword.
The executioner who performs beheadings is called a headsman.
The kingdom of Saudi Arabia has had centuries of public beheadings, but in 2013 is considering firing squads as an alternative means of execution.

</doc>
<doc id="48401" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48401" title="Dmitri Mendeleev">
Dmitri Mendeleev

Dmitri Ivanovich Mendeleev (born 8 February (O.S. 27 January) 1834 near Tobolsk – 2 February (O.S. 20 January 20) 1907 in Saint Petersburg) was a Russian chemist. He was the main creator of the periodic table of elements. Many of the predictions made in his periodic table (such as the properties of elements undiscovered at the time) were later proved correct by experiments. Chemical element 101 was named Mendelevium.
Mendeleev was born in village of Verkhnie Aremzyani, near Tobolsk, to Ivan Pavlovich Mendeleev and Maria Dmitrievna Mendeleeva (née Kornilieva). His grandfather was Pavel Maximovich Sokolov, a priest of Russian Orthodox Church from the Tver region. Ivan, with his brothers and sisters, got new family names while attending theological seminary. Later in life, he invented the periodic table of elements.
Mendeleev is thought to be the youngest of 14 siblings, but the exact number differs between sources. At the age of 13, after the death of his father and the destruction of his mother's factory by fire, Mendeleev attended the Gymnasium in Tobolsk.
In 1849, the now poor Mendeleev family went to Saint Petersburg, where he entered the Main Pedagogical Institute in 1850. After graduation, tuberculosis caused him to move to the Crimean Peninsula on the northern coast of the Black Sea in 1855. While there he became a science master of the Simferopol gymnasium №1. He returned with fully restored health to Saint Petersburg in 1857.
Others in the 1860s suggested that elements group together. For example, John Newlands, published his Law of Octaves in 1865. The lack of spaces for undiscovered elements and the placing of two elements in one box were criticized and his ideas were not accepted. Another was Lothar Meyer, who published a work in 1864, describing 28 elements. Neither attempted to predict new elements. In 1863 there were 56 known elements with a new element being discovered at a rate of approximately one each year.
Mendeleev made other important contributions to chemistry. The Russian chemist and science historian L.A. Tchugayev called him "a chemist of genius, first-class physicist, a fruitful researcher in the fields of hydrodynamics, meteorology, geology, certain branches of chemical technology (explosives, petroleum, and fuels, for example) and other disciplines adjacent to chemistry and physics, a thorough expert of chemical industry and industry in general, and an original thinker in the field of economy". Mendeleev was one of the founders, in 1869, of the Russian Chemical Society. He worked on the theory and practice of protectionist trade and on agriculture.

</doc>
<doc id="48410" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48410" title="Wakizashi">
Wakizashi

The wakizashi is a traditional Japanese sword. It is shorter than the katana, which was well known in the beginning of the 17th century as a "kodachi" sword. The two swords were always carried together: the wakizashi finished off the work of the katana sword. Such a sword could be from 30cm to 60cm (12 to 24 inches) long. A small version was called a "ko-wakizashi", a longer one was called an "o-wakizashi". 
A wakizashi had a slightly curved blade with a square-shaped hilt (handle). The hilt and the scabbard (the case in which the sword is kept) of a wakizashi was richly decorated with traditional motifs. A wakizashi was more decorated than a katana because it was not used as much as a katana, but still carried everywhere. Another distinctive feature is the scabbard (called a "saya"). The sayas were made to be like the katana but they could have extra pockets for smaller knives, a hair arranger, etc. 
The katana and the wakizashi together are called a daishō, which is translated as "large and small". The first part of the word ("dai") means "big" and stands for the katana sword; the second ("sho") stands for wakizashi. Wakizashi was more decorated than a katana and it was thinner, this is why it was designed to cut through softer targets. So it was a sword to make dangerous cuts in weak points of the human body. The use of a daishō on the battlefield gave its user a big advantage. With the two swords the samurai could keep the enemies within a radius of action ranging from 2 to 7 feet (1 to 3 1/2 meters). Miyamoto Musashi, a famous Japanese samurai, was especially skilful at using the daishō.
A wakizashi sword was an irreplaceable weapon for a samurai. The tradition says that when entering a house or any other building, the samurai has to leave his katana with a servant, but the wakizashi could be worn at all times and places. This is why the wakizashi is often called the samurai's "side arm". The wakizashi followed his master even when he went to sleep, because it was always near the bed. 
The wakizashi was carried along the thigh and was usually used with one hand; the other hand was used for the katana. The wakizashi proved to be very effective when the katana's length and weight made it hard to use. The wakizashi needs less force to use and it is more maneuverable. 
The wakizashi was also the sword used by merchants and artisans (types of traders) who were forbidden from wearing a katana. This fact explains a greater number wakizashi swords were found than katanas. There are even more wakizashi swords than katana swords, although the katana swords had greater meaning for Japanese society. 
The wakizashi sword was much used in the ritual of seppuku (suicide because of lost honor). In this ritual it was used along with the shortest Japanese sword - Tanto. The wakizashi was thrust into the torso (body), cutting open vertically. This kind of death was considered honorable for a samurai. When a female samurai committed seppuku she would only cut her own throat.

</doc>
<doc id="48414" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48414" title="Albert Camus">
Albert Camus

Albert Camus (7 November 1913 – 4 January 1960) was a French philosopher and writer. Camus wrote novels and plays. Camus was born in Algeria, a country in North Africa. He had French parents. Camus was an existentialist philosopher. Existentialism is a philosophy that is very different from other ways of thinking. Camus won the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1957.
He was the second-youngest recipient of the Nobel Prize in Literature, after Rudyard Kipling, and the first African-born writer to receive the award. He is the shortest-lived of any Nobel literature laureate to date, having died in an automobile accident just over two years after receiving the award.
Albert Camus was born in Algeria to a poor working-class family. His mother was Spanish and his father was French. His father died in battle and he was left to live with his grandmother. When he was 17 he was diagnosed with tuberculosis, which was very impactful on him at that point in his life. It limited him greatly in his athletics as well as in his career opportunities, due to the fact that tuberculosis is quite contagious. For this reason he claimed that his disease “set him free” because he would have done something else with his life had he seen the opportunity. He went to the University of Algiers, where he graduated with a degree in 1935. In the 1930s, Camus became interested in politics. In 1935, Camus joined the French Communist Party, a political group. In the late 1930s, Camus was a writer for the socialist newspaper, the "Alger-Republicain".
In 1941, Camus wrote his first novel, which was called "The Stranger". During World War II, Camus joined the French Resistance to fight against the Nazi army. After World War II, Camus became friends with another writer called Jean-Paul Sartre. Camus and Sartre often talked about philosophy and politics in small restaurants called cafés.
Camus wrote books about philosophy (ways of thinking) which said that life was "absurd" (makes no sense, or has no meaning). In the 1950s Camus tried to improve human rights. In 1960, Camus died in a car crash. He had two children, Catherine and Jean.

</doc>
<doc id="48416" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48416" title="Angevin Empire">
Angevin Empire

The Angevin Empire was a collection of states ruled by the Angevin Plantagenet dynasty. The Plantagenets, Henry II of England, Richard I of England, and John of England, ruled over an area from the Pyrenees to Ireland during the 12th and early 13th centuries. Their empire was roughly half of medieval France as well as all of England and Ireland. The name "Angevin" came from the French region and town of Anjou which was the home of the Plantagenet family.

</doc>
<doc id="48417" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48417" title="Spine">
Spine

The spine is a column of vertebrae in the back part of the torso (upper body). It is also called the backbone or vertebral column. There is a canal that runs through the length of the spine. Inside this canal is the spinal cord. Animals that have a spine are called vertebrates, and animals that don't have one are called invertebrates. Humans have a spine, so we are vertebrates.
The vertebral column is divided by doctors into 5 sections called "regions". These 5 regions from top to bottom are:

</doc>
<doc id="48421" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48421" title="Pyrenees">
Pyrenees

The Pyrenees (; ; ; ; ; ) are a range of mountains in southwest Europe that form a natural border between France and Spain. They separate the "Iberian Peninsula" from France, and extend for about 430 km (267 mi) from the Atlantic Ocean (Bay of Biscay) to the Mediterranean Sea (Cap de Creus).

</doc>
<doc id="48423" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48423" title="Sea of Galilee">
Sea of Galilee

The Sea of Galilee is Israel's largest freshwater lake, about 53 kilometers (33 miles) around, about 21 km (13 miles) long, and 13 km (8 miles) wide; it has a total area of 166 km², and a depth of about 43 meters. At 209 meters below sea level, it is the lowest freshwater lake on Earth, and the second lowest lake in the world after the Dead Sea, a saltwater lake. It is not a real sea - it is called a sea because of tradition.
The lake is also known on modern maps as Lake Galilee or Lake Tiberias, in the region of Galilee. In modern Hebrew, it is known as (), "Sea of Kinnereth" (Numbers 34:11; Joshua 13:27). It has also been called the Lake of Gennesaret or the Sea of Gennesaret (Luke 5:1) after the name of a small fruitful plain on its western side. The Arabic name for the lake is (بحيرة طبريا) meaning "Lake Tiberias". Other names are: Ginnosar, Lake of Gennesar, Sea of Chinneroth, Sea of Tiberias (Roman) and Waters of Gennesareth.
Its main source is the Jordan River, which flows through it from north to south. The lake is deep in the Jordan Great Rift Valley, the valley caused by the separation of the African and Arabian Plates. Because of this, the area has earthquakes and, in the past, volcanic activity.
Due to its low-lying position in the rift valley, surrounded by hills, the sea can get sudden violent storms; as in the New Testament story about Jesus calming the storm. A main feature of the lake seems to be that it is always changing. It is still famous, just as in New Testament times, for having plenty of fish, and in today's restaurants, "St. Peter's Fish" (tilapia) is very popular.
The Sea of Galilee is on the ancient Via Maris road which linked Egypt with the northern empires. The Greeks, Hasmoneans, and Romans started towns and settlements here: Gadara, Hippos, Tiberias and others. The 1st century historian Flavius Josephus wrote of a large fishing industry at this time, with 230 boats regularly working in the lake.
Much of the ministry of Jesus was on the shores of Lake Galilee. In those days, there were many settlements and villages all around the lake and plenty of trade and ferrying by boat. The gospels of Mark (1:14-20), Matthew (4:18-22), and Luke (5:1-11) tell how Jesus got four of his apostles from the shores of Lake Galilee: the fishermen Simon and his brother Andrew, and the brothers John and James. One of Jesus' famous teachings, the Sermon on the Mount, was given on a hill overlooking the lake. Many of his miracles were also recorded to have been here: his walking on water, calming a storm, feeding five thousand people and many others.
In 135, the second Jewish revolt against the Romans, called Bar Kokhba's revolt, was put down. The Romans responded by sending all Jews away from Jerusalem and not letting them come back. The center of Jewish culture and learning thus moved to the region of the Kinneret, particularly to the city of Tiberias.
In the time of the Byzantine Empire, the lake's importance in Jesus' life made it a major destination for Christian pilgrims. This led to the growth of a tourist industry, with package tours and plenty of comfortable inns.
The lake lost importance when the Byzantines lost control of it. The area came under the control of the Umayyad Caliphate and later Islamic empires. Except for Tiberias, little by little, the major towns and cities began to be left empty. In 1187, Saladin defeated the armies of the Crusades at the Battle of Hattin, mainly because he cut the Crusaders off from the valuable fresh water of the Sea of Galilee.
In 1909 Jewish pioneers built their first cooperative farming village (kibbutz), Kvutzat Kinneret which trained Jewish immigrants in farming and agriculture. Kinneret was the center of the Kibbutz culture of early Zionism.
In 1923 an agreement between the United Kingdom and France set the border between the British Mandate of Palestine and the French Mandate of Syria. The British gave the southern Golan Heights to the French in return for the northern Jordan Valley. The border was drawn again so that both sides of the Jordan river and the whole of the Sea of Galilee, including a 10-meter wide strip along the northeastern shore, were made a part of Palestine . The 1947 UN Partition Plan put this area inside the Jewish state.
During the 1948 Arab-Israeli War, Syria occupied the lake's northeastern shore. In 1967, the State of Israel took control of the entire Sea of Galilee, as well as the Golan, during the Six Day War. Syria still claims the northeastern shore of the sea , arguing it is a part of the Golan Heights.
Israel's National Water Carrier, built in 1964, takes water from the lake to the population centers of Israel, and is the source of most of the country's drinking water. Israel also supplies water from the lake to the West Bank and to Jordan (under the terms of the Israel-Jordan Treaty of Peace). More demand for water and some dry winters have resulted in a lower water level that is sometimes dangerous.
Today, tourism is again very important in the area. The entire Sea of Galilee is a popular holiday resort area. The many historical and spiritual sites around the lake, especially its main town Tiberias, are visited by millions of local and foreign tourists every year. Other economic activities include fishing in the lake and agriculture, particularly bananas, in the fertile belt of land surrounding it.
A key attraction is the site where the Kinneret's water flows into the Jordan River. Thousands of pilgrims from all over the world come to be (re-)baptized there every year.

</doc>
<doc id="48424" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48424" title="Dartmoor">
Dartmoor

Dartmoor is a national park in Devon, a county in England. Its highest point is High Willhays, 621 metres high. This is the highest point in the south of England. It has a large area of moorland, and is very hilly. There is much woodland on its lower slopes.
Dartmoor is famous for its tors—outcrops of rock on top of many of its hills. These are the remains of volcanic activity in the Carboniferous period. 
Animal life on Dartmoor includes birds such as the ring ouzel and dunlin, and the endangered marsh fritillary butterfly. Its bogs are home to many unusual plants such as the sundew. 

</doc>
<doc id="48425" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48425" title="Cirencester">
Cirencester

Cirencester is a town in Gloucestershire in England. People first moved there in Roman times. It currently has a population of 19,000. It is 93 miles west of London, and is between Swindon, Cheltenham and Gloucester.

</doc>
<doc id="48426" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48426" title="Seppuku">
Seppuku

Seppuku is a Japanese ritual where a samurai kills himself by cutting into his belly. After one had done so, a second person would cut off his head. It was thought that seppuku was an honorable way to die. Sometimes, it is called hara-kiri, which is translated from Japanese as "belly-cutting".
Seppuku was a key part of bushido, the honor code of the samurai warriors. It was used by warriors so that they would not fall into enemy hands and be shamed. It was possible also that a samurai received an order from his master to commit seppuku. 
Because seppuku was an honorable act, a warrior who was caught by the enemy was sometimes given the choice between seppuku and being executed. If he chose seppuku, he could protect his honor. Samurai women had to ask for permission to commit seppuku.
This act could be performed either with a ritual, or quietly on the battlefield while other warriors fight the enemy.
The main weapon used was the samurai's knife called tantō or the short sword, called wakizashi. A samurai who wants to commit seppuku would take the weapon, open his kimono and stab the blade into his belly. He would make a deep cut from left to right. An assistant of the warrior committing seppuku (called "kaishakunin") would immediately cut off his head.

</doc>
<doc id="48435" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48435" title="Sow bug">
Sow bug

A sow bug or woodlouse is a small land arthropod (jointed-legged animal). They are often confused with centipedes, millipedes or insects, but are actually crustaceans. They have fourteen legs and breathe through gills. Because of the gills, woodlice need water in the air around them. They mostly eat dead plants, and are considered helpful, because they act as "garbage collectors." Some species can roll up into a ball when in danger. In such position, their hard shell faces out, protecting the softer parts of the body.
Sow bugs do not look like shrimps or crabs, although they are closely related.

</doc>
<doc id="48437" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48437" title="Lady beetle">
Lady beetle

Lady beetles are the Coccinellidae, a family of beetles. All species are protected by noxious fluids based on cyanide, and most have warning colouration, such as red with black spots.
They are often called 'lady bugs' or 'ladybirds', but biologists prefer the term 'coccinellid' or 'lady beetle'.
Coccinellids are found worldwide, with over 5,000 species. Most species are insectvorous, feeding mainly on 
the "true bugs", the Hemiptera. These are insects which feed on plants, such as aphids (greenfly) or scale insects. Ladybeetle larvae are also voracious (greedy) eaters of greenfly.
"Harmonia axyridis" (or harlequin ladybug) was introduced into North America from Asia in 1988 to control aphids. It is now the most common species there, out-competing many of the native species. It has since spread to much of western Europe, reaching the UK in 2004. 
Coccinellids are often brightly coloured to warn potential predators. This phenomenon is called aposematism. It works because predators learn by experience to associate certain prey phenotypes (appearance) with a bad taste (or worse).
Mechanical stimulation (such as a predator attack) causes "reflex bleeding" in both larval and adult ladybird beetles. A toxin is put through the joints of the exoskeleton, deterring feeding. This method works well: birds and cats seldom try twice.
Most people know lady beetles as small, round, red beetles with black spots on their backs. In Europe, the most common lady beetle is seven-spotted "Coccinella septempunctata".
Not all lady beetles are red, and not all red lady beetles have spots. Some lady beetles are very small, black and hairy. Lady beetles vary in color as red, orange, or yellow with black spots. They can also be black with red spots. Some are missing spots altogether. There are even a few kinds of ladybeetles with metallic blue iridescence, and some have checkerboard markings or stripes.
The (usually) black front part ("pronotum") of the ladybeetle is the thorax and the head. 
Most coccinellids as adults. In "Harmonia axyridis", eggs hatch in 3–4 days from clutches numbering from a few to several dozen. Depending on the supply of aphids, the larvae pass through four instars over 10–14 days, after which pupation occurs. After several days, the adults become reproductively active and are able to reproduce again, though not late in the season. Total life span is 1–2 years on average.
It only takes about four weeks for the ladybeetle to transform from a tiny egg to an adult. Some females can lay up to 1,000 eggs in one summer. The ladybeetle may lay her eggs near an aphid colony, or on plants where the larvae will have a ready supply of food when they hatch.
Almost all lady beetles are insectivores: they eat other insects. Many of these insects have soft bodies, such as aphids. Even the larvae eat other insects. Aphids are a huge problem for farmers and gardeners, and therefore a ladybug is a great help to the farmer. Some species of ant herd aphids like sheep, and will attack a ladybeetle that tries to eat one of their aphids.

</doc>
<doc id="48466" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48466" title="Lou Pearlman">
Lou Pearlman

Louis J. Pearlman (June 19, 1954 - August 19, 2016) was an American record producer and fraudster. He was born in Flushing, Queens, New York City. He used to live in Orlando, Florida. He died of a stroke in prison in Texarkana, Texas. 

</doc>
<doc id="48472" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48472" title="Thirteen Colonies">
Thirteen Colonies

The Thirteen Colonies were British North American colonies in which is now the eastern seaboard of the United States. The colonies were started for a few reasons. Some people thought they would make a lot of money in new goods in America that could not be found in Europe, such as tobacco. Others left to find freedom of religion or just to make a new start. Some wanted to be in charge and change things that they did not like in England. The first colony was Virginia. It was started in 1607 at Jamestown. The last colony of the thirteen to be started was Georgia in 1732.
The Thirteen Colonies (listed from north to south):
After the French and Indian War, Great Britain made new taxes and other laws that angered some people in the colonies. This led to war between Great Britain and its former colonies. This war was called the American Revolutionary War. The colonies said they were independent of Great Britain on July 4, 1776, in the Declaration of Independence. The colonies became known as the United States of America.

</doc>
<doc id="48475" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48475" title="Jamestown">
Jamestown

Jamestown may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="48484" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48484" title="Stillbirth">
Stillbirth

A stillbirth happens when a fetus (unborn baby) dies while still inside the mother or dies during delivery (childbirth). It is said that the delivered baby is "stillborn". Stillbirth is different from a miscarriage because a stillbirth happens after the baby has been living inside its mother 20 to 24 weeks (depending on the country). It is called a miscarriage if the baby lived inside the mother for less time.
The causes of many stillbirths are unknown, even when special tests are done to learn the cause.
The number of stillbirths in the United States is about 1 in 115 births, which is about 26,000 a year, or one every 20 minutes. In developing countries, where medical care is not as advanced or good, the number of stillbirths is higher. 
In Australia, England, Wales, and Northern Ireland, the rate is about 1 in 200 babies.
The death of the baby is usually treated like the death of an older baby. The family may have a funeral. The body of the dead baby can be buried or cremated (burned). In some places, there are special places for putting the bodies or the ashes of stillborn babies.
The mother may be ill. Her body may be hurt from having the baby.
In the UK, any baby that leaves its mother's body after 24 weeks and does not show any signs of life is called a "stillbirth". The mother or father must tell the government about the baby. A Stillbirth Certificate is given to the family. 
In Australia, any stillborn fetus that weighs more than 400 grams and lived in the mother for more than 20 weeks must be reported to the government.
The United States does not have a formal definition of "stillborn" babies. All pregnancies are legally called either: "live birth", "fetal death", or "induced termination of pregnancy" (abortion). The law does not have a difference between a stillbirth and a miscarriage. However, it is recommended to register infants who weighed over 350 grams or who lived over 19 weeks inside the mother before dying.

</doc>
<doc id="48487" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48487" title="Arizona Cardinals">
Arizona Cardinals

The Arizona Cardinals are a professional American football team based in Phoenix, Arizona. They are the oldest continuous professional American football club in the United States, founded in 1899 in Chicago, Illinois. They moved to St. Louis, Missouri in 1960 before moving to Phoenix in 1988. The head coach of the team is Bruce Arians. Their starting quarterback in 2013 was Carson Palmer. Drew Stanton is currently the number 2 quarterback. Arizona Cardinals play their home games at the University of Phoenix Stadium. The Arizona Cardinals played in Super Bowl XLIII, but lost to the Pittsburgh Steelers.

</doc>
<doc id="48499" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48499" title="Totnes">
Totnes

Totnes is a town in South Devon, South West England. 7,800 people live there. It has many old buildings dating back to Tudor times, and it has the remains of a Norman castle. The town stands on the River Dart, at the highest point reached by the tide.
Totnes is well known in Britain for its large New Age community, although some of these people are moving away from the town. The town has many interesting shops selling health food and books, and there are also many art and craft shops.
A local legend says that Totnes was begun by Brutus of Troy after the Trojan war. There is a stone in the high street called the Brutus Stone. This is where people say he first stepped on British soil.

</doc>
<doc id="48501" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48501" title="Chiffon cake">
Chiffon cake

A chiffon cake is a type of sponge cake. It is a cake that is made using vegetable oil instead of butter. This gives the cake a foam-like texture. Because there is no butter in the cakes, they are more healthy but have less flavor. Chiffon cakes are usually served by soaking the cake layer in a cake syrup (which is nothing more than 2 parts water to 1 part sugar) to provide it with moisture since it's dry in nature.
The chiffon cake was invented in 1927 by Harry Baker, a California insurance salesman turned caterer. Baker kept the recipe secret for 20 years until he sold it to General Mills. At this point the name was changed to "chiffon cake" and a set of 14 recipes and variations was released to the public in a Betty Crocker pamphlet published in 1948.

</doc>
<doc id="48508" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48508" title="Three Character Classic">
Three Character Classic

The Three Character Classic, Trimetric Classic or San Zi Jing (三字經, 三字经) is a written work from China. Many people believe that Wang Yinglin wrote it during the Song Dynasty. It is named Three Character Classic because each line has three Chinese words, which are called "characters." It is often used to teach children how to say words.

</doc>
<doc id="48512" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48512" title="Art film">
Art film

Art films are a type of movie that is very different from the popular Hollywood blockbuster movies. Art films have many other names. Some people call them art movies, independent films, indie films, arthouse films, auteur films ("auteur" is a French word which means "author") or experimental films. 
Art films are usually made by smaller movie companies. These companies do not have much money compared to the large movie studios, for example, Paramount Pictures or Walt Disney Pictures. Art films usually have different plots (stories) than blockbuster movies. They usually tell more creative or unusual stories than blockbuster movies. 
Art films often show controversial or sad stories. These types of movies may have sad endings. They are sometimes hard to understand, because the movie may be about people's feelings, thoughts, or dreams. 
For these reasons, art films are not shown in many cinemas or theaters. This means that art films do not have large audiences and do not make a lot of money. They are generally promoted by people who see the movie and then tell their friends to go see it.
The opposite of an art film is a popular blockbuster movie. Blockbuster movies have famous actors and large budgets. They are made so that millions of people will pay money to see the movie. 
To understand why movie directors make art movies, one has to know about blockbuster movies. Blockbuster movies are part of the reason why people make art films. Movie directors making art films try to make them very different from blockbuster movies. The movie is a more personal statement by the director. Blockbusters are made for commercial reasons and art films are made for personal reasons. 
Blockbuster movies often have very large budgets. This money is used to pay large salaries for the actors. It pays for special effects and for advertisements. Art movies have small budgets. They usually have unknown or little-known actors. Some even use amateur actors. Some art films will even use regular people with no experience as actors to work as the actors. It is not uncommon for Art film directors to use friends and family members as actors. 
Blockbusters often use simple stories and characters that have been used before in other movies. Art movies usually use strange or unusual stories and characters that the audience may not have seen before.
In blockbuster movies, there is usually a happy ending. All of the problems in the story are figured out or fixed by the end of the movie. In art movies, there is often a sad ending. They can also have endings which are either hard to understand or could mean many different things. These endings are used so that the audience will have to think about what might have happened in the story. 
Blockbuster movies have a large amount of television advertising, billboards and internet sites. Art films often have little or no advertising.
Blockbuster movies are very popular. This causes more movies to be made using the same story and characters. For example, the "James Bond" movies all tell stories about the British spy named James Bond. The "Star Wars" science fiction movies all tell stories about spaceships and outer space wars. Art films are very rarely made into franchises with sequels. This is because directors of art films are often trying to create a new movie with new ideas for each movie they make. Some art films do have sequels. This will most often happen when the movie was very well liked and the director wanted to tell more stories using some of the same characters. 
Rarely, an art film can be so well liked that a franchise is created because of it. The "View Askew" universe is an example of this. Kevin Smith wrote and directed the movie "Clerks". He produced the movie himself with a friend, Scott Mosier. They named their production company, View Askew Productions. This movie was an art film. It had a small budget, dealt with personal issues and its actors were mainly Smith's friends and family. Smith even played one of the characters himself. The movie was very popular and sold well when it was released on DVD. Universal Pictures, a large Hollywood studio, asked him to make a movie for them. He used two of his characters from "Clerks", Jay and Silent Bob, as part of the new movie. He later used Jay (played by Jason Mewes and Silent Bob (played by Smith) is three other movies he wrote: "Dogma", "Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back" and "Clerks 2", a sequel to "Clerks". 
David Bordwell is a professor from the United States. He studies movies at a university. He thought of a way of explaining what an "art film" is in 1979. He wrote that art films are different from regular Hollywood movies. Regular Hollywood movies have a clear story and plot. Art film often have much stranger stories. In an art film, the stories may be hard to understand. As well, in an art film, the audience may have a hard time understanding what is going on. Art movies are often about people's feelings and thoughts. Art movies are often about big questions that a person has to answer about who they are or what they should do in a situation. 

</doc>
<doc id="48517" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48517" title="Palm OS">
Palm OS

Palm OS is an operating system that is made to work on small computer devices, mostly Personal Digital Assistants. Palm OS was first released in 1996, when the Palm 1000 was released.

</doc>
<doc id="48519" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48519" title="Ural Mountains">
Ural Mountains

The Ural Mountains () also known simply as the Urals is a mountain range that runs roughly north and south through western Russia.
The Urals stretch 2,500 km from the Kazakh steppes along the northern border of Kazakhstan to the coast of the Arctic Ocean. The island of Novaya Zemlya forms a further continuation of the chain. Geographically this range marks the northern part of the border between Asian and European sections of the Eurasian continent. Its highest peak is Mount Narodnaya (Poznurr, 1895 m). 

</doc>
<doc id="48523" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48523" title="Ishmael">
Ishmael

Ishmael (, إ‎ ʾIsmāʿīl) was the first son of Abraham and , an Egyptian servant. He and his mother had settled in the valley and was the meeting of , nomads of Yemen and descendants of who had also spotted the water source and incorporate. He is the father of the "North Arabs" ().
It was derived from Abraham, descendant of , son of , son of Noah, grand-son of Methuselah and coming from line of Seth, son of Adam and Eve, first human.

</doc>
<doc id="48526" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48526" title="Steppe">
Steppe

In physical geography, a steppe is a plain without trees (apart from those near rivers and lakes). It is similar to a short-grass prairie, although a prairie is generally considered as North America, and the steppe is in eastern Europe and central Asia. Sometimes the short-grass prairie in North America is also called a steppe. The world's largest steppe, sometimes called The Great Steppe, is in Russia. 
It may be semi-desert, or covered with grass or shrubs or both, depending on the season and latitude. It is the sort of climate that is in regions too dry for a forest, but not so dry that there are only deserts. The soil is too moist for a desert, but too dry for normal forest life. Steppes receive slightly more rain than deserts do. 
This is an open area, and often there were long distances between places with good water. People who lived in this type of area were often nomads, often traveling by horses. Genghis Khan was a great warrior from Mongolia who lived on the steppe.
In the United States, the cowboy herded cattle in the steppe, moving from place to place by horse. During the Dust Bowl in the 1930's in North America, farmers who had recently settled on the land and started farms suddenly found themselves without food. Many of them left. Eventually they learned to plow differently and plant crops that survived a drought better, and to plant trees in rows called windbreaks.

</doc>
<doc id="48527" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48527" title="Plain">
Plain

In geography, a plain is a large area of land with no hills or mountains. Plains mostly are more suitable for farming than plateaus or mountains.
List of famous plains:

</doc>
<doc id="48529" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48529" title="Mint">
Mint

Mint can mean different things:

</doc>
<doc id="48533" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48533" title="French fries">
French fries

French fried potatoes (also French fries, just fries in North America, chips in the United Kingdom, Ireland and Commonwealth), are a type of food made out of potatoes. The potatoes are cut into thin strips and fried in oil. They are usually eaten with fish, burgers, sausages, pies, fried chicken, or by themselves. Many things can be put on them to make them taste better, such as salt and vinegar, gravy, curry, cheese, ketchup or mayonnaise. These extra flavours are called condiments.
A "chip shop" is a shop which sells cooked chips to take home. They usually also sell fried fish, sausages and pickled onions. Fish and chips is a very popular meal in Great Britain, and other places.

</doc>
<doc id="48534" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48534" title="Champagne">
Champagne

Champagne can mean a number of things:
In Switzerland:
In the US:

</doc>
<doc id="48538" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48538" title="Champagne (wine)">
Champagne (wine)

Champagne is a sparkling wine that is named after the Champagne region, a region in France with many vineyards that grow grapes and make wine. Many people call all sparkling wines "champagne" but according to trade laws, only sparkling wine from the Champagne region can be called champagne. 
Champagnes must be made from certain kinds of grapes. They can be made from white Chardonnay grapes, or red Pinot Noir or Pinot Meunier grapes. Even if red grapes are used, most champagnes look white or sometimes pink (rosé).
Champagnes have different names depending on how much sugar is added. Here is a list of kinds of champagnes from least sweet (called "dry") to most sweet (called "wet"/"doux"):
"Brut" is the most common type of champagne.
Champagne, like all sparkling wines, is carbonated. Because of all the bubbles, champagne is sometimes called "bubbly" (ex. "We're going to have "bubbly" at our wedding.")
Champagne can be opened in a way that the cork "pops" out and the champagne sprays out in a bubbly foam. Usually this is done only at celebrations. It can be achieved by shaking the bottle before opening it. Normally, care should be taken when opening champagne bottles so that it does not make a mess. When done correctly, the cork will come out quietly, more like a sigh than a pop.
Champagne is usually served in a champagne flute (a tall, narrow glass). The shape of the glass helps keep the bubbles for a longer time.
Champagne is always served cold (chilled). The best temperature is 7 to 9 °C (43 to 48 °F). Often the bottle is chilled in a bucket of ice before and after opening.

</doc>
<doc id="48540" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48540" title="Caesarion">
Caesarion

Ptolemy XV Philopator Philometor Caesar, nicknamed Caesarion (little Caesar) Greek: Πτολεμαίος ΙΕ' Φιλοπάτωρ Φιλομήτωρ Καίσαρ, Καισαρίων (June 23, 47 BC – August, 30 BC) was the son of Cleopatra VII. He ruled Egypt as a child along with Cleopatra until 30 BC. He was murdered by Octavian, who would later become the Roman emperor Augustus.
Caesarion is probably the son of Julius Caesar. If so, he is the only known son of Caesar.
Caesarion was the last king (pharaoh) of the Ptolemaic dynasty of Egypt.

</doc>
<doc id="48552" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48552" title="Lorca">
Lorca

Lorca is a town in Murcia, Spain. The 2010 census recorded that 92,694 people live there. On 11 May 2011, an earthquake occurred, causing the deaths of ten people.

</doc>
<doc id="48558" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48558" title="Alexander Pushkin">
Alexander Pushkin

Alexander Sergeyevich Pushkin was born 26 May 1799 (6 June New Style) 1799, Moscow, and died 29 January 1837 (10 February, New Style), St Petersburg. He was a Russian poet, novelist, dramatist and writer of short stories. 
Many think he was the greatest Russian poet. He started the great tradition of Russian literature. Pushkin wrote in a way that no other Russian had done: he used the Russian language as it was spoken instead of writing in a style based on old church books. His influence on other Russian writers was enormous and several Russian composers set his stories and poems to music. His poetry is very hard to translate well into other languages because the words are full of special meanings in Russian culture. His novels, especially Eugene Onegin, are widely read.
Pushkin was the great-grandson of an African slave of the Tzar Peter the Great. He was killed in a duel in 1837 at the age of 37. 
Pushkin's father came from an old aristocratic family. On his mother's side Pushkin had African ancestors. His great-grandfather Abram Gannibal was an Abyssinian who was living in a palace of the Turkish sultan in Istanbul. The Russian ambassador bought him as a present for Peter the Great, the tsar of Russia. Gannibal became a favourite of Peter the Great and he was sent to Paris to study. He became very rich. Pushkin was proud of his great-grandfather and wrote about him in a novel called "The Negro of Peter the Great".
In 19th century Russia all aristocratic families learned to speak French, so Pushkin and his brother and sister spoke and wrote in French more than in Russian. The children were cared for by a nurse, Arina Rodionovna Yakovleva. It was the nurse who taught them to love the Russian language. She told the children Russian folktales. Pushkin also spoke Russian to the peasants and he read many books in his father's library.
When he was 12 he went to a new school called the Imperial Lyceum at Tsarskoye Selo. Years later this school was renamed Pushkin after their famous pupil. He soon started writing romantic poems in Russian using Russian tales of heroes and adventures. "Ruslan and Ludmila" was a poem that was later to be made into an opera by Mikhael Glinka.
In 1817, Pushkin got a job in the foreign office at St. Petersburg. He soon became interested in politics and supported the Decembrist revolt of 1825 when a group of noblemen and army officers tried to put another tsar in power and make him less powerful. Pushkin wrote some political poems. The result was that he was told he had to leave St. Petersburg. He had to spend six years in exile in the south of the country: in the Caucasus and the Crimea. He wrote about his experiences in the south in several romantic narrative poems (long poems which tell a story). He started work on a novel in verse called "Yevgeny Onegin" (or "Eugene Onegin"). He did not finish it until 1833. This was to be his most famous work. It was used by many musicians including Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky who made it into an opera. The poem shows typical Russian people in the society of his day. 
Pushkin was angry that he was still in exile and he wrote many letters to his friends. Many of these letters were later published. He spent a lot of time drinking, gaming and fighting with swords. He fell in love with the daughter of a Count for whom he was working. The Count managed to get Pushkin exiled to his mother's estate near Pskov at the other end of Russia. Pushkin spent two years here. He was lonely, but he studied Russian history and talked to the peasants. The poems he wrote were full of ideas from Russian culture. He wrote one of his major works: "Boris Godunov", a drama about a story from Russian history. The composer Modest Mussorgsky later made an opera from it. Boris Godunov was a cruel tsar in the 17th century. Pushkin's play shows that the ordinary people had a lot of power. This made it difficult for Pushkin to get it published.
After the revolt in 1825 the new tsar Nicholas I realized that Pushkin was by now very famous. He also realized that he had not taken part in the revolt, so he allowed him to return. The tsar said that he himself would censor Pushkin's works before they were allowed to be published. He said that he was going to be a good tsar and help the poor people (the serfs) to become free. Pushkin was in a difficult position because he could not write anything that the tsar would not like.
He had to be very careful not to say bad things about the rulers of the country. The police watched him very carefully. Yet at this time Pushkin wrote a large number of great works, almost each one of them being the first of their kind in Russian literature. One example is the short story "The Queen of Spades", which Tchaikovsky made into an opera and which was to be a great influence on the novels of Fyodor Dostoevsky.
In his last years, Pushkin was again in government service in St. Petersburg. He married in 1831 and had to spend a lot of time in society at court. He wrote more and more prose. He wrote a history of Peter the Great and a historical novel "The Captain's Daughter". He kept asking the tsar to let him resign from his job and go to the country to spend his time writing. The tsar would not allow that. In 1837, Pushkin was killed in a duel. He had been forced to fight the duel in order to defend his wife's honour.
The Russian language today would be very different if it had not been for Pushkin. Using the language as it was spoken by the people he made it into a language which was simple but which could also express deep feelings. His works were a great influence on later writers like Ivan Turgenev, Ivan Goncharov and Leo Tolstoy. "Yevgeny Onegin" was the first Russian novel which told a story about the society of the time. His works have been translated into all the major languages

</doc>
<doc id="48562" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48562" title="Exile">
Exile

Exile means being sent away from the country or area where you live. People are usually exiled for political reasons or sometimes because they have committed a crime. They may have said bad things about the rulers in that country or tried to get into power themselves. People are not exiled in democratic countries, but many famous people in history have been sent into exile.
Exile may mean that someone is sent out of the country, but sometimes they are sent to another part of the country (this is called "internal exile"). Sometimes people have made their own decision to leave their country as a protest against the way it was being ruled. This is called "self-imposed exile".
In the Old Testament the Jews were exiled to Babylon. In Ancient Greece and Ancient Rome people were often sent into exile. For several centuries Russia (in the 20th century the Soviet Union) sent many people into exile, often to labour camps in Siberia. Thousands of people from Europe including many famous people went to the United States when the Nazis came to power in Germany in the 1930s.
One famous person who was sent into exile was Napoléon Bonaparte who was exiled from France, first to Elba and then to Saint Helena after his defeat against the allied forces.
The cellist Pablo Casals went into self-imposed exile as a protest against the government of Spain. He said he would not come back until Spain was a democracy.

</doc>
<doc id="48565" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48565" title="Lager">
Lager

Lager (which is short for Lager beer) is a kind of beer. It is made from a kind of yeast. Fermentation will be a slow process. It usually has a clear color. That color comes from the beer being stored for some time. During that time, the yeast can settle at the bottom of the barrel. The yeast is removed before the beer is bottled or served. 
Lagers are usually drunk while they are cold.

</doc>
<doc id="48569" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48569" title="Ryszard Kapuściński">
Ryszard Kapuściński

Ryszard Kapuściński (b. March 4 1932 in Pińsk, d. January 23 2007 in Warsaw) was a popular Polish journalist. He was well regarded both at home, and abroad. During his life he became known for his way of reporting news. He was a foreign correspondent for the Polish press agency. He was shortlisted as a candidate for the Nobel Prize for Literature, but also received many other awards. He is one of the Polish authors whose works get translated most often.

</doc>
<doc id="48570" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48570" title="Republican National Committee">
Republican National Committee

The Republican National Committee (the R.N.C. or RNC) is a group of people who coordinate the activities of the U.S. Republican party in all fifty states. The R.N.C. has its headquarters in Washington, DC. It also has state Republican party headquarters in each of the 50 state capitals.

</doc>
<doc id="48571" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48571" title="Democratic National Committee">
Democratic National Committee

The Democratic National Committee (D.N.C. or DNC) is a group of people who coordinate the activities of the U.S. Democratic party in all fifty states. The D.N.C. is headquartered in the nation's capital, Washington, DC. It also has state Democratic party headquarters in each of the 50 state capitals.

</doc>
<doc id="48580" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48580" title="Four Corners">
Four Corners

The Four Corners is the place in the Southwestern United States where the four corners of New Mexico, Colorado, Utah, and Arizona meet. Three of the four corners (AZ, NM, UT) are on the Navajo Indian Reservation and the fourth corner (CO) is on the Ute Mountain Indian Reservation.
The Four Corners Monument is at the coordinates .

</doc>
<doc id="48581" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48581" title="Southwestern United States">
Southwestern United States

The Southwestern United States (called the American Southwest or simply the Southwest) is a region of the western United States. The region is than the northern states and than the eastern states. The area includes Arizona and New Mexico, sometimes called the "Desert Southwest." Often counted as part of the Southwest are Southern California, parts of Nevada, Utah, and Colorado and western Texas. The Southwest has seen large amounts of growth in recent years, both the Phoenix, Arizona and Las Vegas, Nevada areas are amongst the fastest growing in the country.

</doc>
<doc id="48585" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48585" title="Flagellum">
Flagellum

A flagellum (plural: "flagella") is a long, whip-like projection of a cell composed of microtubules. They help propel cells and organisms in a whip-like motion. The flagellum of eukaryotes usually moves with an “S” motion, and is surrounded by cell membrane.
Flagella are structurally almost identical with the much smaller Cilia. So much so that it has been proposed protists bearing either should be unified in the Phylum "Undulipodia". Previously, Margulis had proposed that the Ciliates alone should be placed in a Phylum "Ciliophora". Admittedly, the Protista is a collection of disparate single-celled forms, but while a more sophisticated taxonomy is in flux (changing), Protista is still a useful term.
Cilia and flagella are cell organelles, specialised units which carry out well-defined functions, like mitochondria and plastids. It is fairly clear now that all or most of these organelles have their origin in once-independent prokaryotes (bacteria or archaea), and that the eukaryote cell is a 'community of micro-organisms' working together in 'a marriage of convenience'.
Three types of flagella have so far been distinguished; bacterial, archaeal and eukaryotic. The main differences among these three types are summarized below:

</doc>
<doc id="48589" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48589" title="Walkman">
Walkman

Walkman is the invention as well as the brand name of Sony. It represents a portable audio player. Today, similar devices are also called "Walkman". The name describes players that have small sizes and can be carried by one anywhere. The portable player was a revolutionary device since one could take favorite music with him or her.
The original Walkman was released in 1979. The name "Walkman" was used in Japan, while abroad it had other names, one of which was "Soundabout". First the product did not have a name, and then one of the company's staff proposed "Walkman". Because it was a direct translation from Japanese, Sony's leadership seemed skeptical. They thought "Walkman" was not a suitable name for a device which was to be launched in the United States and Europe.
Sony used new ways to introduce its new product on the market and advertise it. The main idea of Sony was to make people aware that Walkman is a product that is unique on the market and that it is both new and fun. On June 22 (the date of release) Sony Walkman appeared in Tokyo. The company held an unusual press conference where different journalists were invited to Yoyogi, which is Tokyo's major park. They were given a Walkman to prove that the portable player is fun and easy to use. 
By 1995 there were already about 150 million Walkman portable players produced. Later, MP3 players became more popular.

</doc>
<doc id="48591" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48591" title="Semantics">
Semantics

Semantics is the study of meaning. Meaning in this case refers to the relation between "signifiers" and what they stand for. Such signifiers are words, signs and symbols.
For a broader context, see "semiotics". Semiotics is a general theory of language. Semantics is one of its three parts.

</doc>
<doc id="48594" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48594" title="Governance">
Governance

Governance is the term for the way a group of people such as a country do things. Many groups create a government to decide how things are to be done. Governance is different from politics. Politics deals with people with different ideas working together to create an agreement about what to do, and governance is doing what politics decided needed to be done.

</doc>
<doc id="48596" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48596" title="Snowball">
Snowball

A snowball is a ball of snow. They are usually made by a person picking snow up in their hands and pressing it together in the ball the size of their hand. Snowballs are usually thrown at people or objects as a game called a snowball fight. Making snowballs is a common activity for children when it snows. 
Larger snowballs are made by using a ball the size of a hand and rolling it on the ground. As more snow sticks to it, the ball grows larger. Larger snowballs are often used to make Snowmen. The term "Snowball effect" comes from this. It means as things go on, they get larger in the same way that a snowball gets larger as it rolls.

</doc>
<doc id="48598" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48598" title="MPEG-4">
MPEG-4

MPEG-4 is a video and audio standard. Movies in MPEG-4 need less space on a computer and at the same time they have DVD quality. MPEG means Moving Picture Experts Group. Hundreds of researchers and engineers all over the world worked to develop MPEG-4. The work on this standard ended in 1998 and in a few months MPEG-4 was made into a standard all over the world.
Movies that use MPEG-4 standard have high quality and have take up less computer room. Older standards were MPEG-1 and MPEG-2. In comparison with these older versions, MPEG-4 has additional features like having a way to fix problems, lots of quality and size choices, good picture and many more.
MPEG-4 takes into consideration special needs from computer, television areas and telecommunication. It is able to be, besides rectangular pieces of computer information, individual objects in a certain area. An example could be a car driving in front of a background. The background does not change. Since MPEG-4 can be many rectangular images, the car can be treated as another thing, not being a fixed background.

</doc>
<doc id="48600" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48600" title="Warship (TV series)">
Warship (TV series)

Warship was an extremely popular British television drama series produced by the BBC between 1973 and 1977.
The series was about life on board a Royal Navy warship, the fictional HMS Hero. It was mainly filmed aboard the Leander-class frigate HMS Phoebe.
Four Leander class frigates played the role of HMS Hero. They were HMS Phoebe, HMS Dido, HMS Hermione and HMS Jupiter. All the crews of these warships were given HMS Hero cap tallies for filming purposes.
The creator of the series was a serving Royal Navy officer, Ian Mackintosh. He wrote three books based on episodes of the series. They were simultaneously published in hardback and paperback. The books were:
The opening music of the series was a march played by the Royal Marines, called "Warship", and written by Anthony Isaac. It is still played by Royal Marine bands.

</doc>
<doc id="48601" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48601" title="Jerry Lewis">
Jerry Lewis

Jerry Lewis (born Jerome Levitch, March 16, 1926 in Newark, New Jersey, U.S.) is an American comedian and actor. He is best known for acting in many comedy movies from the 1950s and 1960s. He also helps to raise money for people with muscular dystrophy, through the Muscular Dystrophy Association.
Lewis first became famous as part of a , Martin & Lewis, with singer Dean Martin. They worked together for ten years, appearing onstage, on radio and television, and in movies. They parted ways during 1956. They did not speak for years, but reunited a few times from the 1970s to the 1990s.
Besides his acting career, Lewis was also the director of many of his movies. He was the first director to use video cameras alongside movie cameras, to help with filming scenes. While film takes time to be developed, videotape could be played back instantly, saving time and work if a scene needed to be redone. Other directors soon adopted his technique, and it is still used today.
During the 1970s, Lewis' movies became less popular, and he moved away from acting and directing. In the 1990s, he returned to performing onstage, and continued to perform during the 2000s.
Jerry Lewis acted in many movies, including: 

</doc>
<doc id="48604" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48604" title="Breakdance">
Breakdance

Breakdance (also called breaking, b-boying or b-girling) is a type of dance that is done by people who are part of the hip hop culture. "B-boy" means boy who dances on breaks (breakbeats). Breakdancing was invented in the early 1970s in Puerto Rican and African-American communities in South Bronx in New York City. The dance style evolved during the 70s and 80s in big cities of the United States. 
Breakdancing uses different body movements, spins, arm movements, leg movements, all of which are done to the rhythm of hip hop music. Breakdancing was most popular in the 1980s but continues to be common today.
There are four categories in breakdance. They are power moves (windmill, tomas, airtrax and so on), style moves, toprock, downrock (footwork), and freezes (chair, airchair and so on). Many of moves come from gymnastics and kung-fu.
Breakdancers dance with breakbeats. The difficulty of their skills decides the better b-boy. One of the biggest breakdance contests in the world is Battle of the Year (BOTY). It has several different types of contests. There are one-on-one battles, team battle, contest of showcase and so on. B-boy battle means dancing on random music. In 2013, the team coming from South Korea, Fusion MC, won the championship. Floorriorz coming from Japan got the award of best show.
Ideas that formed breakdancing were present in cultures prior to the 1970s, and many break-dancers nowadays cite Richard “Crazy Legs” Colon as a influence on their breakdancing. However, it was not until after 1970 that breakdance was developed enough to become a separate dance style in the USA. DJs also started putting a small section of a record on repeat and the looped section gave a chance for the break-dancers to improve their dancing skills and improvisational skills. This then led to the first battles and they occurred in cyphers (circles of people gathered around). The earliest b-boys were African-American, though later, break-dancing became dominated by Puerto Rican-Americans.
A freeze is a technique where the dancer suddenly stops, often in an interesting or balance-intensive position. Freezes often incorporate various twists of the body into stylish and often difficult positions. 
The two-step move sets up the direction of movement and builds up momentum when dancing. This move allows the dancer to stay low and in contact with the ground, which places him in a good position for performing other dance moves.  As such, the two-step is often one of the first moves a break-dancer learns and it leads onto the 6-step.
A kick in breakdance is a one-handed handstand, with often a impressive leg position and the free arm in some stylish position. They are often executed quickly to impress.

</doc>
<doc id="48605" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48605" title="Constantine (movie)">
Constantine (movie)

Constantine is a 2005 American movie starring Keanu Reeves and Rachel Weisz. It is based on a comic book series called "Hellblazer". 
The main character, John Constantine, fights demons.

</doc>
<doc id="48610" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48610" title="East Anglia">
East Anglia

East Anglia is a region of eastern England, named after one of the ancient Anglo-Saxon kingdoms, which was named after the homeland of the Angles, Angeln in northern Germany. The kingdom consisted of Norfolk and Suffolk ("North folk" and "South folk") but the region's borders are vague. 
Farming and gardening are very successful in this fertile country. The landscape has been heavily influenced by Dutch technology. 

</doc>
<doc id="48628" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48628" title="Simone de Beauvoir">
Simone de Beauvoir

Simone de Beauvoir (January 9, 1908 – April 14, 1986) was a French author (writer) and philosopher (person who writes about ways of thinking).
She wrote novels (stories in a book), articles about philosophy ways of thinking or ways of living, and politics, biographies (books about other people's lives) and an autobiography (a book about her life).
Her best known books are "She Came to Stay" and "The Mandarins". Her best known writing about ideas is "The Second Sex", which was written in 1949. It describes the bad experiences of women in European society, and suggests how women's lives can be improved.
Her full name was Simone Lucie-Ernestine-Marie-Bertrand de Beauvoir. She was born on January 9, 1908 in Paris. She studied mathematics and ways of thinking at the Institut Catholique. Then she studied literature and languages at the Institut Sainte-Marie. As well, she studied ways of thinking at the Sorbonne, which is at the University of Paris.
In 1943, de Beauvoir published "She Came to Stay", a story about her lover Jean-Paul Sartre (who was also a writer and a philosopher). Next, she wrote a novel called "The Mandarins", which won prize.
In 1944 de Beauvoir wrote an article called "Pyrrhus et Cinéas", which was about a way of thinking about hard choices that people have to make.
In 1949, she wrote Le deuxième sexe. It was translated by Howard Parshley to "The Second Sex". It describes the bad experiences of women in European society, and suggests how women's lives can be improved. The book also discussed ways of thinking about hard choices.
At the end of World War II, de Beauvoir and Sartre started a newspaper about ways of living called "Les Temps Modernes".
De Beauvoir was bisexual and had sexual relationships with some of her female students.
She died of pneumonia. She is buried next to Sartre at the Cimetière du Montparnasse in Paris.

</doc>
<doc id="48630" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48630" title="Katie Couric">
Katie Couric

Katherine "Katie" Anne Couric (born January 7, 1957) was a co-host of the top-rated "Today" show, broadcast live on NBC affiliates, from 1991 until late 2006, earning nearly $14 million each year for the last 4 years of her contract. 
Couric was born in Arlington, Virginia. She was hired by the news division at CBS in late 2006 to anchor and be the main editor of the CBS Evening News, which operated with temporary anchors after Dan Rather's departure. Ratings have been disappointly low despite the initial fanfare and introduction of new theme music at the beginning of each show.
Couric is active in charities, especially related to colon cancer, after the death of her husband (to colon cancer) in 1998. Couric received a colonoscopy on live television in March 2000. She also released pictures of her mammogram on television.
Couric has two daughters, Ellie and Caroline.

</doc>
<doc id="48632" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48632" title="Slave trade">
Slave trade

During the history of slavery, there were many different forms of human exploitation across many cultures. Slavery is a condition in which people are owned or completely controlled by other people. Buying and selling slaves is a trade as old as many of the oldest civilizations. A modern form of the slave trade is called human trafficking.
In one form or another slavery has been practiced since the earliest civilizations. Early hunter-gatherers had no use for slaves They did everything for themselves. Having another pair of hands to help them meant another mouth to feed. Slavery or owning another person made no sense to these people. Once men gathered in cities and towns and there was more than enough food, having a cheap supply of labor made sense. This is when the earliest forms of slavery appeared. The main source of slaves was war. When a town was captured, the men were killed and the women were enslaved to work in the fields or as concubines. Slaves made up only a small percentage of the earliest civilizations. These included China's Yangtze River valley, India's Indus Valley, Egypt's Nile valley and the Tigris and Euphrates valleys in Mesopotamia.
Once slavery became a major part of the workforce, slave trading became a business. Ancient Greece was the first civilization where slaves made up a large part of the population. Between the 4th and 6th centuries (BC) it is estimated that from one-third to one-half of the population were slaves. There were many sources of slaves. Prisoners captured in war, kidnapping, people selling their children and criminals were some of the more common sources. The market price for slaves would go down after a battle in which many slaves were taken. Slavery was a large part of the Greek economy. A slave could earn money and could earn enough to purchase their freedom. Ancient Rome was even more dependant on slaves.
Slavery was also a part of medieval Europe. Societies that did not depend on slaves were often the source of slaves. In the Viking world, slavery was an important part of the economy. Not only the taking of slaves in raids and battles, but also selling slaves in other markets. The Vikings were slave traders. They captured slaves, used slaves and sold slaves. Most forms of slavery declined in Northern Europe but was practiced elsewhere in Europe. In Sicily, Italy, Spain, France, Russia and North Africa slavery lasted through much of the middle ages. Most of these slaves were "white" and came from other parts of Europe and Eastern Europe. As the New World was colonized, slavery was a well-established source of cheap labor. By the time Columbus discovered the Americas, Europeans had already been using African slaves in their colonies in West Africa. Before that, historians estimate that between 650 AD and the 1960s, 10 to 18 million people were enslaved by Arab slave traders. They were taken from Europe, Asia and Africa across the Red Sea, Indian Ocean, and the Sahara desert.
For four centuries, beginning in the late 15th century, millions of Africans were taken as slaves by Europeans. Europeans began exporting Africans to the New World as a source of cheap labor on colonial plantations. This was called the Atlantic slave trade. Early attempts to enslave Native Americans failed which gave rise to the African slave trade. Africans were a relatively easy source of slaves as European traders did not have to capture them, but relied on Arabs and other Africans to do it for them. Even before outside slave traders took advantage of Africans, the Africans themselves had established slave trading. Theirs was not an economy based on money, but on trading. Slaves were a Commodity (a substitute for money).
Slaves were often sold at markets and auctions. Slave auctions show that slaves were not thought of as human beings with human rights. Instead, they were thought of as property, which could be bought or sold. Slaves that were for sale were often advertised in the newspapers, like today's newspapers advertise cars or houses. Slave traders were even listed in public directories (like today's phone books).
Slaves did not have any say in what happened to them. Many times, families were split up and sold to different owners for different amounts of money. Millions of families became separated this way and never saw each other again.
There were three types of auctions: "Grab and go," "May the highest bidder win", and "the scramble". 
In a "grab and go" auction, a buyer would give the slave trader a certain amount of money and would get a ticket. When a drum roll sounded, the pen holding the slaves would open. The buyer would rush in and grab the slave or slaves that he wanted. He would then show his ticket to the slave trader before he left.
In a "may the highest bidder win" auction, slaves would be shown to the buyers one at a time. If more than one buyer wanted a particular slave, all of the buyers would have to bid on the slave (making offers for what they were willing to pay). The buyer who bid the highest would be able to buy that slave for the amount of money he bid.
In "the scramble," buyers would quickly grab whichever slaves they wanted and would take them to work.

</doc>
<doc id="48634" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48634" title="List of U.S. states by time zone">
List of U.S. states by time zone

This is a list of U.S. states by time zone. For more information about time zones, please see: time zone.
Most of the United States uses Daylight Saving Time (DST). In the list, it will say if the state or territory "does not use" DST.
"Note": the time zones listed on this page are listed in Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) as well as the names of the time zones as they are called within the United States. For an explanation on what "UTC+#" and "UTC-#" mean, please see the UTC page.
These are the times zones that are used by the United States and its territories:
The territories of the United States do not use Daylight Savings Time (DST)

</doc>
<doc id="48635" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48635" title="Central line">
Central line

The Central Line is a line of the London Underground. Its colour is red on the tube map. It runs east-west through London. The line was the longest line until the line between Epping and Ongar was closed. Outside the rush hours trains run every 3-4 minutes in Central London and every 6-7 minutes on the branches.
"In order from west to east. Station in italics are not in the on the Central line anymore"
"branch joins at North Acton:"
"branch joins at North Acton:"
"Splits into two branches."
"The Greater London boundary with Essex is at Grange Hill"
"Terminates at Woodford [see Ongar Branch] (except for rush hours)"
"The Greater London boundary with Essex is between Woodford and Buckhurst Hill"
"Note: the remaining stations to Ongar were served by a shuttle service from Epping."

</doc>
<doc id="48644" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48644" title="Lysergic acid diethylamide">
Lysergic acid diethylamide

LSD is the shorter name for a drug called Lysergic acid diethylamide. LSD is often called by the slang name acid. LSD is a psychedelic drug which causes people who take it to witness illusions. It also alters their thought processes.
LSD was investigated as an adjunct to psychiatric therapies for disorders such as alcoholism. Currently, LSD is being investigated as a clinical tool for treating people with anxiety and depression associated with having a terminal illness. Since there is no recognized medical use for LSD, its use in medicine is experimental. The vast majority of LSD use extramedical and thus considered "drug abuse" according to some definitions.
LSD does not occur in nature, so it must be chemically synthesized. It was invented in 1938 by a Swiss chemist, Albert Hofmann, at the Sandoz Laboratories in Switzerland. Hofmann was trying to produce a new circulatory and respiratory stimulant (an 'analeptic'). He produced LSD because of its similarity to nicotinic acid diethylamide, a known respiratory stimulant.
One day in 1943, Hofmann accidentally ate a small amount of LSD, and noticed strange light patterns in the sky as he went home. He believed that what he had experienced were the effects of the drug. He tried a larger amount next. He ended up with a much stronger reaction to the drug than he expected. Hofmann lay on a couch, afraid he had made himself insane for life. When a neighbor came, found him in trouble, and stayed to look after Hofmann, he was able to calm down, and even said he began to enjoy the plays of colorful shapes and patterns that occurred behind his closed eyes. The next day Hofmann reported to have waken up refreshed and clear-headed, though somewhat physically tired. He also noted that his breakfast tasted unusually delicious that morning.
Sandoz began to offer LSD to doctors and therapists. Sandoz saw it as a help to doctors and therapists so they could get a chance to gain insight into how someone who was mentally ill might see the world. It is known today, that the effects of LSD are very different from those of delusional mental illnesses, such as schizophrenia. For their patients, it was a chance to uncover hidden feelings and thoughts, which could be dealt with in therapy. LSD showed promise in the treatment of problems like alcoholism. Some alcoholics who tried the drug found their need to drink alcohol lessened or went away. They understood better why they had abused alcohol. Unlike other drugs, the desire for alcohol was not replaced by a craving for LSD. The study showed a 50% success rate, compared to 10% for "cold turkey" methods.
In the United States, the Central Intelligence Agency tested the drug on subjects for different reasons. The name for one of these test projects was MK-ULTRA. Subjects did not know they were given the drug. It was used in to see if it would make people tell the truth, or remember things they had forgotten. It was also used to convince people they were becoming insane, or that things had happened which really had not, such as an invasion from outer space, or a Communist takeover of the country, or that their bodies were transformed in some way. The CIA supposedly felt it was important to learn how ordinary citizens might react to such things if they happened. The drug sometimes made the scenarios more believable. The effects of these experiments were often harmful to the subjects, even years later, because of the intense anxiety or fear caused when someone unknowingly takes a drug like LSD.
LSD first became popular in the 1960s. A Harvard psychology professor, Timothy Leary, began to encourage people to try the drug then. College students willingly took part in LSD experiments. These experiments were made by psychologists and other professionals. Leary and two of the people he worked with, Richard Alpert and Ralph Metzner, thought the transforming effects of the drug could be a kind of 'rebirth' of users, in the same way as many religions offered them. They wrote a book, "The Psychedelic Experience", which was based on the Tibetan Book of the Dead. Leary eventually became well known in the 1960s hippie movement for his about LSD: "Turn on, tune in, drop out". The Hippies were a countercultural movement. A number of famous rock bands, including the Beatles and the Grateful Dead, became known for their use of LSD, and even a new type of rock music, called "acid rock", was born from the fad.
LSD quickly became a popular drug outside of the medical profession. Many people began using or giving LSD out casually. "Acid parties" and "acid tests" became a social fad. The drug would sometimes be slipped to persons unknowingly, often through "spiked" punch or drinks. Some problems developed, as some casual users began to experience side effects, such as "flashbacks" and psychotic symptoms, though both of these are rare. Sometimes signs of depression and instability were seen. Due to the spread of LSD use outside of the medical community, the United States government banned LSD (made it against the law to make, have or use) in 1967. Other countries soon followed.
The most common danger of taking LSD is having a bad experience, which is called a "bad trip". During a bad trip, people may feel very scared and worried, and they may have very sad thoughts. A bad trip can lead to lasting bad memories and even mental harm. Users who get out of control, or who try to harm themselves, should be taken for medical help.
Many illegal drugs, such as heroin and cocaine, are very addictive. This means that people who start taking the drug will want to keep taking it, even if it is damaging their physical and mental health. LSD is not addictive to the body or to the mind.
Another danger from using LSD is that it makes a person impaired (intoxicated). When people are impaired, they may have accidents or do things that they would not normally do. In some rare cases, people taking LSD develop a psychosis.
Frequent or regular use of LSD can result in flashbacks. In a flashback, the person feels the drug beginning to affect him or her again, even though he or she has not taken a dose that day. This can be brought on by stress. Note that over 75% of LSD users claimed never to have "flashed back".
It has been said that some people who use LSD can end up with damage to their chromosomes, but this is a myth based on one wrong report that was disproved soon after it was published.
LSD is illegal in the United States, Australia, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, and most of Europe. Some countries enforce the laws against LSD very harshly. Other countries do not enforce the law very much. LSD has been manufactured illegally since the 1960s.

</doc>
<doc id="48645" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48645" title="Triple H">
Triple H

Paul Michael Levesque (born July 27, 1969) is an American business executive, professional wrestler, actor, and former bodybuilder. He is better known by the ring name Triple H, an abbreviation of his former Hunter Hearst Helmsley name. He is currently the COO ("Chief Operating Officer") of WWE. 
Before joining WWE, Levesque began his wrestling career with World Championship Wrestling (WCW) in 1993, wrestling under the name Terra Ryzing. He would then be repackaged as Jean-Paul Lévesque, a French Canadian aristocrat, before joining World Wrestling Federation (now WWE) in 1995.
Since joining WWE, he has become a 14-time world champion (current): an eight-time WWE Champion and a five-time World Heavyweight Champion and a 1 time WWE world Heavyweight champion.. In addition, he won the 1997 King of the Ring, the 2002 Royal Rumble, and was the second Grand Slam Champion.
He married Stephanie McMahon in 2003, becoming the son-in-law of WWE chairman Vince McMahon. Outside of wrestling, Levesque has made many guest appearances in film and on television. He is starring in the upcoming WWE Film "Journey of Death".
At the 2008 edition of "Backlash", Triple H won the WWE Championship. He lost the title at Survivor Series 2008 to Edge.
At the 2009 No Way Out, Triple H won back the WWE Championship in an Elimantion Chamber match for the 8th time, beating The Rock's record of 7 times.
After entering the royal rumble 2016 match at no. 30 ,he eliminated Ambrose to win the royal rumble and become the 14 time world champion.

</doc>
<doc id="48654" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48654" title="Ernő Rubik">
Ernő Rubik

Ernő Rubik (born 13 July 1944) is a Hungarian inventor and professor of architecture. He is the inventor of the Rubik's Cube. He was born in Budapest, Hungary.

</doc>
<doc id="48656" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48656" title="Michael Richards">
Michael Richards

Michael Anthony Richards (born July 24, 1949) is an American actor and comedian. He is best known for playing Cosmo Kramer on the television show "Seinfeld". He has won three Emmy Awards. He caused a notable controversy when his shouting of racial slurs at African American hecklers in a comedy club was broadcast worldwide in news reports.

</doc>
<doc id="48658" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48658" title="Final Fantasy VII">
Final Fantasy VII

Final Fantasy VII is a fantasy role-playing video game for the PlayStation. It was released in 1997 by Square Co., Ltd. (now Square Enix). At E3 2015, a Final Fantasy VII remake was announced after many years of speculation. 
The game has four expansion packs:
The main characters you can play as in Final Fantasy VII are Cloud Strife, Aeris Gainsborough, Barret Wallace, Tifa Lockhart, Red XIII/Nanaki, Cait Sith, Cid Highwind, and two secret characters: Vincent Valentine and Yuffie Kisaragi. Sephiroth, the main enemy character, joins the party in a series of flashbacks, but he cannot be controlled or equipped. However, his status, inventory and equipment, can be checked during Cloud's flashback. 
Important characters in Shin-Ra are Reeve (Head of Urban Development), Hojo (Head of the Science Department), Palmer (Head of Space Exploration), Heidegger (Head of the Peace Preservation Department), Scarlet (Head of Weapons Research and Development), President Shinra, his son Rufus, and members of a secret police organization called the Turks (Elena, Rude, Reno, and Tseng). 
In the original English language release of Final Fantasy VII, Aerith's name was spelled wrong after being translated, as 'Aeris'. Games that came after that had Aeris as a character, like Kingdom Hearts, spelled it right. Although the spelling 'Aeris' is what some people would call wrong, the pronunciation is right, as the letters 'th' in Japanese are pronounced like an English 's'.
The soundtrack for the game was made by Nobuo Uematsu. Music from the game has been released on an original four-disc soundtrack, a single disc album of some arranged tracks titled Final Fantasy VII Reunion Tracks, and piano-only arrangement of some tracks. Popular pieces from the them include Aerith's Theme, a quiet and melodic character theme, and One-Winged Angel, the first composition for the Final Fantasy series to have recorded voices. The game's main theme, heard on the world map in Disc 1, is over 6 minutes long. Several tracks from the game have come back in Square (and Square Enix) productions that came after Final Fantasy VII, including Kingdom Hearts and . 

</doc>
<doc id="48660" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48660" title="Tony O'Reilly">
Tony O'Reilly

Sir Anthony Joseph Francis O'Reilly (born May 7, 1936) billionaire born in Dublin, Ireland. He is the chairman of Dublin's Independent News & Media Group and was once the CEO of the H.J. Heinz Company.
O'Reilly played rugby for the Leicester Tigers and London Irish in England. He played for Ireland between 1955 and 1963.

</doc>
<doc id="48664" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48664" title="Prism (optics)">
Prism (optics)

Prisms are used in binoculars to reflect the light. This lets the tubes of the binoculars be short. Some cameras use a prism to send light to the viewfinder, so the photographer can see what will be photographed.

</doc>
<doc id="48693" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48693" title="Fritjof Capra">
Fritjof Capra

Fritjof Capra (born February 1, 1939) is an Austrian-American physicist.
Born in Vienna, Austria, Capra earned a Ph.D. in theoretical physics from the University of Vienna in 1966. He has done research on particle physics and systems theory, and has written popular books on the implications of science with ethics, metaphysics and society. In particular in "The Tao of Physics" he makes the assertion that physics and metaphysics are both inexorably leading to the same knowledge. His works all share a similar subtext: that ""there are hidden connections between everything"". Capra is both a Buddhist and a Catholic Christian. 
After touring Germany in the early 1980s, Capra co-wrote a book on Green Politics with ecofeminist author Charlene Spretnak called "Green Politics," in 1984.
Capra pushes for western society to abandon conventional linear thought and the mechanistic views of Descartes. Critiquing Descartes' reductionistic view that everything can be studied in parts to understand the whole, he allows his readers to take an objective and fresh mind, encouraging them to see the world through complexity theory.
Capra is purportedly setting the grounds for change in many new theories, one of which is the theory of living systems, a theoretical framework for ecology. This theory is only now fully emerging but it has its roots in several scientific fields that were developed during the first half of the twentieth century — organismic biology, gestalt psychology, ecology, general systems theory, and cybernetics.

</doc>
<doc id="48703" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48703" title="Minor Threat">
Minor Threat

Minor Threat was hardcore punk band from Washington DC from the 1980s. Many other bands which played hardcore punk music in the United States were influenced by Minor Threat's music. Minor Threat's songs were usually short and fast. All of Minor Threat's records were released on the band's own Dischord Records label.
Minor Threat told their listeners they did not use illegal drugs or drink alcohol, which was called being "straight edge." 
Ian MacKaye, Jeff Nelson, bassist Brian Baker, and guitarist Lyle Preslar formed Minor Threat in 1980. Their first records were "Minor Threat" and "In My Eyes" in 1981. The group toured through the United States.
Their song "Straight Edge" had lyrics (words) that told people they did not use illegal drugs or drink alcohol, which was called being "straight edge." Another song called "Out of Step" tells listeners not to smoke, drink, or have casual sex. People often thought that the band was telling others not to do these things but in interviews the band states that straight edge is a personal decision.
Minor Threat broke up in 1983. 

</doc>
<doc id="48705" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48705" title="Ethelred the Unready">
Ethelred the Unready

Ethelred II (c. 968 – April 23 1016) was also known as Ethelred the Unready. He was King of England twice. The first time was from 978 to 1013, and the second time was 1014 to 1016. He was the son of Edgar, and Aelfthryth. For most of his reign he had to fight off Viking invaders. 
The word "unready" in his name means "badly advised". When he asked for ideas about how to do things he was told the wrong thing. As he was only ten, he did not know what the best way of doing things was.

</doc>
<doc id="48708" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48708" title="Elizabethan Religious Settlement">
Elizabethan Religious Settlement

The Elizabethan Religious Settlement was Elizabeth I’s answer to the religious quarrels that developed during the reigns of Henry VIII, Edward VI and Mary I. 
This answer was given in two Acts of the Parliament of England. The Act of Supremacy of 1559 confirmed the English church’s independence from Rome. The Act of Uniformity 1559 decided about the form of the English church.
Often it was seen as the end of the English Reformation and the foundation of Anglicanism. But some historians think that England did not become a Protestant nation on a popular level for a long time since then. There seem to have been great divisions in the population and among the clergy for a long time afterwards. 

</doc>
<doc id="48714" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48714" title="Gecko">
Gecko

Geckos are small to middle size lizards. Lizards are reptiles. There are 1196 different kinds of geckos. They live in many warm countries. Some kinds of geckos go into people's houses. People are often happy to have them, because geckos eat many insects.
Unlike most lizards, geckos have voices. A gecko sounds a little like a bird or a frog. In some languages these lizards have names that sound like their calls, for example, both English and Indonesian call one kind gecko (gek KO) and tokay (to-KAY). Another kind of gecko, with a different sound, is called chicak (CHEE chak).
Geckos have no eyelids. Instead, they have a clear membrane (skin) over their eyes. They lick the membrane clean with their tongues. Like most lizards, they can regenerate their tail if they need to.
Many kinds of geckos can walk on walls, windows and ceilings. They can do this because they have special toe pads. A microscope can show that each toe pad is made of thousands of hair-like structures. Each of these structures branches into many smaller ends.
Geckos' feet form a molecular bond with the substance that they are walking on in order to "stick" to the surface.

</doc>
<doc id="48715" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48715" title="Rutherfordium">
Rutherfordium

Rutherfordium is a chemical element. It has also been named eka-hafnium and unnilquadium. It has the symbol Rf. It has the atomic number 104. It is a very radioactive element that does not exist in nature. It has to be made. Rutherfordium is the first transactinide element.. The isotope that has the longest half-life is Rf. Rutherfordium-265 only has a half life of about 13 hours.
The amount of rutherfordium that has been made is not enough to give much information about it. The element has no present uses. It is thought that the chemistry of rutherfordium will be like the chemistry of hafnium.
Rutherfordium was named after Ernest Rutherford. It was reported that it was first made in 1964 at the Joint Institute for Nuclear Research at Dubna, Russia. The scientists reported that they bombarded a different chemical element Pu with the element Ne. The neon-22 particles were accelerated to an energy of 113 to 115 MeV. They claim they detected nuclear fission tracks in a special type of glass with a microscope showing that a new element was there.
In 1969 scientists at the University of California, Berkeley made rutherfordium by banging together Cf and C at very high energies. These scientists said that when they tried to make rutherfordium in the same way as the scientists at the Joint Institute for Nuclear Research none of the element was produced.
The scientists at the Joint Institute for Nuclear Research claimed that it was first detected in Dubna. They thought it should be named "dubnium" ("Db") or "kurchatovium" ("Ku") for Igor Vasilevich Kurchatov (1903-1960).
The scientists at the University of California, Berkeley thought it should be named "rutherfordium" ("Rf").
The International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry (IUPAC) decide the name of elements that should be used by everyone. They used "unnilquadium" ("Unq") as a temporary name. Unnilquadium is the systematic element name. In 1997 they resolved the dispute and used the current name of rutherfordium. The chemical element with atomic number 105 was named dubnium.

</doc>
<doc id="48717" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48717" title="Lizard">
Lizard

Lizards are reptiles. Together with snakes, they make up the order Squamata. 
There are about 6,000 species, which live all over the world, except in cold climates. They range across all continents except Antarctica, as well as most oceanic island chains. One type, the marine iguana, lives in the sea. Size varies greatly, ranging from 5 inches to the Komodo dragon's 9 feet and 150 pounds. 
Some kinds of lizard are:
Suborder Lacertilia (Sauria) 
In the traditional taxonomy the Order Squamata is divided as follows:
A modern view is that the snakes and lizards are all infraorders of the Squamata: 
There are other versions, and the taxonomy will probably not settle until more molecular evidence is collected.
The skull structure of both snakes and lizards is distinctive. They can move their upper jaw relative to the braincase. They bear horny scales, and many use venom for attack and defense.
The Squamates are definitely a monophyletic group; they are a sister group to the Tuatara. Judged by their fossil record, the Squamates were present in the Mesozoic, but occupied a minor place in the land ecology. Three of the six lines are recorded first in the Upper Jurassic, the others in the Cretaceous. Probably all (including snakes) arose earlier in the Jurassic. The Mosasaurs of the Upper Cretaceous were by far the most successful of all the lizards, becoming the top predator in their ecosystem.
Although snakes and lizards look so different, neither are proper clades. Snakes did descend from early lizards, so both groups together do form a monophyletic clade, the Squamata. Within that clade there is another monophyletic clade, the Toxicofera. This includes all venomous reptile species, as well as many related non-venomous species. The evidence for this is in recent molecular analyses.
Sight is very important for most lizards, both for locating prey and for communication. Many lizards have highly acute color vision. Most lizards rely heavily on body language, using specific postures, gestures and movements to define territory, resolve disputes, and entice mates. Some species of lizard also utilize bright colors, such as the iridescent patches on the belly of Sceloporus. These colors would be highly visible to predators, so are often hidden on the underside or between scales and only revealed when necessary.
The "dewlap" is a brightly colored patch of skin on the throat, usually hidden between scales. When a display is needed, the lizards erect the hyoid bone of their throat, resulting in a large vertical flap of brightly colored skin beneath the head which can be then used for communication.

</doc>
<doc id="48722" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48722" title="Philipp Tischendorf">
Philipp Tischendorf

Philipp Tischendorf (born June 7, 1988 in Berlin, Germany) is a German figure skater. He was the 2007 German national silver medalist. Tischendorf is coached by Michael Huth, with former coaches Jürgen Bertko and silver Olympic medalist Romy Oesterreich.
In March 2007, Philipp was injured while practising a quadruple Lutz jump on the ice and was forced to not participate the 2007/2008 because of injury.

</doc>
<doc id="48724" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48724" title="Miles per hour">
Miles per hour

Miles per hour is a unit of measurement. It measures speed. It is the number of miles moved in an hour. 
Miles per hour is the unit used for speed limits on roads in the United Kingdom and the United States. It is normally abbreviated in everyday use to mph or MPH. In technical publications it is sometimes abbreviated as mi/h.
The SI unit for velocity (speed, with a direction of movement) is m·s (metres per second).
1 mph is equal to:

</doc>
<doc id="48728" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48728" title="Nobility">
Nobility

Nobility was the highest social class in pre-modern societies. In the feudal system (in Europe and elsewhere), the nobility were mostly those who got land from the monarch and had to provide services to him, mainly military service. Men of this class were called noblemen. It soon became a hereditary class, sometimes with a right to bear a hereditary title and to have financial and other privileges. 
Today, in most countries, "noble status" means no legal privileges; an important exception is the United Kingdom, where certain titles (titles of the peerage, until recently guaranteed a seat in the Upper House of Westminster Parliament, that is why it is called House of Lords), and still means some less important privileges.

</doc>
<doc id="48729" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48729" title="List of U.S. states by population">
List of U.S. states by population

This is a list of United States of America states by Name as of 2014. The list is made using the 2014 Census estimates taken by the United States Census Bureau. The total population of the United States was 308,745,538 at the 2010 Census, and is estimated to be 318,857,056 in July 2014.
These numbers include all people other than people just visiting: These include citizens, non-citizen permanent residents and non-citizen long-term visitors. People in the military who are working in other countries and their families are counted in their home state. The United States of America is the one of the most populated countries, behind China and India.
The following is the state by state population count as of the July 1, 2014 estimate.

</doc>
<doc id="48730" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48730" title="Trio (music)">
Trio (music)

A trio is a group of three people who are playing musical instruments or singing together. The word "trio" may also refer to the piece of music that they are playing.
Three people who are singing together are a "vocal trio".
Classical composers writing chamber music very often wrote trios. Usually the trio is called after the main instrument in the group. A piano trio is normally a piece for piano, violin and cello. A string trio is a piece for three string instruments, usually violin, viola and cello. 
Many other combinations are possible. Brahms wrote a piece which is normally referred to as a "Horn Trio" for french horn, violin and piano. Mozart wrote a piece normally called a "Clarinet Trio" which is for clarinet, viola and piano.
A piece for three people sitting at one piano is usually called a piece for "piano 6 hands".
Trios can also apply to popular music, like Nickel Creek.

</doc>
<doc id="48732" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48732" title="List of U.S. state nicknames">
List of U.S. state nicknames

This is a list of U.S. state nicknames: (official state nicknames in bold) (Some may be more popular than others)
r

</doc>
<doc id="48733" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48733" title="List of U.S. states by date of statehood">
List of U.S. states by date of statehood

This is a list of U.S. states by date of statehood. It has the date when each U.S. state joined the Union. However,
Virginia's peoples convention in May-June 1776 prepared the first Constitution for a State Government, plus a Declaration of Rights. Other Colonies became States in late 1776 and into 1777, and used Virginia's Declaration of Rights as a pattern for their own Declaration. In the 1778 Articles of Confederation, which formed the first national government, it specified the name of the country as "The United States of America", stating "Each State retains its sovereignty, freedom and independence, and every power, jurisdiction, and right, which is not by this Confederation expressly delegated." It also stated "Articles of Confederation and perpetual Union between the States, or a Union of State Legislatures. The first 13 States thus were in this Union from 1778 to 1789, when the second national government was established by a Constitution, which, in list of purposes, "in order to form a more perfect Union". This does not make the States enter the Union only when it ratified the U.S. Constitution. The 1787 Convention, which decided not to amend the Articles for the first national government but prepare a Constitution, selected.the Virginia Plan of a three-branch, republican form of government, and went one step further and had the Constitution guarantee the same form of government in each State. The Constitution does not use the word "Democracy" nor "Republic", and the founders/framers provided the prerequisites and other elements of the unique republican form of government. 

</doc>
<doc id="48736" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48736" title="List of U.S. states' largest cities">
List of U.S. states' largest cities

This is a list of the largest cities in each United States state and territory. State or territory capitals are listed in "italics".
Note 1: The only incorporated place in Hawaii is the City & County of Honolulu. A portion of it, the Honolulu District, is sometimes called the "city of Honolulu" for statistical reasons, although it has no government separate from that of the "City and County" as a whole. The U.S. Census Bureau defines Honolulu CDP (Census Designated Place) as the Honolulu District. For Hawaii, the largest CDPs are listed.
Note 2: As of June 2013, New Orleans remains at a population of 343,829 (according to the 2010 Census) still showing a long term decrease since Hurricane Katrina, which initially decreased the population of the city by about 50%. Many of the city's residents were displaced during the storm and it is still unknown how many will return or can be considered "displaced". Despite previous claims that with the 2010 Census New Orleans will move down in the rankings, it still remains the largest city in Louisiana by a margin of more than 100,000.

</doc>
<doc id="48737" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48737" title="Chips">
Chips

Chip or chips could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="48738" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48738" title="Learning music by ear">
Learning music by ear

Learning music by ear is learning to play a piece of music by listening to other people playing it and then trying to play it oneself. In some musical traditions there is no written music and everybody plays by ear all the time. Folk music is traditionally learned by listening to other musicians and copying them. This is how music is passed from one generation to another.
Most people in the Western musical tradition learn pieces and songs by reading music, but it is good to try to play music by ear sometimes. It can be a very useful skill.
The Suzuki method of learning instruments started in Japan but is now used in many countries. It teaches young children to play an instrument (usually the violin) by ear.

</doc>
<doc id="48739" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48739" title="Shelton Benjamin">
Shelton Benjamin

Shelton James Benjamin (born July 9, 1975) is an American professional wrestler. He currently wrestles for New Japan Pro Wrestling under the ring name Shelton X Benjamin.
He is best known for working with World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) and has also worked for Ring of Honor from 2010 to 2013.
Benjamin started his career in Ohio Valley Wrestling and stay with them from 2000 to 2002. During his time there he won the OVW Southern Tag Team Championship three times with Brock Lesnar and one time with Redd Dogg.
He was called up to the WWE in 2002 and debuted on the WWE SmackDown roster on December 26, 2002. During his early career in the WWE he along with Charlie Haas formed Team Angle with Kurt Angle as their on-screen mentor. They began a feud with Chris Benoit. Benjamin won the WWE Intercontinental Championship after he defeated then-champion Chris Jericho at the 2004 Taboo Tuesday.
He was part of a storyline where he was on a losing streak for many weeks which led his "momma" (played by actress Thea Vidale) to come to Raw to scold him. She assisted him in matches and sometimes interfered in them. She was taken off television when she was (kayfabe) undergoing heart surgery in the hospital and wouldn't be returning to the WWE.
In 2007, he started wearing gold attire and dyed his hair blond. He also began referring to himself as "The Gold Standard". Benjamin won the WWE United States Championship after he defeated then-champion Matt Hardy at the 2008 Great American Bash. Benjamin was released from the WWE on April 22, 2010 along with Jimmy Wang Yang, Kung Fu Naki, Slam Master J, Mickie James and Katie Lea Burchill.

</doc>
<doc id="48742" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48742" title="J. Robert Oppenheimer">
J. Robert Oppenheimer

J. Robert Oppenheimer (April 22, 1904 – February 18, 1967) was an American physicist. He is best known as the scientific director of the Manhattan Project. In World War II, the project built the first nuclear weapons. That is why Oppenheimer is called ""the father of the atomic bomb"." 
"We knew the world would not be the same", he recalled the moments after the successful testing of the atomic bomb in New Mexico, United States years later. "A few people laughed, a few people cried, most people were silent. I remembered the line from the Hindu scripture, the Bhagavad-Gita. Vishnu is trying to persuade the Prince that he should do his duty and to impress him takes on his multi-armed form and says, 'I am become Death, the destroyer of worlds.' I suppose we all thought that one way or another." 
The quote from the Hindu scripture became one of Oppenheimer's most famous quotes. 
After the war he lost his security clearance and his job due to concern over nuclear espionage. He returned to teaching, and died of throat cancer in Princeton, New Jersey, United States.

</doc>
<doc id="48763" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48763" title="Minor league baseball">
Minor league baseball

Minor league baseball is a level of professional baseball in North America. It is made up a many different teams which play in many leagues and levels of ability. Minor league teams are used by Major League teams to have a place to put their players who they do not feel are good enough to play in the Major League yet. 
There are several different levels of ability in the Minor Leagues, these levels are (in order from lowest to highest): 
When a normal player is first drafted or signed by a major league team, he is usually placed in "Rookie" League or short season A, however top prospects often start higher. If a player plays good in his league he can be "called up" to the next league. If a player does not play well he may be sent back down or cut from the team. This continues until a player gets to the major leagues, although most players never make it that far. This way players are able to get better at baseball before having to play against tougher opponents.
Sometimes, Major League players who are have been hurt will play a few games in the minor leagues before playing in the Major Leagues again, in order to see if they feel good enough to start playing again.
There are also other professional baseball leagues that Major League teams do not use to as a place put their players. These are known as "Independent Leagues". In these leagues players do not go to higher or lower levels of ability.
Minor league teams generally play in cities that are too small for major league teams. City size usually increases with league level.

</doc>
<doc id="48764" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48764" title="American League">
American League

The American League (or AL) is one of the two leagues that make up Major League Baseball (MLB). The other is the National League (or NL). As of the current MLB season in 2013, the American League is made up of 15 teams. At the end of each season, five of these teams go to the "post-season" where one will win the American League championship. The champions of the American League plays against the champions of the National League in the World Series. The team that wins the World Series is the champion of Major League Baseball. Teams in the American league usually play against other teams in the American league, except for a few games a year when they play National league teams. There Are 3 Divisions Of The American League, AL East,AL Central, And AL West. Some People Think AL West Teams Are NL Teams
The only big difference between the American League and the National League is that the AL uses the "Designated Hitter" (or DH). The Designated Hitter is a player who does not play in the field, but is used to bat for the worst hitter in his team's "lineup" (usually the pitcher). The NL does not use the Designated Hitter, and all players in the "lineup" must bat and field for themselves. If the DH plays a NL game in a NL park, he often plays First Base if at all. If they play in an AL park, the NL can use a DH.

</doc>
<doc id="48765" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48765" title="National League">
National League

The National League (or NL) is one of the two leagues that make up Major League Baseball (MLB). As of 2016, the NL has 15 teams. At the end of each season, five of these teams go to the "post-season" where one will win the National League championship. The champions of the National League plays against the champions of the American League in the World Series. The team that wins the World Series is the champion of Major League Baseball.
The only big difference between the National League and the American League (AL) is that the AL uses the "Designated Hitter" (or DH). The Designated Hitter is a player who does not play in the field, but is used to bat for the worst hitter in his team's "lineup", usually the pitcher. The NL does not use the Designated Hitter, and all players in the side must bat and field for themselves.

</doc>
<doc id="48766" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48766" title="Statistical survey">
Statistical survey

Statistical surveys are collections of information about items in a population.
Surveys can be grouped into numerical and categorical types. A numerical survey is to get numbers as replies. For example:
How many minutes, on average, do you spend eating breakfast?
This survey question is used to generate numbers in minutes. An example of a categorical question is:
What is your favorite color?
The categories for this would be yellow, green, purple, etc... which are not numbers.
Surveys of human populations and institutions are common in political polling and government, health, social science and marketing research. A survey may concentrate on opinions or factual information depending on its purpose.

</doc>
<doc id="48767" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48767" title="Social sciences">
Social sciences

The social sciences are a group of academic disciplines that study human aspects of the world. Social Sciences includes anthropology, archaeology, economics, geography, political science, psychology, and sociology. They are different from the arts and humanities as for them scientific method is important. Most of the social sciences require doing a lot of research, such as making surveys. Such research is called "social research". Some subjects, such as history, are sometimes social sciences and sometimes humanities. 
The term "social sciences" has been used for over 200 years and mostly originates from a thinker named Auguste Comte. Many of the fields of social science have come about since then. In America, much of the thought and practice of social science came from the University of Chicago and other universities.

</doc>
<doc id="48776" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48776" title="Arts">
Arts

The arts are a large part of culture, and the word means much more than ""art"". The arts include visual arts, literary arts (i.e. books and other writings) and performing arts (i.e. music, dance, drama). 
Sometimes, in universities, it is shorthand for a wider group of subjects which are properly called the humanities. These include philosophy, theology, literature, languages, and history as well. 
"The arts" are usually contrasted with "The sciences".
Visual arts consist of any art that can be seen. This form of art doesn't change once it has been made.
Architecture is the art and science behind building and sculpture design. Architecture as an art involves making something look beautiful and appealing to others.
Conceptual Art is art in which the idea is more important than the actual beauty of the object.

</doc>
<doc id="48788" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48788" title="Nuclear proliferation">
Nuclear proliferation

Nuclear proliferation is when a country starts making nuclear objects. On the right is a map showing who has nuclear reactors and weapons, and who could have them. When a country starts making nuclear weapons, they become a nuclear power.
Dual use technology means to the possibility of military use of civilian nuclear technology for generating electricity. Many technologies and materials associated with the creation of a nuclear electricity program have a dual-use capability. These items can be used to make nuclear weapons if a country chooses to do so. When this happens a nuclear electricity program can lead to making atomic bombs. The crisis over Iran’s nuclear activities is an example.

</doc>
<doc id="48793" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48793" title="François Bourdoncle">
François Bourdoncle

François Bourdoncle (born April 20, 1964) is founder and CEO of the search engine company Exalead.

</doc>
<doc id="48794" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48794" title="Chief executive officer">
Chief executive officer

A Chief Executive Officer (CEO), or Chief Executive, is the most important corporate officer, administrator, corporate administrator, executive, or executive officer, in charge of total management of a corporation, company, organization or agency. 
In closely held corporations, it is general business culture that the office of Chief Executive Officer, CEO, is also the chairman of the board. Specifically, one person often shares the chairman and CEO titles while another person takes the presidency or may become chief operating officer (COO). However, the term president is from the U.S. and in the UK COO is favored. Underneath that comes the Executive Vice President (U.S.) or Executive Director (UK). In publicly held corporations, the CEO and chairman positions can be separated but there are implications in corporate governance by doing so.
In some European Union countries, there are two separate boards, one executive board for the day-to-day business and one supervisory board for control purposes (elected by the shareholders). In these countries, the chief executive officer presides over the executive board and the chairman presides over the supervisory board and these two roles will always be held by different people. This ensures a distinction between management by the executive board and governance by the supervisory board. This allows for clear lines of authority. The aim is to prevent a conflict of interest and too much power being concentrated in the hands of one person. There is a strong parallel here with the structure of governments, which tend to separate the political cabinet from the management civil service.
In rare circumstances an Executive Chairperson can be appointed but this is either illegal in many jurisdictions or frowned upon by Regulators.
In the United Kingdom many Charities and Government Agencies are headed by a Chief Executive who is answerable to a Board of Trustees or Board of Directors. In the UK, the Chairman (of the Board) in public companies is more senior than the Chief Executive. Most public companies now split the role of Chairman and Chief Executive.
Typically, a CEO has a cadre of subordinate executives, each of which has specific functional responsibilities. These direct reporting relationships most often include: Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Marketing Officer, and Chief Information Officer. Although not an Executive, the Director of Human Resources plays a vital role within any corporation.
However, depending on the industry in which the company operates and/or the organizational structure the company has employed, various other functional areas may be highlighted through the CEO's direct span of control. Some of these less common monikers include: Chief (Business) Development Officer, Chief Knowledge Officer/Chief Learning Officer, Chief Strategy Officer, Chief Risk Officer, and Chief Credit Officer.
According to Don Schmincke, to be a strong executive, "one cannot act in business differently from how he acts in family life or society". Meaning being a successful executive requires a man’s conduct to be “correct in all points”, his actions must follow his words at all times. 

</doc>
<doc id="48796" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48796" title="Exalead">
Exalead

Exalead [eg'zæli:d] is a French search engine involved in the Quaero project, introducing new search techniques.
Exalead provides thumbnails previews of the target pages along with results, and allows usual advanced refining on the results page (language, geographic location, file type, categories) but also innovative refining such as rich content (audio, video, RSS) and related terms, allowing users to browse the web by serendipity.
The company is a société anonyme based in Paris and founded in 2000 by Francois Bourdoncle. Its name comes from the association between
Exalead tries to integrate research functions in one piece of software, combining Internet, desktop and enterprise functionality.
Exalead employs approximately 60 people in 3 countries (Paris in France, Milano in Italy and New York and San Francisco in the United States of America).
Exalead attempts to add value to search results by displaying statistics and information about the results along the left-hand side of the page. This includes categorical and geographical information. Exalead's features include:
Exalead allows search with regular expressions, which can be used to solve crosswords and used in IR algorithms.
On 2 March 2006, exalead.com indexed more than 4 billion pages. The interface is available in four languages (English, French, German and Chinese).
On 2 August 2006, Exalead launched the beta of its new interface, which is the default interface since the middle of October. The Chinese language has been removed again, Spanish and Italian were added instead - more languages will come soon.
The index size is 8 billion pages (8,079,622,557 pages at 10 October 2006, 15:54 GMT).

</doc>
<doc id="48798" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48798" title="Amateur radio">
Amateur radio

Amateur radio is a hobby for people who like to talk using radio transmitters. Many people enjoy using amateur radio to talk to other amateur radio hobbyists in other countries. Amateur radio hobbyists also use their radio transmitters to get help in emergencies. Amateur radio is often called "Ham Radio". Many people use their amateur radios for fun. People who use Amateur radio are often called "amateur radio operators", "hams" or "amateurs".
During a disaster or emergency, amateur radio can be used to get help. When telephones do not work, it may be the only way to communicate. Some radio hobbyists volunteer to listen to emergency band frequencies in case there are distress calls. If the volunteers hear a distress call, they notify the appropriate authorities (for example the police or the Coast Guard).
People must have a license to use Amateur radio. In most countries users must pass a test to get a license. In some countries there is more than one license grade. In some countries, people can use Amateur radio if they have a license from their home country.
There are many clubs for Amateur radio in many countries. These clubs do many things as a group and help people get their Amateur radio license.
Amateur radio operators talk to each other in many ways. Some people talk with their voice, others use computers, television, or Morse code. They use many ways to get their signals to others. Most use shortwave radio signals that bounce off the sky. Some bounce off the moon or a satellite. Amateur radio operators have many ways to talk using the radio. Amateur radio satellites are called OSCAR's - Orbital Satellites Carrying Amateur Radio. Hams can also talk to astronauts and cosmonauts aboard the International Space Station (ISS).
There are many ways to have fun with amateur radio. There are many games and contests. Amateur radio operators try to talk with as many others as possible. They then mail each other postcards called "QSL cards" to confirm the contact. Contesters may try to see how far they can talk, or to how many different people they can talk.
Some hide a transmitter which sends out a signal and others try to find it using receivers. This is called "Radio direction finding", "fox hunting" or "Radio sport". Sometimes the event is done with cars, or as a foot race.
Amateur radio is practised by over 15,000 licensed users in India. The first amateur radio operator was licensed in 1921. By the mid 1930s, there were around 20 amateur radio operators in India. Amateur radio operators have played an important part in the Indian independence movement with the setting up of pro-independence radio stations in the 1940s.

</doc>
<doc id="48799" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48799" title="Humanities">
Humanities

The humanities include languages, literature, music, philosophy, politics, history, media, the classics, religion, and the visual and performing arts. Additional subjects sometimes included in the humanities are anthropology, area studies, communications and cultural studies, although these are often regarded as social sciences. It was popular in the Renaissance ages.
The arts are usually considered as part of the humanities. These include visual arts such as painting and sculpture, as well as performing arts such as theatre and dance, and literature. Other humanities such as language are sometimes considered to be part of the arts, for example as the "language arts".
The humanities study the human condition and mostly use methods that are analytic, critical, or speculative and not as empirical as natural and social sciences.

</doc>
<doc id="48801" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48801" title="John Hawkins">
John Hawkins

Sir John Hawkins (also spelled as John Hawkyns) (Plymouth 1532–12 November 1595) was an English shipbuilder, merchant, navigator, and slave trader.

</doc>
<doc id="48803" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48803" title="Coconut palm">
Coconut palm

The coconut palm is a palm tree in the family Arecaceae (palm family). It is a large palm, growing to 30 m tall. It has leaves that are 4–6 m long. The term "coconut" refers to the fruit of the coconut palm. The coconut tree is a monocot.
There are many coconut palms on the coasts of India and Bangladesh. People of this area use coconut milk in cooking. Women use coconut oil as oil for their hair. The coconut's shell is relatively hard, but can be broken. Because its shell is hard, it can be used as an ingredient to make craftworks. 
Coconut milk is also used in many drinks. Coconut oil is often in food and soaps. People in Sri Lanka use coconut flowers for wedding celebrations. In the Maldives it is the National tree.
A coconut is a large nut. Coconuts grow in tropical countries. The flesh of a coconut is white and can be eaten raw or used in cooking. It is used in many of the foods we eat for flavour. It is native to tropical areas. 
Coconuts floats on water and can float to another island and germinate there. It has often been noted that coconuts can travel 110 days, or 3000 miles, by sea and still be able to germinate.

</doc>
<doc id="48815" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48815" title="Shawarma">
Shawarma

Shawarma (; in ) is a meat sandwich eaten by people in the Middle East. It is served in round Arabic bread with meat and vegetables, with some spice or sauce of choice, in it. Normally, the meat can either be lamb, beef, turkey, or chicken. Shawarma can also be spelled chawarma, shwarma, shawerma, or shoarmais.
It was first introduced by people from Turkey. They call it "çevirme", which means "turning", because the meat can be turned around in the oven.

</doc>
<doc id="48817" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48817" title="Merchant">
Merchant

Merchants deal with trade. That means they deal goods that they do not produce themselves, in order to get profit.
Merchants can be two types:
In the US, "merchant" is any person while engaged in a business or profession or a seller who deals regularly in the type of goods sold. Under the common law in the United States, merchants are held to a higher standard in the selling of products than those who are not engaged in the sale of goods as a profession. For example, when a merchant sells something, he or she is expected to give a warranty, guaranteeing that the product is fit to be sold, even if there is nothing in writing to this effect. 

</doc>
<doc id="48820" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48820" title="Warranty">
Warranty

In commercial and consumer transactions, a warranty is an obligation that an article or service that is sold has the quality the buyer can reasonably expect from the seller.
That often means that there must be a remedy. That means repair or replacement if the article or service is not as good as the warranty says. It is a breach of the warranty when the promise is broken, i.e., a product is defective or not as good as should be expected by a reasonable buyer.
In business and legal transactions, a warranty is an assurance by one party to the other party that certain facts or conditions are true or will happen. The other party is allowed to rely on that assurance and seek some type of remedy if it is not true or followed.
A warranty may be express or implied.
An express warranty is typically a guarantee from the seller of a product that specifies the extent to which the quality or performance of the product is assured and states the conditions under which the product can be returned, replaced, or changed.
An implied warranty is one that arises from the nature of the transaction, and the understanding by the buyer.
To be "merchantable", the goods must reasonably conform to an ordinary buyer's expectations, i.e., they are what they say they are. For example, a fruit that looks and smells good but has hidden defects would violate the implied warranty of merchantability if its quality does not meet the standards for such fruit "as passes ordinarily in the trade". 
A warranty is violated when the promise is broken; when goods are not as should be expected, at the time the sale occurs, whether or not the defect is apparent. Most warranties exclude parts that normally wear out, and supplies that must be periodically replaced as they are normally used up (e.g., tires and lubrication on a vehicle). 
Many people do not realize that extended warranties are not always provided through the manufacturer, but in some circumstances it may work to the consumer's benefit. For instance, when an auto warranty is provided through a dealership from the manufacturer, repairs on the vehicle are reimbursed at a lower negotiated rate.
In the United States, the rights and remedies of buyers and sellers of goods are governed by the Article 2 of the Uniform Commercial Code (UCC) as it has been adopted with variations from state to state. 
A car warranty is at least one year. Three years is more common. Five years is an extended warranty.
A home warranty protects against the high costs of home and appliance repair by offering insurance coverage for appliances and equipment in the house.

</doc>
<doc id="48823" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48823" title="Giuseppe Verdi">
Giuseppe Verdi

Giuseppe Verdi (b. Roncole near Busseto, 9 or 10 October 1813; died Milan 27 January 1901) was an Italian composer of operas. Verdi and Richard Wagner were the greatest composers of opera in the 19th century although they were completely different from one another. When Verdi was a young man the most famous opera composers in Italy were Gaetano Donizetti and Vincenzo Bellini who wrote in the bel canto tradition. This meant that their operas had beautiful tunes which were written for singers to show off their voices, even if what they sang did not suit the story. During his long life Verdi changed opera so that it did not have to obey old-fashioned rules. He made the drama the most important thing and the music is there to help the drama; that said, Verdi is most remembered for the power of his music.
The small village where Verdi was born lies in the valley of the river Po in the north of Italy. It was a poor district. His father was an innkeeper who had a small farm. The young boy must have been very talented. He was given a spinet which he kept all his life. At the age of 9 he often played the organ for church services in the village when the organist was away.
A few years later he composed music for the amateur orchestra in Busseto. A man called Antonio Barezzi knew many important people and he helped Verdi a lot. Later Verdi married his daughter. Barezzi sent him to Milan so that he could study, but Verdi had not been taught the piano properly and he did not get a place in the music conservatory. He had some private lessons and learned a lot about opera as well as about literature and politics. In 1839 he composed an opera: "Oberto, conte di San Bonifacio", which was performed in La Scala, the world-famous opera house in Milan. It is not one of his greatest operas, but it helped him to become well-known and he was asked to write three more operas for La Scala. When his next opera was produced it was not a success: the audience did not like it and they hissed and booed. There was also tragedy in his personal life at this time: his two children and his wife all died.
Verdi managed to overcome his unhappiness in 1842 when he produced his opera "Nabucco". This was a great success and made him world-famous. He started to work very hard, composing two operas a year. He not only had to write the music but organize all the people to perform it. It was a huge workload. His opera "Ernani" (1844) was one of the best from this period. In 1847 he had another big success with "Macbeth". This opera, based on Shakespeare’s famous play, is still one of the best-loved of all operas. He was becoming more amazing.
For centuries Italy had been a collection of several countries, each with their own ruler. In the 1850s there was a lot of political unrest in the country. Verdi often wrote music for large choruses in his operas. The words of these choruses were often about fighting for freedom, and it was often thought that the songs were encouraging people to revolt. The song "Va pensiero" from his opera "Nabucco" was about the Hebrew slaves who were captive in Babylon. People chanted it in the streets with the words suitably changed. Verdi became a great national hero. Italy eventually became one country in 1861.
Giuseppina Strepponi was the soprano who sang the part of Abigaille in "Nabucco". Verdi fell in love with her. She had lived with another man and had three children so she felt that she was not good enough for Verdi. They eventually married in 1859. She was a great support to him until her death in 1897 although Verdi was not an easy husband to live with. He moved back to Busseto with her. He continued to travel a lot but did not let his wife come with him, leaving her behind in Busseto where she was not happy because many people there did not like her.
Three more famous operas were written at this time: "Rigoletto" in 1851 and "Il trovatore" ("The Troubadour") and "La traviata", both in 1853. These operas have many tunes which became famous. They are full of exciting drama in which the characters are very skilfully described by the music. The music is not divided so clearly into recitative and aria like it had been for two centuries. Instead, the music is developing all the time, the arias run straight into the following music. He had a brilliant sense of drama, but he often had to fight hard to stop producers making changes to what he had written.
Verdi often had trouble with the censors (the officials who decide whether the opera should be allowed to be performed). His opera "Rigoletto" was based on a story called "Le roi s’amuse" by Victor Hugo. The attempted murder of a king was not thought to be a suitable subject. Verdi had to change the king into a duke in his story and make some other changes before the opera could be performed. The story of his opera "Traviata", based on a novel by Alexandre Dumas fils, was also thought to be immoral. At the first performance the audience laughed because the heroine, who is supposed to be dying of consumption, was very fat. However, the opera soon became enormously popular.
Verdi had become very famous by now, and was asked to compose for the Opéra in Paris. He had to write operas in the French style: operas with five acts and a ballet based on a serious story. None of the operas he wrote at this time for Paris belong to his best works. He was more inspired when writing for the Italian theatres. "Simon Boccanegra" has a very complicated plot, but the characters are described beautifully by the music. "Un ballo in maschera" (The masked ball) was about the murder of King Gustav III of Sweden. Again the censors did not like it and he had to change the story to a setting in Boston which rather spoiled the story. In the 1860s his best works were "La forza del destino" ("The Force of Destiny"), written for St Petersburg, "Don Carlos" written for the Paris Opéra, and "Aida" for the new opera house in Cairo in Egypt. "Aida" is considered one of his most perfect works. The first performance was not without difficulties: Verdi was having a long argument with the conductor Mariani who refused to go to Cairo to conduct it. The argument was made worse by the newspapers who accused Verdi of taking Mariani’s girlfriend. This caused a great scandal.
Verdi retired in the 1870s. He was a rich man who owned a lot of land. He gave a lot of money to charities, particularly to one charity for elderly musicians. Even in retirement he was persuaded by his publishers to write two more operas. He became fascinated by Shakespeare and he wrote "Otello" to a libretto by Arrigo Boito. This was a brilliant libretto and it helped him to write a great masterpiece in which every little detail of the story is beautifully described by the music. His very last opera, "Falstaff" (1893) is based on Shakespeare’s "Merry Wives of Windsor". Verdi continued to write a few religious pieces in his old age. He died of a stroke in Milan in 1901.

</doc>
<doc id="48825" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48825" title="Blue box">
Blue box

A blue box is a device that someone could use to make free telephone calls. It worked by playing back the same sounds that the telephone company employees used to program their equipment.
The most famous person to use a blue box was John Draper, who went by the name Captain Crunch. Draper taught Steve Wozniak how to build them. Wozniak and Steve Jobs sold blue boxes to fellow students at the University of California, Berkeley. One time, Wozniak used a blue box to call the Pope.

</doc>
<doc id="48826" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48826" title="Red box">
Red box

A red box is a device that people can use illegally to make free telephone calls at a pay telephone. It works by playing back the same sounds that the payphone sends to the phone company when coins are put into it.

</doc>
<doc id="48828" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48828" title="Silicon Graphics">
Silicon Graphics

Silicon Graphics, Inc. (SGI) is a company that makes high-end computers. The company was founded by Jim Clark and Abbey Silverstone in 1982 to make graphics display terminals. SGI was famous for making very good computers for 3D animation working on video and pictures. They invented many things that other companies still use today.

</doc>
<doc id="48846" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48846" title="Constituent">
Constituent

Constituent may mean:

</doc>
<doc id="48847" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48847" title="Constituency">
Constituency

A constituent is someone who elects another person as their representative in the government. A constituency is all of the constituents of a representative. Constituents also have the power to remove their representative from the position to which they have appointed him or her. All of the constituents who are registered to vote are called the "electorate".
In the United Kingdom, a parliamentary constituency is sometimes called a "Parliamentary seat" or a "Division". Constituencies for local government elections are called either "Wards" or "electoral divisions".
As of 2005, there are 646 House of Commons constituencies in the UK:
Northern Ireland has 18 constituencies, each of which elect six MLAs to the Northern Ireland Assembly under the Single Transferable Vote system.
The Scottish Parliament has 73 single-member constituencies elected on a first past the post basis, with the remaining 56 seats in the parliament being selected by the Additional Member System (AMS). Since the passage of the Scottish Parliament (Constituencies) Act 2004, the constituencies of the Scottish Parliament are no longer identical to those of the House of Commons.
The National Assembly for Wales has 40 constituencies elected by first past the post which are identical to the Welsh constituencies of the House of Commons. Its remaining 20 seats are selected by AMS.
The London Assembly has 14 constituencies elected by First-past-the-post voting. Its remaining 11 seats are also selected by AMS.
The United States House of Representatives has 435 constituencies each electing one member.

</doc>
<doc id="48848" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48848" title="Cohesion">
Cohesion

Cohesion may mean:

</doc>
<doc id="48849" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48849" title="Local government">
Local government

Local governments are administrative offices that are smaller than a state or province. The term is used to contrast with offices at nation-state level, which are referred to as the central government, national government, or (where appropriate) federal government.
What a local government does changes depending on what country it is in, and even when they are similar what it is called often varies. Common names for local governments include state, province, région, départment, county, prefecture, district, city, township, town, borough, parish, municipality, shire and village. However all these names are often used informally in countries where they do not describe a legal local government.

</doc>
<doc id="48850" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48850" title="List of Parliamentary constituencies in the United Kingdom">
List of Parliamentary constituencies in the United Kingdom

This is a list of the 646 constituencies currently represented in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom Parliament, as at the United Kingdom 2005 general election. Each constituency is represented by a single Member of Parliament (MP).

</doc>
<doc id="48851" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48851" title="Stain">
Stain

A stain is a spot that has another color than the material on which it is found. It can be occur without intention in the case of domestic stains on fabric, cloth, or other material, or it can be intentional. Stains are used intentionally in a variety of fields, including research (biochemical staining), technology (metal staining), and art (wood staining, stained glass.)
Different types of material can be stained by different substances, and stain resistance is an important characteristic in modern textile engineering. Various laundry techniques exist to attempt to remove or minimize existing stains, and stain removers are an important type of chemical in laundry detergents. Some stand-alone stain removers also exist.

</doc>
<doc id="48852" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48852" title="Stainless steel">
Stainless steel

Stainless steel, also known as inox steel, is a steel alloy with a minimum of 10.5 or 11% chromium content by mass. 
Stainless steel does not stain, corrode, or rust as easily as ordinary steel, but it is not stain-proof.
The term 'corrosion resistant steel' is used when the alloy has less than the 12% minimum of chromium, for example in the aviation industry. There are different grades and surface finishes of stainless steel, depending on where it will be used. Stainless steels have a higher resistance to oxidation (rust) and corrosion in many natural and man-made environments; however, it is important to select the correct type of stainless steel for the use. There are over 150 grades of stainless steel, of which fifteen are the most used. 
The idea behind stainless steel was discovered in the first part of the 19th century, but it took about 80 years to develop a reliable industrial method. French, British and American inventors worked on this until a genuine stainless steel was produced. The invention of modern stainless steel can be dated to 1913, and it was done by Harry Brearley in Sheffield, Yorkshire. A common use for stainless steel is cutlery (knives, forks, and spoons). Stainless steel cutlery was a big industry in the mid-20th century Sheffield.

</doc>
<doc id="48854" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48854" title="Ferrous">
Ferrous

Ferrous is an adjective coming from the Latin "ferrum" (iron). One uses this word to indicate the presence of iron, mostly in metallurgy or related industries.
There are also non-ferrous metals, which are metals that have no iron in them at all.
Ferrous metals, as opposed to non-ferrous metals, can rust.
Ferrous can also refer to iron in its +2 oxidation state.
""Ferrous"" is also the name of a song by Peter Gabriel.

</doc>
<doc id="48855" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48855" title="Carbon steel">
Carbon steel

Carbon steel, or plain-carbon steel, is a metal alloy. It is a combination of two elements, iron and carbon. Other elements are present in quantities too small to affect its properties. The only other elements allowed in plain-carbon steel are: manganese (1.65% max), silicon (0.60% max), and copper (0.60% max). Steel with a low carbon content has the same properties as iron, soft but easily formed. As carbon content rises the metal becomes harder and stronger but less ductile and more difficult to weld. Higher carbon content lowers steel's melting point and its temperature resistance in general.
Typical compositions of carbon are:
Steel can be heat-treated which allows parts to be fabricated in an easily formable soft state. If enough carbon is present, the alloy can be hardened to increase strength, wear, and impact resistance. Steels are often wrought by cold-working methods, which is the shaping of metal through deformation at a low equilibrium or metastable temperature.
Mild steel is the most common form of steel as its price is relatively low while it provides material properties that are acceptable for many applications. Mild steel has a low carbon content (up to 0.3%) and is therefore neither extremely brittle nor ductile. It becomes malleable when heated, and so can be forged. It is also often used where large amounts of steel need to be formed, for example as structural steel. Density of this metal is 7861.093 kg/m³ (0.284 lb/in³) and the tensile strength is a maximum of 500 MPa (72500 psi)
Carbon steels which can successfully undergo heat-treatment have a carbon content in the range of 0.30% to 1.70% by weight. Trace impurities of various other elements can have a significant effect on the quality of the resulting steel. Trace amounts of sulfur make the steel "red-short", which a fault: the steel is brittle and crumbly. Low alloy carbon steel, such as A36 grade, contains about 0.05% sulfur and melts around 1426–1538 °C (2600–2800 °F). Manganese is often added to improve the hardenability of low carbon steels. These additions turn the material into a low alloy steel by some definitions, but AISI's definition of carbon steel allows up to 1.65% manganese by weight.
Hardened steel usually refers to quenched or quenched and tempered steel.
Silver Steel or high-carbon bright steel, gets its name from its appearance, due to the high carbon content. It is a very-high carbon steel, or can be thought of as some of the best high-carbon steel. It is defined under the steel specification standards BS-1407. It is a 1% carbon tool steel which can be ground to close tolerances. Usually the range of carbon is minimum 1.10% but as high as 1.20%. It also contains trace elements of 0.35% Mn (range 0.30%-0.40%), 0.40% Cr (range 0.4%-0.5%), 0.30% Si (range 0.1%-0.3%), and also sometimes sulfur (max 0.035%) and phosphorus (max 0.035%). Silver steel is sometimes used for making straight razors, due to its ability to produce and hold a micro-fine edge.
The purpose of heat treating plain-carbon steel is to change the mechanical properties of steel, usually ductility, hardness, yield strength, and impact resistance.

</doc>
<doc id="48856" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48856" title="Yellowcake">
Yellowcake

Yellowcake is a type of uranium powder. Yellowcake is made from rocks and minerals with uranium inside, like "uraninite", after they are changed in a factory. Yellowcake can be made into fuel for nuclear reactors, or it can be used in making atomic bombs.

</doc>
<doc id="48857" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48857" title="Ductility">
Ductility

Ductility is when a solid material stretches under tensile stress. If ductile, a material may be stretched into a wire. Malleability, a similar property, is a material's ability to deform under pressure (compressive stress). If malleable, a material may be flattened by hammering or rolling. 
Both of these properties are aspects of plasticity. Plasticity is how far a solid material can be plastically deformed without fracture. Also, these material properties are dependent on temperature and pressure. This was investigated by Percy Williams Bridgman as part of his Nobel Prize–winning work on high pressures.
Ductility and malleability do not always go together. Gold has high ductility and malleability, but lead has low ductility and high malleability. The word "ductility" is sometimes used to embrace both types of plasticity.
Gold, copper, aluminium, and steel have high ductility. 

</doc>
<doc id="48858" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48858" title="MI">
MI

MI could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="48859" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48859" title="Defibrillation">
Defibrillation

Defibrillation is the act of defibrillating the heart to treat the heart when it is not pushing blood because the heart muscle is not working in any pattern. Electricity causes a muscle to contract, this is how nerves cause muscles to work. The heart is a large muscle, and certain parts need to contract before other parts in order to push blood through the heart and out to the rest of body correctly. Sometimes the heart muscle doesn't contract in the correct way or at the correct speed, this is called an "arrhythmia" (out of rhythm). Fibrillation is a type of arrhythmia when the whole heart is quivering, not organized to make heart beats of any kind. CPR (Cardiopulmonary resuscitation) can get blood to the body when the heart is fibrillating, but the heart still needs to be restarted. Sometimes CPR will do that as well, but often a defibrillator is needed. Defibrillation is done with a defibrillator.
Defibrillation works by carefully sending a strong electric current to the heart, which "resets" the heart, and hopefully returns a normal, coordinated heart rhythm. It needs to depolarise (take away the existing electric charge) from a large part of the heart muscle, which stops the arrhythmia and allows the normal heartbeat to return. Defibrillators can work outside the body with the use of an external defibrillator or an automated external defibrillator, or inside the body with an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator.
The first use of the technique on a human was in 1947 by Claude Beck, a professor of surgery at Case Western Reserve University. The patient was a 14 year old boy named Mickey.
Defibrillation is now used during open heart surgery, when the heart is stopped on purpose. In1980 the first implanted defibrillator was put into a patient. Implanted defibrillators are put into the chests of people at risk of going into fibrillation.
Not all arrhythmias need defibrillation. Some arrhythmias still push blood to the body, not well, but still enough to keep a person alive. Other types, like ventricular fibrillation or pulseless ventricular tachycardia, will cause a person to die within minutes unless treated. These are what need to be treated by defibrillation.
Fibrillation is when the heart muscle is contracting, but not in any organized way, and blood is not pumped. Pulseless tachycardia is when the heart is beating too fast to collect any blood to push.
Asystole is when the heart is not working at all (flat-line). Defibrillation does not work on asystole, but CPR might help.
Defibrillation is most successful when done right when the problem starts. Success in the first minute is about 90% and drops by 10% every minute after that. This time can be made longer by giving the person CPR, but having a defibrillator close by is very important.

</doc>
<doc id="48863" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48863" title="Defibrillator">
Defibrillator

A defibrillator is a machine that can help when ventricular fibrillation happens in the heart of a human.A defibrillator can also be named as a life saving device.
Fibrillation happens when many different cells in the heart begin to act as pacemaker cells. This means that many thousands of cells tell the heart to beat, all at different times and with no rhythm. This confusion causes the heart to become unable to move blood around the body. This causes death.
A defibrillator sends a high energy pulse from the top-right of the heart to the bottom-middle of the heart. This causes the whole heart to stop all activity. The heart's normal pacemaker then can try and restart normal beating. Defibrillation does not always work.
Implantable cardioverter-defibrillators (ICD) are defibrillators that are designed to help patients from inside their body. They are put inside people that are at high-risk of going into cardiac arrest and monitor a person's heart rate, rhythm, and waveform. By comparing the activity in the different chambers of the heart, an icd can detect cardiac arrhythmias and treat them quickly.
External defibrillators are often used in hospitals and ambulances. They are now also being used outside of medical environments more as automated external defibrillators (see below) become safer and cheaper. There are many different types of external defibrillators, and progress in cardiac research has led to big improvements in the underlying technology.
Until recently, external defibrillators relied on monophasic ("one phase") shock waves. Electrical pulses are quickly sent from one electrode to the other in one direction.
Biphasic ("two phases") defibrillation, however, changes the direction of the pulses. It completes one cycle in approximately 10 milliseconds. It significantly lowered the energy level necessary for successful defibrillation. This, in turn, has decreased the risk of burns and other damage. However, there is not much evidence to suggest that biphasic defibrillation is better than monophasic defibrillators. The small capacitor ("battery") size required for the defibrillator can result in large cost and size savings.
An automated external defibrillator (AED) is a self-contained defibrillator device designed to be movable, and easy and simple to use. They are often shaped like briefcases so that they can be carried by a handle. An AED contains a battery, a control computer, and electrodes. When the electrodes are stuck onto the patient, the control computer will assess the patient, checking the rhythm of their heart. It will then charge itself to an appropriate power level and tell users that the person needs to be shocked. If the patient does not need to be defibrillated, the automated external defibrillator will not allow a shock to be administered. A button must still be pushed manually to trigger the shock, as the operator beforehand must be certain that nobody is touching the patient. Often, automated external defibrillators will have speakers which give instructions when they are opened.
Current automated external defibrillator devices are designed for emergency medical technicians, home users, police and security officers and other people with minimal medical knowledge. These devices are commonly found in large gathering places, such as airports, casinos, sports stadiums, and college campuses.
The electrode is the part of the defibrillator that gives off the shock.
The most well-known type of electrode is the traditional metal paddle with an insulated handle. This type must be held in place on the patient's skin while shocks are delivered. Before the paddles are used, gel must be applied to the patient's skin so that there is a good connection and to minimise electrical resistance.
Another type of resuscitation electrode is designed as an adhesive pad which can be stuck onto the skin of a patient. These electrodes are left connected to a defibrillator. If defibrillation is required, the machine is charged, and the shock is delivered, without any need to apply any gel or to retrieve and place any paddles.
Both solid- and wet-gel adhesive electrodes are available. Solid-gel electrodes are more convenient, because there is no need to clean the patient's skin after removing the electrodes. However, the use of solid-gel electrodes presents a higher risk of burns during defibrillation, since wet-gel electrodes more evenly conduct electricity into the body.
Defibrillators are often depicted in movies, television, video games and other fictional media. This is because it can quickly produce dramatic improvements in patient health. Their function, however, is often exaggerated.
Medical providers are often shown defibrillating patients with a "flat-line" ECG rhythm (also known as asystole); this is not done in real life as the heart is not restarted by the defibrillator itself.

</doc>
<doc id="48864" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48864" title="Curse">
Curse

A curse is a word which threatens the other person to have bad luck. Nobody knows if it really works or become true. Some people believe in them even so, that they become true by magic. For example, for fairy tales, the princes are cursed to become a beast or a frog (i.e. frog prince) by witches because of their bad behaviours. But in the end a princess saves them. 
There was also something called a "curse tablet" which Romans used to curse people they did not like. They would often let them drift to the river so that the curse will be carried to where that person who has the curse. But many curses are made when people are jealous and they want that person who has the curse to not do well. 
The opposite of a curse is a blessing.

</doc>
<doc id="48865" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48865" title="Ventricular fibrillation">
Ventricular fibrillation

Ventricular fibrillation (often shortened to VF or V-Fib) is a type of "arrhythmia" of the heart. "Arrhythmia" means the heart is not beating normally. 
When a person is in ventricular fibrillation, the heart does not beat in any kind of pattern. Instead, it quivers and twitches very quickly. 
This problem is called "ventricular" fibrillation because it affects the ventricles of the heart. The ventricles are the biggest parts of the heart. Their job is to pump blood (which carries oxygen) to the lungs and the rest of the body. When a person is in ventricular fibrillation, the ventricles cannot do this job. This means that the lungs, brain, and other organs will not get enough blood or oxygen. 
Ventricular fibrillation is a medical emergency. Without enough blood and oxygen, no part of the body can survive. If ventricular fibrillation continues for long enough, the blood will stop circulating around the body. The person's breathing and heart will stop. The person will die unless they get treatment quickly.
Ventricular fibrillation can be stopped by shocking the person with electricity from a defibrillator. If a defibrillator is not available, CPR (cardiopulmonary resuscitation) should be done to keep the blood flowing until an ambulance comes or a defibrillator is available. 
Doctors or paramedics can also give special medicines called anti-arrhythmic medicines, which can make the heart start beating normally again. Some common anti-arrhythmic medicines are amiodarone and lidocaine. 
If a person with ventricular fibrillation is treated right away, treatment is 90% successful (it works in 9 out of 10 people). But treatment gets 10% less successful after every minute (so if treatment starts after one minute, it will work in only 8 out of 10 people. After 5 minutes, it will work in only 4 out of 10 people.) So getting treatment as soon as possible is very important. If a person cannot be treated with medicine or a defibrillator right away, CPR will help keep blood and oxygen flowing through the person's body until treatment arrives.
In patients who are very likely to keep having ventricular fibrillation, a special defibrillator can be put into their chest by a surgeon. (This special defibrillator is called an "implantable cardioverter-defibrillator.") Any time the person goes into ventricular fibrillation, the defibrillator will give the person's heart an electric shock, to bring the heart back into a normal rhythm.

</doc>
<doc id="48866" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48866" title="Seal">
Seal

Seal or SEAL may refer to articles connected to a variety of meanings:
Some of these names referred originally to the marine mammal.

</doc>
<doc id="48867" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48867" title="Tachycardia">
Tachycardia

Tachycardia is the fast beating of the heart. In adults, it refers to heart rates higher than 100 beats per minute. Tachycardia may be a normal physiological response to stress, but depending on the cause and how healthy the patient is, tachycardia could be harmful and need medical treatment. In some cases, tachycardia can cause death.
Tachycardia can be harmful in two ways. First, when the heart beats too rapidly, it may perform inefficiently. Second, the faster the heart beats, the more oxygen and nutrients the heart requires. This can be especially problematic for patients suffering from ischaemic heart disease.

</doc>
<doc id="48872" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48872" title="Material fracture">
Material fracture

A fracture is the separation of a body into more than one piece under the action of stress.
The word "fracture" is often applied to bones of living creatures or to crystals or crystalline materials, such as gemstones or metal. Sometimes, fractures can happen without the object actually separating into two or more pieces.

</doc>
<doc id="48881" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48881" title="Shear stress">
Shear stress

Shear stress is a stress state where the stress is parallel to the surface of the material, as opposed to normal stress when the stress is vertical to the surface. 
Shear stress is relevant to themotion of fluids upon surfaces, which result in the generation of shear stress.
Also constructions in soil can fail due to shear; e.g., the weight of an earth-filled dam may cause the subsoil to collapse, like a small landslide.

</doc>
<doc id="48883" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48883" title="Tension">
Tension

Tension may mean:

</doc>
<doc id="48884" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48884" title="Tension (mechanics)">
Tension (mechanics)

Tension is a reaction force applied by a stretched string (rope or a similar object) on the objects which stretch it. The direction of the force of tension is parallel to the string, towards the string.
Tension exists also inside the string itself: if the string is made up of two parts, tension is the force which the two parts of the string apply on each other. The amount of tension in the string determines whether it will break, as well as its vibrational properties, which are used in musical instruments.

</doc>
<doc id="48885" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48885" title="Shear">
Shear

Shear as a noun could mean:
Shear as a verb or shearing could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="48888" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48888" title="Flow">
Flow

Flow may mean:

</doc>
<doc id="48890" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48890" title="I.O.U.">
I.O.U.

I.O.U. means "I Owe You" or "I Owe Unto". It is a note between two people that is used to say that one person owes something to the other. It is usually used for money. I.O.U.'s are most often only used between people that know each other very well, for example, friends.

</doc>
<doc id="48891" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48891" title="Deformation">
Deformation

In engineering mechanics, deformation is a change in shape that is result of a force that influences the object. 
It can be a result of tensile (pulling) forces, compressive (pushing) forces, shear, bending or torsion (twisting).
Depending on the type of material, size and shape of the object, and the forces used, various types of deformation may result.
This type of deformation is reversible. Once the forces are no longer applied, the object returns to its original shape. As the name implies, elastic (rubber) has a rather large elastic deformation range. Soon, the thermoplastics and metals have moderate elastic deformation ranges while ceramics, crystals, and hard thermosetting polymers undergo almost no elastic deformation. Malleable materials do not undergo elastic deformation.
A phenomenon only discovered in modern times is metal fatigue, which occurs primarily in ductile metals. It was originally thought that a material deformed only within the elastic range returned completely to its original state once the forces were removed. However, faults are introduced at the molecular level with each deformation. After many deformations, cracks will begin to appear, followed soon after by a fracture, with no apparent plastic deformation in between. Depending on the material, shape, and how close to the elastic limit it is deformed, failure may require thousands, millions, billions, or trillions of deformations. 
Metal fatigue has been a major cause of aircraft failure, especially before the process was well understood.
This type of deformation is not reversible. But an object in the plastic deformation range will first have undergone elastic deformation, which is reversible, so the object will return part way to its original shape. Soft thermoplastics have a rather large plastic deformation range as do ductile metals such as copper, silver, and gold. Steel does, too, but not iron. Hard thermosetting plastics, rubber, crystals, and ceramics have minimal plastic deformation ranges. Perhaps the material with the largest plastic deformation range is wet chewing gum, which can be stretched dozens of times its original length.
This type of deformation is also not reversible. A break occurs after the material has reached the end of the elastic, and then plastic, deformation ranges. At this point forces accumulate until they are sufficient to cause a fracture. All materials will eventually fracture, if sufficient forces are applied.
A popular misconception is that all materials that bend are "weak" and all those which do not are "strong". In reality, many materials which undergo large elastic and plastic deformations, such as steel, are able to absorb stresses which would cause brittle materials, such as glass, with minimal elastic and plastic deformation ranges, to break. There is even a story to describe this observation (paraphrased below):

</doc>
<doc id="48893" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48893" title="Ceramic">
Ceramic

Ceramic is the name for materials that are formed by the use of heat. The word "ceramic" comes from the Greek word (""). The term covers inorganic non-metallic materials which are formed by the action of heat. 
Up to the 1950s or so, the most important were the traditional clays, made into pottery, bricks, tiles and the like, also cements and glass. Clay-based ceramics are described in the article on pottery. A composite material of ceramic and metal is known as cermet. 
The word "ceramic" can be an adjective, and can also be used as a noun to refer to a ceramic material, or a product of ceramic manufacture. "Ceramics" may also be used as a singular noun referring to the art of making things out of ceramic materials. The technology of manufacturing and usage of ceramic materials is part of the field of ceramic engineering.
Many ceramic materials are hard, porous, and brittle. The study and development of ceramics includes methods to deal with these characteristics, to accentuate the strengths of the materials and investigate novel applications.
For convenience ceramic products are usually divided into four sectors, and these are shown below with some examples:
Technical ceramics can also be classified into three distinct material categories: 
Each one of these classes can develop unique material properties.
Ceramic materials are usually ionic or covalent bonded materials, and can be crystalline or amorphous. A material held together by either type of bond will tend to fracture before any plastic deformation takes place, which results in poor toughness in these materials. Additionally, because these materials tend to be porous, the pores and other microscopic imperfections act as stress concentrators, decreasing the toughness further, and reducing the tensile strength. These combine to give catastrophic failures, as opposed to the normally much more gentle failure modes of metals. 
These materials do show plastic deformation. However, due to the rigid structure of the crystalline materials, there are very few available slip systems for dislocations to move, and so they deform very slowly. With the non-crystalline (glassy) materials, viscous flow is the dominant source of plastic deformation, and is also very slow. It is therefore neglected in many applications of ceramic materials.
There are a number of ceramics that are semiconductors. Most of these are transition metal oxides that are II-VI semiconductors, such as zinc oxide.
While there is talk of making blue LEDs from zinc oxide, ceramicists are most interested in the electrical properties that show grain boundary effects.
One of the most widely used of these is the varistor. 
Semiconducting ceramics are also employed as gas sensors. When various gases are passed over a polycrystalline ceramic, its electrical resistance changes. With tuning to the possible gas mixtures, very inexpensive devices can be produced.
Under some conditions, such as extremely low temperature, some ceramics exhibit superconductivity. The exact reason for this is not known, but there are two major families of superconducting ceramics .
Piezoelectricity, a link between electrical and mechanical response, is exhibited by a large number of ceramic materials, including the quartz used to measure time in watches and other electronics. Such devices convert electricity to mechanical motions and back, making a stable oscillator. 
The piezoelectric effect is generally stronger in materials that also exhibit pyroelectricity, and all pyroelectric materials are also piezoelectric. These materials can be used to inter convert between thermal, mechanical, and/or electrical energy; for instance, after synthesis in a furnace, a pyroelectric crystal allowed to cool under no applied stress generally builds up a static charge of thousands of volts. Such materials are used in motion sensors, where the tiny rise in temperature from a warm body entering the room is enough to produce a measurable voltage in the crystal.
In turn, pyroelectricity is seen most strongly in materials which also display the ferroelectric effect, in which a stable electric dipole can be oriented or reversed by applying an electrostatic field. Pyroelectricity is also a necessary consequence of ferroelectricity. This can be used to store information in ferroelectric capacitors, elements of ferroelectric RAM.
The most common such materials are lead zirconate titanate and barium titanate. Aside from the uses mentioned above, their strong piezoelectric response is exploited in the design of high-frequency loudspeakers, transducers for sonar, and actuators for atomic force and scanning tunneling microscopes.
Increases in temperature can cause grain boundaries to suddenly become insulating in some semiconducting ceramic materials, mostly mixtures of heavy metal titanates. The critical transition temperature can be adjusted over a wide range by variations in chemistry. In such materials, current will pass through the material until joule heating brings it to the transition temperature, at which point the circuit will be broken and current flow will cease. Such ceramics are used as self-controlled heating elements in, for example, the rear-window defrost circuits of automobiles.
At the transition temperature, the material's dielectric response becomes theoretically infinite. While a lack of temperature control would rule out any practical use of the material near its critical temperature, the dielectric effect remains exceptionally strong even at much higher temperatures. Titanates with critical temperatures far below room temperature have become synonymous with "ceramic" in the context of ceramic capacitors for just this reason.
Non-crystalline ceramics:
Non-crystalline ceramics, being glasses, tend to be formed from melts. The glass is shaped when either fully molten, by casting, or when in a state of toffee-like viscosity, by methods such as blowing to a mold. If later heat-treatments cause this class to become partly crystalline, the resulting material is known as a glass-ceramic.
Crystalline ceramics:
Crystalline ceramic materials are not amenable to a great range of processing. Methods for dealing with them tend to fall into one of two categories – either make the ceramic in the desired shape, by reaction in situ, or by "forming" powders into the desired shape, and then sintering to form a solid body. Ceramic forming techniques include shaping by hand (sometimes including a rotation process called "throwing"), slip casting, tape casting (used for making very thin ceramic capacitors, etc.), injection molding, dry pressing, and other variations. (See also Ceramic forming techniques. Details of these processes are described in the two books listed below.) A few methods use a hybrid between the two approaches.
The most common use of this method is in the production of cement and concrete. Here, the dehydrated powders are mixed with water. This starts hydration reactions, which result in long, interlocking crystals forming around the aggregates. Over time, these result in a solid ceramic.
The biggest problem with this method is that most reactions are so fast that good mixing is not possible, which tends to prevent large-scale construction. However, small-scale systems can be made by deposition techniques, where the various materials are introduced above a substrate, and react and form the ceramic on the substrate. This borrows techniques from the semiconductor industry, such as chemical vapour deposition, and is very useful for coatings.
These tend to produce very dense ceramics, but do so slowly.
The principles of sintering-based methods is simple. Once a roughly held together object (called a "green body") is made, it is baked in a kiln, where diffusion processes cause the green body to shrink. The pores in the object close up, resulting in a denser, stronger product. The firing is done at a temperature below the melting point of the ceramic. There is virtually always some porosity left, but the real advantage of this method is that the green body can be produced in any way imaginable, and still be sintered. This makes it a very versatile route. 
There are thousands of possible refinements of this process. Some of the most common involve pressing the green body to give the densification a head start and reduce the sintering time needed. Sometimes organic binders such as polyvinyl alcohol are added to hold the green body together; these burn out during the firing (at 200–350 °C). Sometimes organic lubricants are added during pressing to increase densification. It is not uncommon to combine these, and add binders and lubricants to a powder, then press. (The formulation of these organic chemical additives is an art in itself. This is particularly important in the manufacture of high performance ceramics such as those used by the billions for electronics, in capacitors, inductors, sensors, etc. The specialized formulations most commonly used in electronics are detailed in the book "Tape Casting," by R.E. Mistler, et al., Amer. Ceramic Soc. [Westerville, Ohio], 2000.) A comprehensive book on the subject, for mechanical as well as electronics applications, is "Organic Additives and Ceramic Processing," by D. J. Shanefield, Kluwer Publishers [Boston], 1996.
A slurry can be used in place of a powder, and then cast into a desired shape, dried and then sintered. Indeed, traditional pottery is done with this type of method, using a plastic mixture worked with the hands.
If a mixture of different materials is used together in a ceramic, the sintering temperature is sometimes above the melting point of one minor component – a "liquid phase" sintering. This results in shorter sintering times compared to solid state sintering.

</doc>
<doc id="48894" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48894" title="Inorganic compound">
Inorganic compound

An inorganic compound is a chemical compound which is "not" an organic compound. That means it is not a carbon-based compound.
The division between the two types of compound is not absolute. Some carbon-containing compounds are traditionally considered inorganic. Many chemicals in nature are not compounds, but are ions. Sodium, chloride, and phosphate ions are essential for life, as are some inorganic molecules such as nitrogen, carbon dioxide, water and oxygen. Aside from these simple ions and molecules, virtually all compounds covered by biochemistry contain carbon and can be considered organic or organometallic.
Major types of inorganic compounds include:

</doc>
<doc id="48896" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48896" title="Applied mechanics">
Applied mechanics

Applied mechanics, also known as theoretical and applied mechanics, is a branch of the physical sciences and the practical application of mechanics. Applied mechanics examines the "response of bodies (solids and fluids) to external forces". Some examples of "mechanical systems" include the flow of a liquid under pressure, the fracture of a solid from an applied force, or the vibration of an ear in response to sound. A practitioner of the discipline is known as a mechanician. 
Applied mechanics, as its name suggests, bridges the gap between physical theory and its application to technology. 

</doc>
<doc id="48899" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48899" title="Mechanics">
Mechanics

Mechanics is a branch of physics which looks at objects that are moved by forces (including other bodies, or forces of nature).
The discipline has its roots in ancient Greece where Aristotle studied the way bodies behaved when they were thrown through the air (e.g. a stone). However it was Galileo, Kepler and especially Newton who laid the foundations for much of the so-called "Newtonian mechanics" we know today.
A person working in the discipline is known as a mechanician.
Mechanics is the original discipline of physics, dealing with the macroscopic world that humans perceive. It is therefore a huge body of knowledge about the natural world. Mechanics encompasses the movement of all matter in the universe under the four forces: gravity, the strong and weak interactions, and the electromagnetic interaction.
Mechanics also constitutes a central part of technology.
Newton proposed three laws of newton. 
The following are categorized as being part of Quantum mechanics:
Blogs:

</doc>
<doc id="48900" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48900" title="Newton">
Newton

Newton may refer to many things:
Newton was the name of some famous people:
Newton is also the name of several places:

</doc>
<doc id="48902" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48902" title="Paleobiology">
Paleobiology

Paleobiology is a branch of science which studies animals, plants and microbes buried in rock. These stoney items are called fossils. Paleobiology combines biology with the study of these fossils. There are several branches of paleobiology:
Baron Franz Nopcsa von Felső-Szilvás started paleobiology in the late 19th century while working at the University of Vienna. He tried to learn how the animals lived, rather than merely put together their bones, as many geologists were doing at the time.

</doc>
<doc id="48908" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48908" title="Central venous catheter">
Central venous catheter

A central venous catheter (CVC) or "central line" is a catheter put in a large vein in the neck, chest, or groin when a patient needs close cardiovascular monitoring, for assessment of fluid status, and so that intravenous drugs and fluids can be given to the patient more effectively. The veins most commonly used are the internal jugular vein, the subclavian vein, and the femoral vein.

</doc>
<doc id="48909" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48909" title="Central line (disambiguation)">
Central line (disambiguation)

Central line may mean:

</doc>
<doc id="48913" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48913" title="Macroscopic">
Macroscopic

Macroscopic means physical objects that are measurable and can be seen by the naked eye.
When one uses macroscopic for abstract objects, one thinks of the world as we see it without any help. Lengths scales are called macroscopic if they fall in the range of more or less than 1 mm or up to 1 km.
One may use the term "macroscopic" also for a "larger view", namely a view only available from a large perspective. A macroscopic position could be considered the "big picture".
In physics macroscopy is a relative term. If one looks at a galaxy, a star is microscopic in comparison with the whole galaxy, even if it is many, many orders of magnitude larger than us. macroscopy can also be described as a relation between any two objects in terms of its magnification on a scale of some sort. A macroscopic object is something that we are able to see in plain sight through our own field of vision no matter where we are located. In spacetime light must also come into contact with our eyes and the object we are observing in order for it to be visible.

</doc>
<doc id="48914" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48914" title="Naked eye">
Naked eye

Seeing with naked eye means to look at something without the help of telescope, binoculars or microscope.
It is often used in astronomy meaning something that the general public can see a star without any help. 

</doc>
<doc id="48915" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48915" title="Order of magnitude">
Order of magnitude

If two numbers have the same order of magnitude, they are about the same size. 
But if one would compare the surface of an orange with that of the earth, one would say the surface of the earth is many "orders of magnitude" larger than that of the orange.
Orders of magnitude are generally used to make very approximate comparisons. It is mainly used while doing scientific notation. If two numbers differ by one order of magnitude, one is about ten times larger than the other. If they differ by two orders of magnitude, they differ by a factor of about 100. Two numbers of the same order of magnitude have roughly the same scale: the larger value is less than ten times the smaller value.
Magnitude

</doc>
<doc id="48917" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48917" title="N-Gage">
N-Gage

The Nokia N-Gage is a mobile phone and handheld game console. It was first sold on October 7, 2003.

</doc>
<doc id="48919" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48919" title="Woodside">
Woodside

Woodside is the name of several places.

</doc>
<doc id="48920" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48920" title="Handheld game console">
Handheld game console

A handheld game console is a light, portable electronic machine for playing video games.

</doc>
<doc id="48921" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48921" title="Pinhead Gunpowder">
Pinhead Gunpowder

Pinhead Gunpowder is a punk rock band from California, United States. Its members are Billie Joe Armstrong (singer and guitarist of Green Day), Aaron Cometbus, Bill Schneider and Jason White. White and Schneider also participate in Green Day.
The name of the band means the brand of a "high octane" green tea which Cometbus found in the dump.
Its members do not want to make money with this band, they only want to have fun.
Its music is different in each song, but always following the punk and hardcore style. 

</doc>
<doc id="48926" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48926" title="Harry Connick, Jr.">
Harry Connick, Jr.

Harry Connick, Jr. (born September 11, 1967) is an American singer, piano player and actor. He plays jazz music mostly, but also pop music. In 2014, he became a judge on "American Idol".

</doc>
<doc id="48927" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48927" title="Pantheism">
Pantheism

Pantheism is the belief that God and the universe are equivalent (the same thing). A pantheist believes that everything that exists is a part of God or that God is a part of everything that exists. The name pantheism comes from the words theism (belief in God) and pan (all). 
Any doctrine or philosophy that believes that the universe and everything in it is God is said to be pantheistic. Most pantheists believe the universe is sacred and the earth and nature are divine.
Most of the early Greek philosophers from Thales on to Aristotle believed in some sort of pantheism.
Pantheism is an important part of many eastern religions such as Hinduism, Druidism and Taoism.
Some western philosophers such as Baruch Spinoza and some scientists are pantheists.
Some Christians, Jews and Sufis are Pantheists. However, their majority believes that while God is in everything, there is more to God than just the universe.

</doc>
<doc id="48929" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48929" title="Panentheism">
Panentheism

Panentheism is the belief that the universe is part of God. Followers believe that one or more gods are both part of the universe and greater than it. To some people, this is a very confusing concept (idea) and was first created by philosophers in the early centuries AD.

</doc>
<doc id="48935" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48935" title="Deuterium">
Deuterium

Deuterium is an isotope of hydrogen, the first element. Deuterium has one proton and one neutron. Hydrogen does not have a neutron, only a proton. Another isotope of hydrogen, tritium, has two neutrons. The chemical symbol for Deuterium is H but D is also used often. 
Two deuterium atoms combined with an oxygen atom is sometimes called "heavy water." This is because it is like water (HO), but heavier because deuterium has one more neutron in its nucleus. Heavy water is sometimes used in nuclear reactors. It is also used as a solvent for NMR spectroscopy. This is because it will dissolve the sample, like normal water, but it will not be detected by the magnet in an H NMR. 

</doc>
<doc id="48943" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48943" title="Boer">
Boer

Boer (IPA: /bur/) is the Dutch word for farmer which is used to call the descendants of the Dutch farmers of Southern Africa during the 1700s, as well as those who left the Cape Colony during the 1800s to live in the Orange Free State, Transvaal. They did this to escape the British rule, and the wars between the British imperial government and the native tribes on the eastern frontier. 
In 1657, “vrybriewe” was granted to 9 burgers, the first farmers or Boers (Boere) at the Cape. Although they were not known as Afrikaners, they did not regard themselves as living in a European country. As more and more immigrants from Europe arrived at the Cape the more international marriages took place. Soon their language and culture was lost and transformed into the Dietse nation. They regarded themselves as a new nation. Paul Heyns, born in 1696 christened his son Michiel Afrikanus (the Afrikaner). One Hendrik Bieslow in 1707 proclaimed in public “Ik ben een Afrikaander”. The Boer later created the Boer Republics, which were deafeated in the 1880-1881 and 1899–1902 Anglo-Boer wars (Anglo-Boere-oorlog). After that, many Boers emigrated to other countries, but many still live in modern South Africa, Swaziland and Rhodesia.

</doc>
<doc id="48947" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48947" title="Muhammad Ali">
Muhammad Ali

Muhammad Ali (born Cassius Marcellus Clay, Jr. January 17, 1942 – June 3, 2016) was an American boxer. He became one of the most famous boxers in the world with his "rope-a-dope" technique. He was also well known for his clever rhymes. In 1999, Ali was named "Sportsman of the Century" by Sports Illustrated magazine. He won the World Heavyweight Boxing Championship three times. Ali also won an Olympic gold medal for boxing during the 1960 Summer Olympics in Rome, Italy.
Ali was born in Louisville, Kentucky. He was named after his father, Cassius Marcellus Clay, Sr. Ali changed his name after converting to Islam in 1965. Because of his Islamic beliefs, Ali would not fight in the Vietnam War when the army tried drafting him. This made him an international figure around the world. Ali retired from boxing in 1981. In the early 1980s, it was found out that Ali had Parkinson's syndrome. He became well known for his social work and charity.
Muhammad Ali married four times. He had seven daughters and two sons. One of his sons was adopted by him. 
On December 20, 2014, Ali was hospitalized for a mild case of pneumonia. Ali was once again hospitalized on January 15, 2015 for a urinary tract infection after being found unresponsive at a guest house in Scottsdale, Arizona. He was released the next day.
On June 3, 2016, Ali died from septic shock due to respiratory problems at a Scottsdale, Arizona hospital, aged 74.

</doc>
<doc id="48949" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48949" title="Mechanician">
Mechanician

A mechanician is an engineer or a scientist working in the field of mechanics, or in engineering, applied mechanics and similar fields. Sometimes mechanicians are also called mechaniker and mechanicist.

</doc>
<doc id="48950" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48950" title="Compressive stress">
Compressive stress

Compressive stress is the stress on materials that leads to a smaller volume. 
By compressive stress the material is under compression. Compressive stress to bars, columns, etc. leads to shortening.
One can increase the compressive stress until compressive strength is reached. Then materials will react with ductile behaviour (most metals, some soils and plastics) or with fracture in case of brittle materials (geomaterials, cast iron, glass, etc.). For example, if a cylinder is compressed under the action of the applied force, the restoring force per unit area is known as the compressive stress.

</doc>
<doc id="48963" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48963" title="Cambuslang railway station">
Cambuslang railway station

Cambuslang railway station is a train station for the Scottish town of Cambuslang, in South Lanarkshire (near Glasgow.) The station is owned and managed by First ScotRail. There is a train every ten minutes. Trains come more often at busy times of the day. The station has a ticket office at the top, with a bridge across the track and two ramps down to each platform.

</doc>
<doc id="48970" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48970" title="Rotation">
Rotation

`Rotation is the movement of an object in a circular motion. 
A two-dimensional object rotates around a "center" (or "point") "of rotation". A three-dimensional object rotates around a line called an "axis". If the axis of rotation is within the body, the body is said to rotate upon itself, or "spin"– which implies relative speed and perhaps free-movement with angular momentum. A circular motion about an external point (for example the Earth around the Sun) is called an "orbit" or more properly "orbital revolution."
Rotation around a point in one plane can be in a clockwise direction or an anticlockwise direction.
In flight dynamics, the principal rotations are known as "pitch", "roll" and "yaw". The term rotation is also used in aviation to refer to the upward pitch of an aircraft, particularly when starting the major climb for takeoff. The same terms are used for fish moving through water.
Many amusement rides provide rotation. A Ferris wheel and observation wheel have a horizontal central axis, and parallel axes for each gondola, where the rotation is opposite, by gravity or mechanically. 
Rotation, usually called "spin", plays a role in many sports. "Topspin" and "backspin" in tennis. "English", "follow" and "draw" in billiards and pool. Curve balls in baseball and spin bowling in cricket. Table tennis paddles are specialized to allow players to spin the ball as they hit it.

</doc>
<doc id="48972" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48972" title="Moment (physics)">
Moment (physics)

In physics, moment of force (often just moment) is a measure of its tendency to cause a body to rotate about a specific point or axis.
In this concept the moment arm, the distance from the axis of rotation, plays an important role. The lever, pulley, gear, and most other simple machines create mechanical advantage by changing the moment arm. The SI unit for moment is the newton meter (Nm).
Formula for moment: 
Moment= Force multiply by perpendicular distance
The Principle of Moment states that when a system is in equilibrium the sum of its CLOCKWISE MOMENTS equals the sum of its ANTICLOCKWISE MOMENTS.
Some examples where moments (turning effect) are applied are in the use of levers. These examples are: Seesaw, opening and closing of doors, nutcracker, can opener, crowbar,etc.
A lever is a simple machine in which one force called the effort is used to overcome another force called the load.
In physics , moment is a combination of a physical quantity and a distance.
The principle of moments is derived from Archimedes' discovery of the operating principle of the lever. In the lever one applies a force, in his day most often human muscle, to an "arm", a beam of some sort. Archimedes noted that the amount of force applied to the object, the "moment of force", is defined as "M = rF", where "F" is the applied force, and "r" is the distance from the applied force to object.

</doc>
<doc id="48973" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48973" title="Tensile strength">
Tensile strength

Tensile strength is a measurement of the force required to pull something such as rope, wire, or a structural beam to the point where it breaks. 
The tensile strength of a material is the maximum amount of tensile stress that it can take before failure, for example breaking.
There are three typical definitions of tensile strength:
Some typical tensile strengths of some materials:
(Source: A.M. Howatson, P.G. Lund and J.D. Todd, "Engineering Tables and Data" p41)

</doc>
<doc id="48977" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48977" title="Bosconian">
Bosconian

Bosconian is a arcade video game made by Namco in 1981. The player moves a spaceship and tries to destroy "space stations". There are also other things in space that the player has to destroy to get to the space stations. The game was later used on many of the early personal computers.

</doc>
<doc id="48978" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48978" title="The Sunday Night Project">
The Sunday Night Project

The Sunday Night Project is a British comedy television programme. It was broadcast on Channel 4 from 2005-2009. The show was presented by Justin Lee Collins and Alan Carr with a different guest host each week.

</doc>
<doc id="48982" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48982" title="Grand Duchess Anastasia Nikolaevna of Russia">
Grand Duchess Anastasia Nikolaevna of Russia

Grand Duchess Anastasia Nikolaevna of Russia (, , – 17 July 1918) was the youngest daughter of Tsar Nicholas II of Russia and his wife Alexandra Fyodorovna. Anastasia was murdered with her family on 17 July 1918 by the Bolshevik secret police. She was a sister of Grand Duchess Olga, Grand Duchess Tatiana, Grand Duchess Maria, and Alexei Nikolaevich, Tsarevich of Russia. 
During the years of Communist rule nobody knew where she was buried. This led to many stories that she could have escaped and still be alive. The bodies of the Tsar, Tsarina, and three daughters were found in a grave near Yekaterinburg in 1991; however, the bodies of Alexei Nikolaevich and one of his sisters (either Anastasia or Maria) were not there.
In January 2008, Russian scientists said that the remains of a young boy and woman found near Yekaterinburg in August 2007 might be the missing bodies. On 30 April 2008, Russian scientists used DNA testing to prove that they were the Tsarevich Alexei and his sister. In March 2009, the last results of the DNA testing were published by Dr. Michael Coble of the US Armed Forces DNA Identification Laboratory. This proved that all four Grand Duchesses were murdered.
Several women have claimed to have been Anastasia. The most famous was Anna Anderson. However, DNA testing in 1994 on pieces of Anderson's tissue and hair showed that she was not related to the Imperial family.
When Anastasia was born, her family was disappointed. They had hoped for a son who would be heir to the throne. In honor of her birth, her father forgave the students who had been put in prison for joining in riots in St. Petersburg and Moscow. Because of this, Anastasia's name means "the breaker of chains" or the "prison opener". It can also mean "of the resurrection". People often spoke of this when there were stories that she had not died. Anastasia was a Grand Duchess. Because this made Anastasia an "Imperial Highness", she was higher in rank than other Princesses in Europe who were "Royal Highnesses".
The Tsar's children lived very simply. They slept on hard camp cots without pillows when they were healthy, took cold baths in the morning, and had to clean their rooms and sometimes sew. Most of their servants usually called Anastasia by her first name instead of calling her "Her Imperial Highness". Sometimes they called her "Anastasie", "Nastya", "Nastas", or "Nastenka". Anastasia was also called "Malenkaya", meaning "little (one)", or "shvibzik", the Russian word for "imp".
Anastasia was a bright, lively child. People described her as short and plump, with blue eyes and blonde hair. Margaretta Eagar, Anastasia's governess, said that somebody had once called young Anastasia the most charming child he had ever seen. Lili Dehn said that Anastasia was "pretty", but had "more of a clever face, and her eyes were wells of intelligence".
Anastasia was clever, but she was never much interested in studying. Pierre Gilliard, Sydney Gibbes, and ladies-in-waiting Lili Dehn and Anna Vyrubova said that Anastasia was funny and good at acting. Some people did not like her sharp, quick remarks.
Anastasia's playful behavior was often punished. According to Gieb Botkin, "in naughtiness she was a true genius". He was the son of the court doctor Yevgeny Botkin, who later died with the family at Ekaterinburg. Anastasia tripped the servants, tricked her teachers, and climbed trees and refused to come down. Once at a snowball fight, she rolled a rock into a snowball and threw it at her older sister, Tatiana. Princess Nina Georgievna, Anastasia's cousin, said that "Anastasia was nasty to the point of being evil". She said that Anastasia would get angry when her friends won games, or when the younger Nina was taller than she was. She also cared less about her looks than her sisters. Hallie Erminie Rives, an American writer, described how Anastasia ate chocolates without taking off her white opera gloves at the St. Petersburg opera house when she was 10-years-old.
Anastasia's family called Anastasia and her older sister Maria "The Little Pair". This was because they shared a room, often wore the same dress, and played together a lot. Their older sisters Olga and Tatiana were known as "The Big Pair", because they shared a room as well. The four girls sometimes signed letters with their nickname, OTMA. They made this nickname from the first letters of their first names, Olga, Tatiana, Maria, and Anastasia.
Anastasia was very energetic, but she was often sick. She had "hallux valgus" (bunions), which hurt both of her big toes. Anastasia also had a weak muscle in her back. Because of this, she had to be massaged twice every week. She disliked this, and when it was time to be massaged, she would hide under her bed or in cupboards. Anastasia's older sister, Maria, is said to have hemorrhaged in December 1914 during an operation to remove her tonsils. The doctor performing the operation was so shocked that Maria's mother, Tsarina Alexandra, had to order him to continue. Olga Alexandrovna said all four of her nieces bled more than was normal. She believed they had the hemophilia gene, like their mother. Some carriers of the gene are not hemophiliacs themselves, but they can have signs of hemophilia, like bleeding more than most people. DNA testing on the remains of the royal family proved in 2009 that Alexei suffered from Hemophilia B. His mother and one of his sisters were carriers. The Russians thought this sister was Maria, and Americans thought it was Anastasia. If Anastasia had lived, she could have passed on the disease to her children. Anastasia, like everyone else in her family, loved "Baby" Tsarevich Alexei very much. Alexei often had attacks of hemophilia and nearly died several times.
Her mother trusted Grigori Rasputin, a Russian peasant and wandering "holy man". She thought his prayers had saved her son when he was sick many times. Anastasia and her sisters were told to treat Rasputin as "Our Friend" and to tell him their secrets. In the autumn of 1907, Anastasia's aunt Grand Duchess Olga Alexandrovna of Russia went to the nursery with the Tsar to meet Rasputin. Anastasia, her sisters and brother Alexei were all wearing their long white nightgowns.
"All the children seemed to like him," Olga Alexandrovna said later. "They were completely at ease (comfortable) with him." Rasputin's friendship with the Imperial children can be seen in some of the messages he sent to them. In February 1909, Rasputin sent them a telegram, saying, "Love the whole of God's nature, the whole of His creation in particular this earth. The Mother of God was always occupied with flowers and needlework."
But in 1910, Sofia Ivanovna Tyutcheva told other people in the family that Rasputin was allowed to see the four girls when they were wearing their nightgowns. Rasputin's visits to the children were completely innocent, but the family was shocked and angry. Tyutcheva told Nicholas's sister, Grand Duchess Xenia Alexandrovna of Russia, that Rasputin visited and talked to the girls while they were getting ready for bed, and hugged and patted them. Tyutcheva said the children did not talk about Rasputin with her and kept his visits a secret. Tatiana wrote to her mother on 8 March 1910, that she was "so afr(aid) that S.I. (governess Sofia Ivanovna Tyutcheva) can our friend something bad". Xenia wrote on 15 March 1910 that she did not understand "the attitude (behavior) of Alix and the children to that sinister Grigory". Nicholas asked Rasputin not to go into the nursery after that, and Alexandra later fired Tyutcheva.
In the spring of 1910, Maria Ivanovna Vishnyakova, a royal governess, said that Rasputin had raped her. The empress did not believe her, saying that "everything Rasputin does is holy". Grand Duchess Olga Alexandrovna was told that they had made an investigation to see if what Vishnyakova said was true, but that "they caught the young woman in bed with a Cossack of the Imperial Guard." Vishnyakova was kept from seeing Rasputin after she claimed that he raped her. She was fired in 1913.
But rumors still spread. People suggested that Rasputin had seduced the Tsarina and her four daughters. Rasputin had written warm, but completely innocent letters to the Tsarina and her four daughters. He released the letters, which made people gossip even more. "My dear, precious, only friend," wrote Anastasia. "How much I should like to see you again. You appeared to me today in a dream. I am always asking Mama when you will think of you always, my dear, because you are so good to me ..."
Soon after, pornographic cartoons were printed about Rasputin having relations with the Empress, her four daughters and Anna Vyrubovna. After the scandal, Nicholas asked Rasputin to leave St. Petersburg for a time. Rasputin went on a pilgrimage to Palestine. Alexandra was very angry at this. However, though the rumors continued, the imperial family continued to be friendly with Rasputin until he was murdered on 17 December 1916. "Our Friend is so contented (happy) with our girlies, souls have much developed," Alexandra wrote to Nicholas on December 6, 1916.
Later, A.A. Mordvinov reported in his memoirs that the four Grand Duchesses looked "cold and visibly terribly upset" by Rasputin's death. He added that they sat "huddled up closely together" on a sofa on the night they heard he was killed. Mordvinov remembered that they were sad and seemed to feel the beginning of great political troubles. Rasputin was buried with an icon signed on the back by Anastasia, her mother and her sisters. Anastasia went to his funeral on December 21, 1916. Her family planned to build a church over Rasputin's grave. After they were killed by the Bolsheviks, it was discovered Anastasia and her sisters were all wearing amulets with Rasputin's picture and a prayer on it.
During World War I Anastasia and her sister Maria visited hurt soldiers at a hospital at Tsarskoye Selo. Because they were too young to become Red Cross nurses like their mother and older sisters, they played checkers and billiards with the soldiers and tried to make them happy instead. Felix Dassel, who was treated at the hospital, remembered that Anastasia had a "laugh like a squirrel", and walked quickly "as though she "tripped" along." 
In February 1917, Nicholas II resigned from the throne. Anastasia and her family were placed under house arrest at the Alexander Palace in Tsarskoye Selo during the Russian Revolution. As the Bolsheviks came nearer, Alexander Kerensky moved them to Tobolsk, Siberia. The Bolsheviks grew more and more powerful. Anastasia and her family were moved to the Ipatiev House (House of Special Purpose), at Yekaterinburg.
Anastasia felt sad about her captivity. "Goodby," she wrote to a friend in the winter of 1917. "Don't forget us." At Tobolsk, she wrote a sad theme for her English teacher, filled with spelling mistakes, about "Evelyn Hope", a poem by Robert Browning about a young girl. "When she died she was only sixteen years old," Anastasia wrote. "Ther(e) was a man who loved her without having seen her but (k)new her very well. And she he(a)rd of him also. He never could tell her that he loved her, and now she was dead. But still he thought that when he and she will live [their] next life whenever it will be that ..." 
At Tobolsk, she and her sisters sewed jewels into their clothes. This was because Alexandra, Nicholas and Maria had had their things taken away when they arrived in Ekaterinburg. Demidova wrote to Tegleva about this, using code words for the jewels such as "medicines" and "Sednev's belongings". Anastasia and her sisters dressed simply, and all three had their hair cut short. It had been cut when they were ill with measles in 1917, and they had kept it short. Pierre Gilliard remembered his last sight of the children: "The sailor Nagorny, who attended to Alexei Nikolaevitch, passed my window carrying the sick boy in his arms, behind him came the Grand Duchesses loaded with valises and small personal belongings. I tried to get out, but was roughly pushed back into the carriage by the sentry. I came back to the window. Tatiana Nikolayevna came last carrying her little dog and struggling to drag a heavy brown valise. It was raining and I saw her feet sink into the mud at every step. Nagorny tried to come to her assistance (help); he was roughly pushed back by one of the commisars ..." Baroness Sophie Buxhoeveden, too, spoke of her last sad memory of Anastasia: "Once, standing on some steps at the door of a house close by, I saw a hand and a pink-sleeved arm opening the topmost (highest) pane. According to the blouse the hand must have belonged either to the Grand Duchess Marie or Anastasia. They could not see me through their windows, and this was to be the last glimpse that I was to have of any of them!"
But even in the last months of her life, Anastasia could be happy. She and other members of her family performed plays for their parents and others in the spring of 1918. Her tutor Sydney Gibbes said that Anastasia's acting made everyone laugh. On 7 May 1918, Anastasia wrote a letter from Tobolsk to her sister Maria in Yekaterinburg. In the letter, she described a moment of joy, even though she was sad, lonely, and worried about her sick brother Alexei: "We played on the swing, that was when I roared with laughter (laughed loudly), the fall was so wonderful! Indeed! I told the sisters about it so many times yesterday that they got quite fed up (tired)", adding, "One could simply shout with joy." In his memoirs, Alexander Strekotin, one of the guards at the Ipatiev House, called Anastasia "very friendly and full of fun". Another guard said Anastasia was "a very charming devil! She was mischievous and, I think, rarely (not often) tired. She was lively, and was fond of (enjoyed) performing comic mimes with the dogs, as though they were performing in a circus." Another guard, however, called her "offensive and a terrorist" and complained about some of her sharp remarks. Anastasia and her sisters learned to wash their own clothes and make bread at the Ipatiev House.
In the summer, however, the whole family became much sadder. According to some accounts, Anastasia once became so unhappy about the locked, painted windows that she opened one to get fresh air. A guard is said to have seen her and fired, almost hitting her. She did not try to open the windows again.
On 14 July 1918, local priests at Yekaterinburg held a private church service for the family. They later said that Anastasia and her family fell on their knees during the prayers for the dead, which they had not done before. They also noted that the girls had become very sad and did not reply to the service. One of the priests said, "Something has happened to them in there." But the next day, on 15 July 1918, Anastasia and her sisters seemed happier. They joked and helped move the beds in their shared bedroom so that the cleaning women could clean the floors. Helping the women scrub the floors, they whispered to them when the guards were not watching. Anastasia even stuck her tongue out at Yakov Yurovsky, the head of the guards, when he turned his back and left the room.
Anastasia was executed with her family by a firing squad in the early morning of 17 July 1918. They had been killed by the Bolshevik secret police, commanded by Yurovsky.
In October 1917, the Bolshevik revolution struck Russia. A civil war began shortly after that. Plans to release the Romanovs slowed down. As the Whites (people who were still faithful to the Tsar and autocracy) came more toward Yekaterinburg, the Reds felt afraid. They knew that the well-prepared White Army would win. When the Whites reached Yekaterinburg, the Imperial Family were gone. It is thought that the family had been executed.
The "Yurovsky Note" was found in 1989 and described in Edvard Radzinsky's 1992 book "The Last Tsar". The "Yurovsky Note" was a description of the event by Yurovsky after the execution. According to the note, on the night of the murders the family was awakened and told to dress. They were told they were moving to a new place for their safety. They claimed it was because of the possible violence which might happen when the White Army reached Yekaterinburg. When they were dressed, the family and the few servants were led to a small room in the house's basement. They were told to wait there. Alexandra asked for chairs for herself and Alexei, and she sat next to her son. After a short time, the executioners entered the room, led by Yurovsky. Yurovsky quickly told the Tsar and his family that they were going to die. The Tsar cried "What?" and turned to his family, but was immediately killed when several bullets hit his chest. The Tsar, the empress, and two servants were killed in the first round of shooting. Maria, Dr. Botkin and Alexandra's maid Demidova were hurt. Thick smoke and dust filled the room from the shooting, so the gunmen left the room for a few minutes. They soon came back and shot Dr. Botkin. A gunman named Ermakov tried to shoot Tsarevich Alexei, but the jewels in the boy's clothes protected him. Ermakov tried to kill Alexei with a bayonet but failed again. At last, Yurovsky fired two shots into the boy's head. Tatiana and Olga were near the wall. They were holding onto each other and crying for their mother. Tatiana was killed by a shot to her head. Olga died when Ermakov shot her in the jaw.
Maria, Anastasia, and the maid Demidova were on the floor under the room's one window. Ermakov said that he killed Maria by shooting her head. Ermakov then tried to stab Anastasia, failed, and said he killed her by shooting her head. Maria's skull does not have any bullet wounds, though. It is unclear how she died. Ermakov was drunk during the murders, and it is possible his shot did not go entirely through her head. She might have become unconscious and bled greatly, but remained alive. Then, as the bodies were taken away, two of the grand duchesses moved. One sat up and screamed, throwing her arm over her head. The other, bleeding from the mouth, moaned and moved. When Olga and Tatiana were shot, they were killed instantly, so Maria was probably the one who screamed. Anastasia might still have been able to move. Ermakov told his wife that Anastasia was killed by a bayonet, and Yurovsky wrote that as the bodies were carried out, one or more of the girls cried out and were hit on the back of the head with a club. However, the back of Maria's skull does not show any signs of having been clubbed. The remains of Anastasia's burnt body do not show details of how she died.
One of the greatest mysteries of the 20th century was if Anastasia had survived or not. From 1920 to 1922, Anna Anderson, the most famous person who pretended to be Anastasia, grew very famous. She claimed that she had pretended to be dead, then escaped with the help of a kind guard that saved her from the dead bodies after seeing she was still alive. Her legal struggle to be recognized as Anastasia from 1938 to 1970 was a controversy for her whole life. It was the longest running case ever heard by the German courts. At last, the courts decided that there was not enough proof.
Anderson died in 1984 and her body was cremated. In 1994, a tissue sample from Andersen in a hospital was used for DNA tests with the blood of Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh. Prince Philip was a grandnephew of Empress Alexandra. Dr. Gill, who did the tests, decided that if "you accept that these samples came from Anna Anderson, then Anna Anderson could related to Tsar Nicholas or Tsarina Alexandra." Anderson's DNA matched with a great-nephew of Franziska Schanzkowska, a missing Polish factory worker. Some people who supported Anderson agreed that the DNA tests showed she could not have been the Grand Duchess.
At least 10 women claimed to be Anastasia. Less famous people who pretended to be Anastasia were Nadezhda Ivanovna Vasilyeva and Eugenia Smith. A priest took care of two young women who said that they were Anastasia and her sister Maria in the Ural Mountains in 1919. They lived there as nuns until they died in 1964. They were buried with the names Anastasia and Maria Nikolaevna. 
People reported that trains and houses were being searched for 'Anastasia Romanov' by soldiers and secret police. When she was put in prison for a short time at Perm in 1918, Princess Helena Petrovna, the wife of Anastasia's distant cousin, Prince Ioann Konstantinovich of Russia, said that a guard took a girl who called herself Anastasia Romanova to her cell and asked her if the girl was the Tsar's daughter. When she did not recognize the girl, the guard took her away. Others in Perm later said that they saw Anastasia, her mother and sisters in Perm after they were killed, but this was only a rumor. Surprisingly, the rumors that had started to hide the fact that the family was dead helped the rumors that they were alive. A few days after they had been killed, the German government sent telegrams to Russia asking for "the safety of the princesses of German blood". Russia had signed a peace treaty with the Germans and did not want to tell them that the women were dead. Instead, they told them they had been moved to a safer place. This could have been why the 'Perm stories' began.
Another time, eight people said that they saw a young woman being captured at a railway station at Siding 37 in September 1918 after trying to escape. These people were Maxim Grigoyev, Tatiana Sitnikova and her son Fyodor Sitnikov, Ivan Kuklin and Matrina Kuklina, Vassily Ryabov, Ustinya Varankina, and Dr. Pavel Utkin. Some of these people said that the girl was Anastasia when they saw photographs of the grand duchess by White Russian Army investigators. Dr. Pavel Utkin also told the investigators that the girl, whom he had helped in Perm when she was hurt, had said, "I am the daughter of the ruler, Anastasia." During that time, there were similar stories of young people in Russia saying that they were Romanovs who had escaped. Boris Soloviev, the husband of Rasputin's daughter Maria, defrauded many important Russian families by asking for money for a Romanov to escape to China. Soloviev was helped by young women who pretended to be one of the grand duchesses to help trick the families.
Some suggest that there might have been a way for a guard to save anyone in the family who still lived. Yakov Yurovsky ordered the guards to come to his office and give him the things they had stolen after the murder. At that time, it is said that there was a short time when the killed bodies were left in the truck and in the basement of the house. Some guards who had not joined in the murders and had felt sorry for the grand duchesses were left in the basement with the bodies.
There were also stories from Bulgaria that Anastasia and her brother were still alive. In 1953, Peter Zamiatkin told a 16-year-old person being treated at a hospital that he had taken Anastasia and Alexei to the village where he was born near Odessa. He said he was a member of the guard of the Romanovs, and that the Tsar had asked him to do this. Zamiatkin said that after the rest of the family had been killed, he escaped with the children on a ship. "Anastasia" and "Alexei" lived under false names in the Bulgarian town of Gabarevo. The Bulgarian "Anastasia" called herself Eleonora Albertovna Kruger. She died in 1954.
In 1991, the place where the Imperial family and their servants were supposedly buried as found in the woods outside Yekaterinburg. It had actually been found almost ten years earlier, but had been kept hidden by the people who discovered it. They did not want the Communists, who still ruled Russia at that time, to know where the grave was. The grave only had nine bodies instead of 11. DNA and studies on their skeletons showed that they were the bodies of Tsar Nicholas II, his wife, and three of the Grand Duchesses (Olga, Tatiana, and Maria). The other remains had different DNA. They were the bodies of the family's doctor (Yevgeny Botkin), valet (Alexei Trupp), cook (Ivan Kharitonov) and Alexandra's maid (Anna Demidova). Dr. William Maples decided that the Tsarevitch Alexei and Anastasia's bodies were missing. Russian scientists did not agree with this. They claimed that it was the body of Maria was missing, not Anastasia's. The Russians used a computer program to compare photos of Anastasia with the skulls from the grave. When some of the pieces of bone in the skulls were missing, they guessed how long or wide it was instead. American scientists thought this way of studying the bodies was wrong. 
American scientists thought the missing body was Anastasia's. This was because none of the female skeletons showed signs that it was not fully grown yet. The remains of the Imperial Family were buried in 1998. At that time, a body that measured about 5 feet, 7 inches (170 cm) was buried as the body of Anastasia. Photographs of her standing next to her sisters six months before she died show that Anastasia was a few inches shorter than all of them.
The "Yurovsky Note" showed that two of the bodies were taken from the main grave and burned secretly to hide the burials of the Imperial family. However, people could not find the place where the bodies were burnt for many years. However, on 23 August 2007, a Russian archaeologist declared that he had found two burned skeletons near Yekaterinburg, at a place which seemed to match what was described in Yurovsky's writings. The archaeologists said that the bones were from a boy who was about 10 to 13, and a young woman who was between 18 and 23 years old. Anastasia was 17 years and one month old when she was killed; Maria was 19 years, one month old, and Alexei was just two weeks before his fourteenth birthday. Anastasia's older sisters, Olga and Tatiana, were 22 and 23 when they died. They used metal detectors to find the bones.
Many international laboratories such as the Armed Forces DNA Identification Laboratory and Innsbruck Medical University did DNA tests. They proved that the remains were from the body of Tsarevich Alexei and one of his sister. They agreed that everyone in the family, including Anastasia, died in 1918. All the parents and children has his or her own special DNA.
In 2000, Anastasia and her family were canonized as passion bearers by the Russian Orthodox Church. In 1981, they had already been canonized by the Russian Orthodox Church Abroad as holy martyrs. The bodies of Tsar Nicholas II, Tsarina Alexandra, and three of their daughters were buried in the St. Catherine Chapel at St. Peter and Paul Cathedral in St. Petersburg on 17 July 1998. This was 80 years after they had been murdered.
The stories of how Anastasia might have escaped became the subject of theatrical and television movies. The earliest, made in 1928, was called "Clothes Make the Woman". The story was about a woman who acts the character of Anastasia in a Hollywood movie, and is later recognized by the Russian soldier who saved her.
In 1956, a movie called "Anastasia" was made. Ingrid Bergman acted Anna Anderson, Yul Brynner was General Bounine (a fictional character based on several real men), and Helen Hayes as the Dowager Empress Marie, Anastasia's grandmother. The movie is about a woman from an asylum who came to Paris in 1928 and was captured by some Russian émigrés who use her so that they can fool Anastasia's grandmother into thinking Anderson actually is her granddaughter. This is because they want to get a Tsarist fortune. After some time, they begin wondering if "Madame A. Anderson" really is the missing Grand Duchess.
This story was also used for the short 1965 musical "Anya".
In 1986, NBC began a mini-series inspired by a book published in 1983 by Peter Kurth called "Anastasia: The Riddle of Anna Anderson". The movie, "", was a series with two parts. It began with the young Anastasia Nicholaievna and her family being sent to Yekaterinburg, where they are killed by Bolshevik soldiers. The story then moves to 1923, saying that Anna Anderson is Anastasia. Amy Irving was the actress for Anna Anderson.
The most recent movie is 1997's "Anastasia". This was an animated musical adaptation of the story of Anastasia's fictional (not real) escape from Russia and how she tried to be recognized. The movie often used wrong historical facts.
In "The Romanov Prophecy," a 2004 novel by Steve Berry, Anastasia and Alexei are saved by guards and taken away to the United States. There, they live under false names with a family paid by Felix Yusupov. In the novel, both children died in the 1920s because they became sick. However, before they died, Alexei married and had a son.

</doc>
<doc id="48986" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48986" title="Anna Anderson">
Anna Anderson

Anna Anderson (December 16, 1896 – February 12, 1984) was a woman who claimed she was Grand Duchess Anastasia Nikolaevna of Russia. The real Anastasia had been murdered in Ekaterinburg with the rest of her immediate family on July 17,1918. Her remains have been found and extensively tested using DNA samples from Anastasia's family comparing them to Anderson. There was no match at all. Anderson attempted to kill herself in 1920 in Berlin, Germany. She was taken to a mental hospital. A short time later she began to tell her false story of escape to people there. Some people believed her. Most people did not. Her false claims were pushed for 70 years. Movies were made about her story. She married Jack Manahan and called herself Anastasia Manahan. They lived in Charlottesville, Virginia, where she died of pneumonia in 1984. 

</doc>
<doc id="48988" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48988" title="Celtic F.C.">
Celtic F.C.

The Celtic Football Club are a professional football club based in Glasgow, Scotland, who play in the Scottish Premiership. 
Celtic is half of the Old Firm, alongside Rangers F.C.. This is a term used to describe both Rangers and Celtic collectively. 

</doc>
<doc id="48989" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48989" title="Grand Duchess Maria Nikolaevna of Russia (1899–1918)">
Grand Duchess Maria Nikolaevna of Russia (1899–1918)

Grand Duchess Maria Nikolaevna of Russia ("Maria Nikolaevna Romanova"; Russian: Великая Княжна Мария Николаевна, – July 17, 1918) was the third daughter of Tsar Nicholas II of Russia and Tsarina Alexandra Fyodorovna (Alix of Hesse). After she was murdered in the Russian Revolution of 1917, she was canonized as a passion bearer by the Russian Orthodox Church.
When she lived, Maria was not old enough to be a Red Cross nurse like her sisters. Instead, she was patroness of a hospital and visited wounded soldiers. She was very interested in the lives of the soldiers, and had several innocent crushes on the young men she met. She wanted to marry and have a big family. She was known to be flirtatious at a young age.
She was an older sister of Grand Duchess Anastasia Nikolaevna of Russia. Her sister Anastasia was famous for stories about her escape from the murder of the royal family for almost 90 years. In the 1990s, it was suggested that the Grand Duchess whose remains were not in the Romanov grave might be Maria. However, further remains were discovered in 2007, and DNA proved at last that the entire Imperial family had been murdered in 1918.
People described Maria as a pretty, flirtatious girl. She was plump, with light brown hair and big blue eyes that her family called "Marie's saucers". Her French teacher Pierre Gilliard said Maria was tall and healthy, with rosy cheeks. Tatiana Botkina thought Maria's eyes were "soft and gentle." When she was a baby, people compared her to one of Botticelli's angels. Grand Duke Vladimir Alexandrovich of Russia called her "The Amiable (Good-hearted) Baby".
When she was young, Maria once ran away from her bath and ran naked (without clothes) all around the palace. Her Irish nurse, Margaretta Eager, who was talking about politics with a friend, did not even notice. "Fortunately, I arrived just at that moment, picked her up and carried her back to Miss Eagar," remembered her aunt Grand Duchess Olga Alexandrovna of Russia. Her older sisters did not like to let Maria join in their games. They once even called Maria their "stepsister". This was because she was so good and never got into trouble, according to Margaretta Eagar. However, even the sweet Maria could be mischievous sometimes. Once, when she was young, she stole some biscuits from her mother's tea table. The governess and Alexandra wanted her to go to bed as a punishment, but Nicholas said no. He said, "I was always afraid (fearful) of the wings growing. I am glad to see she is only a human child." Eagar remarked that Maria loved her father deeply. She often tried to run away from the nursery to "go to Papa". When her father was ill with typhoid, Maria covered a small picture of him with kisses every night.
She was raised very simply. She shared a room with her sister Anastasia, where the walls were painted gray, and the ceiling was painted with butterflies. The furniture was simple and in white and green colors.

</doc>
<doc id="48991" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48991" title="Grand Duchess Tatiana Nikolaevna of Russia">
Grand Duchess Tatiana Nikolaevna of Russia

Grand Duchess Tatiana Nikolaevna of Russia (b. June 10, 1897, Russia) was a daughter of Tsar Nicholas II of Russia and Tsarina Alexandra Fyodorovna. She was a sister of Olga, Anastasia, Maria, and Tsarevich Alexei of Russia. Her friends said she was more beautiful than her sisters. She was a Red Cross nurse during World War I. She was practical and liked to help her mother. Her religion was Russian Orthodox. She spoke Russian, English and French fluently.
Tatiana was killed by Bolsheviks on July 17, 1918 with the rest of her family and some of their servants, during the Russian Revolution. Their mass grave was found later in Siberia after some speculation that one of her sisters, mainly presumed to be Anastasia, had escaped. Tatiana and her family were then buried in St. Petersburg, Russia on July 17, 1998. They were made saints by the Russian Orthodox Church in 2000.

</doc>
<doc id="48994" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48994" title="Rally-X">
Rally-X

Rally-X is a arcade video game released by Namco in 1980. The player moves a car around a maze. The player tries to collect 10 "flags".
Players can lose a life by:
In "Rally-X", there are two types of flags: regular flags and special flags. Special flags double the players points after collecting it. It will only work if the player does not lose a life. In "New Rally-X", there is another flag called a lucky flag. It fills up the car's fuel tank if it is empty. There is only one special flag or lucky flag.

</doc>
<doc id="48996" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48996" title="Grand Duchess Olga Nikolaevna of Russia">
Grand Duchess Olga Nikolaevna of Russia

Grand Duchess Olga Nikolaevna of Russia (Olga Nikolaevna Romanova) (; , November 16 after 1900 – July 17, 1918) was the oldest daughter of Tsar Nicholas II of Russia, the last sovereign of Imperial Russia, and his wife Alexandra Fyodorovna.
Olga's future marriage was the subject of much speculation inside Russia while she was alive. There were stories about matches with Grand Duke Dmitri Pavlovich of Russia, Crown Prince Carol of Romania, Edward, Prince of Wales, eldest son of Britain's George V, and with Crown Prince Alexander of Serbia. Olga wanted to marry a Russian and stay in her home country. During World War I, Olga nursed wounded soldiers at a military hospital until she became ill herself. After that, she managed administrative duties at the hospital.
Olga was murdered with her family on July 17, 1918 by the Bolshevik secret police. The Russian Orthodox Church canonized her as a passion bearer after her death. Later, many people falsely claimed to be surviving members of the royal family. A woman named Marga Boodts claimed to be Grand Duchess Olga, but she was not taken seriously. Historians believe that Olga was killed with her family at Ekaterinburg. Her remains were identified through DNA testing. They were buried in a funeral ceremony in 1998 at Peter and Paul Cathedral in St. Petersburg with those of her parents and two of her sisters. 
Olga's sisters were Grand Duchesses Tatiana, Maria, and Anastasia. She also had a brother, Tsarevich Alexei of Russia. Olega's title ("Velikaya Knyazhna" Великая Княжна) is best translated as "Grand Princess". This meant that Olega, as an "Imperial Highness", was higher in rank than other Princesses in Europe who were "Royal Highnesses". "Grand Duchess" became the most well-known translation of the title into English from Russian. Olga's friends and family usually called her simply Olga Nikolaevna. They also called her "Olishka" or "Olya". Queen Victoria was her great-grandmother. Olega was very close to her sister Tatiana. They shared a room, dressed similarly, and were known as "The Big Pair". The younger sisters, Maria and Anastasia, were known as "The Little Pair".
Olega was known for her compassion and kindness from when she was young. But she also had a quick temper and often spoke what she thought plainly. Once, when she was a small child, she became impatient while posing for a portrait painter and told him, "You are a very ugly man and I don't like you one bit!" Pierre Gilliard, her French teacher, said that when he first saw Olga when she was 10 years old, she was "very fair, and with sparkling, mischievous examined me with a look which seemed from the first moment to be searching for the weak point in my armor, but there was something so pure and frank (truthful) about the child that one liked her straight off."
The Tsar's children lived very simply. They slept on hard camp cots without pillows when they were healthy. This tradition had been started in the rule of Catherine the Great when she first made her grandson Alexander do so. They took cold baths in the morning, and had to clean their rooms and do needlework. Most people living with them, including servants, usually called the Grand Duchess by her first name, Olega Nikolaevna, instead of her title or "Her Imperial Highness". However, once on a visit to a museum where state carriages were displayed, Olga ordered one of the servants to prepare the largest and most beautiful carriage for her daily drive. She was not obeyed. She also felt oldest children should be respected. When she was told the Biblical story of Joseph, she felt sorry for the older brothers instead of Joseph. She also sympathized with Goliath rather than David in the story of David and Goliath. Olga loved reading. Unlike her sisters, she also liked school work. Pierre Gilliard said that Olga had a very "quick brain", with "good reasoning powers" and "a very independent manner, and a gift for swift (quick) and entertaining (funny) repartee (replies)." She enjoyed reading about politics in newspapers. Olga also liked choosing books from what her mother read. When she was found reading a book before her mother had read it, Olga joked that her mother must wait until Olga had made sure that it was a proper book for her to read.

</doc>
<doc id="48998" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48998" title="Physical compression">
Physical compression

Physical compression means that a material under compressive stress reduces its volume.
There are different uses of compression in physics and engineering. 
By compression it is possible to measure mechanical properties of materials such as compressive strength or modulus of elasticity. Scientists do this with press machines.
Compression is also used in engines, for example in the Diesel engine as in any internal combustion engine and in the steam engine. 

</doc>
<doc id="49000" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49000" title="Compressive strength">
Compressive strength

Compressive strength measures the pushing force that one needs to break a material. 
When the limit of compressive strength is reached, materials are crushed. Concrete can be made to have high compressive strength e.g. many concrete floors have compressive strength of 3000 p.s.i..

</doc>
<doc id="49001" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49001" title="Strength of materials">
Strength of materials

Strength of materials is important for the study of engineering materials and their mechanical behavior in general (such as stress, deformation, strain and stress-strain relations).
Strength is considered in terms of compressive strength, tensile strength, and shear strength, namely the limit states of compressive stress, tensile stress and shear stress are looked at.

</doc>
<doc id="49003" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49003" title="Compression">
Compression

Compression could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="49008" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49008" title="Funeral Blues">
Funeral Blues

"Funeral Blues" is a poem written in 1936 by W. H. Auden.
"Funeral Blues" is a simple poem about death, isolation (loneliness), emptiness and longing. The death of a lover may or may not be a literal event (actually happened). The poem is also about the end of a romantic relationship with somebody other than the person's spouse/partner. In four stanzas it moves from the time before the funeral (Stop all the clocks, Silence the pianos...), during the funeral itself (Bring out the coffin, let the mourners come...), after the funeral (He was my North, my South...), and the loneliness and grief that comes with it.

</doc>
<doc id="49009" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49009" title="W. H. Auden">
W. H. Auden

Wystan Hugh Auden (21 February 1907 – 29 September 1973) was a Anglo-American poet. He was born in York and moved to Harborne, Birmingham in 1908, then to New York City in 1939. He wrote several famous poems such as "Funeral Blues", and As I Walked Out One Evening. He signed his works W. H. Auden. He died in Vienna, Austria and is buried in Kirchstetten.
Auden was an Anglican and was gay. He married Erika Mann in 1935 to enable her to escape Nazi Germany. His partner from 1946 until his death was Chester Kallman (1921-1975).

</doc>
<doc id="49012" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49012" title="Parsley">
Parsley

Parsley is a fresh flavored bright green herb. It used on food as a garnish and as a seasoning in soups,sauces and salads. Some people eat parsley to get their breath to smell better. Parsley can be easily grown in gardens, as well as inside the home, wherever there is plenty of indirect sunlight. Parsley needs good, light soil, good drainage and frequent watering to thrive indoors. To harvest parsely, cut the most mature stalks near the base that are still bright green. New shoots will grow for some time from the base of an established plant. Parsley is extraordinarily rich in vitamins C and A, minerals (especially potassium),beta-carotene, folate and dietary fiber. The following chart provides information on the nutritional values and caloric composition of parsley:
Water content (grams per 100g) 87.71 
Calorie content of Food (kcals per 100g/3.5oz) 36 
Protein content (grams per 100g) 3.7 
Fat content (lipids) (grams per 100g) 1.2 
Ash content (grams per 100g) 2.1
Moisture (grams per 100g) 85.2 
Carbohydrate content (grams per 100g) 8.0 
Dietary Fiber content (grams per 100g) 4.1 

</doc>
<doc id="49017" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49017" title="Édith Piaf">
Édith Piaf

Édith Piaf (aka. "La Môme Piaf") (December 19, 1915 – October 11, 1963) was one of France's most-loved singers. Her real name was Édith Giovanna Gassion. She became a national icon. Her music was an image of her tragic life. Piaf was known for singing ballads in a heartbreaking voice. 
As child at her grandmother's in Normandy, she suffered from keratitis, but
1925 - 10 A pilgrimage to Lisieux in the Normandy honoring Saint Thérèse of Lisieux / (Sainte Thérèse de l'Enfant-Jésus), and the intense devoutness of the family resulted in a miraculous healing, Édith said.
1930 – 15 Her manager gave her the stage name "", "la Môme", Édith Piaf, or just Piaf. She was only tall and puny, but sharp and lively like a sparrow. She always wore a black dress on the stage.
She sang first in Pigalle, then in "Le Gerny", the nightclub of Louis Leplée near the Champs-Élysées.
She met Raymond Asso (1901-1968) and Marguerite Monnot (1903-1961), who wrote and composed her best songs; she stroke up an acquaintance with actor and singer Maurice Chevalier.
1948 – 32 The love of Piaf's life, the boxer Marcel Cerdan, middleweight champion of the world, died in a plane crash in October 1949, in the Azores, while flying from Paris to New York City to meet her. 
1952 – 36 Piaf married Jacques Pills in 1952 (her matron of honour was Marlene Dietrich). She divorced him in 1956. In 1962, she wed Théo Sarapo (Theophanis Lamboukas), a Greek hairdresser who was 20 years her junior. 
She suffered from different illnesses during her life, especially after several car crashes.
1963 – 47 Piaf died of liver cancer at Plascassier, near Grasse (Département Alpes-Maritimes), on 10 October 1963. 
Among her most famous songs are ""Mon légionnaire"" (1936), ""Le fanion de la Légion"" (1936), ""La vie en rose"" (1946), ""Hymne à l'amour"" (1949), ""Padam... Padam..."" (1951), ""l'Accordéoniste"" (1955), ""Les amants d'un jour"" (1956),""La foule"" (1957), ""Milord"" (1959) and ""Non, je ne regrette rien"" (1960). 
Although she was denied a solemn funeral mass, her funeral procession from her residence, Boulevard Lannes (Paris, XVI arr.) drew tens of thousands of mourners onto the streets of Paris, that caused a huge traffic jam. The ceremony at the cemetery‚ Le Père-Lachaise (Paris, XX arr.), was attended by more than 100,000 fans. 

</doc>
<doc id="49029" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49029" title="Weed">
Weed

A weed is a plant that people think is bad, because it is growing in the wrong place. Trees are not often called weeds, only smaller plants.
A person may grow a plant because it has beautiful flowers, but other people may think that this plant is a weed for some reason. This may be for one of these reasons:
If someone is farming a plant and it then moves outside the farm, the plant may then be called a weed.
Some plants are very hard to stop once they start growing. These are called invasive weeds. 
Weed is also a name for any wild plant, one that people do not use for anything.

</doc>
<doc id="49030" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49030" title="Ternopil">
Ternopil

Ternopil () is a city in western Ukraine. It is also the administrative centre of the Ternopil region. The city has about 245,000 inhabitants (2004) and lies on the Siret River.
The city was part of the Austrian Habsburg Empire from 1772 until 1918, and it belonged to Poland before 1772. When the Austrain empire fell in 1918, Turnopil beccame part of the short-lived ZUNR (Western Ukrainian National Republic). After heavy battles between Polish troops and Ukrainian Galician Army troops, the city was occupied by Poland in 1920. However, it was only part of Poland for less than 20 years, and in September 1939, it was taken by Soviet troops and annexed to the USSR. Ternopil became part of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic. When the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991, it became a part of Independent Ukraine.

</doc>
<doc id="49040" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49040" title="Justin Lee Collins">
Justin Lee Collins

Justin Lee Collins (born 28 July 1974) is an English television and radio presenter and former stand-up comedian from Bristol. Collins co-hosted "The Friday Night Project" on Channel 4 with Alan Carr.

</doc>
<doc id="49041" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49041" title="Alan Carr">
Alan Carr

Alan Carr (born 14 June 1976) is an English television presenter and stand-up comedian. Carr was born in Weymouth, Dorset, and grew up in Northampton. He presented Channel 4's The Friday Night Project with Justin Lee Collins. Carr is openly gay. He hosts "Alan Carr: Chatty Man".

</doc>
<doc id="49052" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49052" title="Cremation">
Cremation

Cremation is the act of burning a body after it has died. Cremation is a popular option to dispose of (get rid of) a body instead of burying it. The place where cremations take place is called a crematorium or crematory.
Religions which approve cremation include Christianity, Jehovah's Wittnesses, Buddhism, Hinduism, Jainism, Sikhism, Shinto and Neopaganism. Judaism and Mormonism strongly discourage cremation. Islam, Neo-Confucianism and Zoroastrianism disapprove it. 
Cremated remains (also called "ashes") are returned to the person's family. The family then has a few options of what to do with the remains. Usually the ashes are buried in an urn at a cemetery plot just as a coffin is buried in normal earth burial. Many religions require the ashes to be handled in dignified manner. In Scandinavia it is customary to bury the ashes ín an urn in a family grave (= a grave which contains the remains of many family members). Family graves are also popular in Japan and Thailand.
Sometimes the cremated person has thought about what they want to be done with their remains and have shared their desires with their family. Cremated remains can be kept in a container called an urn, which in turn can be buried on cemetery plot or placed in a depot called "columbarium", or thrown into the air or water of a place that was special to the cremated person, or buried anonymously in the ground. These are the most popular choices of what to do with remains. There are also other, less common, options of how to dispose of the remains. Some examples of ways to scatter the remains are: through fireworks, shot from guns, or dropped from an airplane or hot air balloon. Remains can even be sent into space or turned into a diamond. The latter can be done because humans and diamonds are both made largely from carbon.

</doc>
<doc id="49058" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49058" title="Spartacus">
Spartacus

Spartacus (circa 120 BC – circa 70 BC, at the end of the Third Servile War), according to Roman historians, was a gladiator-slave who became the leader of an unsuccessful slave uprising against the Roman Republic. 

</doc>
<doc id="49059" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49059" title="George Africanus">
George Africanus

George John Scipio Africanus (1763—1834) was a West African slave who became a successful businessman in Nottingham, England.

</doc>
<doc id="49060" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49060" title="Booker T. Washington">
Booker T. Washington

Booker Taliaferro Washington (April 5, 1856, – November 14, 1915) was an American political leader, teacher and author. He was born into slavery, but was eventually freed. He was one of the most important people in African American history in the United States from 1890 to 1915.
Washington helped start the Tuskegee Institute, which was a university for African-American students, after attending the Hampton Institute. Washington believed that in order to create a peaceful post-slavery society, black and white people needed to "cast down the bucket" and become friends with each other. He saw violence and protests against discrimination of blacks as holding grudges between the races. Washington also stated that freed blacks should not aim for Congress right away, they needed to start by being able to support themselves economically.
Washington was invited to dinner by President Theodore Roosevelt. The President wanted to appoint Washington to advise him on issues of race. This upset some American people. African Americans had visited the White House before but had never been asked to dine there. In reaction several newspapers published a racist poem called "Niggers in the White House". The poem was published again when the wife of Representative Oscar DePriest had tea with wife of President Herbert Hoover.

</doc>
<doc id="49080" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49080" title="Scipio Africanus">
Scipio Africanus

Publius Cornelius Scipio Africanus (236–183 BC) was a general in the Second Punic War and a politician of the Roman Republic. He was best known for defeating Hannibal of Carthage. 
Scipio won the battle of Zama in North Africa. He got the last name "Africanus" and became known as one of the best commanders in military history. The battle was a complete disaster for Carthage, who had to beg for peace, and were given humiliating terms by Rome.

</doc>
<doc id="49087" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49087" title="Blessing">
Blessing

A blessing is way to wish good luck for a person. Sometimes, in religious rituals, it is said the God blesses those who are good, or people can bless God. In Judaism, they bless God over wine. The priests can also bless religious objects in order to make them become holy.
The saying "bless you" is commonly used when someone sneezes. This is done because there is a tradition carried by the superstition that a person's soul will come out of their mouth and nose if they sneeze. People believed that saying "God bless you," or "bless you" for short, would make the soul go back inside. They are wishing the person good luck so that their soul is able to come back. 
People also think that if unusual good luck or a miracle comes to them, it is a blessing. For example, if some people wanted a child badly but are having difficulty conceiving, it could be considered a blessing from God if they end up having a child.
To "give your blessing" to someone is to give permission to them. For example, a man can ask his girlfriend's parents' for their blessing before he asks her to marry him.
Blessings are often thought of as the opposite of a curse.

</doc>
<doc id="49094" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49094" title="Karel Svoboda">
Karel Svoboda

Karel Svoboda (19 December 1938 – 28 January 2007) was a Czech composer of popular music. He wrote music for many TV series in the 1970s. 
Karel Svoboda was born in Prague, Czechoslovakia (now Prague, Czech Republic) and began his career as a pop composer after stopping studying medicine in his third year of university. He became a member of the rock band "Mefisto" in the 1950s. Later, he composed music for the "Laterna Magica" theatre in Prague and for many Czech singers. In 1969 he wrote "Lady Carneval" for Karel Gott, a major Czech pop star. Svoboda wrote a total of 80 songs for him.
Svoboda composed TV scores for the German channel ZDF for over 30 years. He wrote the scores to many TV series in the 1970s that a whole generation of Europeans grew up with. Some examples of these TV series are Vicky the Viking, Maya the Bee and The Wonderful Adventures of Nils. 
Svoboda wrote scores for almost 90 films and TV series.
Svoboda was found fatally shot in the garden of his villa at Jevany on January 28, 2007. It is believed that he committed suicide.

</doc>
<doc id="49098" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49098" title="Third Servile War">
Third Servile War

The Third Servile War, also called the Gladiator War and The War of Spartacus by Plutarch, was the last of several slave rebellions against the Roman Republic. 
These are called the Servile Wars. The Third Servile War was the only which was dangerous for Italia itself and was doubly alarming to the Roman people because the slaves won several battles against the Roman army between 73 and 71 BC. The rebellion was defeated at last in 71 BC by Marcus Licinius Crassus. The rebellion had indirect effects on Roman politics for many years.
In 71 BC, a band of slaves escaped. At first a small group of about 78 gladiators escaped. The band grew to over 120,000. Men, women and children wandered throughout Italy, and raided with relative impunity. Their leaders included the famous gladiator-general Spartacus. 
The able-bodied adults of this band were a surprisingly effective armed force. They showed they could withstand the Roman military, from the local Campanian patrols, to the Roman militia, and to trained Roman legions under consular command. Plutarch described the actions of the slaves as an attempt by Roman slaves to escape their masters and flee through Cisalpine Gaul, while Appian and Florus depicted the revolt as a civil war in which the slaves waged a campaign to capture the city of Rome itself.
The Roman Senate's grew alarmed about the military successes of this band, and their damage to Roman towns and the countryside. Eventually, after several defeats, the Senate put an army of eight legions under the harsh but effective leadership of Marcus Licinius Crassus. The war ended in 71 BC when the armies of Spartacus, after long and bitter fighting, retreated before the legions of Crassus. Realizing that the legions of Gnaeus Pompeius Magnus and Marcus Terentius Varro Lucullus were moving in to trap them, they launched their full strength against Crassus' legions and were utterly destroyed.
The Third Servile War was significant to the broader history of ancient Rome mostly in its effect on the careers of Pompey and Crassus. The two generals used their success in putting down the rebellion to further their political careers, using their public acclaim and the implied threat of their legions to sway the consular elections of 70 BC in their favor. Their actions as Consuls damaged Roman political institutions and led, after Caesar's death, to events which turned the Roman Republic into the Roman Empire.
Works at LacusCurtius.

</doc>
<doc id="49099" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49099" title="Vibrating string">
Vibrating string

A vibration in a string is a wave. A vibrating string mostly produces a sound with constant frequency. As frequency characterizes the pitch, the sound produced is a constant note.
Vibrating strings are the basis of any string instrument like guitar, cello, or piano.

</doc>
<doc id="49100" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49100" title="Angular momentum">
Angular momentum

The angular momentum ("L") of an object rotating about an axis is the product of its moment of inertia and its angular velocity:
where
Angular momentum is a conserved quantity—an object's angular momentum stays constant unless an external torque acts on it.

</doc>
<doc id="49102" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49102" title="Axle">
Axle

An axle is a central shaft for a rotating wheel or gear. In some cases the axle may be fixed in position with a bearing or bushing sitting inside the hole in the wheel or gear to allow the wheel or gear to rotate around the axle. In other cases the wheel or gear may be fixed to the axle, with bearings or bushings provided at the mounting points where the axle is supported. Sometimes, especially on bicycles, the latter type is referred to as a spindle.
Axles are an important structural component of a wheeled vehicle. The axles maintain the position of the wheels relative to each other and to the vehicle body. Since for most vehicles the wheels are the only part touching the ground, the axles must bear the weight of the vehicle plus any cargo.

</doc>
<doc id="49103" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49103" title="Gear">
Gear

Gears are mechanical parts with cut teeth designed to fit with teeth on another part so as to transmit or receive force and motion. Gears are also sometimes called toothed wheels or cogged wheels or cogs. The cut teeth are also sometimes called cogs.
Numerous nonferrous alloys, cast irons, powder-metallurgy and even plastics are used in the manufacture of gears. However steels are most commonly used because of their high strength to weight ratio and high cost.

</doc>
<doc id="49104" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49104" title="Gear (disambiguation)">
Gear (disambiguation)

A gear is a toothed wheel designed to transmit force (torque) to another gear or toothed component.
"Gear" can also mean:
GEAR may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="49105" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49105" title="Gearshift">
Gearshift

A gearshift (US English), gearstick, or gear lever (both UK English) is a metal rod connected with the manual transmission of an automobile that is used to choose the gear. In an automatic transmission, the same rod is usually called a gear selector.

</doc>
<doc id="49107" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49107" title="Transmission (mechanics)">
Transmission (mechanics)

In mechanics, a transmission or gearbox means gears working together. The most common transmission is the transmission in a car.
In a car, the engine makes the crankshaft spin. The crankshaft makes the transmission's gears spin, which spin some more parts, which make the wheels spin. But the wheels do not spin as fast as the engine makes the crankshaft spin. That is because the gears are made to slow down the spinning. The gears also give the spinning more force (or to be more scientifically exact, more torque), so the wheels can make the entire car move. most transmissions have a breather vent to let hot air escape.
A transmission has some gears that change the torque more than other gears. That is why a transmission has a first gear, second gear, third gear, and sometimes more gears. There is also a reverse gear and neutral. An automatic transmission shifts between gears by itself (except reverse gear, and a parking gear). A manual transmission needs the driver to decide when to shift gears. Manual transmission is also called standard transmission. This is confusing because almost all cars in the U.S. have automatic transmission. In other words, "standard" transmission is unusual in the U.S., not standard.
A layshaft is the middle shaft within a gearbox (transmission). When the clutch is engaged, the layshaft turns constantly. All gears on the layshaft turn at the same rate and are permanently attached. It carries gears but does not transfer the primary drive of the gearbox in of the gearbox or out of the gearbox. Layshafts are mostly known through their use in car gearboxes. The oil level in a gearbox is set to layshaft height. That way the spinning gears distribute oil to all the gears.
Not all transmissions are in cars. For example, bicycles have transmissions. You can see the gears, so it is easier to see how it works.

</doc>
<doc id="49108" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49108" title="Hydraulics">
Hydraulics

Hydraulics is a topic of science and engineering subject dealing with the mechanical properties of liquids. 
One of the founders of modern hydraulics was Benedetto Castelli, a student of Galileo Galilei.
Fluid mechanics provides the theoretical foundation for hydraulics, which focuses on the engineering uses of fluid properties. 

</doc>
<doc id="49111" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49111" title="List of U.S. states by area">
List of U.S. states by area

This is a complete list of the states of the United States ordered by "land area", total "area", and air "area". 
All data is provided by the United States Census Bureau and is current as of 2000 with the exception of three more recent state government sources.
State source updated 2005 Michigan.gov
State source updated 2001 Wyoming.gov
United States Geological Survery 2014 water.USGS.gov

</doc>
<doc id="49115" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49115" title="Tom Vilsack">
Tom Vilsack

Thomas James Vilsack (born December 13, 1950) is a former Governor of Iowa and a former Democratic candidate for President of the United States. 
Vilsack was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. At college, he met and married his wife, Christie. They moved to Iowa after graduation. They have two children.
Vilsack served in the Iowa State Senate before he ran for governor in 1998. He won that election and the next one in 2002. He chose not to run again in 2006. 
In December 2006, Vilsack said he would run for president. He dropped out of the race a few months later. He endorsed New York Senator Hillary Clinton. Vilsack is now U.S. Secretary of Agriculture.

</doc>
<doc id="49119" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49119" title="Actinide">
Actinide

The actinide series is the 15 chemical elements between actinium and lawrencium on the periodic table. They have the atomic numbers between 89 - 103. The actinide series is named after actinium. All of the elements are radioactive.

</doc>
<doc id="49122" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49122" title="Opera Software">
Opera Software

Opera Software is a company in Oslo, Norway that makes Opera, a set of tools for using the Internet.

</doc>
<doc id="49151" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49151" title="Tiananmen Square">
Tiananmen Square

Tian'anmen Square (Tian'anmen Guangchang) is a large plaza near the center of Beijing, China. It is named after the Tian'anmen ("Gate of Heavenly Peace") which sits to its north, separating it from the Forbidden City (Zijincheng). Outside of China, the square is well known for the Tian'anmen Square protests of 1989.
The square is 880 meters south to north and 500 meters east to west, a total area of 440,000 square meters. It is the largest open-urban square in the world.

</doc>
<doc id="49154" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49154" title="Hot sauce">
Hot sauce

Hot sauce, chili sauce, or pepper sauce are all spicy condiments made from chili peppers.

</doc>
<doc id="49162" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49162" title="University of Pristina">
University of Pristina

The University of Pristina is at present the name of two disjoint public universities in Kosovo, sharing the same history up to a point of separation, which took place in 1999. The university was founded in the city of Pristina 1970 and as result of pervasive ethnic-based polarisation segregated. The two separate, disjoint institutions are using the same name, in Priština and Mitrovica.

</doc>
<doc id="49165" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49165" title="Kosovska Mitrovica">
Kosovska Mitrovica

Kosovska Mitrovica is a town in North Kosovo, Serbia. Over 71,601 people live in Kosovska Mitrovica, mostly in the south. The town used to be called Titova Mitrovica. Originally it was named after Saint Dimitrije.
There is the University of Pristina in Kosovska Mitrovica.

</doc>
<doc id="49174" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49174" title="Figure">
Figure

Figure could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="49175" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49175" title="Bending">
Bending

"This article is about the structural behavior. For other meanings see Bending (disambiguation)."
In engineering mechanics, bending (also known as flexure) characterizes the behavior of a structural element subjected to a lateral load. A structural element subjected to bending is known as a beam.
A closet rod sagging under the weight of clothes on clothes hangers is an example of a beam experiencing bending.

</doc>
<doc id="49176" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49176" title="Bending (disambiguation)">
Bending (disambiguation)

Bending can refer to the following:

</doc>
<doc id="49180" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49180" title="Torsion">
Torsion

The word means "twisted".

</doc>
<doc id="49182" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49182" title="Torsion (mechanics)">
Torsion (mechanics)

In solid mechanics, torsion is the twisting of an object that is result of an applied torque. In circular sections, the resultant shearing stress is perpendicular to the radius.
The shear stress at a point on a shaft is:
"T" is the applied torque, "r" is the distance from the center of rotation, and "J" is the polar moment of inertia.
The angle of twist can be found by using:
Where:

</doc>
<doc id="49183" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49183" title="Shaft">
Shaft

Shaft can refer to 

</doc>
<doc id="49185" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49185" title="Polar moment of inertia">
Polar moment of inertia

Polar moment of inertia is a measure of a circular beam's ability to resist torsion. It is required to calculate the twist of an beam subjected to a torque. It is analogous to the area moment of inertia, which characterizes a beam's ability to resist bending and is required to calculate displacement.
The larger the polar moment of inertia, the less the beam will twist, when subjected to a given torque.
The "polar moment of inertia" must not be confused with the "moment of inertia", which characterizes an object's angular acceleration due to a torque.
Unlike other forms of inertia, polar moment of inertia has units of length (SI m)

</doc>
<doc id="49189" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49189" title="Burial">
Burial

Burial is the act of placing an object or dead body into the ground.
Human bodies are usually buried in a cemetery. It is common practice in many places to put bodies into a coffin and place the coffin into a grave. The grave is then usually marked with a headstone so that people know who is there and can visit them.
In the past, often during times of war, many bodies have been placed into the same grave without coffins. This is called a "mass burial" or a "mass grave".

</doc>
<doc id="49191" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49191" title="Gila monster">
Gila monster

The Gila monster () is a venomous desert lizard. The Gila monster’s name comes from the Gila River in Arizona, USA.
The Gila monster is heavy and slow for a lizard. It can grow up to 2 feet(60 cm) long. Its skin looks like beads and is black, pink, orange, and yellow. It looks a lot like the Mexican beaded lizard, which is its closest relative.
The Gila monster can bite quickly and hold on tightly, but it does not kill humans. It usually eats small rodents, young birds and eggs. The lizard chews its prey, injecting its venom (poison) into the animal through teeth in its lower jaw. The Gila monster can also store food in its tail.
In 2005 a medicine to treat diabetes was made from the Gila monster’s saliva. Some people who take it call it "lizard spit" as a joke.

</doc>
<doc id="49192" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49192" title="Elizabeth Smart">
Elizabeth Smart

Elizabeth Ann Smart (born November 3, 1987) is an American woman who was kidnapped when she was 14 from her home in Salt Lake City, Utah on June 5, 2002. She was found alive on March 12, 2003 about 20 miles from her home. She was found with two homeless adults, Brian David Michell and Wanda Barzee. Barzee was Mitchell's legal wife. Police believe that Elizabeth was taken to be Mitchell's second wife.
Smart has put the kidnapping behind her. She is now studying harp at Brigham Young University. She would like to play harp in an orchestra or teach the harp to others. She has appeared on television in support of laws that would give child sex offenders a harsher punishment. She has said very little publicly about her kidnapping. She has also made it clear that she does not want to publicly comment very much about her ordeal.

</doc>
<doc id="49193" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49193" title="'N Sync">
'N Sync

'N Sync, sometimes called *NSYNC was an American pop boy band formed in Orlando, Florida in 1995. The five members of the group were Lance Bass, JC Chasez, Joey Fatone, Chris Kirkpatrick, and Justin Timberlake. Since the band broke up, Timberlake and Chasez have released solo albums.
<nowiki>'N Sync's</nowiki> album "No Strings Attached" holds the record for the most copies of an album sold in its first week after being released. The album sold 1.1 million copies its first day and 2.4 million in the first week.

</doc>
<doc id="49199" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49199" title="Bury">
Bury

Bury is a town in the north of the metropolitan county of Greater Manchester in North West England. 
Bury is between Rochdale and Salford; the town is a dormitory town in a northern suburb of Manchester. It is just west of the M66 motorway, and is the largest settlement of the Metropolitan Borough of Bury. It has a population of 60,718.

</doc>
<doc id="49203" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49203" title="Salma Hayek">
Salma Hayek

Salma Hayek Jiménez (born September 2, 1966) is an Academy Award-nominated Mexican actress, Emmy-winning director, movie producer and television producer. She is the most successful Latin-American actress in Hollywood since Carmen Miranda. Hayek has appeared in more than thirty movies and worked as an actress outside of Hollywood in Mexico and Spain.
Hayek's charitable work includes increasing awareness on violence against women and discrimination against immigrants.
Salma Hayek was born in Coatzacoalcos, Mexico. Her father, Sami Hayek is Libanese and was a politician. Her mother, Diana Jiménez is a Mexican and was a opera singer. Salma left the town with 12 years and went to a catholic boarding school in Louisiana. She had a bad manners and had to leave the school. She moved to her aunt in Texas and stayed until she was 17 years old. After the graduation, she went back to her hometown and studied international relations and drama in Mexico City.
Hayek longed to be an actress and ended the study. She had her first appearance in the Mexican telenovela "Teresa". There, she played a main role. Using this role, she was known in Mexico. Later, she left the Show.
In 1991, she went to Los Angeles and started a career there, but she had little knowledge of English. There, she did drama and elocution lessons. In January 1993, she got a supporting role in "Mi Vida Loca". In 1995, she played in "Desperado" with Antonio Banderas. She got an Academy Award and a Golden Globe Award nomination for her role in "Frida" as best actress in 2003.
On 9 March 2007, she confirmed her engagment with the French businessman François-Henri Pinault and her pregnancy. In September 2007, she got a daughter, Valentina Paloma Pinault on the Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles, California. In July 2008, they separated. They reconciled and married in February 2009. They married for the second time in April 2009.
She speaks Spanish, Arabic, Portuguese and English.

</doc>
<doc id="49208" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49208" title="Pellagra">
Pellagra

Pellagra is a disease caused by a lack of niacin (vitamin B3). Niacin is found in most foods. A person can die from pellagra if it is not treated. The main results of pellagra can be remembered as "the four D's": diarrhea, dermatitis, dementia, and death.

</doc>
<doc id="49209" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49209" title="Dermatitis">
Dermatitis

Dermatitis means "inflammation of the skin." It looks like a red rash in most cases. It most often refers to eczema.

</doc>
<doc id="49220" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49220" title="Chet Culver">
Chet Culver

Chester John "Chet" Culver (born January 25, 1966) is the Governor of Iowa.
Culver was born in Washington, D.C.. His father, John Culver, was a United States Senator. Before entering politics, Culver was a teacher.
In 1998, Culver won election to be the Iowa Secretary of State. He was reelected in 2002. After Governor Tom Vilsack said he would not run for Governor in 2006, Culver became a Democratic candidate for Governor. In November of 2006, he defeated his Republican opponent, Jim Nussle, and in January he became Governor of Iowa.

</doc>
<doc id="49221" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49221" title="Duel">
Duel

A duel is a fight between two people who have similar deadly weapons and have agreed to a set of rules before the fight takes place. The fight is usually about a matter of honor. The goal of a duel is not usually to kill the opponent but to restore the honor of the man who declared the duel. Duels are not official laws, they are carried out by individuals.
Duels were practiced from the 15th to 20th century in Western societies. For example, in 1804 in the United States the politicians Aaron Burr and Alexander Hamilton had a duel. Since the American Civil War, all U.S. states have criminalized dueling, with punishments for dueling ranging from not being allowed to run for public office to the death penalty. Dueling was outlawed because groups against dueling formed and were successful.
Duels could be fought with swords or pistols.
The person who felt offended or dishonored had to "challenge" his opponent to a duel. This was usually done by throwing his glove down in front of the opponent or by hitting him in the face with a glove. Each person had to then find a person to be his "second". The job of the seconds was to choose a place to duel and to decide whether or not the weapons were equal. 
The person who declared the duel got to choose when the duel would be finished. Common endings to duels were:

</doc>
<doc id="49227" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49227" title="The Castle (movie)">
The Castle (movie)

The Castle is a 1997 Australian movie which was popular in Australia. Some people outside Australia did not understand some of the humour. "The Castle" starred Michael Caton and Anne Tenney and was filmed in Melbourne, Australia.
"The Castle" was made in 11 days for about AUD$750,000. Some people have said that "The Castle" is a very simple movie because it was filmed cheaply and quickly. However, fans of the movie generally appreciate it because it is a good movie that was made on a low budget.
The story is about the Kerrigan family, who have been living in their home—their "castle"—for years. Their house is next to the local airport. The airport wants the Kerrigans to move so that they can build a new building on the Kerrigans' land. Darryl Kerrigan is the father. He does not want to leave his house, so he fights the airport in court. At first he loses in court because his lawyer is not very good. Then he meets a very good lawyer (a Queen's Counsel). The Queen's Counsel argues very well and the Kerrigans can keep their house.
"The Castle" is funny to Australians because the movie is about ordinary people. They are not rich or stylish, but they are good people. Australians like the idea of "the little Aussie battler", someone who is hard-working even when life is tough. The movie title is named for the English saying, which is said many time during the movie, "A man's home is his castle." The movie also talks about the land rights movement of the Australian Aborigines. Darryl Kerrigan compares his problem to the Aboriginals problems about land. The movie talks about famous Australian Constitutional Law Cases, like Mabo and the Tasmanian Dams Case.
It is common in Australia to humorously quote lines from ""The Castle"". Some of the most popular of these are:

</doc>
<doc id="49232" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49232" title="Documenta">
Documenta

documenta is one of the most important exhibitions of modern art in the world. Since 1955, it takes place every five years in Kassel, Germany. More than 750 thousand people visited the last one, documenta 12, which was held in 2007. The next one, documenta 13, will be from June 9 to September 16, 2012.

</doc>
<doc id="49252" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49252" title="Al Pacino">
Al Pacino

Alfredo James "Al" Pacino (born April 25, 1940) is an American actor. He has won an Academy Award for Best Actor, an Emmy Award, and two Tony Awards. He is probably best known for his roles as Tony Montana in the movie "Scarface" and as Michael Corleone in "The Godfather". He is also in "Carlito's Way".
Pacino is currently co-president, along with Ellen Burstyn and Harvey Keitel, of the Actors Studio.
Pacino has three children. The eldest, Julie Marie (born 1989), is his daughter with acting coach Jan Tarrant. He also has twins, son Anton James and daughter Olivia Rose (born 2001), with actress Beverly D'Angelo. They had a relationship from 1996 until 2003. Pacino had a relationship with Diane Keaton, his co-star in the Godfather Trilogy. Other women he has had relationships with include Tuesday Weld, Marthe Keller, Kathleen Quinlan and Lyndall Hobbs. Pacino has never married.
Pacino has been nominated and has won many awards during his acting career. These include eight Oscar nominations (winning one), 15 Golden Globe nominations (winning four), five BAFTA nominations (winning two), two Primetime Emmy Awards for his work on television, and two Tony Awards for his work on the stage. In 2007, the American Film Institute awarded Pacino with a lifetime achievement award. In 2003 British television viewers voted Pacino as the greatest movie star of all time in a poll for Channel 4.

</doc>
<doc id="49265" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49265" title="Balfour Declaration of 1917">
Balfour Declaration of 1917

The Balfour Declaration of 1917 was a policy by the government of the United Kingdom to discuss the partitioning of the Ottoman Empire after World War I. The declaration also said that Britain supported plans for a Jewish homeland in Palestine. The issuance of the Declaration had many long lasting consequences, and was a key moment in the lead-up to the Arab–Israeli conflict, often referred to as the world's "most intractable conflict".

</doc>
<doc id="49272" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49272" title="Radius">
Radius

In geometry, the radius of a circle or sphere is the shortest connection between the center and the boundary. It is half of the diameter.
r= d ÷ 2
d= 2 x r = d= r + r
r= Radius
d= Diameter
The relationship between the radius formula_1 and the circumference formula_2 of a circle is 
formula_3
The area formula_4 of a circle of radius 
formula_1 is 
formula_6

</doc>
<doc id="49279" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49279" title="Morality">
Morality

Morality is the concept of doing the right thing. Morals are basic guidelines for living.
Many people have written about ways of choosing what the right thing is. Some believe that there is an objective (true even if you do not agree with it) morality, often thinking it was set out by God or another similar being; others think that morality is subjective (that what is good or bad is a community choice).
People can learn morals from religion, parents, friends, school, books, or from ethical traditions. People that teach or follow morals are called moralists.
It can also be a lesson that someone learns in a book or story. It is usually one line at the end of the story ("The moral of this story is..."). Fables are stories with a moral. 
The opposite of "moral" is "immoral", meaning the wrong thing to do. "Amoral" means something that is not related to morality, or has no morally good or bad aspect to it. It is the same as "morally neutral".

</doc>
<doc id="49298" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49298" title="Saliva">
Saliva

Saliva is the watery substance made in the mouths of humans and some animals. Saliva begins digesting food in the mouth, and moistens food to make swallowing easier.Saliva consists of 99.5%water.

</doc>
<doc id="49301" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49301" title="Villarosa">
Villarosa

Villarosa is a town in the province of Enna, in the region of Sicily in southern Italy. 

</doc>
<doc id="49302" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49302" title="Maria Sharapova">
Maria Sharapova

Maria Sharapova (born 19 April 1987) is a Russian tennis player. She was born in Nyagan, Western Siberia, RSFSR. Her parents had moved from Belarus to protect themselves from the Chernobyl nuclear accident. The Sharapov family moved again in 1989, when Maria became interested in tennis, when watching her father play, and played tennis with a second-hand racquet. She would practice tennis by hitting the tennis ball against the wall every day, and her dad soon noticed that she was very good at the sport.
Maria's tennis coaches told the Sharapovs that they should move to Moscow, Russia, to get better training. The Sharapovs moved again, from Moscow, to follow Maria's coach, Martina Navratilova's advice, to move to the United States.
There was a problem, though. Sharapova's mother, Yelena, could not get a visa to go to the United States. Meanwhile, Maria and her father tried to get Maria to go to a famous sports school, and they also had to learn English. Maria showed so much talent that soon, she got a full scholarship to attend the school. At first though, Maria's dad had to pay for Maria to stay at the famous school, doing all sorts of jobs so that they could be able to pay for the school.
Sharapova trained harder and harder. She was videotaped when practicing, and her every move was recorded. Then, she would watch the videos with her coaches to watch her form, emotions, and expressions.
She began to win tournaments and many people started to notice her. Her games improved, and Maria gained more fans.
She has won 35 singles titles in her career, including five Grand Slam championships: Wimbledon in 2004, the US Open in 2006, the Australian Open in 2008 and the French Open in 2012 and 2014. She won an Olympic silver medal at the 2012 Summer Olympics. She is the world number 3 women's tennis player as of September 2015. In 2005, she was ranked world number 1 for the first time, and in 2012 for the last time. 
In March 2016, Sharapova revealed she had failed a drug test at the 2016 Australian Open, admitting to testing positive for meldonium, a substance banned by the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) at the start of 2016. On June 8, 2016, she was suspended from playing tennis for two years by the International Tennis Federation (ITF).
In Russia, female surnames are changed so that their gender can be identified, so Sharapov becomes Sharapova.

</doc>
<doc id="49308" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49308" title="True bug">
True bug

The true bugs are an order of insects. Biologists call true bugs the Hemiptera. There are around 80,000 species of true bugs. The word "bug" by itself can have other meanings.
There are many different kinds of true bugs, some of which are aphids, cicadas, planthoppers, shield bugs, and others. All of these are true bugs. Their size is from 1 mm to over 10 cm. All true bugs have similar mouthparts, which they use to suck up plant sap.
Bugs have piercing, sucking mouthparts: this defines the Hemiptera. They pierce plants with their long, tube-like mouth, called a proboscis or a beak. They cannot chew. The true bug pumps saliva through this mouth, to partly digest their food. It then sucks up the food, which is usually plant sap.
The name "Hemiptera" is from the Greek: it means "hemi" (half) and "pteron" (wing). Most true bugs have half of their front wings hardened and have the other half soft. These wings are called "hemelytra" (singular "hemelytron"), because they halfway look like the hard wings (elytra) of beetles. The hind wings are totally soft and are shorter than the front wings.
The antennae of bugs usually have five segments. The tarsi (foot parts) of their legs have three or fewer segments.

</doc>
<doc id="49312" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49312" title="Bug">
Bug

Bug can mean many different things:

</doc>
<doc id="49327" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49327" title="Dayton, Ohio">
Dayton, Ohio

Dayton is a large city in the American state of Ohio. It is where Orville and Wilbur Wright grew up. The Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, also near Dayton, gets part of its name from the Wright brothers. The National Museum of the United States Air Force is inside the Wright-Patterson Air Force Base.

</doc>
<doc id="49331" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49331" title="Native Esperanto speakers">
Native Esperanto speakers

Native Esperanto speakers are people who learned Esperanto as one of their first languages. Esperanto is not spoken in any countries as an official language, so they must become bilingual, trilingual, or multilingual. Native Esperanto speakers can use this language completely and more fluently than non-native Esperanto speakers. There are not very many native Esperanto speakers. It is thought that no more than one or two thousand people speak Esperanto as their first language.

</doc>
<doc id="49335" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49335" title="Soldering iron">
Soldering iron

A soldering iron is a device used to attach pieces of metal together with solder, which is called soldering. Soldering irons are used mainly for attaching electronic components onto a circuit board with tin, but can also be used for other tasks such as fixing jewelry. There are several different kinds of soldering irons, such as ones that are hotter than others, and ones that use electricity or natural gas.
A soldering iron stand can be used to hold the iron. That is a flat metal stand with a coil that holds the iron.

</doc>
<doc id="49351" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49351" title="Hungarian Vizsla">
Hungarian Vizsla

Hungarian Vizsla is a dog breed. Vizslas are known for being affectionate and not aggressive. They originated in Hungary and are an excellent hunting dogs.
The breed was developed from dogs used by Hungarian tribes. Vizslas were owned by sporting nobility of Hungary who use to hunt with them. They were used to hunt deer, wild boar and wolf. The breed almost disappeared during the First World War and Second. Dogs were smuggled out of Hungary during the Second World War. These dogs were used later to breed in other countries.
Hungarian Vizsla's have a dark gold coat. Some dogs may also have small white marks on their feet and/or chest.
They are active, enthusiastic, friendly. Vizslas need human company to stay happy. They do not make good kennel dogs.
Daily exercise and mental tasks are necessary. Outside they are very active. Indoors, Vizslas can be quite inactive. The dogs prefer to rest beside their owners. Some are quite demanding of attention. If Vizslas do not receive enough exercise, they will become bored. If bored, they may choose to do to amuse themselves with digging or chewing on things.

</doc>
<doc id="49353" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49353" title="Drawing (manufacturing)">
Drawing (manufacturing)

Drawing is a manufacturing process for producing a wire, bar or tube by pulling on a material until it increases in length. This is typically accompanied by a thinning out of the material, usually through a reduction in the girth.
This technique has long been used to produce flexible metal wire by drawing the material through a series of holes of decreasing size. More recently drawing has been used with molten glass to produce high quality optical fibers.

</doc>
<doc id="49357" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49357" title="Manufacturing">
Manufacturing

Manufacturing is producing goods out of raw materials. It is a branch of industry. It includes making very big, complicated things that take a lot of steps to finish. Often machines are involved in manufacturing.
In the past products were made by handicraft workers using tools and manual labor. In modern times, most manufacturing jobs got replaced by automated manufacturing machines, which made the products much faster and in turn - cheaper than humans could.

</doc>
<doc id="49358" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49358" title="Finished goods">
Finished goods

Finished goods are goods that have completed required manufacturing process and are awaiting to be fitted/mixed/processed with final product OR final product itself could also be called finished goods.
Examples: cars, computers, spare parts, etc.
In manufacturing there are three different sorts of stuff:
Something bought as a "raw material" is used to manufacture a product. A thing that is not completed during the manufacturing process is called "work in process". When the manufacturing of the thing is completed but it is not yet sold or distributed to the end-user, it is called a "finished good".
"Finished good" is a relative term. Finished goods of a supplier can be the raw material of the buyer. For example when the supplier sells paper and the buyer is a book publisher.
Other examples: cars, clocks, pianos etc.

</doc>
<doc id="49359" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49359" title="Good (economics)">
Good (economics)

A good in economics is any object or product (factors of production) that is useful. A commodity is one kind of good. 
A good that cannot be used by consumers directly, such as an office building or capital equipment, can be called a good because it can be useful if it is sold. A 'good' in economic usage does not necessarily mean that the object is good in a moral sense. 
If an object or service is sold for a positive price, then it is a good since the purchaser considers the utility of the object or service more valuable than the money. Some things are useful but not scarce such as air and are referred to as "free goods". 
In macroeconomics and accounting, a good is contrasted with a service. A good here is defined as a physical product that one can deliver to a buyer. The service is not an object, but an action that benefits someone. A more general term that preserves the distinction between goods and services is 'commodities'. In microeconomics 'good' is often used in this more inclusive sense of a commodity.

</doc>
<doc id="49363" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49363" title="Ruslana">
Ruslana

Ruslana Stepanivna Lyzhychko (May 24, 1973) is a popular Ukrainian pop singer, composer, producer, conductor and dancer. She was born in the city of Lviv in Ukraine. She won the Eurovision Song Contest in Istanbul in 2004. She is also a former Member of Parliament serving as deputy in the Ukrainian parliament (Verkhovna Rada) for the Our Ukraine Party.
In 2014, Ruslana became a leader in the Maidan movement for human rights and democratic reform in Ukraine. During the demonstrations, Ruslana stayed on the streets. At night she slept in a cold tent. Every night she sang the Ukrainian national anthem for the protestors. When the government police came, she stayed on the stage. She told the protesters to stay calm. She told the police to respect human rights.
Ruslana was also in the 2004 Orange Revolution. She was UNICEF National Ambassador in Ukraine in 2005. In 2008 she spoke for green energy.
In 2014 Ruslana received the International Women of Courage Award form the U.S. Department of State. 

</doc>
<doc id="49370" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49370" title="Mustard plant">
Mustard plant

The word mustard is used to refer to several species of plants. These plants belong to the genera "Brassica" or "Sinapis". They have tiny seeds. These seeds can be used as a condiment. When they are first ground, and then mixed with water, vinegar and other ingredients, a condiment called mustard can be made. The seeds can also be pressed, to give a kind of oil called "mustard oil". Some kinds of mustard plants have edible leaves. These leaves are known as "mustard greens".
Mild white mustard ("Sinapis hirta") grows wild in North Africa, the Middle East and Mediterranean Europe and has spread farther by long cultivation; brown or Indian mustard ("B. juncea"), originally from the foothills of the Himalaya, is grown commercially in the UK, Canada and the US; black mustard ("B. nigra") in Argentina, Chile, the US and some European countries. 
In addition to the mustards, the genus "Brassica" also includes cabbages, cauliflower, rapeseed and turnips.
There has been recent research into varieties of mustards that have a high oil content for use in the production of biodiesel, a renewable liquid fuel similar to diesel fuel. The biodiesel made from mustard oil has good cold flow properties and cetane ratings. The leftover meal after pressing out the oil has also been found to be an effective pesticide. 
An interesting genetic relationship between many species of mustard have been observed.
The mustard plant is in no way related to mustard gas, an agent for chemical warfare

</doc>
<doc id="49376" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49376" title="Mustard gas">
Mustard gas

Mustard gas or sulfur mustard is a chemical compound which has been used as a chemical weapon. It was used in World War I by the German Army against British and Canadian soldiers near Ypres, Belgium, in 1917. Later it was also used against the French Second Army.
Most sulfur mustards are squishy liquids with no color and no smell when they are at room temperature. When used in warfare, they have a color yellowish to brown. Some of them smell like culinary mustard (the type used for food), horseradish or garlic. They got their name from the smell, but are completely unrelated to culinary mustard.
Sulfur mustard (in its form mustard gas) was synthesized by Frederick Guthrie in 1860. It may have been discovered as early as the 1820s, by M.Depretz.
Its use during warfare was prohibited by the Geneva Protocol of 1925. This protocol outlawed the use of poison gas (which was widely used in the First World War). An additional agreement, the Chemical Weapons Convention, was ratified in 1993. It also outlaws the production and stockpiling of such agents.
Sulfur mustard is the organic compound with formula (ClCHCH)S. 
It is a viscous liquid at normal temperatures. The pure compound has a melting point of 14 °C (57 °F) and decomposes before boiling at 218 °C (424 °F).

</doc>
<doc id="49396" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49396" title="Amelia Earhart">
Amelia Earhart

Amelia Mary Earhart (July 24, 1897 – July 2, 1937) was an American aviator, one of the first women to fly a plane long distances. She was the first woman to fly a plane by herself across the Atlantic Ocean. She broke many records and showed how air travel had moved forward. She also wrote books, most of them were about her flights. Earhart vanished over the South Pacific Ocean in July 1937 while trying to fly around the world. She was declared dead on January 5, 1939.
Many researchers believe that the Electra ran out of fuel and that Earhart and Noonan ditched at sea. The "crash and sink" theory is often the most widely accepted explanation of Earhart’s and Noonan’s fate. However, there is a range of documented, archaeological, and anecdotal evidence supporting the hypothesis that Earhart and Noonan found Gardner Island, uninhabited at the time, landed the Electra on a flat reef near the wreck of a freighter, and sent sporadic radio messages from there. It has been surmised that Earhart and Noonan might have survived on Nikumaroro for several weeks before succumbing.

</doc>
<doc id="49408" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49408" title="Situation comedy">
Situation comedy

A situation comedy, usually called a sitcom, is a type of comedy program. Sitcoms were first on radio, before television was invented, but are now on television and are a large part of the programs shown. Sitcoms usually have the same characters in the same places (for example; a home, a workplace, a bar, a city or town) on every episode.

</doc>
<doc id="49414" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49414" title="Frank Sinatra">
Frank Sinatra

Francis Albert "Frank" Sinatra (December 12, 1915 – May 14, 1998) was an American singer, musician, actor and filmmaker. His singing career was 60 years long, and more than 250 million records of his have been sold worldwide. He is also well known by the nickname "Old Blue Eyes". "The New York Times" said he was "the first modern pop superstar". At first, he was mostly known as a "crooner", a singer of love songs. By the 1950s and 1960s, he was singing swing and jazz songs as well.
Sinatra was also part of the Rat Pack, a group of entertainers (musicians and actors), in the 1950s and 1960s. The name was informal, and the group was not an official organization of any sort, but a group of friends. Members of the Rat Pack included Sinatra, Dean Martin, Sammy Davis, Jr., Peter Lawford, Joey Bishop, Humphrey Bogart, Judy Garland, Lauren Bacall, Sid Luft, and Shirley MacLaine.
He was born in Hoboken, New Jersey to Italian immigrants.
Sinatra was also an actor. He was in movies such as "The Manchurian Candidate", "From Here to Eternity", and "The Man With The Golden Arm". He won an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for his performance in "From Here To Eternity".
Sinatra was married 4 times. He was married to Nancy Barbato from 1939 to 1951, to Ava Gardner from 1951 to 1957, to Mia Farrow from 1966 to 1968, and to Barbara Marx from 1976 until his death on May 14, 1998.
Sinatra died on May 14, 1998 at 10:50 pm at the Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles, California, after suffering a heart attack. His wife Barbara was at his side. The words "The best is yet to come" are written on his gravestone.
• , "The Voice - Vita e italianità di Frank Sinatra", Coniglio Press, Roma 2011 ISBN 8860632595

</doc>
<doc id="49415" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49415" title="Bing Crosby">
Bing Crosby

Harry Lillis "Bing" Crosby (May 3, 1903 - October 14, 1977) was an American singer and actor. His singing career was around fifty years long and more than 500 million records of his have been sold worldwide. Crosby is known for creating the style of music that Perry Como, Frank Sinatra, and Dean Martin would later copy. Crosby said that he was inspired by Al Jolson.
He sang "White Christmas" and it became "the best-selling record of all time." Irving Berlin wrote this song. In 1962, Crosby became the first person ever to receive the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award. 
Crosby was a Roman Catholic. He died of a heart attack in Madrid, Spain.

</doc>
<doc id="49416" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49416" title="Felt">
Felt

Felt is a type of cloth that is made by matting wool fibers, either with water and soap, or by poking the fibers with barbed needles. Felt can be made by hand, or by machine.
People have been making felt longer than any other kind of fabric. Felt can be of any color, and made into any shape or size. Felt is used to make many things like clothing, hats, and rugs. Nomadic people in many countries live in tents made of felt.
Felt is used for many different things. Today people use felt for hat-making, insulating (making warm), sound-proofing, and cushioning.
The difference between felt and most fabrics, like denim, is that most fabrics have a regular criss-cross, in-and-out weaving pattern, but felt is a messy of threads. Most fabrics are woven for strength and smoothness: they need carding to straighten the fibers, spinning to turn fibers into long threads and weaving to make fabric. Felt only needs a carding comb. Because of this, felt was often used by nomadic people.

</doc>
<doc id="49417" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49417" title="Dean Martin">
Dean Martin

Dean Martin (born Dino Crocetti June 7, 1917 - December 25, 1995) was an American singer and actor.
Martin was born in Steubenville, Ohio. His mother was Italian American; his father was Italian. Martin's career as a singer really began when he met comedian Jerry Lewis at a club and they decided to team up as a comedy-music pair. They became successful at clubs. They then acted in the movie "My Friend Irma", which made them famous. They worked together for ten years. They had a popular radio show. They made more movies. Martin became a huge success on his own when he sang "That's Amore". His partnership with Lewis ended on July 26, 1956. Their last movie, "Hollywood or Bust", was released that December in the United States.
Martin was part of the Rat Pack, a group of entertainers (musicians and actors), in the 1950s and 1960s. Their unofficial "leader" was Frank Sinatra. (Sinatra personally called the group "The Summit".) They made movies and performed live shows together, many in Las Vegas, Nevada.
Martin later had his own television show. He made recordings for Reprise Records, a record label started by Frank Sinatra. At the height of the rock and roll era, Martin still had hit records. His "Everybody Loves Somebody Sometime" even knocked The Beatles off the top of the "Billboard" sales charts.
Martin made movies on his own, which were mostly comedies. Four of them starred him as "Matt Helm", a spy like James Bond. Martin also appeared in dramatic movies, like "Rio Bravo" and "Airport". When he sang onstage or on television, he always had a cocktail glass with him. Most people thought he was drinking whiskey as he performed. However, he actually drank apple juice the whole time. Offstage, Martin enjoyed Jack Daniels whiskey, and red wine.
His television show was cancelled in 1975, but he continued on television with "The Dean Martin Celebrity Roasts", a series of specials that mocked celebrity dinners. Other comedians and actors would appear, and instead of praising the guest of honor, would make fun of them. None of the mocking was serious, though, and everyone usually had fun at the roasts. The specials ran until 1984.
Martin was more or less retired in the early 1990s. He did record a new collection of his best songs, which were sold through television commercials. In early 1987, his son Dean Paul ("Dino") Martin was in the United States Air Force, and his airplane crashed during a mission. His body was later recovered. Losing Dean Paul broke Martin's spirit. He never seemed happy after that.
Martin joined Sinatra and other Rat Packers for a reunion tour, but he quit after just a few shows. Sinatra was very angry. The two did not speak for years. They later made their peace, after members of the Rat Pack began to die off. Martin lived in . He watched movies at home, and went to dinner at a nearby restaurant.
During the 1990s, Martin developed emphysema from years of cigarette smoking. He also had trouble with his liver. His health became bad. He began to think about death. He and his wife Jeanne were divorced years earlier, but had remained close. She encouraged him not to worry about dying, and to think about his parents, and their son Dean Paul, waiting for him.
Martin died in Beverly Hills, California over the Christmas holidays in 1995, watching television in bed. As a tribute, the lights on the Las Vegas Strip were dimmed for one minute, in his memory. His was the title of his best-remembered song: "EVERYBODY LOVES SOMEBODY SOMETIME".

</doc>
<doc id="49418" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49418" title="Sammy Davis, Jr.">
Sammy Davis, Jr.

Sammy Davis, Jr. (December 8, 1925 – May 16, 1990) was an American entertainer. He was a dancer, singer and instrumentalist (playing vibraphone, trumpet and drums), comedian and actor. He was born in Harlem, New York City. Davis became hugely successful as a stage singer and recording artist and when asked to play at segregated places (where African-Americans were not allowed) he refused. Because of this some popular venues began to allow African-Americans to attend just so they could have Davis and other popular black musicians play. Before that black singers like Davis and Nat King Cole could play at the hotels and casinos but not stay or gamble there.
Davis led an unhealthy lifestyle of drinking, smoking and cocaine use but was one of the most popular musicians and actors of the time. He converted to Judaism while in the hospital in 1954 and 1955. He was also a member of the Rat Pack with friends Frank Sinatra and Dean Martin.
The Kennedy Center honored Davis in 1987.
Davis died of throat cancer in Beverly Hills, California.

</doc>
<doc id="49419" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49419" title="Racial segregation">
Racial segregation

Racial segregation means separating people because of their races. Segregation was legal and normal in many countries across the world, for many years. For example, until 1964, it was still legal to separate white and African-American people in some states. In South Africa, from the 1940s until the 1990s, a system called apartheid kept white and black South Africans separate. Racial segregation has happened in many other countries, throughout history. 
Segregation is not as simple as having "separate but equal" places for people of different races. Segregation happens when a country or a society views one race as better than another. The goal of segregation is to keep the "inferior" race away from the "better" race. Because one race is seen as "inferior," people of that race are not treated well. They go through discrimination. Often they are not given basic rights, like the right to vote. As a United States Supreme Court judge said in a case about segregation in schools: "separate facilities are [always] unequal." 
Segregation may have existed in early Anglo-Saxon England. When the Anglo-Saxons arrived in England in the 4th century, they may have created an "apartheid-like society," according to some historians. They may have treated the native British people like slaves, and had rules against marrying them. Some historians say Anglo-Saxons were much richer and had a higher social status than Celtic Britons.
From the early 1800s to the late 1980s, the Australian government took many Aboriginal children away from their families. Their families had not agreed to let their children go. However, the government had decided to force Aboriginal children to "assimilate" into Australian society. The children were placed in white homes or on missions. There, they were forced to learn Christianity, leave behind their Aboriginal culture, become a part of white society, and marry white people. The goal of this program was to "breed out" Aboriginal traits so that they no longer existed in Australia. Later, in 1951, the United Nations would define this type of program as genocide.
From about 1900 to the 1970s, Australia followed what became known as the "White Australia Policy." This policy kept non-white people from immigrating to Australia by making immigration tests too hard to pass.
In the early- to mid-twentieth century, many Aborigines were forced to live on missions. The goal of this policy was to get the Aborigines off their lands, because white settlers wanted to use them.
In the 1960s, Australia changed its official policy to "integration." This meant that the Aborigines had to be able to live in Australian society or on missions. However, many Aborigines refused to follow these orders and kept living far away from cities. In these areas, they were segregated from the rest of Australian society, and were also poorer. At the time, some people called the situation "apartheid," and even suggested that the Australian government's policies inspired the apartheid program in South Africa.
In 1366, the King of England passed thirty-five laws called the Statutes of Kilkenny. Their goal was to prevent English settlers in Ireland from mixing with the Irish people or becoming too much like the Irish. The laws made it illegal the English to marry native Irish people, have Irish children, adopt Irish children, use Irish names or clothes, or speak anything but English.
In 1830, France took control of Algeria from the Ottoman Empire. For over a hundred years, Algeria was a French colony. The French rulers kept an apartheid-like system in Algeria. For example, Arab and Berber Algerians were allowed to apply for French citizenship (which would give them the right to vote and other rights) only if they abandoned their Muslim religion and culture.
Algerian Muslims were not willing to go along with this "system of apartheid," and this system was one of the main causes of the Algerian War in 1954.
In fifteenth-century north-east Germany, "Wendish" (Slavic) people were not allowed to join some guilds. According to Wilhelm Raabe, "into the eighteenth century no German guild accepted a Wend."
In 1935, after the Nazi Party had taken control of the German government, they passed the Nuremberg Laws. The Nazis, led by Adolf Hitler, believed that the "Aryan" race was better than any other races. The Nuremberg Laws made it illegal for "Aryan" and "non-Aryan" people to marry or have sex. At first, the laws were mostly meant to keep "Aryans" from mixing with Jewish people (who the Nazis viewed as an inferior race). However, the Nazis later added "Gypsies, Negroes and their bastard [children]" to the Laws. Aryans who broke these laws could be sent to concentration camps; non-Aryans could be executed. To keep German blood "pure," after World War II began, the Nazis made it illegal for any non-German to marry or have sex with a German person.
In 1939, the Nazis invaded Poland and took it over. They divided the Polish people into different ethnic groups. Based on how "Germanic" they were, each group had different rights. For example, the different groups were allowed different amounts of food; and were only allowed to live in certain places and use certain public transportation.
During the 1930s and 1940s, the Nazis made Jews wear yellow ribbons or stars of David with the word ""Jude"" ("Jew") on them. Racial laws discriminated against Jews and Roma people (Gypsies). For example, Jewish doctors were not allowed to treat Aryan patients; Jewish professors were not allowed to teach Aryan students. Jews were not allowed to use any public transportation, besides the ferry; ride bicycles; or ride in cars. They were allowed to shop only from 3:00pm to 5:00pm, and only in stores owned by Jews. They could not go to theaters, swimming pools, or any other places for entertainment.
During the Holocaust, the Nazis tried to kill all of the Jews and Roma in Europe. They also killed millions of Slavic people (including Ukrainian, Soviet, and Polish people), because they saw Slavs as an inferior race. First the Nazis forced Jews and Roma to live in ghettoes, apart from everyone else. Then they sent millions of Jews, Roma, and Slavs to concentration camps and death camps.
Also, between 1939 and 1945, at least 1.5 million Polish people were deported to Nazi Germany for forced labour. Nazi Germany also used forced laborers from Western Europe. However, Polish people and other Eastern Europeans who the Nazis viewed as racially inferior were treated much worse. They were forced to wear a cloth tag on their clothing with the letter "P" on it, which showed that they were Polish. They had to follow a curfew and could not use public transportation. Usually, they had to work longer hours, for lower pay, than Western Europeans. In many cities, they had to live in segregated barracks, behind barbed wire. They were not allowed to talk to Germans outside of work. If they had sexual relations with Germans, they would be executed.
During the Tang Dynasty, the Han Chinese passed several laws that segregated non-Chinese people from Chinese people. In 779, the Tang Dynasty made a rule which forced Uighurs to wear their traditional ethnic clothing, not Chinese clothing. It also banned them from 'pretending' to be Chinese, and from marrying Chinese women. The Han Chinese disliked the Uighurs because they loaned money for interest.
In 836, when Lu Chun was appointed governor of Canton, he was disgusted to find Chinese living with foreigners and marrying them. Lu made segregation the law. He made it illegal for non-Chinese people to marry Chinese people or to own property. The law specifically banned Chinese from forming relationships with "Dark peoples" or "People of color." This meant foreigners like "Iranians, Sogdians, Arabs, Indians, Malays, Sumatrans", and others.
In 1938, Italy was ruled by a fascist regime led by Benito Mussolini. The regime was allied with Nazi Germany. Under pressure from the Nazis, the regime passed several laws that said the Italian Empire would now practice segregation. They called these laws the 'provvedimenti per la difesa della razza' (norms for the defence of the race).
The laws especially targeted Jews. For example, Jews could not:
Because of these laws, Italy lost some of its best scientists. Some were fired. For example, Rita Levi-Montalcini, who would later win the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, was told she could no longer work at her university. Others left Italy because of the laws. For example, Enrico Fermi, who worked on the first nuclear reactor and won the Nobel Prize for Physics, left the country. (His wife was Jewish.) Many other well-known scientists, physicists, mathematicians, and other scholars lost their jobs or left Italy because of the race laws.
Albert Einstein resigned from his honorary membership at the Accademia dei Lincei, an Italian science academy, to protest the race laws.
After 1943, when Northern Italy was occupied by the Nazis, Italian Jews were taken to Nazi concentration camps and death camps.
For centuries, Jews in Europe were often forced to live in segregated ghettos and shtetls (small towns where mostly Jews lived). In 1204, the Pope ordered Jews to segregate themselves from Christians and to wear clothing that marked them as Jews. Forced segregation of Jews spread throughout Europe during the 14th and 15th centuries. 
In the Russian Empire, starting in the 1790s, Jews were only allowed to live in the Pale of Settlement. This was the Western frontier of the Russian Empire, about where Poland, Lithuania, Belarus, Moldova, and Ukraine are today. By the early 20th century, most European Jews lived in the Pale of Settlement.
In Morocco, beginning in the 15th century, Jewish people were segregated in "mellahs". In cities, a "mellah" was a separate area for Jews, surrounded by a wall with a fortified gateway. Rural "mellahs" were separate villages where only Jews lived.
In the middle of the 19th century, historian J.J. Benjamin wrote about the life of Persian Jews:
When Spanish people came to the Americas and made Latin American countries into colonies, they created a caste system based on race. They came up with fifteen different categories of people based on their race mixtures, including categories like "mulatto" and "mestizo". People who were "whiter" or more "Spanish" had a higher social status than people who were "darker" or more Native American. People who were "darker" were treated as inferior and faced discrimination for example, they had to pay higher taxes than "whiter" people.
Usually, when they won their independence from Spain, most Latin American countries made laws against caste systems. However, prejudice based on race remains.
Racial segregation in South Africa began when the country was a Dutch colony. The Dutch landed at Cape Town in 1652 and gradually took over more and more of the country. Segregation continued when the British Empire took over the Cape of Good Hope in 1795.
Slavery existed in South Africa until 1833. However, two years later, the government passed a law that changed slaves into indentured servants. This system was not very different from slavery. Throughout the rest of the 1800s, the South African colonies passed laws that limited these worker's rights and freedoms.
In 1894 and 1905, the government passed laws saying that "Indians" and 'blacks" had no right to vote. Other laws discriminated against non-whites, but were not as bad as the apartheid laws that would come within the next 50 years.
Apartheid in South Africa started in 1948. At that time, the National Party won control of the South African government. This political party was made up of Afrikaner people. Afrikaners are the descendants of Dutch settlers who came to South Africa in the 1600s and 1700s. The National Party believed in Afrikaner nationalism. Soon, they started a program of apartheid (which means "apart-hood" 'being apart' or 'being separate' in the Afrikaans language).
The goal of apartheid was to keep non-white people apart from whites economically, politically, and socially. This meant the National Party did not want non-whites to have the same social status as them; to vote or have any part in the government; to live or work near whites; or even to go to schools, beaches, parks, or other places that whites used. 
The National Party passed apartheid laws to make racial segregation the law in South Africa. Some of the most important laws included:
Under these apartheid laws, between 1960 to 1983, 3.5 million non-white South Africans were forced to leave their homes and move into segregated neighborhoods. This is one of the largest mass removals in modern history.
Other laws made it illegal for a person to marry or have sex with a person of a different race. Then, in 1969, the government took away "Coloured" people's right to vote. Since "Indians" and "blacks" had not been allowed to vote for decades, this meant that whites were the only people in South Africa who were allowed to vote.
In 1970, non-whites were banned from having representatives in the government. That same year, black people's South African citizenship was taken away.
Protests against apartheid started right after apartheid did. As early as 1949, the youth wing of the African National Congress (ANC) suggested fighting against racial segregation using many different strategies. Over the next 45 years, hundreds of anti-apartheid actions occurred. They included protests by the Black Consciousness Movement; student protests; labor strikes; and church group activism. In 1991, the Abolition of Racially Based Land Measures Act was passed, reversing laws about racial segregation, including the Group Areas Act. In 1990, President Frederik Willem de Klerk started trying to end apartheid. Nonwhites were given the right to vote in 1993. South Africa had its first multiracial elections (where non-whites were allowed to be candidates in 1994. Nelson Mandela and the African National Congress won. Mandela and de Klerk were awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1993 for working together to end apartheid.
The United States has a long history of racial segregation, starting when the first European settlers came to North America. First through slavery, then through racist laws, and then through racist attitudes, African-American people in the United States have faced segregation for centuries. People of other races have been segregated too. For example, during World War II, the President of the United States, Franklin D. Roosevelt, ordered almost the entire Japanese-American population to be segregated in internment camps. 
People of all races have fought against segregation and discrimination in the United States. Thanks to movements like the African-American Civil Rights Movement, segregation is now against the law in the United States. However, prejudice against minority groups still exists. This has led to new types of segregation caused by people's prejudices and behavior.

</doc>
<doc id="49423" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49423" title="Torrance, California">
Torrance, California

Torrance is a city in southwest Los Angeles, California. Jared Torrance founded it in 1911. In 2003, there were 142,621 people living in Torrance. It is the sixth biggest city in Los Angeles county.

</doc>
<doc id="49425" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49425" title="Chuck Berry">
Chuck Berry

Charles Edward Anderson "Chuck" Berry (born October 18, 1926 in St. Louis, Missouri) is an American singer, guitarist and songwriter. He is one of the original musicians who helped to create rock and roll. 
In 1955 Berry met Muddy Waters who told him of a record company that would release his first song. In 1957 he joined the Everly Brothers, Buddy Holly and other popular musicians on a tour around the United States. Over the next few years he became more and more popular and had many popular songs on the radio. "Maybellene" (1955), "Roll Over Beethoven" (1956), "Rock and Roll Music" (1957) and "Johnny B. Goode" (1958) were massive hits.
He has influenced many rock and pop musicians who came after him. Berry has influenced many music artists, like The Beatles, The Rolling Stones, The Beach Boys, and Bob Dylan. A jail sentence for sexual intercourse with a 14-year-old Apache waitress dented his career: he served 18 months. When released, his first recording was "Nadine", (1964) also a huge hit. 
Berry was a favorite with "The Beatles", "The Rolling Stones" and "The Beach Boys", who adapted and recorded a number of his songs.
In 1986 a documentary film, "Hail! Hail! Rock 'n' Roll", was made. It featured a celebration concert for Berry's sixtieth birthday, organized by Keith Richards. 
Berry still gives live concerts.

</doc>
<doc id="49429" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49429" title="Nagamaki">
Nagamaki

Nagamaki is a Japanese pole weapon with a large and heavy blade. It is very much like a glaive. It was introduced and used primarily during the Kamakura (1192 - 1333), Nanbokucho (1334 - 1392) and early Muromachi (1392 – 1573) periods. It was a long sword with 2–4 foot blade and a handle with 2–3 foot length. The blade was single-edged. It was also sharpened along the back edge to reduce its weight. It reminds a traditional naginata, but the main difference was that the handle (tsuka) of the nagamaki was not constructed of wood; it was made more like a katana handle. Even the name "nagamaki" is given by the tradition of handle wrapping. The word "nagamaki" means "long wrapping". The nagamaki handle was wrapped with cords in criss-crossed manner, very similar to the wrapping that is made on katana. The nagamaki is considered to be a type of the no-dachi sword. This one was a variation of long samurai sword. 
The way to hold nagamaki was also very specific. It was held with the two hands in a fixed position in the same way a katana sword is held. Unlike the naginata, the hands did not change when handling the weapon and the right hand was always the closest to the blade. While handling nagamaki not too many sliding actions on the handle were performed as it was in naginata's case, where you use the entire length of the shaft. The nagamaki was not spread and developed until much later like the naginata sword. During the middle of the Muromachi period (1336-1600 A.D.) it reached its peak of usage. 
The nagamaki is designed for large sweeping and slicing strokes. It also works as a spear. Traditionally, it was used as infantry weapon. Warriors used the weapon against horsemen. Still, it required more time and materials to create a nagamaki than a spears or a naginata sword, this is why it was not so widely spread. 
The closest exemplar of real nagamaki you can see today is nagamaki-naoshi. It appears to be like a long katana-shaped glaive but straighter and thinner, with a very long handle. In contrast to it naginata is shorter, wider and more curved to the tip. 

</doc>
<doc id="49431" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49431" title="Naginata">
Naginata

Naginata is a Japanese bladed weapon with a long shaft (wooden handle). The weapon looks like a pole and is often mistaken with one. The word "naginata" means "mowing down sword" or "reaping sword". The length of the blade varies from 1 to 3 feet. The blade's shape describes a 'leaf' being more curved to the point. The naginata's blade is mounted directly to a long wooden shaft, its length ranges between 6 and 9 feet. The part that goes inside the handle (tang) is almost as long as the blade itself. This assures a perfect fixture of the blade. The shaft has a sharp end-cap, or ishizuki, which serves for piercing between the plates of armor.
Historically, the facts indicate that naginata have been used in China beginning with 3 B.C. First source it was mentioned in was the Kojiki (A Record of Ancient Matters, 712). Then, it is represented in the paintings of battlefield scenes made during the Tengyo no Ran (Tengyo Insurrection), in 936 A.D. The sword was utilized and refined during the Nara period (approx. 710-784 A.D.), and by the 11th century it was widely used in battles. 
The naginata was also used by warrior-monks for temples defense against invaders. Around the 1400's A.D. this weapon was no more used by monks because the temples were no longer a target. The samurai used the naginata only when fighting against numerous enemies or on horseback. 
Still, naginata was most commonly used when the samurai was too young to handle a full length katana and when he was mostly an archer. By the Edo period (1603-1867), the naginata was no more used in combat. It became the representative weapon of samurai women. They engaged in trainings for self-defense and defense of their children and for virtue development. Moreover, the fashion developed further and there appeared samurai families, which displayed naginata in prominent places of their houses. Later the naginata was even given as present to the bride. 
There are three main theories of naginata appearance as a weapon. One of the most spread is the supposition that naginata evolved from a farming tool used for chopping. The tools were made as long staffs with sharp stones attached to one of the ends. The tool was used in the 3rd century B.C. Later, the stones were replaced with metal pieces. Thus, when the crops and lands of the farmers were under attack they defended it with their farming tools, which proved to be effective weapons and later were refined. 
The Chinese theory is based on the idea that Chinese halberds were brought to Japan during early migrations, (around 200 B.C.). Most of the weaponry experts believe that even if the Chinese invented the weapon, it was refined and developed by the Japanese.
Another theory says that the naginata evolved directly as a weapon. The blade of naginata ancestors was made of bronze. Later, the discovery of steel made it even more effective. This theory affirms that naginata development far later than the appearance of metal in Japan from the Asian continents (around 200 B.C.).
The naginata was meant for foot soldiers use; whereas the military elite (samurai) used the katana sword. There are evidences that naginata was also used by the Sohei (Buddhist warrior monks). 
The naginata was also considered a women's weapon. It gave considerable advantage because of the long shaft keeping the enemy at a safe distance. One of the most famous Japanese women warriors was Itagaki. Her naginata skills overwhelmed even the most trained samurai. During the Edo period (1600-1800 AD), Japanese women were thought to handle the naginata by the age of 18. 
The naginata was also considered an effective weapon against horsemen. The way naginata was handled required specific motions because of its length. Usually, it was sweeping and circular motion, because it was inconvenient to use striking methods like with a traditional sword. In order to fully utilize the naginata, it requires the handler to rapidly shift hand positions along the length of the shaft. 
This weapon was especially functional in cavalry battles, acting like medieval spears-running. Infantry used the naginata to cut the horse's legs. After this the disoriented rider was easily killed. 
Naginata is also known as a Japanese martial art performed by men, women, and children. The roots of this fighting technique come for over 1.000 years ago. This martial art has as its centerpiece a Japanese sword - Naginata. The weapon reminds a pole and is very efficient against riders as well as against foot soldiers. The sword is very well balanced and weighted which makes it possible for women and children to handle it. The naginata way of fighting is very graceful due to circular performance of the naginata sword. 
Today Naginata is a combat system that teaches respect, patience, etiquette, self-confidence, and self-control. The practice of Naginata educates perfect control and balanced movements of the body. When into this art, discipline and concentration are needed to reach the grace and effectiveness of the movements. Moreover, it establishes person's character by developing a moral code based on honor.
The modern naginata has changed its shape during history. Now, it is more like a European halberd or glaive. The blade looks more like a scimitar moreso rather than of a wakizashi. Naginata went through the influence of westernization after the Meiji Restoration (1868-1912), when the value of martial arts dropped, and survived till the Showa period (1912 – 1926), when naginata became a part of the public school system. 
Different styles of naginata handling were developed creating world known schools (ryu). The Atarashii Naginata School and Jikishin-kage ryu are the most popular. There are also known schools like Tendo ryu and Toda Ha Buko ryu. Despite the differences between these schools Naginata martial art has at its base the art of wielding one of the most original weapons and the goal of developing traditional etiquette and spiritual training of a person.

</doc>
<doc id="49442" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49442" title="Ainu language">
Ainu language

Ainu language is the language of Ainu people.
The Ainu language was not a written language until the 19th century. Since then, it has been written in katakana or the Latin alphabet. 
In the past, particularly in the 19th centuries, Ainu language was spoken in Ezo (including Hokkaidō Island and the southern part of Chishima Islands), the southern part of Karapto (Sakhalin) and the northern part of Chishima Islands (Kuril Islands).
Ainu language has many dialects including "Chitose", "Saru", "Karapto" and others. Historically, Ainu people did not make a unified government, and then there has not been a standard Ainu language. The dialects are so different from each other that a speaker of one of the dialects cannot recognize what a speaker of another dialect said.
Historically, Ainu language speakers were the neighbor of the speakers of Japanese language, Itelmen language and Nivkh language, which was spoken in the northern part of Sakhalin and considered to be an isolated language, too. 
Ainu has the SOV word order similarly to Japanese. Ainu phrases have left-branching structures. When telling about properties of a person or thing, the word of the property is said before it.
The word "ainu" means "human being" and is the name used by Ainu people to refer to themselves. In contrast, "kamuy" means god, deity. Ainu people think that all of the existence who is supposed to have mind and plays a role in this world are "kamuy". Each sparrows or standing tree is a kind of "kamuy". In the Ainu people's perspective of the world, all goes well and human being can also be happy only when "ainu" and "kamuy" give a profit each other.
Most of linguists think the numeral system of Ainu language base on twenty. 

</doc>
<doc id="49453" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49453" title="Tenacious D">
Tenacious D

Tenacious D is a band. The members of the band are the actor Jack Black and his best friend Kyle Gass. The band started in Los Angeles, California in 1994. Their songs have lots of profanity. Including Tribute, Beezleboss and so on.

</doc>
<doc id="49455" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49455" title="Saurischia">
Saurischia

Saurischia is one of the two orders of dinosaurs. In 1888, Harry Seeley classified dinosaurs into two main orders. Their hip structure was why they were put into these orders. Saurischians ('lizard-hipped') and the ornithischians ('bird-hipped') have differences in the ways bones in the hip are put together. 
All carnivorous dinosaurs (the theropods) are saurischians, and so are the sauropods like "Diplodocus" and "Brachiosaurus".
Birds are direct descendants of a group of theropod dinosaurs, so they are a sub-clade of saurischian dinosaurs in modern classification.

</doc>
<doc id="49459" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49459" title="Stethoscope">
Stethoscope

A stethoscope is a instrument used by doctors and other medical people. It is used to measure peoples heartbeat and their breathing. It is placed on the area where the heart is or on the back. 
The modern stethoscope is made up of a Y-shaped flexible plastic tube. An earpiece is attached to each end of the Y and a sound-detecting device at the other end. The sound-detecting device has a thin plastic sheet on one side and a bell shape with a hole in on the other. The diaphragm is used to listen to a patient's chest for high-pitched sounds. The bell end is used to detect lower-pitched sounds. The lung sounds have a higher frequency than heart sounds.

</doc>
<doc id="49461" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49461" title="Gouda (cheese)">
Gouda (cheese)

Gouda is a kind of soft cheese made from cows' milk. The cheese is named after the city of Gouda, which is famous for it. The name "Gouda" is not protected, so Gouda is made all over the world. There is also a protected designation of origin "Noord-Hollandse Gouda" (Gouda from North Holland). This may seem inaccurate, because the city of Gouda is in South Holland. Most of the cows however graze in North Holland.
There are two varieties of Gouda for export: Young gouda, which is between one and six months old. Young gouda is usually sold with a yellow or red coating of paraffin wax. 
Gouda that is older, is usually sold with a black coating. It is more brittle, and has a stronger scent. 
There are other variations, like "Smoked Gouda", which is a processed cheese, and Leyden Gouda.
There is also spiced gouda which has spices in it to make it have more flavour. 

</doc>
<doc id="49463" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49463" title="Passion bearer">
Passion bearer

In Russian Orthodox Christianity, a passion bearer is someone who faces their death in a Christian or Christ-like way. They were not killed because of their religion, unlike martyrs, but they love God and show good virtues.

</doc>
<doc id="49470" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49470" title="Tile">
Tile

A tile is a manufactured piece of hard-wearing material such as ceramic, stone, porcelain, metal or even glass. Tiles are generally used for covering roofs, floors, and walls.
Tiles are often used to form wall and floor coverings, and can range from simple square tiles to complex mosaics. Tiles are most often made from ceramic, with a hard glaze finish, but other materials are also commonly used, such as glass.
In the past twenty years, the technology of porcelain and glass tiles has advanced, moving both from a niche marketplace to a place of prominence in the tile community.
Roof tiles are designed mainly to keep out rain, and are traditionally made from locally available materials such as clay or slate. Modern materials such as concrete and plastic are also used and some clay tiles have a waterproof glaze.
A large number of shapes (or "profiles") of roof tiles have evolved.
Fired roof tiles are found as early as the 3rd millennium BC in the "House of the tiles" in Lerna, Greece. Debris found at the site contained thousands of terracotta tiles having fallen from the roof. In the Mycenaean period, roofs tiles are documented for Gla and Midea.

</doc>
<doc id="49472" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49472" title="Bellini">
Bellini

Bellini can mean several people or things, including

</doc>
<doc id="49475" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49475" title="Gouda">
Gouda

Gouda can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="49478" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49478" title="Porcelain">
Porcelain

Porcelain is a ceramic material made by heating clay-type materials to high temperatures. It includes clay in the form of kaolinite.
There is a distinction between hard-paste porcelain, fired at 1400 degrees Celcius, and soft-paste porcelain, fired at 1200 degrees Celcius. Bone china is soft-paste porcelain made from bone ash and kaolinite.
The raw materials for porcelain are when mixed with water and form a plastic paste. The paste is worked to a required shape before firing in a kiln.
Porcelain originated in China, and 'china' is the common name of the product. By the Eastern Han Dynasty period (196–220 AD) glazed ceramic wares had developed into porcelain. Porcelain manufactured during the Tang Dynasty (618–906 AD) was exported to the Islamic world, where it was highly prized. Early porcelain of this type includes the tri-colour glazed porcelain, or "sancai" wares. Porcelain items in the sense that we know them today could be found in the Tang Dynasty, and archaeological finds have pushed the dates back to as early as the Han Dynasty (206 BC – 220 AD). By the Sui Dynasty (581–618) and Tang Dynasty (618–907), porcelain was widely produced.
In 1712, many of the Chinese porcelain secrets were revealed in Europe by the French Jesuit father Francois Xavier d'Entrecolles, and published in "Lettres édifiantes et curieuses de Chine par des missionnaires jésuites".
Early in the 16th century, Portuguese traders returned home with samples of kaolin clay, which they discovered in China to be essential in the production of porcelain wares. However, the Chinese techniques and composition used to manufacture porcelain were not yet fully understood.
In the German state of Saxony, the search concluded in 1708 when Ehrenfried von Tschirnhaus produced a hard, white, translucent type of porcelain with kaolin clay and alabaster, mined from a Saxon mine in Colditz. It was a closely guarded trade secret of the Saxon enterprise.
Von Tschirnhaus and his assistant Johann Friedrich Böttger were employed by Augustus the Strong and worked at Dresden and Meissen in Saxony. A workshop note records that the first specimen of hard, white and vitrified European porcelain was produced in 1708. At the time, the research was still being supervised by Tschirnhaus, but he died in October of that year. Böttger reported to Augustus in March 1709 that he could make porcelain. He usually gets the credit for the European discovery of porcelain.
The first important French soft-paste porcelain was made at the Saint-Cloud factory before 1702. Soft-paste factories were established at Chantilly in 1730 and at Mennecy in 1750. The Vincennes porcelain factory was established in 1740, and moved later to larger premises in Sèvres. in 1756. Vincennes soft-paste was whiter and more perfect than any of its French rivals, which put Vincennes/Sèvres porcelain in the leading position in France.
The first soft-paste in England was demonstrated by Thomas Briand to the Royal Society in 1742, and is believed to have been based on the Saint-Cloud formula. In 1749, Thomas Frye took out a patent on a porcelain containing bone ash. This was the first bone china, subsequently perfected by Josiah Spode.
In the twenty-five years after Briand's demonstration, half a dozen factories were founded in England to make soft-paste table-wares and figures. Some famous factories were:
William Cookworthy discovered deposits of kaolin clay in Cornwall. This helped the development of porcelain and other whiteware ceramics in England. Cookworthy's factory at Plymouth, 1768, used kaolin clay and china stone. He made porcelain with a composition similar to the Chinese porcelains of the early 18th century.

</doc>
<doc id="49480" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49480" title="Kiln">
Kiln

A kiln is a thermally insulated chamber or oven in which a controlled temperature regime is produced. 

</doc>
<doc id="49485" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49485" title="ChuChu">
ChuChu

ChuChu is a comic magazine that is written for teenage girls. It is published by Syougakukan（Japan).

</doc>
<doc id="49489" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49489" title="Mettā">
Mettā

Metta is a Buddhist term translated as loving kindness or friendliness.
Metta is wanting others to be happy. 
The opposite is wanting others to be unhappy: anger, hatred.

</doc>
<doc id="49490" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49490" title="Oxide">
Oxide

An oxide is a chemical compound containing an oxygen atom and other elements. Most of the Earth's crust consists of oxides. Oxides can be made when elements are oxidized by air (when oxygen in the air react with the element).
Some common oxides are:

</doc>
<doc id="49499" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49499" title="Mew">
Mew

Mew can be:

</doc>
<doc id="49502" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49502" title="Proposal">
Proposal

A Proposal is when people suggest an idea. It is usually used when someone suggests an idea of marriage, when they ask the person they like to marry them.

</doc>
<doc id="49504" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49504" title="Versailles">
Versailles

Versailles is a French city. It is in the western suburbs of Paris, 17.1 km. (10.6 miles) from the center of Paris. It is the "capital" of the Yvelines département. This city is very important for the History of France because it was formerly the capital of the kingdom of France.
Its name comes from the Latin word "vertere", meaning to turn the soil. It is twelve miles west from Paris.
Versailles is made world-famous by the Palace of Versailles (Château de Versailles), where Louis XIV, Louis XV and Louis XVI lived.
In 2004, about 85,900 people lived here.
It is also famous because this is where the Treaty of Versailles was signed at the end of The Great War.

</doc>
<doc id="49509" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49509" title="Major">
Major

Major is a rank that is given for a mid-level command officer (higher than the rank of Captain and lower than the rank of Lieutenant Colonel). In Canada, it is shown by a thick bar followed by a thin bar and again by a thick bar. In Great Britain it is represented by a single crown. In the United States, it is shown by a gold oak leaf.

</doc>
<doc id="49510" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49510" title="Sibling">
Sibling

Siblings are the sisters and brothers of a person. 
There are several different types of siblings.

</doc>
<doc id="49515" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49515" title="Silicate">
Silicate

In chemistry, a silicate is a compound consisting of one or more central silicon atoms that are surrounded by electronegative ligands.
The most common silicate species consist of silicon with oxygen as the ligand. Silicate anions, with a negative net electrical charge, must have that charge balanced by other cations to make an electrically neutral compound.
In geology and astronomy, the term silicate is used to denote types of rock that consist predominantly of silicate minerals.
On Earth, a wide variety of silicate minerals occur in an even wider range of combinations as a result of the processes that form and re-work the crust. These processes include partial melting, crystallization, fractionation, metamorphism, weathering and diagenesis. Living things also contribute to the silicate cycle near the Earth's surface. A type of plankton known as diatoms construct their exoskeletons, known as tests, from silica. The tests of dead diatoms are a major constituent of deep ocean sediment

</doc>
<doc id="49520" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49520" title="Newton metre">
Newton metre

Newton metre is the unit of moment in the SI system. It is abbreviated N m or N·m, and sometimes written with hyphen "newton-metre". It is a compound unit of torque corresponding to the torque from a force of one newton applied over a distance arm of one metre.
A newton metre is dimensionally equivalent to a joule.

</doc>
<doc id="49521" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49521" title="Gamma ray">
Gamma ray

Gamma rays (γ-rays) are electromagnetic waves with the smallest wavelengths in the electromagnetic spectrum. They were discovered in 1900 by Paul Villard, and named in 1903 by Ernest Rutherford.
Gamma rays are like x-rays, but the waves are smaller in wavelength. Both gamma rays and x-rays are photons with very high energies, and gamma have even more energy. They are also a type of ionizing radiation. Gamma rays can travel through thicker materials than x-rays can. 
Gamma rays are produced by some types of radioactive atoms. Cobalt-60 and potassium-40 are two isotopes that emit gamma rays. Cobalt-60 is created in accelerators and is used in hospitals. Potassium-40 occurs naturally. Small amounts of potassium-40 are in all plants and animals. Gamma rays from potassium-40 each have an energy of 1460 thousand electron volts (keV). 
Gamma rays and X-rays can also be distinguished by their origin: X-rays are emitted by electrons outside the nucleus, while gamma rays are emitted by the nucleus. 
Gamma rays can also go through the skin to kill cells, such as cancerous cells.
Doctors can use radiation therapy machines which produce gamma rays in hospitals to treat people with some types of cancer.
Doctors also use gamma rays to find disease. In hospitals, doctors can give patients radioactive medicine which emits gamma rays. Doctors can find some types of disease by measuring gamma rays which come from a patient afterward. Hospitals can also use gamma rays to sterilise (clean) things as disinfectants do. 

</doc>
<doc id="49528" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49528" title="Cynicism">
Cynicism

Cynicism is a philosophy started by the Cynics, Ancient Greek philosophers. It was started by Antisthenes in the 5th century BC. The main points the cynics wanted to make was that man had no needs. At the same time, they were against possessing material goods. They also were against prejudices such as being ashamed of being naked. Diogenes of Sinope made the cynics extend their views and combine them with that of other schools of philosophy, like the stoa. They also integrated elements of Greek mythology.
Today, the word 'cynicism' generally describes the opinions and actions of those who believe that self-interest is the primary motive of human behavior. These persons, called "cynics", shy away from relying upon sincerity, human virtue, or altruism as motivations.

</doc>
<doc id="49544" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49544" title="Sonic the Hedgehog (TV series)">
Sonic the Hedgehog (TV series)

Sonic the Hedgehog is the name of a cartoon series, starring Sonic the Hedgehog. It is more popularly known as "SatAM Sonic", especially to distinguish itself from other similarly-named animated shows that also star Sonic.
This series was made by DiC Entertainment, and originally ran on ABC from September 18, 1993 to June 3, 1995, and had a total of 26 episodes, at 13 episodes per season.
The show starred Sonic the Hedgehog, and the Knothole Freedom Fighters, a group of woodland animals united to fight the evil Doctor Robotnik, who has taken over the entire planet.

</doc>
<doc id="49545" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49545" title="Roman Servile Wars">
Roman Servile Wars

The Servile Wars were a series of three slave revolts in the late Roman Republic. See:

</doc>
<doc id="49546" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49546" title="Plutarch">
Plutarch

Mestrius Plutarchus (Greek: Πλούταρχος; "c." 46 - 127), better known in English as Plutarch, was a Greek historian, and writer of biographies and essays. 
Plutarch was born into a well-known family in "Chaeronea", "Boeotia" Greece, a town about twenty miles east of Delphi. His works are the "Parallel Lives" and the "Moralia".

</doc>
<doc id="49547" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49547" title="Marcus Licinius Crassus">
Marcus Licinius Crassus

Marcus Licinius Crassus (c. 115 BC – 53 BC) was a Roman general and politician.
He commanded the left wing of Sulla's army at the Battle of the Colline Gate. It was he who finally suppressed the slave revolt led by Spartacus. The Third Servile War began with three defeats of Roman armies against Spartacus and his followers. The revolt was finally destroyed by the concentrated military effort of a single commander, Marcus Licinius Crassus.
The last stage of his career was as a "triumvir", one of the First Triumvirate, with Gnaeus Pompeius Magnus and Gaius Julius Caesar. One of the richest men of the era, he was killed after a defeat at the Battle of Carrhae. His death led to the civil wars between Julius Caesar and Pompey, the other two triumvirs.
When Crassus formed his army, in addition to six new legions, he was given other legions which had been beaten by Spartacus. He decimated them. This was the brutal method of executing "one man in ten" to encourage the others to fight harder. Each group of ten men drew lots to decide who would die. This punishment had not been used since the early days of Rome.
Crassus's punishment of Spartacus's surviving men was just as brutal. They were crucified.
Crassus arranged to govern the Roman province of Syria, with the transparent intention of going to war with Parthia. In fact, he set out on a war against Parthia, using his own money, and without the Senate's official approval.
After being informed of the presence of the Parthian army, Crassus panicked. His general Cassius recommended that the army be deployed in the traditional Roman fashion, with infantry forming the center and cavalry on the wings. At first Crassus agreed, but he soon changed his mind and redeployed his men into a hollow square, each side formed by twelve cohorts. This formation would protect his forces from being outflanked, but at the cost of mobility. 
The day went badly for the Romans, who were repeatedly outflanked by the Parthian cavalry. The next day they received a message, offering to negotiate with Crassus. A truce was proposed, allowing the Roman army to return to Syria safely, in exchange for Rome giving up all territory east of the Euphrates. Crassus was reluctant to meet with the Parthians, but his troops threatened to mutiny if he did not. At the meeting, a Parthian pulled at Crassus' reins, sparking violence. Crassus and his generals were murdered. After his death, the Parthians allegedly poured molten gold down his throat, in a symbolic gesture mocking Crassus' renowned greed. The remaining Romans at Carrhae attempted to flee, but most were captured or killed. Roman casualties amounted to about 20,000 killed and 10,000 captured, making the battle one of the costliest defeats in Roman history. Parthian casualties were minimal.

</doc>
<doc id="49548" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49548" title="Pompey">
Pompey

Pompey, "Pompey the Great", (Gnaeus Pompeius Magnus, 29 September 106 BC–28 September 48 BC), was an important military and political leader of the late Roman Republic. 
Coming from an Italian provincial background, he got a place for himself in the ranks of Roman nobility, and was given the nickname of "the Great" by Lucius Cornelius Sulla.
Pompey was a rival of Marcus Licinius Crassus and an ally to Gaius Julius Caesar. The three politicians would dominate the Late Roman republic through a political alliance called the First Triumvirate. After the death of Crassus, Pompey and Caesar disputed the leadership of the Roman Republic. Pompey was decisively beaten by Caesar at the Battle of Pharsalus.
In the beginning, Pompey said he could defeat Caesar and raise armies merely by stamping his foot on the soil of Italy, but in the spring of 49 BC, Caesar crossed the Rubicon and his legions swept down the peninsula. Pompey abandoned Rome, and took his legions south towards Brundisium. Pompey intended build up his army, and wage war against Caesar in the east. Neither Pompey nor the Senate thought of taking the vast treasury with them, probably thinking Caesar would not dare take it for himself. It was left in the Temple of Saturn when Caesar and his forces entered Rome.
Barely escaping Caesar in Brundisium, Pompey crossed over into Epirus. There, during Caesar's Spanish campaign, Pompey had gathered a large force in Macedonia, with nine legions plus contingents from the Roman allies in the east. His fleet controlled the Adriatic. Nevertheless, Caesar managed to cross over into Epirus in November 49 BC, and captured Apollonia. 
Pompey fought Caesar at the Battle of Dyrrhachium (48 BC), in which Caesar lost 1000 men and Pompey lost 2000. Because he failed to pursue at the moment of Caesar's defeat, Pompey threw away the chance to destroy Caesar's much smaller army. As Caesar himself said, "Today the enemy would have won, if they had a commander who was a winner" (Plutarch, 65). 
According to Suetonius, it was at this point that Caesar said that "that man (Pompey) does not know how to win a war". With Caesar on their backs, the conservatives led by Pompey fled to Greece. Caesar and Pompey had their final showdown at the Battle of Pharsalus in 48 BC. The fighting was bitter for both sides, and although Pompey was expected to win, due to advantage in numbers, the brilliant tactics and the superior fighting abilities of Caesar's veterans led to a victory for Caesar. Pompey met his wife Cornelia and his son Sextus Pompeius on the island of Mytilene. He then wondered where to go next. He ran to Egypt.
After he got to Egypt, Pompey's fate was decided by the advisors of the young king Ptolemy XIII. While Pompey waited offshore, they argued the cost of offering him refuge with Caesar already en route to Egypt; the king's eunuch Pothinus won out. According to Plutarch, Cornelia watched anxiously from the trireme as Pompey left in a small boat with a few comrades, and headed for a welcoming party on the Egyptian shore. As Pompey got off the boat, he was stabbed to death by men following the orders of Pothinus. 
Pompey died one day after his 59th birthday. His body remained on the shoreline, to be cremated by his loyal freeman Philip on the rotten planks of a fishing boat. His head and seal were presented to Caesar, who, according to Plutarch, mourned this insult to the greatness of his former ally. Caesar punished his assassins and their Egyptian co-conspirators, putting both Achillas and Pothinus to death. Pompey's ashes were eventually returned to Cornelia, who carried them to his country house near Alba. 
Cassius Dio describes Caesar's reactions with scepticism. He thinks Pompey's own political misjudgements, rather than treachery, was the cause of his downfall. In Appian's account of the civil war, Caesar has Pompey's severed head buried in Alexandria, in ground reserved for a new temple to the goddess Nemesis. The divine functions of Nemesis (~fate) included the punishment of hubris (pride). For Pliny, the humiliation of Pompey's end is contrasted to his oversized portrait-head, studded with pearls, and carried in procession during his greatest Triumph. 

</doc>
<doc id="49553" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49553" title="Italia (Roman province)">
Italia (Roman province)

Italia, under the Roman Republic and later Empire, was the name of the Italian peninsula.
Italia was the home of the capital of the Roman Empire - Rome itself.

</doc>
<doc id="49557" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49557" title="Ramp">
Ramp

Ramp could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="49558" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49558" title="Shift">
Shift

Shift may mean:

</doc>
<doc id="49559" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49559" title="Shift key">
Shift key

The shift key is a key on a computer keyboard. It is used to type capital letters (like this: "ABC") instead of lowercase ("abc").
The shift key is also used to type with keys that have more than one symbol on them, such as the number keys and those for punctuation marks. In this case it is used to type the "upper" characters, that is, the symbol that appear above the other. The symbol below does not need the shift key to be pressed. On an English keyboard, these are some of the characters that need the shift key to be pressed down in order to type them:
The way the shift key works is that it needs to be held down while the other key is pressed. Because of this, there are usually two shift keys, on the left and right sides of the keyboard, and they are held down using one of the little fingers while the other finger presses the other key.
Instead of using the shift key, one can also use the caps lock or shift lock keys. This lets one type many uppercase letters at once without having to hold down the shift key all the time.

</doc>
<doc id="49560" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49560" title="2000 United States Census">
2000 United States Census

The Twenty-Second United States Census, known as Census 2000 was a count of the population of the United States. It was done by the Census Bureau. It found that the population of the United States on April 1, 2000 was 281,421,906. This was an increase of 13.2% over the 248,709,873 people counted during the 1990 Census. This was the twenty-second federal census. It was the largest single administrative effort in the history of the United States that was not done during wartime.
About 16 percent of households received a "long form" of the 2000 census. It had over 100 questions.

</doc>
<doc id="49562" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49562" title="Police procedural">
Police procedural

A police procedural is a type of crime story. In a police procedural, the main characters are police officers. The story usually shows how they solve crimes with teamwork, using their specialised knowledge of criminals and the city or other area where they are.
Police procedurals have always been popular on television. Some of the best-known TV shows of this type are "Dragnet", "Law & Order", "Hill Street Blues", NYPD Blue and "The Shield".

</doc>
<doc id="49563" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49563" title="List of U.S. states by population density">
List of U.S. states by population density

This is a list of the 50 U.S. states, territories, and U.S. Census Bureau divisions and regions ordered by population density. The data is from the 2013 estimate of population by the United States Census Bureau.

</doc>
<doc id="49565" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49565" title="Girth">
Girth

Girth is the circumference of a cylindrical object, such as a tree trunk.
Girth is sometimes used by postal services and delivery companies as basis for pricing. For example (for at least one delivery company), if one has a box to ship, it has three sides: length (the longest side) and height and width. The girth in this case is 2 * (height + width).

</doc>
<doc id="49566" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49566" title="Circumference">
Circumference

In geometry, circumference is the distance around a closed curve; for example, a circle. It is a special kind of perimeter.(c=PI x diameter)

</doc>
<doc id="49567" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49567" title="Girth (tack)">
Girth (tack)

A girth is a piece of equipment for riding a horse, used to keep the saddle in place. 

</doc>
<doc id="49568" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49568" title="Lusatian Neisse">
Lusatian Neisse

The Lusatian Neisse is a river in the Czech Republic ("Lužická Nisa"), Germany ("Lausitzer Neiße") and Poland ("Nysa Łużycka"). It is part of the Oder-Neisse line.

</doc>
<doc id="49573" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49573" title="Anton Rubinstein">
Anton Rubinstein

Anton Rubinstein (born Vikhvatinets 28 November 1829; died Petershof 20 November 1894) was a Russian pianist and composer. Rubinstein and Franz Liszt were thought to be the greatest pianists of the 19th century. He was very important as a teacher and influenced many Russian musicians. He composed lots of music, although hardly any of it is heard nowadays. As a composer he is best remembered today by a little piece of piano music called “Melody in F”.
Rubinstein gave his first piano concert when he was ten. Between 1840 and 1843 his piano teacher took him on long concert tours of Europe. He met Chopin and Liszt and was received in London by Queen Victoria. Between 1844 and 1846 the family lived in Berlin. His friends there included Mendelssohn and Meyerbeer. 
In 1846 his father died and Anton went to Vienna where he gave piano lessons to try to earn some money. When he returned to Russia in 1848 the tsar’s sister-in-law let him live in her palace. He played for lots of parties. Often the tsar came.
In 1854 he toured Europe again. Then he returned to Russia. He wanted to improve music education in Russia so he started the Russian Musical Society and then he started the St Petersburg Conservatory. During his long career he spent many years as director of the Conservatory as well as conducting concerts.
He wrote a lot of music, but although his compositions often started off with good ideas they often become rather boring. His opera "Tom the fool" was not a success. He was annoyed and wrote an article in a music magazine saying that it was not possible to write operas using Russian stories. He criticized several composers who were writing music which used Russian folktunes. This included the composer Mily Balakirev and his friends who were called The Mighty Handful. He said that they had not learned how to compose properly.
Rubinstein very much wanted to be famous as a composer as well as a teacher, but this made him very narrow-minded. However, it was as a pianist and conductor that he was important. He helped to improve the standard of music making in Russia by teaching and performing, and by starting the conservatory in St Petersburg.

</doc>
<doc id="49577" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49577" title="List of InuYasha characters">
List of InuYasha characters

The main hero characters are:
Inuyasha is the main protagonist of the series. He is a half-demon ("han'yō" in Japanese). His father was a great demon general and the ruler of the western lands, his mother was a human princess who went against social standards and bore a demons child. His father died the day he was born, protecting his mother and his mother later dies when he is a small child (most likely under the age of ten, although it is never really explained). He uses a weapon called the Tetsusaiga, which is a sword made from his father's fang, it can kill a hundred demons in a single swing. On the new moon his demon blood wanes and he becomes human for one night.
Fifty years before the start of the anime, Inuyasha meets a priestess by the name of Kikyo, while searching for the legendary Shikon no Toma. He wants to use the jewel to become a full demon, so he can become strong. Kikyo is the keeper of the jewel and a fair match for Inuyasha, he is never able to get the jewel from her. The two form a strange relationship with each other because they are both outcasts because of their individual lots in life. They fall in love with each other and Kikyo ask Inuyasha to become a human for two reasons. First, so she and Inuyasha can be together unhindered by social constraints and second because she believes it will purify the Shikon no Toma, ending her obligation to protect the jewel. Inuyasha reluctantly agrees because he wants to live a normal life.
Unfortunately or fortunately depending on how you look at it, a demon named Naraku foils their plan turning them against each other. He first attacks Kikyo, using Inuyasha image and then attacks Inuyasha using Kikyo's image. Inuyasha, thinking Kikyo has betrayed him, steals the jewel and flees the village. Kikyo, thinking Inuyasha has betrayed her, follows him and pins him to Goshinbock using a sealing arrow. She dies soon after.
Fifty years later, Inuyasha awakens on the tree to the sight of Kagome, Kikyo's reincarnation. Together they hunt for the Shikon no Toma shards, after Kagome shatters the jewel. At first Inuyasha hates Kagome because of her resemblance to Kikyo but eventually grows to love her very deeply (some argue more deeply than he ever loved Kikyo). Slowly, Kagome teaches him to embrace his heritage and slowly heals the wounds that have been inflicted on his heart by Kikyo, Naraku, and the hardness of his life. At the end of the anime he makes this very clear, when he announces that Kagome was born to heal him and he was born to protect Kagome.
At the end of the anime Inuyasha is shown to have grown into a very wise character. He is no longer angry and jealous but instead wise and understanding because of all that Kagome has taught him. This is especially seen when he decides to let Kagome go back to her own time, instead of staying with him because he knows that Kagome's family needs her more than he does, although this decision seems to greatly depress him.
Three years later after graduating from high school, Kagome's longing to be with Inuyasha causes the well to open once again and she is allowed to return to the past permanently (much to Inuyasha's great relief). In the last scene of the anime, it is implied, that her and Inuyasha marry when she calls Sesshoumaru (Inuyasha's brother) her brother-in-law.
Kagome Higurashi is the female protagonist and narrator of the series. Kagome is a fifteen year old middle school student, who lives in the Sunset shrine in 20th century Tokyo, Japan.
On her fifteenth birthday, Kagome is dragged down her families well by a demon (Mistress Centipede in English) after attempting to rescue the family cat. She arrives in 15th century Japan soon after. At this time she sees Inuyasha for the first time, pinned to Goshinbock (The God's Tree in the English version). Upon seeing him, she 'tweaks' his ears, only to find herself surrounded by angry villagers who are scared by her strange 'modern' clothes. They take her to Kaede the village Miko (priestess). Kaede, upon seeing Kagome, realizes that Kagome is the reincarnation of her older sister, Kikyo, the original protector of the Shikon no Toma. Shortly after, Mistress Centipede attacks the village. Kagome knows that the demon is after her and decides to flea so the demon will leave the innocent villagers alone. She ends up at Goshinbock where Inuyasha (for reasons never explained) has awakened.
At this time, one of the most iconic moments of the anime happens. Inuyasha, who does not realize he has been on the tree for fifty years calls Kagome, Kikyo and insults her. Kagome retaliates by yelling at him and explaining that her name is KA-GO-ME. Mistress Centipede reaches them and grabs Kagome at the hip, ripping the Shikon no Toma from her side before she wraps herself around the tree, crushing Kagome to Inuyasha. Inuyasha convinces Kagome to remove the arrow from his chest so he can kill the demon. Kagome obeys and he is freed. He kills the demon and then turns on Kagome, wanting the jewel for himself. Kaede seeing the problem, decides to put a rosary around Inuyasha's neck. She says a prayer that casts the rosary out and it goes around Inuyasha neck and only Kagome can remove. She then tells Kagome to say a command word, the only word Kagome can think of it 'sit' because he looks like a dog. Upon saying the word, Inuyasha is slammed into the ground and the greatest love hate relationship ever is born.
Kagome learns that Inuyasha wants the jewel to become a full demon. Unfortunantly, Kagome in her clumsy nature shatters the jewel only an episode later and it is decided that she and Inuyasha will team up to find the Shikon Shards for two reasons. First, because she is the only one who can 'see' them and second because she needs someone strong to protect her during the process. This causes Kagome to lead a double life, Shard detector in the past and middle school student in the present.
Throughout the anime Inuyasha and Kagome met many people, demon, half demon (hanyou), and human. They make many friends and learn much in the process, getting closer with each episode. By the end of the anime Inuyasha and Kagome are very much in love with one another despite many road blocks such as Kikyo, Kagome's incarnation and Inuyasha's first love, being brought back to 'life'. Kikyo eventually returns to the after life and Inuyasha is free to love Kagome completely.
At the end of the series Inuyasha and Kagome are separated after Naraku is defeated, Inuyasha staying in the past and Kagome returning to her own time. Three years pass in which Kagome attends and graduates from High School. After her graduation, she returns to the well in her families shrine and wishes to see Inuyasha again. The well opens and with her mother's blessing she returns to the past and she returns to Inuyasha, permanently.
Although it is not officially said, it is implied that Inuyasha and Kagome are married in the very last scene of the anime, when Kagome looks at Sesshoumaru (Inuyasha's brother) and plainly calls him her brother-in-law.
Miroku is the second character to join Inuyasha and Kagome in the quest to defeat Naraku and purify the Shikon no Tama. He is a monk who has an unhealthy habit of groping women, especially Sango, another predominant character in the anime. Miroku carries on a curse that was originally placed on his grandfather by the demon, Naraku. The curse itself looks like a black void in the palm of his hand. In the English version it is called the Wind Tunnel or Air Void (Kazana in the Japanese version) and can suck anything inside of it, making it Miroku's greatest weapon but also his greatest threat. One day the Wind Tunnel will suck Miroku into it as well as it did to his father and his grandfather.
Because of this Miroku needs a male heir to carry on his family name should he die. Therefore, he is always asking women to "bear his child," in hopes of gaining this male heir. This becomes a chronic joke in the anime, almost always ending with Miroku groping a girl (mainly Sango), asking said girl (mainly Sango) to bear his child, and then getting slapped hard in the face by said girl (mainly Sango). As the anime progresses Miroku becomes a much deeper character and is shown to be a man longing for love and a family, which he eventually finds in Sango after the defeat of Naraku. At this time Miroku and Sango marry and have three children, twin girls and a boy.
Sango is the third and last character to join Inuyasha and Kagome in the quest to defeat Naraku and purify the Shikon no Toma. She is a demon slayer or a yokai tajiya as she is dubbed in the Japanese version of the anime. At one time she lived with her father and brother in a demon exterminator village. This particular village is also the location of the Shikon no Toma's birth and it is suggested that Sango's Grandfather was the one who entrusted the jewel to Kikyo fifty years ago.
In episode 24, Sango first encounters Naraku on a mission to exterminate a demon at a near by Castle. Her brother, Kohaku, is sent to help her defeat the demon (it is his first demon exterminating job). Naraku disguised as the Castle's Lord, takes control of the young and vulnerable Kohaku and uses him to kill all of the demon exterminators and his sister, Sango. He nearly succeeds but comes back to his senses. Naraku then orders the Castle guards to kill the pair. They are both shot in the back with arrows. Sango manages to live but is badly hurt and under the impression that her brother has died as well as her whole family. Meanwhile, Naraku destroys Sango's village and disguised as the Lord of the Castle tells her that Inuyasha was the one who attacked it and killed her family. Even though she is badly injured Sango wants revenge and decides to go after Inuyasha, just as Naraku had planed she would.
Upon fighting Inuyasha, however, Sango learns that he is not bad just because he is a demon and that he did not in fact kill the people of her village. Inuyasha, in his blunt and rash way, helps her to heal and convinces her to live to defeat Naraku. She then swears revenge on Naraku and decides to join the group, along with her pet cat demon, Kirara. Eventually, she finds out Kohaku is alive but under the control of Naraku. She vows to get her brother back and spends the majority of the anime trying to save him, often not succeeding but living with the support of the group (especially with Miroku's support).
By the end, she saves Kohaku and marries Miroku, her love interest throughout the anime. They have three children, twin girls and a boy.
Shippo is the first character to join Inuyasha and Kagome in the quest to defeat Naraku and purify the Shikon no Toma. He is an adolescent fox demon or kitsune youkai as he is refereed to in the Japanese version of the anime. Although Shippo's age is never mentioned he appears approximately five years old.
He meets Kagome and Inuyasha when he attempts to steal their Shikon Shards with a fox illusion that Inuyasha easily sees through. Shippo explains to them that his mother and father are dead, his father having been very recently killed by the Thunder Brothers, Hiten and Manten. Hiten, the older of the Thunder Brothers possesses Shikon shards. Therefore, Shippo believes that in order to get revenge he needs Shikon Shards of his own, so he can be strong. Eventually, Shippo succeeds in stealing the Shikon shards by tricking Inuyasha. Inadvertently, this causes Kagome to be kidnapped soon after by the Thunder Brothers, which in turn causes Inuyasha to come save them. Inuyasha eventually beats the Thunder Brothers, gaining their Shikon Shards in the process, and begrudgingly allows Shippo into the group.
Kagome treats him with motherly affection, and often brings him crayons and candy from her time as well as allowing him to bath with her and sleep with her. Inuyasha treats him badly most of the time, claiming the small child annoying. Many fans see this as a sign of jealousy because Inuyasha does not like the attention Kagome pays to Shippo instead of himself. The other central characters all seem to treat Shippo as a son or younger brother, often teaching him life lessons or coddling him.
Kilala 
Kirara is ango's pet cat demon or neko yokai as she is referred to in the Japanese version. She appears to be a small, almost kitten sized cat the majority of the time but when provoked or ready for battle she transforms into a very large, lion sized cat. She is a very loyal demon, who was originally owned by Midoriko, the creator of the Shikon no Toma.
She is exceptionally clever and is much more intelligent than a simple cat. She is an asset in battle because of her ability to fly. It is sometimes implied that Inuyasha can understand Kirara to a degree, although the creator of the anime does not seem to spend much time explaining demon's ability to connect with animals. Although it is shown that Sesshoumaru, Inuyasha's older brother, can in fact talk to dogs and Kouga, a wolf demon in the series, can in fact talk to wolves, their respective animal counterparts.
Kirara and Shippo seem to have a strong connection, perhaps because they are of a very similar size. Oftentimes, the two are shown together and when Shippo is not sleeping with Kagome, he is usually seen with Kirara.
Naraku is the main antagonist of the series. He is an evil demon made by Onigumo, who loved Kikyo. When Onigumo became jealous of Inuyasha, he made many demons, led by a spider demon, come to him with his impure (bad) mind of jealousy. This is because demons like bad minds. The spider demon tells Onigumo that if Onigumo wants revenge on Inuyasha, he has to let the demons eat his soul and join with him to fight off Inuyasha. When Onigumo agrees, Naraku is created. Naraku has a heart made out of Onigumo's soul, which still loves Kikyo. But Naraku is evil because many demons joined him, just like the demons made by Midoriko's lover, and kills Kikyo while pretending to be Inuyasha. This is so that Kikyo would think the real Inuyasha killed her. Naraku did this to get the shikon no tama for himself, and did not want Kikyo to hand it to Inuyasha.
Kikyo seals Inuyasha because of this, when Inuyasha runs away with the shikon no tama because Naraku also turned into Kikyo to say things to hurt Inuyasha, who thought it was the real Kikyo. Thinking that Kikyo would not give him the shikon no tama as promised, he steals it. Kikyo thinks then that Inuyasha is betraying her so she shoots an arrow at him.
Nobody knows about Naraku until episode 15, where Miroku tells Inuyasha and Kagome about a demon who gave a curse called Wind Tunnel on him. Naraku really gave the curse to Miroku's grandfather, who thought Naraku was a real woman since Naraku turned into a woman to fool the grandfather. The curse has to go on until they win against Naraku. This is how Miroku joins in.
Naraku also tells the other demons in episode 24 to attack a village where no demon slayer are left, because Naraku controlled Kohaku, a demon slayer, to kill the rest of the slayers. Sango, Kohaku's sister, who is still alive tries to kill Naraku who attacked her village. This is how Sango joins in.
Basically, Naraku is the reason why everyone met each other... they are also planning to kill him as well as finding the shikon no tama that broke into pieces. Naraku is also trying to gather the pieces so that he can become a full demon, because he's a half-demon and half-human since with Onigumo, a human, joined with demons.
As well as being able to change into different people, Naraku can also make parts of his body come apart (detach) from him. They are usually called his detachments or incarnations. He made many of them including Kagura, Hakudoshi, Akago and Musou. Akago and Musou were to make himself not like Kikyo anymore because of Onigumo.
Kaede is Kikyo's stubborn (she never changes her mind) sister, who lived for 50 years after Kikyo died and meets Kagome. She is the one who found out that Kagome was her sister Kikyo's reincarnation, and tells Inuyasha and Kagome to work together, because Kagome also has the priestess powers that Kikyo once had. She tells both of them that Kagome can see the Shikon no Tama unlike other people, and because Inuyasha cannot see the jewel but is strong enough to fight for it, they can work together. She loves her sister more than anything. She wishes that Kikyo's soul would rest in peace, from the day when Kikyo came alive again as a doll, because of Urasue.
Kikyo was a girl priest, also called priestess or miko. She was cursed to die if she loved someone. She did not think she was a normal person because of her priestess powers (spiritiual powers). She thought that she did not belong anywhere normal. InuYasha, a half-demon, and half-human also did not belong on any side and wanted to become a full demon, just like Kikyo wanting to become normal. This is why Kikyo felt the same as Inuyasha. Because of this they came to love each other. After they both loved each other, Kikyo promises to Inuyasha that she will give him shikon no tama, which she has to look after (which she also is a priestess for), if Inuyasha uses it to become a full human instead of a full demon. This would make Kikyo normal again, because she's not a priestess any more and Inuyasha is also normal, human husband.
Naraku, an evil demon made by Onigumo, loved Kikyo and was jealous of InuYasha. Naraku could change his shape into different people. He wanted the jewel that Kikyo had, the Shikon no Tama. The jewel would free him from Onigumo's orders (heart) telling him not to kill Kikyo. In the beginning of story, Naraku turned into Inuyasha and talked to Kikyo. Next, he turned Kikyo and talked to InuYasha. He said things that hurt them. He did this to make them hate each other. Kikyo nearly died because Naraku turned into Inuyasha and attacked her.
Urasue, a doll-maker, made a clay doll that looked just like Kikyo. She made it to give Kikyo half the soul of Kagome, Kikyo's reincarnation. Kikyo and the doll are the same people so the doll-Kikyo would have the same soul. Kikyo killed Urasue and ran away from Kagome. She had found out that Kagome would control the soul inside her so that it might go back inside Kagome. She hates Inuyasha too, because before she died, she hated him. She became jealous of Kagome because of Inuyasha liking both her and Kikyo but she got over it soon. Kagome was still jealous of Kikyo - even though they are the same person.
Only in the manga, Kikyo dies because she did not go well on destroying Naraku. She tried to kill him by using her arrows to purify (make it good) the finished, whole Shikon no Tama when it was with Naraku, because Naraku could not win over pure (good) things and the jewel, when it was complete, would be make the purity even more powerful with its own power. Kikyo hoped that the side of Naraku's soul would win over the evil, demons' souls inside the jewel, but Naraku was too strong for the goodness. He attacked Kikyo with his badness, because he did not have a heart that loved her any more and Kikyo's messed up goodness of her heart made her spiritual powers go away. This is why she died.
This episode ends with Kikyo dying after Inuyasha kisses her. She wishes that Kagome would not cry, because she is happy since her soul can rest from living a doll-like life. But Kagome does cry. Sango is also sad because she knew that Kikyo cared for Kohaku, her brother, and would do anything if she could not kill him.
Kohaku is Sango's younger brother. He was a boy who used to never like fighting, but when he finally becomes a demon slayer, he is controlled by a spider demon, to kill his own family. Kohaku also dies because of the castle lord's soldiers attacking him for madness. Only his sister Sango did not die, and tries to revenge on Naraku for planning this to happen.
Kohaku is alive even so, because Naraku uses a piece from the Shikon no Tama on his back. The jewel's power made him alive again. But all his memories are gone, and he can only listen to whatever Naraku tells him to do. He also does not remember Sango, who is happy to see that he is alive. But Sango is sad to find his brother killing more people because of Naraku ordering him to. Sango's new aim is to also save Kohaku from Naraku's control.
Midoriko was a priestess who was so strong that she was the same as 100 of Japanese soldiers called Samurais. She had 4 pure (good) souls inside her: Aramitama (Courage), Nigimitama (Friendship), Kushimitama (Wisdom) and Sakimitama (Love). The souls could make a person very powerful which was why she was so.
One day, a human who loved her was jealous, just like Onigumo. He made demons eat his soul so that they could all join together. But the number of demons were so much that the human lost his love and the demons were able to fight Midoriko without any struggle. Because there were so many of them joined together, with so much impurity (bad powers), even with Midoriko's own power of goodness and purity, they could easily win over Midoriko. But when they were about to eat her, she tore out her own 4 pure (good) souls and joined it with the demon's bad soul. This made the demons die and made the Shikon no Tama. But Midoriko also died because of this, together with the demons.
There was a statue of her in a cave in Sango's village where Shako, Sango's grandfather found the Shikon no Tama for the first time and gave it to Kikyo to look after.
Kirara is Sango's pet demon. She was also Shako's pet. In the anime, Kirara is also known to be Midoriko's pet. Kirara was not Midoriko's pet in the manga.
Onigumo is a human who was once a thief. He got beaten and was nearly killed when Kikyo came to save him in a cave. This is how Onigumo comes to love Kikyo, but he is soon jealous. He is the maker of Naraku and because his soul is still inside Naraku, Naraku can not kill Kikyo with the love for her by Onigumo still inside him. Naraku does not want to love Kikyo, so he tries to tear onigumo apart. Naraku's trying is shown by Musou, his detachment, who failed. 
But he finally manges it by tearing his heart, as a little child called Akago and nearly kills her with tentacles, but Kikyo gets help from the soils from Onigumo's cave, where he once used to get treated by Kikyo.
Shako is Sango's grandfather who used to own Kirara. He could also use Hiraikotsu, which is given to Sango when she is born. He found the Shikon no Tama messed up with impureness (badness) because of the bad Mistress Centipede having it. Shako kills Mistress Centipede with his boomerang and puts her bones into the Bone-eater's well, where bones of dead demons are put inside. This is why Mistress Centipede became alive from her bones and grabbed Kagome inside the well. Shako then gives the jewel to Kikyo, because her goodness will not mess up the jewel any more. But that is why Kikyo has to be a priestess forever, because she has to protect the jewel forever. She did not want to stay being a priestess and wanted to be normal. This is why she agreed to meet Inuyasha and give the jewel to him.
Shako finds the jewel on front of Midoriko's cave, where there is a barrier. He finds out that only people who has goodness in their hearts and feel sorry for dead soldiers can go inside the cave.
The Thunder Brothers are two brothers, called Hiten and Manten. They killed Shippo's father to get a piece of the jewel shard. They made themselves a sash with the father's hide(a belt to remember killing the father). Shippo tries to get revenge on them by getting more power from the Shikon no tama, and tries to steals it from Inuyasha and Kagome, but soon works together with them to kill the Thunder Brothers.

</doc>
<doc id="49580" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49580" title="Plane (tool)">
Plane (tool)

A plane is a tool for shaping wood. Planes are used to flatten, reduce the thickness of, and impart a smooth surface to a rough piece of lumber. As the name implies, the tool turns the worked surface into a smooth plane, a level, even surface.
Hand planes are generally the combination of a cutting edge, such as a sharpened metal plate, attached to a firm body, that when moved over a wood surface, take up relatively uniform shavings, by nature of the body riding on the 'high spots' in the wood, and also by providing a relatively constant angle to the cutting edge, render the planed surface very smooth. 
Hand planes are ancient, originating thousands of years ago. Early planes were made from wood and blades first from bronze and later from iron and even later from steel. The cutting blade or iron was held in place with a wooden wedge. 
Two styles of plane are shown with some parts labeled. The top of the image is a bench plane; the bottom is a block plane.
Different types of bench planes are designed to perform different tasks, with the name and size of the plane being defined by the use. They are designed to be used in order:
Planes may also be classified by the material of which they are constructed:
Some special types of planes include:

</doc>
<doc id="49582" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49582" title="Lumber">
Lumber

Lumber (or timber) is wood that has been cut for use in building.
Dimensional lumber is a term used in North America for lumber that is finished/planed and cut to standardized width and depth specified in inches.
Examples of common sizes are 2×4 (also two-by-four and other variants), 2×6, and 4×4. The length of a board is usually specified separately from the width and depth. It is thus possible to find 2×4s that are four, eight, or twelve feet in length. In the United States the standard lengths of lumber are 6, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24 feet.
Outside North America sizes of timber vary slightly. Sizes are, in some cases, based on the imperial measurement and referred to as such; in other cases the sizes are too far removed from the imperial size to be referred to by imperial measurement. Lengths can be sold at every 300 mm (a metric approximation of 1'). Common sizes are similar to the North American equivalent; 2.4, 2.7, 3.0, 3.6, 4.2, 4.8, 5.4, 6.0. But also in running lengths, where each plank in a given packet is different, from 2500mm to 5500mm, though shorter and longer may be present.
In North America sizes for dimensional lumber made from hardwoods varies from the sizes for softwoods. Boards are usually supplied in random widths and lengths of a specified thickness, and sold by the board-foot (144 cubic inches).
Engineered lumber is lumber created by a manufacturer and designed for a certain structural purpose.

</doc>
<doc id="49587" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49587" title="El Puerto de Santa María">
El Puerto de Santa María

El Puerto de Santa María (commonly called El Puerto) is a city on the banks of the Guadalete River in the province of Cádiz, Spain. As of the 2005 census, the city has 82,306 people. 50,000 of these people live in the urban center. The others live in the area around the urban center.
The city of El Puerto de Santa Maria is northeast of Cadiz across the Bay of Cadiz. It is best known for its ferry, El Vaporcito, which has been used for 76 years. It takes passengers to and from Cadiz to El Puerto.
In the Odyssey of Homer, legend says that, after the Trojan War, a Greek official named Menestheus escaped with his troops through the Straits of Gibraltar. They got to the Guadalete River and created a port. They called the port "Menestheus's port".
In 711, Arab (Moors) from the North of Africa invaded southern Spain. They changed the name to "Alcante" or "Alcanatif". The name means Port of Salt. They chose that name because of the old salt industry of Phoenicians and Romans.
In 1260, Alfonso X of Castile took the city from the Moors. He renamed it "Santa María del Puerto". 
Columbus began his second voyage to the New World from El Puerto. His pilot, Juan de la Cosa, created the first map of the world to include the coast of the New World in El Puerto in 1500. In the nineteenth century, the city became the General Headquarters for the French Army during the Spanish War of Independence under the reign of Joseph Bonaparte (1808–1813). The city is has much history, museums and monuments. It is also near the very historical cities of Seville and Cádiz.
El Puerto has a famous bull ring. It dates back to 1880. The bull ring has space for 15,000 to watch. Bull fighting is still enjoyed during the Feria season, which is during the month of August, and during the Feria de la Primavera, which is in early May. This Feria is dedicated to sherry. 180,0000 half bottles of sherry get drunk in 4 days. There are several bodegas in the town centre. All of these can be visited by the public. The most famous bodega is the Osborne and Terry Bodegas. They export sherry and brandy worldwide . In the cellars in El Puerto, sherry is made using the traditional method called “solera”. This method makes the pale dry sherries to the sweet Muscatel sherry, Amontillados and the older Olorosos.
El Puerto is a very good place to taste local tapas and seafood, for which it is famous. Food is an important reason why many tourists go to El Puerto de Santa Maria. The Bay of Cadiz is famous for its fresh fish. The fish and plenty of fresh fruit and vegetables lead to very good restaurant menus. There are many different types of places to eat all in walking distance in the town centre.

</doc>
<doc id="49589" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49589" title="Bearing (mechanical)">
Bearing (mechanical)

A bearing is a device to permit fixed direction motion between two parts, typically rotation or linear movement. Bearings may be classified broadly according to the motions they allow and according to their principle of operation. The most common of the many types are plain bearings, roller bearings, and ball bearings as seen in the pictures. 

</doc>
<doc id="49590" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49590" title="Bush (mechanical)">
Bush (mechanical)

A bush is a mechanical fixing between two, possibly moving, parts, or a strengthened fixing point where one mechanical assembly is attached to another.
In a car or other vehicle's suspension, bushes are used to connect the various moving arms and pivot points to the chassis and other parts of the suspension.

</doc>
<doc id="49591" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49591" title="Suspension (vehicle)">
Suspension (vehicle)

Suspension is the term given to the system of springs, shock absorbers and linkages that connects a vehicle to its wheels. 

</doc>
<doc id="49595" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49595" title="Suzuki method">
Suzuki method

The Suzuki method, (or Talent Education, or the Mother Tongue method, or the Suzuki movement) is a way of teaching. It teaches people to be morally better through a caring environment. It normally uses a musical instrument such as the violin or piano to do this. It can also use other musical instruments like the flute, recorder, piano, guitar, cello, viola, bass, organ, harp and voice. The Suzuki method uses the same environment that people have when they learn their mother-tongue. This means that each student sees and hears music and good moral character all of the time. Other people tell them that they will do well. The students learn one thing at a time. They learn new things when they are ready. The term "Suzuki method" is also used to mean only the Suzuki sheet music books and songs.
It was created in Japan in the mid-20th century by Dr. Shin'ichi Suzuki. He was a violinist who wanted to bring some beauty to the lives of children in his country after World War II. Dr. Suzuki saw that all children learn their own language very quickly. Even dialects which adults thought were hard to learn are spoken with ease by 5 or 6 year old children. He thought that if a person can speak their mother tongue, then they can learn to play a musical instrument. He came up with the idea that any pre-school age child could begin to play the violin.

</doc>
<doc id="49617" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49617" title="Pará">
Pará

Pará is one of the states of Brazil. It is in the northern part of the country.
The capital city is Belém. Other cities include:

</doc>
<doc id="49621" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49621" title="Constituent (linguistics)">
Constituent (linguistics)

In syntactic analysis, a constituent is a word or a group of words that functions as a single unit within a hierarchical structure.
Phrases (noun phrases, verbal phrases, etc.) are usually constituents of a clause, but clauses may also be embedded into a bigger structure. For example, in the phrase "I didn't hear what you said," the subordinate clause "what you said" is embedded into the main clause and is syntactically its object; this can be demonstrated by substituting the pronoun "it" for the subordinate clause "I didn't hear it."

</doc>
<doc id="49622" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49622" title="Spindle">
Spindle

Spindle could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="49623" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49623" title="Spindle (textiles)">
Spindle (textiles)

A spindle (sometimes called a drop spindle) is a wooden spike (or shaft) that has at one end a weight, mostly a circular whorl.
Sometimes it has a hook at either end of the spike. It is used for spinning wool and other fibres into thread. Spindles or parts of them have been found in very, very old archaeological sites; they may represent one of the earliest pieces of technology available to humankind.

</doc>
<doc id="49625" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49625" title="Spike">
Spike

Spike could mean:
Media with Spike in the title include:
A number of famous people are named Spike, including:
A number of fictional characters have been named Spike, including:
A number of cartoon dogs have been named Spike:
As a place name, Spike may refer to:
In sports, Spike may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="49626" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49626" title="Whorl">
Whorl

Whorl is a type of spiral pattern.
Other meanings of whorl include:

</doc>
<doc id="49629" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49629" title="Flywheel">
Flywheel

A flywheel is a heavy disk or wheel that is attached to a rotating shaft. Flywheels are used for storage of kinetic energy. The momentum of the flywheel causes it to not change its rotational speed easily. Because of this, flywheels help to keep the shaft rotating at the same speed. This helps when the torque applied to the shaft changes often. Uneven torque can change the speed of rotation. Because the flywheel resists changes in speed, it decreases the effects of uneven torque. Engines which use pistons to provide power usually have uneven torque and use flywheels to fix this problem.
It takes energy to get a wheel (any wheel) to rotate. If there is little friction (good bearings) then it will keep rotating a long time. When energy is needed, it can be taken from the wheel again. So it is a simple mechanical means of storing energy. The amount of energy stored is a function of the weight and the speed of rotation - making a heavier wheel rotate faster takes more energy. Another factor is the radius (size) because the farther from the axis a part of the wheel is, the more energy it takes to make is rotate. These three factor can be represented by M (mass), formula_1 (angular velocity) and R (radius). Combining the two equations below gives formula_1MR/4. A fly-wheel is not just any wheel, but specifically designed to store energy. So it should be heavy and/or rotate fast. For example, some buses have a fly-wheel that is used for stopping and starting. When the bus stops (e.g. for a traffic light), the fly-wheel is connected to the wheels, so the rotational energy is transferred to it, so the bus will slow down while the fly-wheel speeds up. Then, when the bus has to start driving again, it is connected again and the energy is transferred back. Of course, you wouldn't want to lug a heavy wheel around on a bus, so it is made of a lighter material that can withstand extremely fast rotation. 
The kinetic energy of a rotating flywheel is
Where the moment of inertia of center mass is equal to
where formula_5 is the moment of inertia of the mass about the center of rotation and formula_1 (omega) is the angular velocity in radian units. 
The flywheel has been used since ancient times, the most common traditional example being the potter's wheel. In the Industrial Revolution, James Watt contributed to the development of the flywheel in the steam engine, and his contemporary James Pickard used a flywheel.
In the world of venture capital, the term "flywheel" is used to represent the recurrent, margin-generating heart of a business.

</doc>
<doc id="49630" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49630" title="Potter's wheel">
Potter's wheel

The potter's wheel, also known as the potter's lathe, is a machine used in the shaping of round ceramic wares. 
However, the name potter's lathe is also used for the machine used for another shaping process, turning, which is similar to that used for the shaping of metal and wood articles. The wheel may also be used during the process of trimming excess body from dried wares and for applying incised decoration or rings of colour.
Many early ceramics were hand-built using a simple coiling technique in which clay body was rolled into long threads that were then pinched and beaten together to form the body of a vessel. In the coiling method of construction, all of the energy required to form the main part of a piece is supplied directly by the hands of the potter. This changed with the introduction of the fast-wheel, early forms of which utilised energy stored in the rotating mass of the heavy stone wheel itself. 
In Ancient Egyptian mythology, the god Chnum was said to have formed the first humans on a potter's wheel.
The way in which clay is shaped on a potter's wheel seems, even today, to have a magical quality to it; the clay body has the appearance of being a living thing that is being created or shaped by the potter. The potter and clay have long served as a metaphor for creation, and for the relationship of God to humankind:
The "Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam" make sustained use of this metaphor. In FitzGerald's translation, a number of quatrains are collected into a "Book of Pots", in which the pots engage in theological speculation:
  And, strange to tell, among that Earthen Lot<br>
      Some could articulate, while others not:<br>
  And suddenly one more impatient cried–<br>
      “Who is the Potter, pray, and who the Pot?”<br>
  Another said–“Why, ne'er a peevish Boy,<br>
       “Would break the Bowl from which he drank in Joy;<br>
  “Shall He that made the vessel in pure Love<br>
      “And Fancy, in an after Rage destroy?”<br>
  None answer'd this; but after Silence spake<br>
      A Vessel of a more ungainly Make:<br>
  “They sneer at me for leaning all awry;<br>
      “What! did the Hand then of the Potter shake?”
Pottery 

</doc>
<doc id="49631" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49631" title="Nikolai Rubinstein">
Nikolai Rubinstein

Nikolai Grigoryevich Rubinstein (born Moscow, 2 June 1835; died Paris, 23 March 1881) was a Russian pianist and composer. He was the younger brother of Anton Rubinstein and a close friend of Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky.
The Rubinstein family were middle-class Jewish people. Like his brother Anton, Nikolai soon showed great talent as a pianist. The family spent some time in Europe including three years in Berlin where they made friends with Mendelssohn and Meyerbeer.
Anton founded (started) the famous Conservatoire in St Petersburg where students could study music. Nikolai co-founded the Conservatoire in Moscow with Prince Nikolai Petrovitch Troubetzkoy. Both brothers were directors of the Conservatoires they had founded.
During his lifetime Nikolai Rubinstein was thought of as one of the greatest pianists of his time. As pianists the two brothers were very different. Anton was very fiery like Franz Liszt. Nikolai was quieter and more thoughtful, preferring lyrical Romantic music. 
Anton liked to compose in the same way as composers from Western Europe. He was critical of Russian composers like Mily Balakirev and others from the group called The Mighty Handful who tried to make their music very Russian. Nikolai was much more broad-minded. He supported Balakirev and his group. He was a great friend of Tchaikovsky and encouraged him much more than his brother Anton had done. Nevertheless he still criticised Tchaikovsky’s . He said he would not play it until Tchaikovsky had changed it. Tchaikovsky refused to change it. Years later Nikolai decided he liked it after all.
Although Nikolai wanted to be a successful composer he was aware that he was not a great one. When asked why he did not compose more he once replied that his brother “composed enough music for three”.
Nikolai died in Paris while on his way to Nice where he had wanted to improve his health. He always liked his food and on his deathbed he ate twelve oysters. Tchaikovsky wrote his "Piano Trio in A minor" in Rubinstein's memory.
Among his most popular works are his "Tarantella" in G minor and the "Fantasia on a Theme by Schumann", both for piano solo.

</doc>
<doc id="49633" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49633" title="Okinawan language">
Okinawan language

Okinawan language (　"Okinawago", "Ryuukyuugo",　 "Uchinaaguchi") is a Ryukyuan language. It is spoken in the Okinawa and Amami regions of Japan. Some linguists believe it branched off from ancient Japanese. In Japan, it is believed to be a dialect of Japanese, however this is not true. Okinawan was the official language of the Ryukyu Kingdom.

</doc>
<doc id="49637" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49637" title="Imbolc">
Imbolc

Imbolc is a festival belonging to Brigid, the Celtic goddess who, in later times, became famous as a Christian saint. At first, her festival on February 1 was known as "Imbolc" or "Oimelc", two Gaelic names which refer to the lactation of the ewes. Lactation is the flow of milk that happens when the baby lambs are born in the spring, and Gaelic languages are those spoken in countries like Ireland and Scotland.
Imbolc was, and still is, a time to celebrate that winter would soon be over. Sometimes in Ireland, the first flowers are coming up at the time of this festival, even when there is still snow on the ground.
Later, the Roman Catholic Church replaced this festival with Candlemas Day on February 2, a day that now belongs to the Virgin Mary. On this day, people may have ceremonies or processions by candlelight - walking together in the dark, with the only light coming from candles they carry. The may also sing songs to Brigid, or say poems or prayers to her.
In both Pagan and Christian celebrations, Brigid is celebrated as a powerful female figure, who brings light, inspiration, and healing to the world.

</doc>
<doc id="49643" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49643" title="Baseball (ball)">
Baseball (ball)

A baseball is a ball used in the sport of the same name, baseball. It is between 9 inches (22.9 cm) and 9¼ inches (23.5 cm) in circumference (around). The ball weighs 8 ounces. Different size balls may be used in children's leagues. 
The balls can be made in many different, but similar ways. The center of most balls is cork, rubber, or a mixture of the two. It is sometimes layered. Yarn and twine and sometimes wool are wrapped around the center core. A leather cover is put on, in two pieces, and stitched together using 108 stitches of waxed red cotton thread. Official Major League balls sold by Rawlings are made to the exact MLB specifications (5 ounces, 108 stitches).

</doc>
<doc id="49644" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49644" title="Pitcher (disambiguation)">
Pitcher (disambiguation)

Pitcher can mean several things. 

</doc>
<doc id="49651" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49651" title="Battle of Worcester">
Battle of Worcester

The Battle of Worcester was the final battle of the English Civil War. Oliver Cromwell and the Parliamentarians defeated the Royalist, mainly Scottish, forces of King Charles II on September 3, 1651 at Worcester, England. The 16,000 Royalist forces were defeated by the 28,000 strong "New Model Army" of Cromwell. 

</doc>
<doc id="49659" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49659" title="James Marsters">
James Marsters

James Marsters (born August 20, 1962) is an American guitarist, singer, and actor. His is best known for playing the part of Spike on "Buffy the Vampire Slayer.

</doc>
<doc id="49660" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49660" title="Emma Caulfield">
Emma Caulfield

Emma Caulfield (born Emma Chukker in San Diego, California on April 8, 1973) is an American actress. She is best known for her role as ex-demon Anya on the television series "Buffy the Vampire Slayer". 

</doc>
<doc id="49661" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49661" title="Michelle Trachtenberg">
Michelle Trachtenberg

Michelle Christine Trachtenberg (born October 11, 1985) is an American television and movie actress. She is best known for her role as Dawn Summers from the television series "Buffy the Vampire Slayer". Trachtenberg was born in New York City, New York. She is of Russian Jewish descent on her mother's side of the family.
Trachtenberg has been acting since 1988 at the age of four. She has acted in several television shows and many movies. 

</doc>
<doc id="49662" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49662" title="Summer Glau">
Summer Glau

Summer Glau (born July 24, 1981 in San Antonio, Texas) is an American dancer and actress. She is best known for playing as River Tam in the science fiction television series "Firefly" and movie "Serenity".
Glau has appeared in several other series and movies including:
In February 2007, it was announced that Glau would be playing a role of Cameron Phillips in "The Sarah Connor Chronicles", a spin-off of the Terminator series of movies. This character is a Terminator infiltration unit sent back to protect John Connor and Sarah Connor from Skynet.
Since 2009, Summer Glau has been in a relationship with Cooper Gross.

</doc>
<doc id="49668" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49668" title="Band (anthropology)">
Band (anthropology)

In anthropology, bands are the tiniest societies, consisting typically of 5-80 people, most or all of them close relatives by birth or by marriage. In effect, a band is an extended family or several related extended families. Today, autonomous bands are almost confined to the most remote parts of New Guinea and Amazonia, but there were many others that have only recently fallen under state control or been assimilated or exterminated. They include many or most African Pygmies, southern African San hunter-gatherers (so-called Bushmen), Aboriginal Australians, Eskimos (Inuit), and Native Americans of some resource-poor areas of the Americas such as Tierra del Fuego and the northern boreal forests; all these modern bands are or were nomadic hunter-gatherers rather than settled food producers. Until at least 40,000 years ago, probably all humans lived in bands, and most still did as recently as 11,000 years ago. 
Bands have no permanent single base of residence, instead land is used jointly by the whole group, as opposed to being partitioned among subgroups or individuals. There is no regular economic specialization, except by age and sex: all able-bodied individuals forage for food. There are no formal institutions, such as laws, police, and treaties, to resolve conflicts within and between bands. Organization is often described as "egalitarian" in the sense that there is no formalized social stratification into upper and lower classes, no formalized or hereditary leadership, and no formalized monopolies of information and decision making. However, this definition of egalitarian should not be taken to mean that there is equality in prestige and the decision-making process among band members. Instead "leadership" should of thought of as informal and acquired through qualities such as personality, strength, intelligence, and fighting skills.
Our closest biological relatives, the gorillas and chimpanzees and bonobos of Africa, also live in bands. All humans presumably did so too, until improved technology for extracting food allowed some hunter-gatherers to settle in permanent dwellings in some resource-rich areas. The band is the political, economic, and social organization that we inherited from our millions of years of evolutionary history. Our developments beyond it took place within the last few tens of thousands of years.

</doc>
<doc id="49669" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49669" title="Infertility">
Infertility

Infertile means not able to have children or other offspring. Humans can be infertile, but animals and plants can too. When a human couple is infertile, they sometimes have fertility treatment to have children. This can be insemination or IVF. They also sometimes adopt a child.

</doc>
<doc id="49676" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49676" title="Betrayal (disambiguation)">
Betrayal (disambiguation)

Betrayal can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="49677" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49677" title="Betrayal">
Betrayal

Betrayal is when a person breaks the trust and faith of others that trust them. 
In an article made by Rodger L. Jackson, it says that "there is not much definition for this word". In psychology, they say betrayal is the breaking of a social (friendship) related things. But for some people, for example, philosophers called Judith Shklar and Peter Johnson, a person can understand the word better by literature (writings).
Betrayal trauma happens when someone that a person trusts betrays their trust, and it messes up their memory because of anger. An example of betrayal trauma is childhood physical or childhood problems. Betrayal trauma is similar to post traumatic stress disorder. The difference is that post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is made by fear. Betrayal trauma makes a person fight, and also get into serious crimes for example, discrimination or bullying.

</doc>
<doc id="49681" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49681" title="Destruction">
Destruction

Destruction could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="49685" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49685" title="Crane (machine)">
Crane (machine)

A crane is a lifting machine that has hoists, wire ropes and sheaves on it. It can be used both to raise and lower things or to move them left and right. Cranes are often used in the construction industry (building houses or buildings) and in creating or moving heavy things. 

</doc>
<doc id="49697" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49697" title="Data mining">
Data mining

Data mining is a term from computer science. Sometimes it is also called knowledge discovery in databases (KDD). Data mining is about finding new information in a lot of data. The information obtained from data mining is hopefully both new and useful. 
In many cases, data is stored so it can be used later. The data is saved with a goal. For example, a store wants to save what has been bought. They want to do this to know how much they should buy themselves, to have enough to sell later. Saving this information, makes a lot of data. The data is usually saved in a database. The reason why data is saved is called the first use. 
Later, the same data can also be used to get other information that was not needed for the first use. The store might want to know now what kind of things people buy together when they buy at the store. (Many people who buy pasta also buy mushrooms for example.) That kind of information is in the data, and is useful, but was not the reason why the data was saved. This information is new and can be useful. It is a second use for the same data. 
Finding new information that can also be useful from data, is called data mining. 
For data, there a lot of different kinds of data mining for getting new information. Usually, prediction is involved. There is uncertainty in the predicted results. The following is based on the observation that there is a small green apple.in which we can adjust our data in structural manner.
. Some of the kinds of data mining are: 

</doc>
<doc id="49706" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49706" title="Japanese sword-making">
Japanese sword-making

Japanese schools of sword making can be divided into two categories: by the provinces where they were developed and by the masters who created a specific tradition of sword making.
The late Kamakura period is often referred to as the greatest period of sword making in Japanese history. The Soshu tradition was one of the dominant traditions. Smiths like Kunitsuna and Sukezane combined their knowledge with methods from Yamashiro and Bizen traditions. Finally, a group of famous sword smiths culminated with Masamune (1264-1343 AD) and his school. 
The rare swords were made out of five separate pieces and heat-treated at high temperatures. The swords of the Masamune School were harder than any of the swords made before. Masamune trained a group of at least ten followers. Two of his students (Kanemitsu and Nagayoshi) were from the Bizen province. In this way, during the early 14th century, the Masamune school attracted many smiths from other schools. Kanemitsu is believed to be the one who created the Soden School, which combined Bizen and Soshu techniques. 
At the same time Chogi was developing his school. The Chogi works show a stronger influence of the Soshu tradition than Kanemitsu swords.
There are several famous schools created by sword masters:

</doc>
<doc id="49718" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49718" title="Ornamental plant">
Ornamental plant

An ornamental plant is a plant that is grown for how it looks and not for its commercial or other value. The term is often shortened to ornamental (usually as a noun) when used in the context of plants.
Ornamental plants are usually grown in the flower garden, or as house plants. Most commonly they are grown for display of their flowers. Other common ornamental features include leaves, scent, fruit, stem and bark. In all cases, their purpose is the enjoyment of gardeners and visitors. Ornamental plants may also be used for landscaping, and for cut flowers.
The cultivation, called floriculture, is a major branch of horticulture. Ornamental plants come in a range of shapes, sizes and colours suitable to a broad array of climates, landscapes, and gardening needs.

</doc>
<doc id="49719" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49719" title="List of garden plants">
List of garden plants

This is a partial list of garden plants, plants that can be cultivated in the garden, listed alphabetically by genus.
See also:

</doc>
<doc id="49720" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49720" title="List of plants by common name">
List of plants by common name

The common names of plants often vary from region to region, which is why most plant encyclopedias refer to plants using binomials, or "Latin" names. Common names are also referred to as "country names" or "farmer's names". These names develop over time according to use, appearance, and lore.
Most plants have several country names, and country names often refer to several distinct plants. This list includes garden plants as well as weeds.
This is by no means a complete list. Most of the common names here so far are regional names from North America.
__notoc__

</doc>
<doc id="49725" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49725" title="Celts">
Celts

The Celts were a large group of Caucasian tribes in Europe. They first appeared in the early Iron Age, around 1200 B.C. in Austria. It's an interesting fact that the name 'Celt' comes from the Romans, and in fact, the Celts would never have used that word themselves.They came from the Hallstatt and La Tène cultures. Their culture and genes spread through much of Europe, and by the time the Greeks and later the Romans started emerging, the British Isles and parts of western, southern and eastern Europe were Celtic - the most prominent Celtic tribes were in Gaul. The Celts spoke Celtic languages. Today, the Celtic languages that remain are the Breton, Cornish, Welsh and Gaelic languages.
Celtic society and technology, although not as advanced as the Romans, was far from being primitive for its time. The Celts lived a way of life based on ethical codes and honor codes and had developed a culture of their own, full of unique drawings, sculptures, jewellery, folklore, and building designs and techniques. They were also skilled in blacksmithing, farming and diplomacy.
Celtic warriors would wear war paint and try to scare their enemies by shouting war cries. Tribes had different dress standards for battle; some warriors wore chainmail and/or leather armor, some wore only clothes and some were known to fight fully naked. They also had their own type of sword that was very strong and a shield that was very protective. 
When the Roman Republic started expanding, the Gauls and the Romans became very hostile towards each other and clashed on many occasions; however, the Romans were eventually able to defeat them and ended up conquering most of the Celtic tribes in Europe and ruled them until the fall of the Roman Empire. Celtic tribes also fought amongst each other. After winning a battle, the Celts would cut off the heads of their enemies and take them home.
During the fall of the Roman Empire most of the old Celtic land ended up being ruled by migrating Germanic tribes and they merged with Romano-Celtic stock (people with both Roman and Celtic ancestry) to eventually form several European nations of today e.g. France. Territories that are still considered Celtic are Ireland, Wales, Scotland, Isle of Man, Cornwall and Brittany. 

</doc>
<doc id="49727" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49727" title="Free good">
Free good

In economics free good means a good that is available without production, and therefore not scarce. It is available in as much quantity as desired, with zero opportunity cost to society.
A good that is made available at zero price is not necessarily a free good. For example, a shop might give away its stock in its promotion, but for the production of these goods, resources were needed, so this would not be a free good in an economic sense.
There are three main types of free goods:
Intellectual property laws have the effect of converting some goods to scarce goods by law. 
Although these goods are free goods (in the economic sense) when they have been produced, they did require scarce resources, such as artistic skill, to create them in the first place. Thus, intellectual property laws such as copyrights and patents are sometimes used to give exclusive rights to the creators of such "intellectual property", to make sure that people are interested in these activities.
Many futurists theorize that advanced nanotechnology with the ability to automatically turn any kind of material into any other combination of equal mass, will make all goods essentially free goods, since all raw materials and manufacturing time will become perfectly interchangeable.

</doc>
<doc id="49748" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49748" title="Hoist">
Hoist

A hoist is a device used for lifting or lowering a load by means of a drum or lift-wheel around which rope or chain wraps. It may be manually operated, electrically or pneumatically driven and may use chain, fiber or wire rope as its lifting medium. The load is attached to the hoist by means of a lifting hook. 
A "hoist" normally is used for lifting (near vertical) and a winch is normally used for pulling (near horizontal).
Construction sites, especially for buildings of more than five floors in height, often employ hoists to lift workers and building materials.
The basic hoist has two important characteristics to define it: Lifting medium and power type. The lifting medium is either wire rope, wrapped around a drum, or load-chain, raised by a gear-like wheel. The power type can be either electric motor or air motor. Both the wire rope hoist and chain hoist have been in common use since the 1800's.

</doc>
<doc id="49756" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49756" title="Eugene Onegin (opera)">
Eugene Onegin (opera)

Eugene Onegin ("Евгений Онегин" in Russian) is an opera by Pyotr Tchaikovsky. It is usually thought to be his greatest opera and one of the best of all Russian operas. Tchaikovsky finished composing it in 1878 and it was first performed in Moscow in 1879.
The story of "Eugene Onegin" was written by Alexander Pushkin. He was Russia’s most famous writer and Tchaikovsky made several of his stories into operas. He was careful not to make the opera too long, and chose several chapters from Pushkin’s original book so that the story sometimes jumps from one time to a time much later. Russian operas are quite often like this: they are a series of “tableaux”, i.e. scenes from a story. Sometimes the audience has to imagine what happens between the acts.
Act 1
Tatyana is a young girl who comes from a rich family. She is with her younger sister Olga. Tatyana is reading a novel, but her mother, Madame Larina, tells her that real life is very different from what it is in books. Visitors arrive: Olga’s fiancée Lensky who is a young poet, and his friend Eugene Onegin. Onegin is a rather lazy man who likes to go to parties and socialize. Tatyana immediately feels attracted to him.
Back in her room Tatyana tells her nurse that she is in love. When she is alone she writes a letter to Onegin saying how she loves him. When the nurse returns Tatyana asks her to make sure the letter is sent to Onegin.
Onegin returns to give Tatyana an answer to her letter. He says very politely that he is not really suited to marriage. Tatyana is very upset.
Act 2
It is Tatyana's name-day party. Onegin is annoyed that people are gossiping about him and Tatyana. He is cross with Lensky for making him come. He decides to make Lensky cross by dancing with his fiancée Olga. Olga likes this, and Lensky is very jealous. A singer entertains the party by singing a song in honour of Tatyana. Lensky is now furious and tells everyone in a loud voice that he is no longer Onegin’s friend. He challenges Onegin to a duel which Onegin has to accept to keep his honour. 
In the next scene Lensky is waiting for Onegin, and sings a famous song about his fate and his love for Olga. Onegin arrives. Onegin shoots Lensky dead.
Act 3
The next act takes place several years later. A rich nobleman in St Petersburg is having a ball. Onegin is thinking about his empty life and how bad he feels about Lensky’s death. Prince Gremin enters with his wife, Tatyana, who is now older and still very beautiful and wealthy. Gremin sings how happy he is with Tatyana and introduces Onegin to her (he does not know anything about how Tatyana used to love him). Onegin desperately wants her to love him again.
In a reception room Tatyana has had a letter from Onegin. Onegin enters and begs her to love him. Tatyana wonders why he is now in love with her. She says she loves him but that she wants to be faithful to her husband. Onegin keeps begging her but in the end she leaves him. Onegin is left in despair.
"Eugene Onegin" is often described as a “lyrical” opera. The melodies are very beautiful and romantic. Two of the most famous arias in the opera are the aria that Tatyana sings when she writes the letter to Onegin, and Lensky’s aria which he sings just before the duel. Tatyana is sung by a soprano, Lensky is a tenor and Eugene Onegin is a baritone.

</doc>
<doc id="49764" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49764" title="Basingstoke">
Basingstoke

Basingstoke is a large town in Hampshire, England. It is southwest of London, northeast of Southampton, southwest of Reading and northeast of Winchester. In 2008 it had an estimated population of 82,913. It is part of the borough of Basingstoke and Deane. Basingstoke is often nicknamed "Doughnut City" or "Roundabout City" due to the number of roundabouts.
Often mistaken for a "new town", Basingstoke is an old market town expanded in the 1960s as part of a plan of London County Council, Hampshire County Council and Basingstoke Borough Council. It was developed fast to accommodate part of the London 'overspill' as seen in the Greater London Plan, 1944.

</doc>
<doc id="49768" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49768" title="Flerovium">
Flerovium

Flerovium is a chemical element. It is also named eka-lead. It has the symbol Fl. It has the atomic number 114. It is a superheavy element. Flerovium is radioactive.
Flerovium does not exist in nature. It has to be made. It is a synthetic element. It is made from a nuclear reaction between plutonium and calcium. The reaction that happens is a fusion reaction.
The discovery of Flerovium in December 1998 was reported in January 1999 by scientists at the Joint Institute for Nuclear Research in Dubna, Russia. The same team of scientists made another isotope of Uuq three months later and made it again in 2004 and 2006.
In 2004 in the Joint Institute for Nuclear Research checked it was made by another method. They found the final products of radioactive decay.
After its discovery, the "new" element was named "Ununquadium". The named changed on May 30th, 2012 to "Flerovium". The International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry named it so.
Not enough Flerovium has been made to measure its physical or chemical properties. It is thought that it would be a soft, dense metal that changes colour in air. It may have a low melting point of about 200 °C.
Flerovium can be made by bombarding a plutonium-244 target with calcium-48 as a beam of ions.

</doc>
<doc id="49769" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49769" title="Brontosaurus">
Brontosaurus

Brontosaurus is a genus of sauropod dinosaur. 
"Brontosaurus" was originally named by its discoverer Othniel Charles Marsh in 1879. "Brontosaurus" had long been considered a junior synonym of "Apatosaurus". Its only species was reclassified as "A. excelsus" in 1903. 
However, an extensive study published in 2015 concluded that "Brontosaurus" was a valid genus of sauropod distinct from "Apatosaurus".
"Brontosaurus" is a member of the family Diplodocidae, a clade of gigantic sauropod dinosaurs. The family includes some of the longest creatures ever to walk the earth, including "Diplodocus", "Supersaurus", and "Barosaurus". "Brontosaurus" is closely related to "Apatosaurus" in the subfamily Apatosaurinae.

</doc>
<doc id="49771" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49771" title="Fate">
Fate

Fate or destiny is the idea that the future is already planned even if people do not know what their fate is (what is going to happen to them). Humans in nearly all cultures have had ideas about their fate being “predetermined” (fixed in advance).
People who live unhappy lives may believe that their misery is because of their fate and that they can do nothing about it. This is called being “fatalistic”. Other people may believe that they can control their fate by being brave and trying to “overcome” fate by improving themselves and their lives.
In Greek mythology there were three Fates. They were three goddesses who determined when every person was going to be born, how they would live and when and how they would die. Human beings in many cultures had lots of ways in which they would try to “read” their fate (know what would happen to them). Sometimes they would try to read their fate in the stars (this is called astrology). In other cultures they might ask a person with powers of magic like a shaman. The Ancient Greeks often went to Delphi to ask the oracle.
There are lots of references to fate in literature from almost every country and period, from Greek tragedy (e.g. Oedipus Rex) to Shakespeare (e.g. Macbeth) and Russian literature.
Composers may express fate in music. Beethoven was thinking about Fate when he wrote his Fifth Symphony, and Tchaikovsky when he wrote his Sixth Symphony just before he committed suicide.
See also:

</doc>
<doc id="49775" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49775" title="Hoffmann von Fallersleben">
Hoffmann von Fallersleben

August Heinrich Hoffmann (April 2, 1798 - January 19, 1874), who used Hoffmann von Fallersleben as his pen name, was a German poet. He is best known for writing "Das Lied der Deutschen", which is now the national anthem of Germany, and a number of popular children's songs.

</doc>
<doc id="49784" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49784" title="Lake Peipus">
Lake Peipus

Lake Peipus (Estonian: "Peipsi-Pihkva järv", German: "Peipussee", Russian: "Чудско-Псковское озеро") is a large fresh water lake. It is between Estonia and Russia in Northern Europe. Lake Peipus is the fourth largest lake in Europe. The lake covers 3,500 square kilometres. It has an average depth of 7m. At its deepest point, Lake Peipus is 15m deep. The lake is used for fishing and recreation.

</doc>
<doc id="49796" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49796" title="Tanto">
Tanto

The Tanto is a Japanese short sword or dagger. 
The tanto's traditional overall length was 11.93 in (1 shaku, about 30cm). The blade's length was about 5in to 12in (12 1/2cm to 30cm). Blades that were bigger (13" to 14" inches) were called ko-wakizashi, or "small short sword." The tantos which varied from the traditional size were called O-tanto or Sunobi tanto. 
The tanto was a weapon with a single-edged blade and a curved shape. It was designed for soft targets and was thought to be a hidden weapon of the samurai. It was extremely effective in close fighting. 
The tanto appeared during the Heian Period (795-1192 A.D.) and developed as a weapon during the Kamakura Period (1192-1333 A.D.). At that time the tanto was not just a weapon but also a work of art. It was richly decorated using the most spread styles: hira-tsukuri and uchi-sori. Later, in the Nambokucho period (1336-1392 A.D), tantos become longer than 15.75 inches (37cm). Blades become thinner and broader and thus even more dangerous. Different styles developed and the shape changed. During the Muromachi Period (1336–1573 A.D.) the tanto becomes once more narrow-bladed. 
By this time the quality of the blade was better. It was the time when professional smiths appeared and there were several styles of tanto making. The best known smiths were: Sukesada and Norimitsu (Bizen-den); Kanemoto and Kanesada (Mino-den); Muramasa and Masashige (Ise). The beginning of Edo period (1603-1867 A.D.) was a period of relative peace after Japanese unification and, although not so many were made, they were of good quality. The heat treated blade's edge (hamon) becomes more waved and so more beautiful. 
A great number of tantos were made in the last 700 to 800 years. Some of them were for civil use. Others were made especially for samurai. One of the classifications is based on the hand guard type: 
The most popular of the three tantos were aikuchi and hamadashi. This was because of the fact that these two types had a small guard and they were easier to hide and carry. The tanto was not widely used on the battlefield, so the guard was mostly unnecessary.
Other styles of tanto differed by the shape of the blade. The best known are: 
When the tanto was used on the battlefield it was supposed to go through the armor of the opponent when he was close. The best tantos for this were those with a long, narrow blade and with a thick spine. The blow was applied with the point directed under or through the armor. The tanto was usually carried in a wide cloth belt (obi) with the edge up and the handle turned to the right. In the samurai house the tanto was often placed with the wakizashi (short sword). Samurai women were taught to use the tanto in case they needed to defend themselves or, if violated, to take their own life.
It is also considered that tantos of different type were used for suicide ritual (seppuku, also hara-kiri). Still, it was mainly used by women samurai whose suicidal ritual was to cut their own throat. The men samurai had a different ritual: they used a wakizashi sword for disembowelment.

</doc>
<doc id="49799" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49799" title="Clint Dempsey">
Clint Dempsey

Clint Dempsey (born March 9, 1983) is an American footballer from Texas. He plays for Sounders F.C.and is number 2 and, has also played for Fulham F.C. and was number 8. He played for the New England Revolution in the United States before Fulham gave them money (a "transfer fee") to get him to play for them, but then was put on Sounders F.C. Dempsey is a good player who is well liked by many people in the United States and England for his hard work and desire to win.
Clint also has taken an interest in rapping. Known as Deuce, he has produced compilations with Big Hawk and XO. He also once defeated Peter Crouch in a freestyle battle.

</doc>
<doc id="49808" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49808" title="Runaway Brain">
Runaway Brain

Runaway Brain is an animated short movie released on September 22, 1934 by MGM/United Artists. It was produced by Walt Disney and directed by Burton Gillett. The movie is 7 minutes long. It has Peter Penguin, Polly Penguin, Gosalyn Mallard, Honker Muddlefoot, Bubba the Caveduck, Donald Duck, Daisy Duck, Magica De Spell, and Poe De Spell.

</doc>
<doc id="49824" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49824" title="Maltese language">
Maltese language

Maltese is the language of Malta, and a language of the European Union. Maltese sounds very similar to the type of Punic, an ancient Mediterranean and middle-eastern spread language. It is written in the Latin alphabet like English. The language has borrowed many words from Sicilian, Italian, and English.
The oldest known document in Maltese is "Il Cantilena," a poem from the 15th century written by Pietro Caxaro. For centuries, Maltese was mainly a spoken language.
Maltese became an official language of Malta in 1934, alongside English. Before that year, the only official language of Malta was Italian. Italian, however, is still used a lot in the media.
Today, there are around 393,000 people who speak Maltese. Most of them live in Malta.
Italian and English words are being taken in by the language more and more. This sometimes causes words to form that are not found in Maltese, Italian, or English, but instead are a mix of the three. At schools, English is taught as a second language. Maltese is usually used in the standardized jobs and when people talk to each other. Most of the television, radio, and literature in Malta is also in Maltese.

</doc>
<doc id="49845" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49845" title="Persuasion">
Persuasion

Persuasion is a form of influence. It is the way to get people to agree with an idea, attitude, or action by rational and emotional means. It is a problem-solving strategy and relies on "appeals" rather than force.
Dissuasion is the process of convincing someone "not" to believe or act on something.
Persuasion is often confused with manipulation, which is the way to get people to agree with something that is not in their best interest. Persuasion is meant to benefit one or more parties in the end.
Aids to persuasion:
Other techniques, which may or may not work:
Coercive techniques, some of which are highly controversial and/or not scientifically proven to be effective:

</doc>
<doc id="49846" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49846" title="Ögedei Khan">
Ögedei Khan

Ögedei (1186-1241) was the third son of Genghis Khan and second Great Khan of the Mongol Empire, after his father. He continued to make his father's empire bigger. Like all of Genghis' sons, he helped to conquer Western China and Central Asia. Ögedei was thought to be his father's favorite son, ever since his childhood. As an adult, Ögedei was known to be persuasive in debates he was involved because he had a strong personality. Although less schooled than his father, and despite his drinking habits, he was intelligent and steady in character.
He was selected as the supreme khan in 1229 because of the kuriltai, the meeting for important leaders, was held after Genghis' death, but it was never doubted that Genghis wanted Ögedei to rule after him. During his reign, the Mongols ended the Jin Dynasty (in 1234) and fought against the Southern Song Empire. In 1235, under the khan's direct command, the Mongols began a war of conquest that would not end for forty-five years, and would result in the addition of all of China. Mongol armies established permanent control of Persia (commanded by Chormagan) and expanded westward under the command of Batu Khan to take over Russia.

</doc>
<doc id="49848" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49848" title="Heligoland">
Heligoland

Heligoland ()is a small German group of islands in the North Sea.
It has been controlled by Denmark and between 1807 and 1890 by the British. The islands have a population of 1,650. They are the only German islands not nearby to the mainland and are about two hours' sailing time from Cuxhaven at the mouth of the River Elbe.
Heligoland is located 70 km (44 miles) from the German coast line and actually consists of two islands: the populated triangular-shaped 1 km² (0.4 sq mi) main island () to the west and the island of "Düne" (Heligolandic: "de Halem") in the east. 
Düne is the smaller of the two islands(0.7 km²). It is also lower, surrounded by sand beaches and no-one lives on the island throughout the year.
Often when people talk about "Heligoland" they only mean Hauptinsel.

</doc>
<doc id="49850" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49850" title="Cooperation">
Cooperation

Cooperation is when people work together to make their lives better, even though they are free to not work together, and receive little if any money for working together.
A cooperative is a type of organization that people use to make their lives better. The first cooperative was a store in Rochdale, England started in 1844. The people who started it wanted food that was cheaper and better quality. Since then, people have found many ways to cooperate. For example:
Co-operatives are democratic organizations owned by the people who use them. Cooperative organizations help people adapt to capitalism. The International Cooperative Alliance was started in 1885. It reports that there are 800 million cooperative members in the world. 

</doc>
<doc id="49856" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49856" title="Robert F. Kennedy">
Robert F. Kennedy

Robert Francis "Bobby" Kennedy (November 20, 1925 – June 6, 1968), also called RFK, was a brother of former U.S. President John F. Kennedy. He ran for president in 1968, but was shot dead in California during the presidential primaries. 

</doc>
<doc id="49860" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49860" title="Umbilical cord">
Umbilical cord

The umbilical cord is the tube that connects the unborn child and the mother together. It allows the baby to get what it needs, for example, oxygen, glucose.

</doc>
<doc id="49881" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49881" title="Josef Mengele">
Josef Mengele

Dr Josef Mengele (March 16, 1911 – February 7, 1979), was a German SS officer and a physician in the Nazi concentration camp Auschwitz. He did medical experiments with the people in the camps. Many people died as a consequence of these experiments. The experiments included freezing someone, or placing them under heat lamps. 
Mengele was also known for his studies and fascination with twins. Mengele was known as the "Angel of Death." After the war, he first hid in Germany, then escaped and lived in South America, until he drowned in Brazil.
Mengele wrote a thesis, which he finished in 1936. His advisor was Theodor Mollison. His assumption was that is was possible to determine the race of a human being by looking at the jawbone. He wrote another thesis, in a related area in 1938. In 1960 and 1961, his title was revoked, because of the crimes he had committed in Auschwitz. 

</doc>
<doc id="49882" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49882" title="Francis I of Austria">
Francis I of Austria

Francis I, Emperor of Austria (February 12, 1768 – March 2, 1835) also was Francis II, Holy Roman Emperor (in German language: Franz II, Heiliger Römischer Kaiser).
He was the last Holy Roman Emperor, ruling from 1792 until August 6, 1806, when the Empire was no longer a unit. He then became Francis I, first Emperor of Austria (from 1804 to 1835).

</doc>
<doc id="49883" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49883" title="Wilhelm I of Germany">
Wilhelm I of Germany

Wilhelm I of the family of the Hohenzollern, was a king of Prussia (January 2, 1861 – 9 March 1888) and the first German Emperor (18 January 1871 – 9 March 1888). His name was Wilhelm Friedrich Ludwig von Hohenzollern. He was born March 22, 1797 and died March 9, 1888. In English his name means "William".
When Wilhelm was king he and his prime minister, Otto von Bismarck, Prussia united a large group of smaller German countries. They won the Franco-Prussian War and the German Empire started.
His grandson Wilhelm II ordered the Kaiser Wilhelm Gedächtniskirche to be built to honour his life and achievements.
His official title was German Emperor and King of Prussia; Margrave of Brandenburg; Burgrave of Nürnberg, Count of Hohenzollern; Sovereign and highest Duke of Silesia as of the county of Glatz; Grand Duke of the Lower Rhine and of Posen; Duke of Saxony, Wesphalia, and Angaria, of Pomerania, Lüneburg, Holstein and Schleswig, of Magdeburg, Bremen, Gelders, Cleves, Jülich and Berg, as well as of the Wendes and Kaschubs, of Krossen, Lauenburg, Mecklenburg; Landgrave of Hesse and Thuringia, Margrave of Upper and Lower Lusatia, Prince of Orange, Prince of Rügen, of East Frisia, of Paderborn and Pyrmont, of Halberstadt, Münster, Minden, Osnabrück, Hildesheim, of Verden, Kammin, Fulda, Nassau and Moers; Princely Count of Henneberg; Count of the Mark and of Ravensberg, of Hohnstein, Tecklenburg and Lingen, of Mansfeld, Sigmaringen and Veringen, Lord of Frankfurt" .

</doc>
<doc id="49884" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49884" title="Amami Islands">
Amami Islands

The is a group of islands in Kagoshima prefecture in the Kyūshū region of Japan. It is also known as the .
The name of the islands comes the mythological figure of "Amamiko".
It was attacked by the Ryūkyū Kingdom in 1570, but was invaded by Satsuma Domain in 1609.
Amami was occupied by the United States from 1945 to 1953.
The largest island in the group is Amami Island. Other islands include Kikai Island, Tokunoshima, Okinoerabu Island, Yorontou and some small islands make up the Amami Islands.

</doc>
<doc id="49885" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49885" title="Kagoshima">
Kagoshima

Kagoshima can mean a few things:

</doc>
<doc id="49886" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49886" title="Formal">
Formal

Formal is a word used to describe anything that has form or structure. So it is something which is used or done in accordance with rules or ceremonies.
Formal events have rules. 'Formal clothes' or 'formal attire' is a way of dressing to meet the rules for an event, such as a party or wedding. 'Formal attire' can be a suit, a tuxedo or a dress. People from all over the world have their own ideas about 'formal attire'. Most of the time "formal attire" clothes are the most beautiful or the best clothes a person owns. The opposite of "formal" is informal. Informal clothes are comfortable clothes for general use, e.g. T shirt and jeans. An informal ceremony might be a ceremony which is very relaxed instead of following an exact plan. An informal way to greet a friend might be: "Hi, John!"
Examples:

</doc>
<doc id="49887" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49887" title="Kyūshū">
Kyūshū

Kyūshū () is one of Japan's four main islands. It is the most southern of the main islands. 
Kyūshū is the third largest island of Japan. 
Kyūshū region is made up of the entire island.
The name Kyūshū literally means "nine countries" in Japanese. Kyūshū was made of nine old "countries" or provinces that are now prefectures. In other words, each prefecture has a modern name and sometimes more than one old provincial name. The old names are still used sometimes, especially for foods, music, or art.
The original nine provinces in Kyushu were Chikuzen, Chikugo, Hizen, Higo, Buzen, Bungo, Hyūga, Ōsumi, and Satsuma.
Today, Kyushu is made up of seven prefectures. 
Parts of Kyūshū have a warm climate, like the Miyazaki and Kagoshima regions. Major crops grown there are rice, tea, tobacco, sweet potatoes, and soy; silk is also made. The island is known for many types of porcelain like Arita, Imari, Satsuma and Karatsu.
Under the Gokishichidō system, the island of Kyūshū was a part of the region known as Saikaidō. It was a part of this region from the 7th century until the middle of the 1800s. Around 1905, it was made into its own region. In the modern system, Kyūshū and the small islands around it are a part of the Kyūshū region. 

</doc>
<doc id="49896" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49896" title="Presentation">
Presentation

Presentation is the process of presenting the content of a topic to an audience. Presentation software, such as OpenOffice.org Impress, Apple Keynote or Microsoft PowerPoint, is often used to generate the presentation content. As a form of communication, a presentation is usually 10-30 minutes long, but can take longer in special cases.

</doc>
<doc id="49898" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49898" title="Keynote (software)">
Keynote (software)

Keynote is a presentation software application made by Apple for its Mac OS X operating system.
Keynote was a software program that Steve Jobs, the chief executive officer of Apple used for his own presentations only. It was later sold to everyone as Keynote 1.0, competing against other presentation software, especially Microsoft PowerPoint. Unlike PowerPoint, Keynote can use all image types, and the design uses more pictures, making it easier to use. Because Keynote uses Mac OS X's built-in graphics technologies, it can produce slides with many graphics very easily.

</doc>
<doc id="49899" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49899" title="Claymore">
Claymore

The claymore is a Scottish sword. It is double-edged. The word itself is of Gaelic origins and means “great sword”. The Claymore is indeed a big sword and was held only with two hands. In some sources the broad claymore sword is called “claidheamh da lamh”, which means “two-hand sword”. It was very popular in the 16th century when Scottish warriors (highlanders) used it against the Englishmen.
The claymore sword was in average about - overall length, the blade was about long. It weighed around . It possessed a very broad blade and a slim channel for blood flood (fuller).
There also existed a version of Claymore that had a single-edged blade and a basket-shaped handle. The basket of the handle was used as protection to the hand. The blade was very long so the basket was designed for balance too. The making of these swords was widespread especially during the mid-1600s . The places where the claymore swords were made were: Edinburgh, Canongate, Stirling and Glasgow.
Beginning around 1350, very long claymore swords were used. The handles and the blades became longer. This was because of the heavy armour, that was almost impossible to penetrate. The Scottish Claymore was one of the two swords which could cut through the armour. The second was the Germanic Landsknecht sword.

</doc>
<doc id="49900" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49900" title="Tamahagane">
Tamahagane

Tamahagane {tah-mah-ha-ga-nay} is a high quality metal (steel) made in the Japanese tradition. The word "tama" means "round and precious", like a gem or jewel. The word "hagane" means "steel". On the market, it costs 50 times more than ordinary steel. Tamahagane steel is used to make Japanese swords, knives, and other kinds of tools.
Good tamahagane contains around 1% of carbon and should not go over 1.5%.
Tamahagane is made of iron sand (called "satetsu" in Japanese). There are 2 main types of iron sands: "acome" and "masa". Acome is of lower quality and masa is of better quality. The man who decides the amount of the mixing parts is called the "murage". Depending on the desired result, the murage mixes one or more types of sands.
The iron sand is put in a clay tub (furnace) called a "tatara". The clay tub measures about 4 feet tall, 12 feet long, and 4 feet wide. The tub is then dried and heated. The clay tub is heated to a high temperature, about 1000 ºC (1.832 ºF). Then, it is mixed with charcoal to give tamahagane hardness. 
The process of making tamahagane continues for 36 to 72 hours, depending on how many people work and how much metal is to be obtained. The iron sand is added every 10 minutes and the mixture is frequently turned over. 
When the tamahagane is finished, the clay tub is broken and the steel is removed. The best steel is on the edges of metal block, because this is the where the oxidation process is stronger. The quality of tamahagane is determined by its color: bright silver pieces are very good for making blades.

</doc>
<doc id="49901" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49901" title="Graviton">
Graviton

A graviton is a hypothetical particle that 'transfers' gravitation's force (particles like this are known as gauge bosons) from its field. Gravitons have never been observed, directly or indirectly, however, there have been several theories that use gravitons to explain certain phenomena. For example, a theory that describes black holes by combining quantum mechanics and gravity, has been advanced by Georgi Dvali and Cesar Gomez, which suggests a black hole is "an overpacked bucket of gravitons". There are some theories that suggest that gravitons would make up a new group of particles, "attraction particles". Cern is currently smashing more particles using the LHC to try to find this particle.
Because the graviton is a particle that has force (gravity), it is classed as a gauge boson. Other gauge bosons include the photon, the gluon, and the W and Z particles.
If someone found one, it could lead to a theory which would join together the four main physical forces: electromagnetism, gravity, strong force and weak force.

</doc>
<doc id="49903" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49903" title="Presentation software">
Presentation software

A presentation software is a computer software package used to show information, normally in the form of a slide show. It mostly includes three major functions: an editor that allows text to be inserted and formatted, a method for inserting and manipulating graphic images and a slide-show system to display the content.
The most commonly known presentation program is Microsoft PowerPoint, but there are alternatives such as OpenOffice.org Impress and Apple's Keynote.
Originally these programs were used to generate 35 mm slides, to be presented using a slide projector. As these programs became more common in the late 1980s, several companies set up services that would accept the shows on floppy disk and create slides or print transparencies. In the 1990s, dedicated LCD-based screens that could be placed on the projectors started to replace the transparencies, and by the late 1990s they had almost all been replaced by video projectors.

</doc>
<doc id="49905" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49905" title="Liqueur">
Liqueur

A liqueur is a sweet-tasting alcoholic drink. It is often flavored with fruits, herbs, spices, flowers, seeds, roots, plants, barks, and sometimes cream. The word "liqueur" comes from the Latin word "liquifacere" which means "to dissolve." This is because the flavors are dissolved to help make the liqueur. In some parts of the world, liqueurs are sometimes called cordials.
Liqueurs have been around for many centuries. They are related to the herbal medicines that monks used to make. Liqueurs were made in Italy as early as the 13th century, and were used during signings of treaties during the Middle Ages.
Most liqueurs have 15 to 30% alcohol content but may have an alcohol content as high as 55%.
Types of liqueurs include: fruit liqueur, cream liqueur, coffee liqueur, chocolate liqueur, schnapps liqueur, brandy liqueur, anise liqueur, nut-flavoured liqueur, and herbal liqueur.
Liqueurs can be enjoyed many ways. They are commonly drank by themselves, poured over ice, with coffee, or mixed with cream or other mixers to create cocktails. They are often served with dessert or as a dessert. Liqueurs may also be used in cooking.

</doc>
<doc id="49907" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49907" title="Militarism">
Militarism

Militarism or militarist ideology is a view on society.
It says society should be like the military.
This means that society should follow concepts that can be found in the culture, system and people of the military. People that say militarism is good are called "militarists".
Most important to militarists is discipline. Discipline means to follow a set of rules.
It also means training that follows such rules. A strong military, they say, is good for discipline.
There are many areas where moral goals and the culture of the military can be applied. Most notable are private business, government, education and entertainment.
Militarism is related to militarization.
Militarist countries often have a strong military.
Sparta in Ancient Greece, Prussia in the 19th century was militarist, for example. North Korea is a good example in modern times. In militarised societies the military either run the government, or have heavy military influence. Often the head of state is a military person, though that does not always mean the society is militarised.

</doc>
<doc id="49951" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49951" title="The Queen of Spades (opera)">
The Queen of Spades (opera)

The Queen of Spades (, pronounced "Pi-KO-va-ya DA-ma") is an opera by Tchaikovsky. It is based on a short story by Alexander Pushkin. Sometimes it is known by its German title "Pique Dame". 
When Tchaikovsky went to Paris in 1876, he saw Bizet’s opera "Carmen". He liked the story's themes of love and bad fate. The idea of fate is important to the opera "Carmen" and also to Tchaikovsky’s "The Queen of Spades". Tchaikovsky wrote some of his greatest music in this opera. Some of it is very graceful, and is similar to Mozart. In other places it is very romantic, with harmonies that he had learned by studying the operas of Wagner.
Hermann, a young officer, sees a beautiful girl in the park and falls in love with her even though he does not know her. His friend tells him that the girl’s name is Lisa, and that her grandmother is an old countess who used to gamble (play cards for money) when she was young. He says that people used to call the grandmother the "Queen of Spades", and that she knows a secret: she knows about the three cards which will always win the card game.
Hermann can only think of one thing: he wants to find out the secret of the three cards so that he can gamble and win lots of money. Then he will be able to marry Lisa. He hides himself in the grandmother’s bedroom. When the grandmother goes to bed, he jumps out in front of her and tells her he wants to know the three cards. She is so scared that she dies before she can speak.
Later, the ghost of the grandmother comes to Hermann and tells him the three secret cards: Three, Seven, Ace. Hermann’s mind is now on one thing: he must go and play cards and win. Lisa drowns herself. Hermann gambles all his money, saying "The life is only game and the sure is only death". The first two cards are the Three and the Seven, but the third card is not the Ace, it is the Queen of Spades. The old grandmother’s ghost comes again to Hermann. Hermann kills himself.
Tchaikovsky’s brother Modest helped him to prepare the libretto (words) for the opera. They changed some of Pushkin’s story, making the love scenes important because he thought they would be good with emotional music. They also made it very dramatic by making Lisa drown herself in a canal and Hermann die at the gaming table. This is different to what happens in Pushkin’s story.
Tchaikovsky wrote the opera very quickly. It took him just six weeks to sketch it (write the basic ideas). Then he spent a short time in Rome and when he returned, he wrote it out for orchestra in another six weeks. 
Some of the music is quite Classical (Rococo) in character. At other times it can sound very Russian. In the supernatural scenes, Tchaikovsky uses the whole-tone scale like Glinka did in his operas.
The opera was first performed at the Mariinsky Theatre in St Petersburg on 19 December 1890.

</doc>
<doc id="49954" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49954" title="Growth-share matrix">
Growth-share matrix

The growth-share matrix (aka B.C.G. analysis, B.C.G.-matrix, Boston Consulting Group analysis) is a chart that had been created by Bruce Henderson for the Boston Consulting Group in 1970 to help corporations with analyzing their business units or product lines. This helps the company allocate resources and is used as an analytical tool in brand marketing, product management, strategic management and portfolio-analysis.

</doc>
<doc id="49955" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49955" title="Microsoft PowerPoint">
Microsoft PowerPoint

Microsoft Office PowerPoint is a presentation program developed for the Microsoft Windows and Mac OS computer operating systems. Businesspeople, educators, and trainers use it often. It is a component of the Microsoft Office system.
In PowerPoint, as in most other presentation software, text, graphics, movies, and other objects are positioned on individual pages or "slides". The "slide" analogy is a reference to the slide projector. Slides can be printed, or (more often) displayed on-screen and navigated through at the command of the presenter. Slides can also form the basis of webcasts.
Versions for Microsoft Windows include:
"Note: There is no PowerPoint 5.0 or 6.0, because the Windows 95 version was launched with Word 7. All of the Office 95 products have OLE 2 - moving data between many programs - and PowerPoint 7 shows that it was as new as Word 7."

</doc>
<doc id="49956" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49956" title="Qi Xi">
Qi Xi

Qi Xi, sometimes called Chinese Valentine's Day, Magpie Festival, or the Double Seventh Festival is a traditional romantic festival in China. It take places on the 7th day of the 7th lunar month and often goes into August on the Gregorian calendar.
In late summer, two bright stars can be seen on opposite sides of the Milky Way. These stars are Altair ("the cowherd", Niulang) and Vega ("the weaver girl", Zhinü). The following story is told about the two:
Long, long ago, there was an honest and kind-hearted fellow named Niulang (Cowherd). His parents died when he was a child. Later, he was driven out of his home by his sister-in-law. So he lived by himself herding cattle and farming. One day, a fairy from heaven named Zhinü (Weaver Girl) fell in love with him. She secretly came down to earth and married him. Niulang farmed in the field and Zhinü wove at home. They lived a happy life and gave birth to a boy and a girl. Unfortunately, the God of Heaven soon found this out and ordered the Queen Mother of the Western Heavens to bring Zhinü back.
With the help of celestial cattle, Niulang flew to heaven with his son and daughter. When he was about to catch up with his wife, the Queen Mother took off one of her gold hairpins and scratched a river in the sky to separate the lovers. Niulang and Zhinü have been separated on the two banks ever since. Once a year all of the magpies in the world come to build a bridge for Niulang and Zhinü to meet each other. This meeting happens on the 7th day of the 7th lunar month. Because of this, their meeting is called "Qi Xi" (Double Seventh).
Scholars have shown the Double Seventh Festival originated from the Han Dynasty (206 BC-AD 220). Historical documents from the Eastern Jin Dynasty (AD 371-420) mention the festival, while records from the Tang Dynasty (618-907) depict the grand evening banquet of Emperor Taizong and his concubines. By the Song (960-1279) and Yuan (1279-1368) dynasties, special articles for the Qi Xi were seen being sold on markets in the capital. The bustling markets demonstrated the significance of the festival.
Today some traditional customs are still observed in rural areas of China, but have been weakened or diluted in urban cities.
In the past, Qi Xi was not only a special day for lovers, but also for girls. It has been known as the "Begging for Skills Festival" or "Daughters' Festival." 
In the past, girls would conduct a ceremony to beg Zhinü for wisdom, dexterity and a satisfying marriage in the future. 
In some parts of the Shandong Province, young women offered fruit and pastries to pray for a bright mind. If spiders were seen to weave webs on sacrificial objects, it was believed the Weaving Girl was offering positive feedback. 
In other regions, seven close friends would gather to make dumplings. They put into three separate dumplings a needle, a copper coin and a red date, which represented perfect needlework skills, good fortune and an early marriage. 
Girls also held weaving and needlework competitions to see who had the best hands and the brightest mind, both important to being a good wife and mother in ancient China. Young women in southern China used to weave small handicrafts with colored paper, grass and thread. Afterwards, they competed to pass a thread through the eyes of seven needles in a single breath. 
The Japanese version of Qi Xi is called "Tanabata". It is held on July 7th. On the evening of the 7th, slips of paper are hung on bamboo trees. The notes contain desires that the person hopes will be fulfilled.

</doc>
<doc id="49957" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49957" title="Anna Nicole Smith">
Anna Nicole Smith

Anna Nicole Smith (November 28, 1967 – February 8, 2007) was an American model, actress and celebrity. She first became popular as "Playboy" magazine's 1993 Playmate of the Year. 
She was born Vickie Lynn Hogan in Houston, Texas.
On February 8, 2007, Smith was found in a hotel room in Hollywood, Florida. At 1:38 p.m. (18:38 UTC) a nurse called 911. At 1:45 p.m. a bodyguard gave her CPR before she was taken to a local hospital and pronounced dead at 2:49 p.m. Her death was caused by an accidental overdose.
Smith was addicted to prescription medications. A psychiatrist said in court in 2010 that she was a member of hospital staff in 2006, when Smith was a patient. The psychiatrist said Smith had borderline personality disorder.

</doc>
<doc id="49975" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49975" title="Ciao (magazine)">
Ciao (magazine)


</doc>
<doc id="49982" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49982" title="Ciao">
Ciao

The word "ciao" is a greeting in Italian. It is used for both "hello" and "goodbye". It is less formal than other greetings in Italian, such as "buongiorno" or "salve".
The word originally comes from the Venetian language. It is also sometimes used by English speakers and speakers of other languages around the world. Other words that mean both "hello" and "goodbye" are "shalom" in Hebrew, "salaam" in Arabic, "annyeong" in Korean, and "aloha" in Hawaiian. In Vietnamese, the word "chào" also means "hello" or "goodbye". It sounds similar, but is not related to the Italian word.

</doc>
<doc id="49991" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49991" title="LaTeX">
LaTeX

LaTeX is a computer program used for making articles, books and mathematical formulas look good and professional. It is good at making mathematical formulas look right. LaTeX is used for making mathematical formulas for some articles on Wikipedia. It is used at colleges too.
The writer types his article into a plain text document. A plain text document cannot have styled text, like bold or italic. When the writer wants to write styled text, they use Computer Commands. For example, the command for bold text is <nowiki>\textbf{This text is bold}</nowiki>. After the writer is finished writing the article, they tell LaTeX to read the document. After LaTeX is done, LaTeX makes a file that can be printed. The command <nowiki>\textbf{This text is bold}</nowiki> would print as This text is bold.
LaTeX was first made in the early 1980s by Leslie Lamport at SRI International. The current version is LaTeX2e (styled ).
The example below shows the LaTeX input and corresponding output:

</doc>
<doc id="49992" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49992" title="First War of Scottish Independence">
First War of Scottish Independence

The First War of Scottish Independence lasted from the outbreak of the war in 1296 until the 1328.
The Scots were defeated at Dunbar on 27 April 1296. John Balliol abdicated in Montrose castle on 10 July 1296. John was imprisoned in the Tower of London at first, but then released into the custody of Pope Boniface VIII on condition that he remain in a papal residence. He was later released around the summer of 1301 and lived the rest of his life on his family's estates in Picardy.
But his supporters argued that he was still the rightful King of Scotland. Therefore the Scots rose in rebellion in 1297 under William Wallace and Andrew de Moray and said they claimed were acting on behalf of King John. But in fact Scotland had no monarch until the accession of Robert the Bruce in 1306.

</doc>
<doc id="49994" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49994" title="John of Scotland">
John of Scotland

John King of Scots (1248-1314) is usually known as John Balliol or, correctly, John de Balliol. He was born in 1248, probably at Barnard Castle, but is not entirely clear. 
After the death of Margaret of Scotland in 1290, John Balliol was one of three major competiters for the throne. King Edward concluded that he was going to pick Balliol as king of Scotland at Scone, 30th November, 1292, St. Andrew's Day.
Edward I steadily undermined the authority of King John. He treated Balliol like a 'Puppet King' and the Scots were not happy. At the Battle of Dunbar King Edwards men slaughtered and wiped out the town of Berwick killing around 8000 people in the brutal killing.
He was stripped of his authority as king and was sent away to France by King Edward. He later died there. 

</doc>
<doc id="50007" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50007" title="Soul patch">
Soul patch

A soul patch is a style of facial hair in which hair is only found below the lower lip and above the chin.

</doc>
<doc id="50018" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50018" title="Wars of Scottish Independence">
Wars of Scottish Independence

The Wars of Scottish Independence were a series of military campaigns fought between Scotland and England in the late 13th and early 14th centuries.
The First War (1296–1328) began with the English invasion of Scotland in 1296, and ended with the signing of the Treaty of Edinburgh-Northampton in 1328. The Second War (1332–1357) began with the English-supported invasion of Edward Balliol and the 'Disinherited' in 1332, and ended around 1357 with the signing of the Treaty of Berwick. 
The wars were part of a great national crisis for Scotland and the period became one of the most important moments in the nation's history. At the end of both wars, Scotland still was a free and independent nation, which was her main aim throughout the conflict. The wars were also important for other reasons, such as the emergence of the longbow as a key weapon in mediaeval warfare.
Scotland
England
The Battle of Bannockburn (23–24 June 1314) was an important Scottish victory. It was the decisive battle in the First War of Scottish Independence. In this battle, the Scottish king Robert the Bruce defeated the English king Edward II.

</doc>
<doc id="50025" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50025" title="1314">
1314


</doc>
<doc id="50034" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50034" title="Autotroph">
Autotroph

An autotroph (from Greek "autos" = self and "trophe" = nutrition) is an organism that makes organic compounds from simple molecules.
Autotrophs are needed in every food chain in all ecosystems. They take energy from the environment (sun light or inorganic sources) and use it to make other organic molecules that are used to carry out various biological functions such as cell growth or repairing broken tissue.
Plants and other organisms that carry out photosynthesis are phototrophs (or photoautotrophs). Bacteria that use inorganic compounds like hydrogen sulfide, phosphorus or iron are called chemoautotrophs. Other organisms, called heterotrophs, eat autotrophs. 
There are some species that need organic compounds as a source of food, but are able to use light as a source of energy. These are not autotrophic, but heterotrophic. A mixotroph is a (micro)organism that can use a mix of different sources of energy and carbon. 

</doc>
<doc id="50037" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50037" title="Air France">
Air France

Air France is one of the largest airlines in the world. It is based in France. It is owned by Air France-KLM. Before it merged with KLM, it employed 71,654 people. Its headquarters are at Charles de Gaulle International Airport near Paris. 
The airline can be traced back to 1933, when four other French airlines were combined to create "Air France". Air France hired its first flight attendants in 1946. The airline started flying between Paris and New York City on July 1, 1946. In 1957, the airline bought its first jet aircraft. Air France was one of 4 airlines that flew the Concorde. It used it from 1976 until 2003. In 1988, the airline became the first to fly the Airbus A320. In 2003, KLM Royal Dutch Airlines and Air France announced they were going to be combining. The combination ended in 2004. As of 2016, Air France is going through many financial problems. 

</doc>
<doc id="50040" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50040" title="Air Dolomiti">
Air Dolomiti

Air Dolomiti L.A.R.E. S.p.A is a regional airline from in Verona in Italy. It is named after a section of the Alps known as The Dolomites. It is part of Lufthansa Regional connecting medium-size Italian airports to other European cities through Munich and Frankfurt am Main airports. The airline employs 550 people

</doc>
<doc id="50050" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50050" title="Hampshire">
Hampshire

Hampshire is a county in the south of the UK. The county has an area of 1,455 square miles (3,769 km²). At its widest points, the county is approximately 55 miles (90 km) east-west and 40 miles (65 km) north-south. The county town is Winchester. About 1.6 million people live in Hampshire.

</doc>
<doc id="50065" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50065" title="Manuel Pereira da Silva">
Manuel Pereira da Silva

Manuel Pereira da Silva (7 December 1920 – 2003) was a Portuguese sculptor. He was born in Oporto, Portugal. 
The workmanship of Manuel Pereira da Silva has an abstract formal orientation inspired in the human figure, in particularly the man and the woman. In 2000, the Medal of Cultural Merit was attributed to Manuel Pereira da Silva for the City Council of Vila Nova de Gaia.
In 1939, he entered the Oporto University's College of Arts. In 1953, he finished his coursework with the final classification of 18 values. During his coursework he was distinguished with two awards, "Teixeira Lopes" and "Soares dos Reis".
In 1946 and 1947, he studied in Paris, France, at the Paris College of Arts.

</doc>
<doc id="50074" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50074" title="Yeti">
Yeti

The yeti is an animal said to live in the Himalaya mountain range. People say they have seen it, but none have ever been caught. It is supposed to look like an ape that walks upright. Some body parts, said to be of a yeti, are kept in a few monasteries in the area. While many people have claimed to see it over the years, there has never been any real evidence that it exists. It is said to have white shaggy fur and a lean muscular body like an ape.

</doc>
<doc id="50075" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50075" title="Primality test">
Primality test

A Primality test is a method (or algorithm) to find out if a certain number is a prime number. Cryptography uses prime numbers, and needs to test if a certain number is prime. The official proof of a prime is through its primality certificate.
.

</doc>
<doc id="50076" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50076" title="Padding (cryptography)">
Padding (cryptography)

Padding is a term used in cryptography. Very often, messages (to be encrypted) start or end in a well-known way ("Dear Bob, ..., Yours, Alice"). This is a problem, because that knowledge could be used to break (or start to break) encryption. To prevent this, a number of random characters are added at the beginning or the end of the message.
This procedure may also be necessary because many cryptographic methods operate on blocks of code. If a block is not full, additional characters need to be filled in. Filling in random text has proven very useful.

</doc>
<doc id="50079" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50079" title="Dictionary attack">
Dictionary attack

A dictionary attack is a method used in cryptography. To find a key (or username, or password), a large number of words are tried. These words usually come from a special collection, called a dictionary. 
it also focuses on sucking

</doc>
<doc id="50080" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50080" title="Rocky Marciano">
Rocky Marciano

Rocco Francis Marchegiano, better known as Rocky Marciano (September 1, 1923 – August 31, 1969), was an American boxer. Marciano was the World Heavyweight Boxing Champion from 9/23/1952 until 11/30/1956. He had the shortest reach of any heavyweight champion at only 68 inches (173 cm). He was also short for a champion, standing 5'11" (180.3 cm). Marciano is the only heavyweight champion in professional boxing history who never lost or drew (tied) in a professional match. He won 43 fights by a way of knockout or technical knockout, an 87.76% knockout rate.
His parents were Italian immigrants.
Before becoming a professional fighter, Marciano had an amateur record of 11-3. Marciano's first professional fight was in March 1947. He won the championship from Jersey Joe Walcott on September 23, 1952.
Marciano was named fighter of the year by Ring Magazine three times. His three championship fights between 1952-54 were named fights of the year by that magazine. Marciano's last title fight was against Archie Moore on September 21, 1955. Marciano was knocked down in the fight, but he got up and knocked out Moore in the 9th round. Marciano announced his retirement in a press conference on April 27, 1956.
Marciano considered a comeback in 1959 when Ingemar Johansson won the heavyweight championship from Floyd Patterson on June 26, 1959. However, Floyd Patterson's contract demanded a rematch with Ingemar within one year. After a period in training and thinking about a comeback, Marciano decided against it and never seriously considered a comeback again. 
In 1969, on the eve of his 46th birthday, Marciano was a passenger in a small private plane, a Cessna 172, headed to Des Moines, Iowa. It was at night and bad weather set in. The pilot tried to land the plane on a small airfield outside Newton, Iowa, but the plane hit a tree two miles short of the runway. The passengers died almost instantly. He is entombed in a crypt at Forest Lawn Memorial Cemetery in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. His widow, who died exactly five years after him at the age of 46, is entombed next to him.

</doc>
<doc id="50081" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50081" title="Exponentiation by squaring">
Exponentiation by squaring

Exponentiating by squaring is an algorithm. It is used for quickly working out large integer powers of a number. It is also known as the square-and-multiply algorithm or binary exponentiation. It implicitly uses the binary expansion of the exponent. It is of quite general use, for example in modular arithmetic. The algorithm has been known for a long time. It is already written down in a book called "Chandah-sûtra". That book was published in India, around 200 BC. 
The following recursive algorithm computes "x" for a positive integer "n" where n > 0:
This algorithm is much faster than the ordinary method to compute such a value. Multipliying x by itself, n operations are needed to calculate "x ". With the method shown above, only log2(n) operations are needed. 

</doc>
<doc id="50084" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50084" title="Smart card">
Smart card

A smart card is a card with a microchip in it. Such cards are used as a method of identification and authentication. 
Plastic cards that allow to withdraw money from a cash machine often are smart cards nowadays (Some of them still have a magnetic stripe which holds the same information). The very often the user is identified with a PIN. If the pin is entered correctly, money can be withdrawn. If the PIN is not entered correctly, the card is blocked (after a number of false attempts).
At first, smart cards were used in public telephones in France, in 1983. There, the card simply stored a pre-paid credit. This credit was reduced when calls were made. Another way to solve the problem is that the balance is stored in a remote database. To make calls, a (usually toll-free number) is first called. From there, additional calls can be made. This eliminates the need for cards with chips on them.
There are two basic kinds of smart cards:
Both kind of cards contain a controller for managing the I/O. 

</doc>
<doc id="50085" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50085" title="Coprime">
Coprime

In mathematics, two integers ("a" and "b") are co-prime (or relatively prime) if they share no common factors. In other words, there is no number, other than 1, that divides both a and b evenly. The HCF of these numbers should be 1
As an example, 6 and 35 are coprime, because the factors of 6, 2 and 3, do not divide 35 evenly. 6 and 27 are not coprime, because 3 divides both 6 and 27. Another example is 4 and 5... 4- 2*2*1; 5- 5*1 (Prime). The only common factors are 1 so they are co-prime.
Likewise 10 and 5... 10- 5*2; 5- 5*1 (Prime). The common factors are 5 and 1 so they are not co-prime.
1. Prime numbers are always co-prime to each other.
2. Any two consecutive integers are always co-prime.
3. Sum of any two coprime numbers is always coprime to their product.
4. 1 is trivially coprime with all numbers.
5. if out of two numbers , any one number is a prime number while other number is not a multiple of first one ,then both are coprime. 
6. This is not applicable to negative numbers 
If the HCF of 2 numbers is 1 then they are co prime.

</doc>
<doc id="50088" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50088" title="Euler's totient function">
Euler's totient function

In number theory, the totient formula_1 of a positive integer is the number of integers less than the number which are coprime to "n" (they share no factors).
For example, formula_2, because the four numbers 1, 3, 5 and 7 are coprime to 8.
The function formula_3 used here is the totient function, usually called the Euler totient or Euler's totient, after the Swiss mathematician Leonhard Euler, who studied it.
The totient function is also called Euler's phi function or simply the phi function, since the Greek letter Phi (formula_3) is so commonly used for it. The cototient of "n" is defined as formula_5.
The totient function is important mainly because it gives the size of the multiplicative group of integers modulo "n". More precisely, formula_1 is the order of the group of units of the ring formula_7. This fact, together with Lagrange's theorem, provides a proof for Euler's theorem.
A common use of the totient function is in the RSA algorithm. The RSA algorithm is a popular method of encryption used worldwide.

</doc>
<doc id="50090" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50090" title="Key (cryptography)">
Key (cryptography)

In cryptography, a key (or cryptographic key) is a piece of information that allows control over the encryption or decryption process.
There are two basic types of cryptographic algorithms.
For symmetric algorithms, a minimum key size of 128 bits is recommended. For applications that need extreme security, such as top secret documents, 256 bits is recommended. Many older ciphers used 40, 56, or 64-bit keys—these have all been cracked by brute force attack because the key was too short.
Asymmetric (public key) algorithms need much longer keys to be secure. For RSA, at least 2048 bits is recommended. The largest publicly-known key that has been cracked was a 768-bit key.

</doc>
<doc id="50097" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50097" title="Hollywood, Florida">
Hollywood, Florida

Hollywood is a city in Broward County in Florida in the United States. In 2005 there were 145,629 people living in Hollywood, based on United States Census Bureau figures. 

</doc>
<doc id="50098" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50098" title="Echo">
Echo

Echo could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="50099" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50099" title="Magnetic stripe card">
Magnetic stripe card

A Magnetic stripe card is a plastic card which has a magnetic stripe on it. Different kinds of information can be stored on the magnetic stripe. Such stripes are usually made of small particles of iron (or another metal). Information is stored by changing the magnetism of the particles. 
Today such cards are widely used for
Different formats exist. They specify in what way the data is stored on the card.
Similar cards, which can also do calculations themselves, are called Smart cards.
The standard ISO 7811 specifies the format in which information is stored on these cards. A magnetic stripe holds about 1024 bits of information, which is arranged in three tracks. The first track holds 76 alphanumeric characters, encoded in 7 bit per character. The two other tracks hold 37 and 104 numeric characters, encoded with 5 bits per character. The first two tracks can only be read, the third track can also be written to. 
Cards that are used for banking used to store the PIN as a hash value on the magnetic stripe. Today, the ATM calculates the hash value, and transmits it to the server of the bank, which does the comparison. Storing the PIN in the ATM is no longer allowed.

</doc>
<doc id="50105" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50105" title="Payphone">
Payphone

A payphone is a telephone that lets the public make phone calls if they pay for them first. Many payphones accept coins, but some can accept credit cards, debit cards, and phone cards as well. They are very often used in cities but rarely used in small towns, because of cell phones.

</doc>
<doc id="50109" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50109" title="Sami people">
Sami people

The Sami people (also called Lapps or spelled as Saami) are an ethnic group of people living in Lapland. Lapland is an area in the far north of Europe. Lapland is a part of the countries of Norway, Sweden, Finland and Russia. Sami people live in all of these countries. The number of Sami people in the world is between 80,000 to 135,000.
There are 10 different spoken Sami languages. Six of these can be written.
The best known of the Sami people were the Lapp nomads who raised reindeer. The Lapps lived in their cold environment by domesticating the reindeer. The Lapps were able to get everything they needed from the deer. They ate mostly meat, milk, and cheese. Their clothing was made from reindeer skins and wool. Their tents were also made from raindeer skins. The wool clothes were beautifully decorated.
The Lapps protected the herds, moving with them as they migrated from summer to winter pastures. They used reindeer to pull sleds carrying their supplies. During the winter, the herds moved south of where the trees grew. The Lapps lived nearby in homes made of logs or sod. The Lapps were careful not to waste anything they got from the reindeer. Milk was taken from the reindeer to drink or make cheese. Meat was taken for food. The blood was frozen and then used for soup and pancakes. Knives and belt buckles were carved from the bones and antlers. The sinews (tendons) were used as sewing thread. Cleaned-out stomachs were used to carry milk or cheese. Every part of a dead reindeer was used.
Winter clothing was made from layers of reindeer skin. The inside layer would be worn with the fur facing in toward the person's skin. The second layer was worn with the fur facing out. Boots were also made of fur and lined with grass that had been gathered during the short summer. Every evening the grass would be taken out and dried by the fire, so it would be ready to use again the next day. This way, a Lapp could be warm and comfortable in even the coldest weather.
Today only a few of the Lapp people still follow the herds. Those few use modern tools on their ancient migration. They use snowmobiles to herd the reindeer and rifles to kill the wolves that chase them. Even helicopters and radios are used to locate and move the reindeer. Most of the Lapp people now live on small farms in one of the four nations of Lapland. They raise crops and animals, including a few reindeer, to meet their needs. The sale of reindeer meat is an important source of income for the Lapp people.
Sami crafts are called 'Duodji'. The men make knives, drums and 'guksi' (burl cups) from wood, bone, and antlers. The women use leather and roots to make 'gakti' (clothing). Women also use birch and spruce to weave baskets.
Sami clothing is called 'gakti' and was originally made from reindeer leather, but now it is usually made from wool, cotton, or silk. Usually, there are different types of clothing for men and women.
Sami shamanism is the main religion of the Sami people. These beliefs are connected to the land, animalism, and the supernatural. There is some practice of bear worship. Sami shamanism is a polytheistic religion. It believes there are many gods. The Sami shaman are called the 'Noadi'. There are some 'wise men' and 'wise women' who try to heal people who are sick. They use rituals and herbal medicine. Some Sami people have changed their beliefs to Christianity. They join either the Russian Orthodox Church or the Lutheran.

</doc>
<doc id="50111" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50111" title="Lapland">
Lapland

Lapland is the most northern part of Fennoscandia. Fennoscandia is a peninsula in northern Europe.
The area of Lapland is shared between four countries. These countries are Norway, Sweden, Finland and Russia. The original people of Lapland are the Sami people. The Sami people are also called Lapps.
The weather of Lapland is cold. Summer is short. There are big hills with no trees on top of them. Reindeer live in Lapland. You can see northern lights in the sky.

</doc>
<doc id="50119" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50119" title="Judah">
Judah

The Kingdom of Judah was an ancient Jewish kingdom that existed in the southern part of the Levant. It was on the western shore of the Dead Sea. Its main cities were Jerusalem and Hebron. It existed from the 9th or 8th century BC, up until 586 BC.
After the death of Saul, Israel picked David to rule them. (1 Chronicles 11:1) After the death of King Solomon, son of David, ten of the twelve of the tribes of Israel did not want Solomon's son, Rehoboam to lead them. This caused the kingdom to split the Northern Kingdom, the Kingdom of Israel and the Southern Kingdom, the Kingdom of Judah. Jerusalem was the capital of the Kingdom of Judah.
In 586 BC, the king of Babylon, Nebuchadnezzar II, took over Jerusalem and destroyed Judah.

</doc>
<doc id="50121" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50121" title="Gantt chart">
Gantt chart

A Gantt chart is a type of bar chart. It is a tool of project management invented by the engineer Henry L. Gantt in the 1910s. The chart illustrates a project schedule. 
Gantt charts show the start and finish dates of the elements of a project. Gantt charts show the "dependency" between activities. What this means is that some activities can only begin after other activities are finished. Other activities can go on in parallel. Gantt charts can be used to show current schedule status using percent-complete shadings and a vertical "TODAY" line as shown here.
They are now a common charting technique, but Gantt charts were thought revolutionary when first introduced. The charts are also used in information technology to represent data that has been collected.

</doc>
<doc id="50122" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50122" title="Mind map">
Mind map

A mind map is a drawing used to show words, ideas, tasks or other things. Everything is written around a word or idea in the middle. This word or idea is the main topic of the mind map, and the things linked to it are related to the main idea. It is used to store and order ideas, and is very useful for study, ordering things, solving problems, and making choices.

</doc>
<doc id="50124" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50124" title="Dia">
Dia

Dia is open source software that is used to make diagrams. It lets people draw many different types of technical drawings, for example flow charts and circuit diagrams. Technical diagrams are needed when doing work in subjects such as electronics and resistant materials. A flow chart can also be used to show how to plan out how to solve a problem, for example, how to bake a cake.

</doc>
<doc id="50141" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50141" title="Talent">
Talent

A Talent (or "gift", or "aptitude") is the skill that someone naturally has to do something that is hard. It is an ability that someone is born with. People say they are "born with a talent". It is a high degree of ability or of aptitude. Someone who has talent is able to do something without trying as hard as someone who does not have a talent. Someone who has talent is called "talented". Talented people as rule have many talents, for music, dancing, acting, sports, or other skills, but often only in single direction or genre, unlike genius.
Even if someone has talent they still have to work very hard if they want to be very good at something. Some people become quite good at something even if they do not have much talent, but if they are willing to work very hard at the skill. Some people do not use talents they have. People say they "waste their talent".
The Broadway musical "Fame" is about a group of talented young people in a dancing school.
The word "talent" used to mean a weight and a piece of money in Assyria, Greece and Rome. This is the sense in which it is used in the Bible in the parable of the five talents (Matthew, xxv, 14-30).

</doc>
<doc id="50143" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50143" title="Gift (disambiguation)">
Gift (disambiguation)

The word gift can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="50148" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50148" title="Cathay Pacific">
Cathay Pacific

Cathay Pacific Limited is an airline from Hong Kong. It transports passengers and cargo to over 120 cities world-wide. Its main base or hub is at Hong Kong International Airport. It is one of the six airlines in the world to get a five star rating from Skytrax. It won "Airline of the Year" award from Skytrax in 2003, 2005 and 2009. Its sister airline is Dragonair which serves destinations in mainland China and Asia.

</doc>
<doc id="50151" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50151" title="Talent (weight)">
Talent (weight)

A talent (Latin: "talentum", from Ancient Greek: "scale, balance") is an ancient unit of mass. It corresponded generally to the mass of water in the volume of an amphora, i.e. a one foot cube.
The Babylonians and Sumerians had a system in which there were 60 shekels in a mina and 60 minas in a talent (in Ancient Greece one talent was 26 kg of silver). The Roman talent consisted of 100 libra (pounds) which were smaller in magnitude than the mina.
When used as a measure of money, it refers to a talent-weight of gold or of silver. The gold talent is reported as weighing roughly the same as a person, and so perhaps 50 kg (110 lb avoirdupois). Some authorities say that the talent typically weighed about 33 kg (75 lb) varying from 20 to 40 kg. In February, 2016, the international price of gold was about US$1190 per troy ounce. One gram costs about $38. At this price, a talent (33 kg) would be worth about $1.25 million. Similarly, in February 2016, the price of silver was about $15 per troy ounce or about 50 cents per gram, so a 33 kg silver talent would be worth about $16,500. Thus when we read that King Auletes of Egypt paid Gaius Julius Caesar the sum of 6,000 talents of gold to grant him the status of a "Friend and Ally of the Roman People," This amount would be worth about $7.5 billion USD today! These estimates are only rough values, because they are based on modern estimates.The value of silver in comparison to gold drastically changed. This is because of the output of the Spanish silver mines in the New World. In ancient times the same amount of silver was often worth more than gold. The estimates do not account for the less technical mining ability of the time, nor that there were still native deposits available. Later in Roman history, during the medieval Byzantine period, the emperor Basil II was said to have stockpiled the legendary amount of 200,000 talents of gold which, in modern terms, would be worth approximately $250 billion USD. At any rate, he did save enough money that the Byzantine government was able to remit all taxes paid during the final two years of his reign.
Another way to calculate the modern equivalent to a talent is from its use in estimating military pay. During the Peloponnesian war in Ancient Greece, a talent was the amount of silver needed to pay the crew of a trireme for one month. Hellenistic mercenaries were commonly paid one drachma for every day of service, which was a good salary in the post-Alexander (III) days. 6,000 drachma made a talent. 
The talent as a unit of coinage is mentioned in the New Testament in Jesus' parable of the talents. One talent was a very large sum.

</doc>
<doc id="50160" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50160" title="Bede">
Bede

Bede (also Saint Bede, or the Venerable Bede) (673–735), was a monk and an early historian of the Church in England. He was a member of the sister Northumbrian monasteries of Monkwearmouth-Jarrow. He spent a great deal of time at Jarrow with its large library. Both were in the English county of Durham (now Tyne and Wear). He is well known as an author and scholar, whose best-known work, "Historia ecclesiastica gentis Anglorum" ("The Ecclesiastical History of the English People") gained him the title "The father of English history".
Bede became respectfully known as "Venerable Bede" soon after his death, but this was not linked to consideration for sainthood by the Roman Catholic Church. Bede himself said he was born in 673 and on the lands of the monastery of Wearmouth. At age seven he was presented by his family to the Abbot of Wearmouth, Benedict Biscop, to be educated. Bede doesn't say if his family was noble or not. Bede was ordained a deacon when he was nineteen and at age thirty he was ordained a priest. While he was active in his community Bede found study, writing and teaching his favorite activities. He studied the Bible and Latin. He learnt Latin because that was the language of the Bible and other books in the monastery library. His teaching would have been very basic and his opinions were very conventional (not radical in any way). 
At the end of his life, Bede became ill and had difficulty breathing. He went about the tasks of finishing some writings and giving away the few things that he owned. Bede died on Ascension Day, 26 May 735.
Bede wrote many scientific, historical and theological works in his time. Many were copied and used by other monasteries in England and Western Europe. He had one work in particular that he is famous for. One of the most valuable and important sources on Anglo-Saxon history is Bede's "Ecclesiastical History of the English Nation". Bede spent most of his life at Jarrow and this is where he wrote his history. The History is made up of five books and about 400 pages written in Latin. It contains 800 years of the history of England from the time of Caesar to the date of its completion (731). The last chapter is about Bede himself.
One man who made Bede's work possible was Benedict Biscop. He founded the Wearmouth and Jarrow monasteries. More importantly he created the library that Bede's got most of his information from. By the time of his death in 689 he had completed four trips to Rome and the south and brought back large collections of books each time. Bede's work would still not be possible if not for Ceolfrid, the fourth abbot. He doubled the size of the library left by Benedict Biscop. Bede himself traveled no farther than York and Lindisfarne. There is no record of his ever visiting libraries in distant places. Bede says the following about his sources:

</doc>
<doc id="50168" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50168" title="Phototroph">
Phototroph

Phototrophs ("photo" = light, "troph" = nutrition) or photoautotrophs are organisms which carry out photosynthesis. 
With their plastids and the help of energy from sunlight, carbon dioxide and water are converted into sugar by photosynthesis. Sugar is then converted into other organic molecules which can be used in cellular functions. Such a function might be, for example, respiration. 

</doc>
<doc id="50179" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50179" title="NTFS">
NTFS

NTFS is a file system. It was developed by Microsoft. A file-system is a way of storing computer files. NTFS stands for "New Technology File System". Microsoft introduced it with the Windows NT operating system. A version of NTFS is also included in the most recent operating systems developed by Microsoft, Windows XP, Windows Server 2003 and Windows Vista.
NTFS was made to replace the old file-system used by earlier versions of Windows, like Windows 95, Windows 98, and Windows 98SE. That file system was also used by MS-DOS and is called FAT.

</doc>
<doc id="50183" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50183" title="File system">
File system

A File system (or filesystem) is a way of storing all data on a data storage device. The data is usually organized in computer files in directories. Below the file system there is usually a physical device where the files are stored. This might be a hard disk, USB flash drive, compact disc, or DVD. The file system might also talk to a remote server over a network where the file is stored. The file system might also only use RAM to store the files. 
The underlying storage mechanism usually has no concept of a file. A hard disk knows of disk blocks, which are numbered in a certain way. These disk blocks contain binary data (usually: large numbers). 
The file system does the "translation" between the large numbers, and the view the users see, that is that of files, organized in a certain way.
More recently, concepts from databases have been used to develop file systems. That way, there are two different kinds of data:
It then becomes possible to always keep the file system in a consistent state. With databases, this is known as ACID. That way, an operation on a file is either done, or it is not done. There are however, no states in between. The file being written to the filesystem is no longer visible. This is usually done using transactions. But with filesystems, it is called "journaling".

</doc>
<doc id="50187" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50187" title="David II of Scotland">
David II of Scotland

David II (March 5, 1324 – February 22, 1371) King of Scots, son of King Robert the Bruce by his second wife, Elizabeth de Burgh (d. 1327), was born at Dunfermline Palace, Fife.
He was married on July 17 1328, aged only four, to Joan of the Tower (d. 1362), daughter of Edward II of England and Isabella of France.
At the age of five, David became King of Scotland after the death of his father on June 7, 1329. He was crowned at Scone in November 1331. 
Edward Balliol, with support from Edward III of England fought against David, so that he could become king. He defeated David at the Battle of Dupplin on 12 August, 1332. Balliol was crowned king, and in July 1333, the nine year old David and his queen were sent to France for their safety. In June 1341 he came back and began to rule. In 1346 he invaded England, but was defeated and taken prisoner at the Battle of Neville's Cross on October 17, 1346, and remained in England for eleven years, living mainly in London and at Odiham in Hampshire. In October 1357 he was allowed to go back to Scotland for a payment of 100,000 marks. The money was never paid completely. 
In 1371 David died in Edinburgh Castle. 

</doc>
<doc id="50192" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50192" title="Lied">
Lied

Lied (pronounced “leet”) is the German word for “song” (the plural is Lieder – pronounced “leader”). 
The word Lied is used in music to describe the songs that were written by German-speaking composers of classical music. Songs composed by classical composers are sometimes called “art songs”.
Lieder are normally songs for a singer with piano accompaniment. They were mostly composed in the 19th century which was the period known as the Romantic period. The most famous composers of Lieder were Franz Schubert, Robert Schumann, Johannes Brahms, Hugo Wolf and Richard Strauss.
In German culture the Lied as an art song goes back to the Middle Ages. Walther von der Vogelweide was a 12th-13th century minnesinger who composed and sang songs for important people at the royal court. Like most minnesinger, he was a poet as well as a composer, writing words for his own songs.
The Lied in the Romantic period was usually written by two different people: the poet wrote the words and then the composer “set the words” to music. 19th century composers mostly took great care to choose good poetry for their songs. The poetry was often by famous poets such as Goethe and Schiller.
Although most Lieder were composed in the Romantic period, the beginnings were there in the Classical music period. Mozart wrote a song called "Das Veilchen" ("The Violet") and Beethoven wrote several songs.
It was Schubert who was to be the greatest of all Lieder composers. Schubert wrote over 600 songs. Very often he wrote in a form which had been used by Walther von der Vogelweide: three verses of which the first two have the same music (A-A-B, or as von der Vogelweide called them: “Stollen, Stollen, Abgesang”). Other songs of his are what is known as “durchkomponiert” (“through composed”). Here each verse is different, so that the composer can express the words of each verse with different music. The wonderful thing about Schubert’s songs is the way in which the piano accompaniments help the voice and show the meaning of the words. The piano was a fairly new instrument at the time and could do things that would have been impossible on the harpsichord. One of his earliest songs is the famous "Erlkönig" ("Erlking"). The piano accompaniment is very difficult to play because the right hand has continuous repeated octaves which describe the galloping of the horse in the wild, stormy night. "Grettchen am Spinnrade" is a song which sets a poem from "Goethe's Faust". The young girl is sitting at the spinning-wheel thinking of her lover. The piano has a rippling accompaniment which sounds like the gentle clatter of the spinning-wheel. At the moment when the girl imagines her lover's kiss the piano part comes to a stop, then gradually starts up again as the girl wakes up to the world around her.
Composers often composed groups of songs which belong together. These are called a “song cycle” (“Liederkreis” in German). Schubert wrote two long ones: "Die Winterreise" ("The Winter Journey") and "Die schöne Müllerin" ("The Miller’s beautiful daughter"). Both are about love affairs which end sadly. 
Robert Schumann wrote many fine songs. He was a pianist before he became a composer, so it is not surprising that the piano parts of his songs are at least as important as the voice part. His song-cycle "Dichterliebe" ("Poet’s love") contains some of his best songs. They often have a dream-like atmosphere. He especially liked setting words by the poets Joseph von Eichendorff and Heinrich Heine.
Johannes Brahms always made the singer’s part more important than the piano part. He learned a lot by studying Schubert’s songs and wrote some very famous Lieder. One of his best is the humorous "Vergebliches Ständchen" ("Serenade in vain"). His "Four Serious Songs" are very powerful. His famous "Wiegenlied" ("Lullaby"), a tune which everybody knows, is one of his songs.
Hugo Wolf is known almost only for his songs. They are very dramatic and he used some unusual harmonies which he had learned by listening to Wagner’s music. Some of Wolf’s songs are very short, he says a lot in a short space of time. His "Italian song book" and "Spanish song book" have some of his best songs.
Richard Wagner and Gustav Mahler both wrote wonderful Lieder, although they are mostly with orchestral accompaniment. Mahler’s songs are inspired by folksong. He even uses them in his symphonies. "Das Lied von der Erde" is a song cycle for two singers (mezzo soprano and tenor) and orchestra.
Richard Strauss is one of the last great Lieder composers. His "Four last songs" (with orchestra) seem to be saying “goodbye” to a great period of music history.

</doc>
<doc id="50194" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50194" title="Aurora">
Aurora

An aurora, or 'polar light', is a natural light display in the sky. They are usually seen in the high latitudes (Arctic and Antarctic) regions. Auroras are produced when the Earth's magnetosphere is disturbed by the solar wind.
An aurora around the North Pole is called "Aurora borealis" or 'northern lights'. Around the South Pole it is "Aurora australis" or 'dawn of the south'. It can be seen from long distances, stretching in the sky many hundreds of miles.
Auroras can only be seen at night because their light is not as strong as the light of day. For instance, faint stars can be seen through the aurora. However they do happen during the day as well. 
Aurora occurs when the Sun sends off particles into space. These particles are mainly electrons, with charge and energy, which means they contribute to electricity. Earth has a protective shield of energy around it. This is called the "magnetic field" and forms an elongated sphere around the Earth called the "magnetosphere". The Earth’s magnetic field wards off most of the solar wind. 
At high-latitude areas (polar areas), the magnetic field is vertical. It does not ward off particles of the solar wind and can come from the magnetosphere and hit the particles of the air (Earth's atmosphere). When they hit, the atmosphere is heated and excited and the excess energy gets away, a phenomenon which we see as moving lights in the sky above 100 km altitude typically.
An aurora can be especially bright following a solar event called a coronal mass ejection (CME), when the charged particles rip through the electromagnetic field because of their power.
Auroral phenomena have been observed on other planets than Earth that have a magnetic field, such as Jupiter, Saturn and more recently Mars. It is believed to be a widespread phenomenon in the Solar System and beyond.
Many legends are associated with the aurora, in all countries where this phenomenon regularly occurs.

</doc>
<doc id="50198" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50198" title="Nordic countries">
Nordic countries

Nordic countries are a group of countries in Northern Europe. These countries include Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Sweden, Norway, and the territories of the Aland Islands and the Faroe Islands. Though often confused as such, Scandinavia is not equivalent to the Nordic countries. Scandinavia is a peninsula while the Nordic countries are recognized states. Sweden and Norway (and a small part of Finland) rest on the Scandinavian peninsula. Scandinavia and Finland together belong to a larger peninsula, Fennoscandia. Finns speak a non-Germanic language.
Nordic countries have similar state, law and culture. Historically, Nordic countries have maintained close connections. Nordic countries are primarily socialist democracies. Nordic countries have some political co-operation, such as the Nordic council. Cooperation with a larger group, the European Union, makes the Nordic cooperation even smaller.
Nordic countries have long, cold winters with warm days in the summer, but only a small part of Northern Norway and approximately half of Iceland is arctic.

</doc>
<doc id="50199" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50199" title="Going Underground">
Going Underground

"Going Underground" was The Jam's first number one song on the UK charts. The song is arguably The Jam's finest moment in their career. Although it did not appear on any of their studio albums, it did appear on several 'best of' Jam albums.

</doc>
<doc id="50200" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50200" title="Paasselkä devil">
Paasselkä devil

Paasselkä devils (Finnish "Päässelän pirut") are stories about balls of light at lake Paasselkä, Finland. Local people say that bright balls sometimes move above lake Paasselkä or near the lake in the forest. This kinds of lights are said to appear around the world. They are sometimes called ghost lights or will o' the wisps. Scientists does not know what ghost lights or will o' wisps are. 
People have told these stories for a long time, so it is a part of folklore there. People thought that balls of light are devils. Some still believe that balls are alive or have mind, because they seem to act like that. Ball can follow fishermans boat of go to hide if you use your torch.
Lake Paasselkä appeared when big stone dropped from the sky millions of years ago. Such lake is called crater-lake. Magnetism in the middle of the lake is not normal.
You can see the balls from this website

</doc>
<doc id="50203" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50203" title="Aurora (mythology)">
Aurora (mythology)

Aurora was the ancient Roman equivalent of Eos. Eos was the ancient Greek goddess of the dawn. "Aurora" is the Latin word for dawn.
Aurora renews herself every morning at dawn and flies across the sky. She announces the morning's arrival. She has a brother and a sister. Her brother is the sun, and her sister is the moon. She also has many husbands and four sons, one for each cardinal direction: North, East, South, and West.
Aurora is comparable to Eos in Greek mythology and to Ushas in Hindu mythology.
One of her lovers was Tithonus. Aurora asked Zeus to grant immortality to Tithonus. However, she failed to ask him for eternal youth. As a result, Tithonus ended up aging eternally. 
In Shakespeare's "Romeo and Juliet" (i.i) Montague says of his lovesick son Romeo
In the poem "Tithonus" by Lord Alfred Tennyson, Aurora is described as folllows:
The asteroid 94 Aurora was named after her.

</doc>
<doc id="50204" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50204" title="Ukko">
Ukko

Ukko was the most important god in Finnish paganism, a religion that was in Finland before Christianity. Ukko was god of sky and thunder. Ukko was an old man and he lived on the sky. He had a weapon - hammer or axe called "Ukonvasara". Lightning is from this weapon.
Finnish pagans had an image of this weapon made from metal on their necks. They believed that lightning does not hit people who have this image.
At Midsummer Finns gathered together and drank beer to honour Ukko. That was called "toast of Ukko".
Ukko is similar to Thor that was a sky god of most Scandinavians and Perun that is a Baltic sky god.

</doc>
<doc id="50205" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50205" title="Väinämöinen">
Väinämöinen

Väinämöinen is an important person in Finnish mythology. He was a wise man and he knew magic. He was a hero and had many adventures.
Väinämöinen was also a god. As such, he was worshipped.
Magic of Väinämöinen was in his songs. When he sings hills shake and water moves. He sings his enemy, Joukahainen, to sink in swamp.
Väinämöinen was bornt before Earth. He was floating in the sea. He was born a grown man. Her mother, Ilmatar got pregnant by the water and wind and carried her son for 30 years. A bird (Sotka) made a nest on Ilmatar´s knee and when the bird hatched her eggs (six of them made of iron, one pure gold), it burned Ilmatar´s knee and finally Ilmatar moved her knee and all the eggs flew into the sky and on the earth and were broken. From those pieces the Earth and sky, the stars, The sun and the moon were born.

</doc>
<doc id="50207" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50207" title="Ilmarinen">
Ilmarinen

Ilmarinen is an important person in Finnish mythology. He is a very good smith who made the sky. He also made the Sampo, a magical machine that makes salt, gold and food. He tried to create a new moon and a sun, but failed. Ilmarinen married one of Louhi´s daughters.

</doc>
<doc id="50209" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50209" title="Finnish paganism">
Finnish paganism

Finnish paganism was a pagan religion in Finland and Karelia before the Finnish people were Christian. Finnish paganism is close to Scandinavian paganism and Baltic paganism. The Finns believed that there were many gods. 
Finnish paganism was animistic. This means that people believed nature was full of small and big spirits. The biggest spirits were gods who had names, the god of the sky was Ukko, the god of the forest was Tapio and the god of water was Ahti. There were many other spirits known by specific names.
A Shaman was a wise person who could perform magic. With the help from spirits, he could heal ill people and curse enemies.
Humans had a soul that was divided. "Self" and "me" were two different parts of the soul. If one's "self"-soul left him, he was not dead, but very ill. A Shaman could go to the spirit world to bring the soul back.
The Bear was considered a holy animal. If a bear was hunted down, he or she was celebrated with a ritual called "Peijainen", usually a big celebration involving food and drink. The purpose of the ritual was to pacify the soul of the bear. A happy soul would then be reincarnated into another bear, so that people could eat bears in the future. The swan was a holy bird and people believed that killing a swan would cause the killer to die.
Some trees and stones were holy to Finns, along with some forests. These places were often used to offer gods or spirits a sacrifice sacrifice. The sacrifice was gift intended to make the spirit happy. This spirit would then help humans. For example, a happy spirit of the sea would guarantee a plentiful catch for a fisherman. At later times things that were given to spirits were small, such as: money, flowers, pieces of silver, alcohol or food.
The Finns believed that Earth was flat like a disc. Above Earth was sky-dome, a pot that was upside down. In the middle of the Earth was a pillar holding the sky, so that it did not drop. The North star was a nail in the top of this pillar. Land of the dead, Tuonela, was under Earth. The way to Tuonela was at the base of pillar that holds the sky. The rotational movement of the pillar caused a great whirl of water at the base of the pillar called Kinahmi and this could be used as access way to Tuonela.
People hoped that their dead relatives would go to Tuonela, because they did not like ghosts. However some times dead relatives were asked to help living people. Sometimes shamans went to Tuonela to ask souls for help.

</doc>
<doc id="50210" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50210" title="Feedback">
Feedback

Feedback is when the effect of a process (or things that come out of it) have a connection to its cause (or things that go in to it).
Sometimes, output from an electronic source affects future input. This can form what is called a "feedback loop". In some cases the output reinforces the input, making it stronger; this is called "self-reinforcing", "positive", "runaway" or "amplifying". In other cases, the output blocks or stops some of the input; this is called a negative feedback loop.
Think about a sound system with input from a microphone and output to a loudspeaker. If the sound coming out of the loudspeaker is heard by the microphone, a loop is created, from speaker, to the microphone, through the cord, and back into the speaker. The loop is made up of sound and the electrical energy that the microphone and loudspeaker use to create that sound. If nothing stops the sound and electricity in the loop, it will travel faster and faster, which is why feedback starts out as a low hum and turns into a high squeal very quickly
This is an example of a positive feedback loop: the output reinforces the input; it makes the input stronger.
Think about two mirrors that face each other. The mirrors reflect each other infinitely, or forever, but in each reflection, the image in the mirror is slightly smaller than the image it reflects. The images get smaller and smaller until they are no longer visible.
This is an example of a negative feedback loop: the output (the relfection) reduces the input; it makes the input smaller.
Warm temperature caused a glacier to melt. As the glacier melts, areas that were at one time covered by snow and ice are now water or land. Because snow and ice reflect heat but water and land absorb heat, this causes the glacier to melt faster as more snow and ice is melted. This is not a feedback loop; it is a feedforward loop which accelerates the process.
American mathematician Norbert Wiener made feedback loops more well known in 1948 in his book "Cybernetics". Cybernetics is the study of feedback loops and their role in communication and control.

</doc>
<doc id="50298" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50298" title="Phosphate">
Phosphate

A phosphate is a salt of phosphoric acid. Phosphates are important in biochemistry.
Phosphates have the formula PO and a molar mass of 94.973 g/mol. An example of a phosphate is sodium phosphate. Three different types of phosphates are known. They are orthophosphate, PO; metaphosphate, PO; and pyrophosphate, PO.
Phosphates are made of one phosphorus atom surrounded by four oxygen atoms. 
Many phosphates do not dissolve in water.

</doc>
<doc id="50307" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50307" title="Cerebrum">
Cerebrum

The cerebrum is the largest part of the brain. It is in the front part of the brain. It contains about 15 billion cells, and is the latest brain structure to have evolved.
The cerebrum takes in data from sight and other sense organs, and 'makes sense' of it (interprets it). It controls consciousness and action (voluntary muscular activity). It plans, thinks, judges, and organises speech and information. These are the so-called 'higher mental functions'.
The cerebrum is divided into two "cerebral hemispheres". These two cerebral hemispheres are connected by three bands of nerve fibres, or commissures, which connect the two halves. The outer layers of the cerebrum are made up of the grey matter, and is called the cerebral cortex. The inner layers are made up of the white matter (nerve fibres), and the basal ganglia.
In the cerebrum, there are specific regions for each kind of stimulus and its response. For example, occipital lobe is the region for visual reception, temporal lobe for auditory reception, and parietal lobe for touch, smell, temperature and conscious association. The frontal lobe takes action, based on sensory input and other factors.

</doc>
<doc id="50310" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50310" title="Karelia">
Karelia

Karelia is an area in eastern Fennoscandia. It is to the east from where Finnish people live. There are many opinions about what places exactly belong to Karelia.
Most of Karelia belongs to Russia today. Small parts of Karelia belong to Finland. On the Russian side of Karelia is the Republic of Karelia. On the Finnish side are the provinces of North Karelia and South Karelia.
The original people of Karelia are Karelians. Karelian people speak Karelian, a Finnic language very close to Finnish. Karelians knew many old poems. Many poems of the Finnish book Kalevala are from the Karelians. Today in the Republic of Karelia, Karelians are a minority and Russians are a majority. Some people fear Karelian culture and language will die out.
Most of Karelia was part of Finland until World War II. East Karelia was not. While making peace, Finland had to give most of Karelia to the Soviet Union. After peace, many people from the Soviet Union went to live in Karelia.

</doc>
<doc id="50312" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50312" title="Kalevala">
Kalevala

Kalevala is the Finnish national epic. This means it is a book that is very important to Finnish people.
Kalevala has many stories in it. The stories of Kalevala are poems that are very old. Long ago, people sang these poems. The poems have a unique metre that is not known outside Finnic languages. There are many themes in these stories from different times in the past. The oldest themes are from the stone age. Many of the poems are collected from Karelia and areas nearby.
Heroes have adventures in these stories. The most important heroes are Väinämöinen, Ilmarinen, Lemminkäinen and Kullervo. The enemies of heroes are Louhi and Joukahainen. Many stories in Kalevala are about two countries fighting each other. These countries are the land of Kalevala and land of Pohjola. The Land of Kalevala is the land of Heroes. Pohjola is the land of enemies. Pohjola is an evil and cold place somewhere far north.
Elias Lönnrot was a man who collected these poems and made a book of them. Kalevala has been translated into many languages. There is also an English Kalevala.

</doc>
<doc id="50323" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50323" title="Edred of England">
Edred of England

King Edred or "Eadred" (c. 923 – November 23 955) was King of England from 946 until his death. He was a son of King Edward the Elder and Edgiva of Kent. He was king after his brother, King Edmund I. Like both his older brothers, Edred was successful against the Vikings. Edred was a very religious man, but had very poor health (he could barely eat his food). He died on November 23 955, in Frome, Somerset, and was buried in the Old Minster at Winchester. His nephew, King Edwy, became king after him.

</doc>
<doc id="50333" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50333" title="Plant pathology">
Plant pathology

Plant pathology, or phytopathology, is the study of plant diseases. Like animals, plants can get infected and damaged by viruses, bacteria and fungi.
It includes not only the harm done by pathogens (infectious organisms), but also harm done by environmental conditions. 
Organisms which cause infectious disease include fungi, oomycetes, bacteria, plant viruses, viroids, virus-like organisms, phytoplasmas, protozoa, nematodes and parasitic plants. 
Not included are ectoparasites like insects, mites, vertebrate, or other pests that affect plant health by eating plant tissues. Plant pathology involves the study of pathogen identification, disease cycles, economic impact, plant disease epidemiology, plant disease resistance, how plant diseases affect humans and animals, and how to manage plant diseases.
Plant pathology is of fundamental importance to agriculture.

</doc>
<doc id="50345" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50345" title="Chytridiomycota">
Chytridiomycota

Chytridiomycota is a phylum of the Fungi kingdom. The name comes from chytridium (from the Greek "chytridion", meaning "little pot"): the structure containing unreleased spores.
The chytrids are the most primitive of the fungi. Many chytrids are found in fresh water. There are approximately 1,000 chytrid species, in 127 genera, distributed among 5 orders.
Chytrids get their energy mostly from non-living organic matter.
Both zoospores and gametes of the chytrids are mobile by their flagella, one whiplash per individual.
Some chytrid species are known to kill amphibians in large numbers. The actual process, however, is unknown.

</doc>
<doc id="50346" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50346" title="List of U.S. states by traditional abbreviation">
List of U.S. states by traditional abbreviation

This is a list of traditional abbreviations for U.S. states and territories. These abbreviations (short names) were used in mailing addresses before the introduction of two-letter U.S. postal abbreviations. The traditional abbreviations are still commonly used in other ways besides mailing addresses. For example, they can be used in writing after a city (like in "Miami, Fla."). In 1987, the Secretary of Commerce switched to the two-letter State Alpha Code for state abbreviations.

</doc>
<doc id="50347" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50347" title="Saprophyte">
Saprophyte

A saprophyte or "saprotroph" is an organism which gets its energy from dead organic matter. This may be decaying pieces of plants or animals. This means that saprophytes are heterotrophs. They are consumers in the food chain. 
This is the typical life-style of fungi. Some fungi are parasites on living organisms, but most are saprophytes. Many bacteria and protozoa are also saprophytes. To put it simply, most dead organic matter is eventually broken down and used by bacteria and fungi. Lastly, slime moulds are also saprophytes, as well as consuming bacteria.
Other terms, such as 'saprotroph' or 'saprobe' may be used instead of saprophyte. Strictly speaking, -phyte means 'plant'. The problem is that no embryophytes (land plants) are true saprotrophs, and bacteria and fungi are no longer considered plants. Nevertheless, saprophyte is such a well-known term that most writers continue to use it.
Saprophytes secrete digestive enzymes to get nutrients and energy.
A heterotroph is a general term for an organism that needs organic material to get its carbon for growth and development. Many plants which lack chlorophyll need fungi to break down organic material for them. Traditionally, they were called saprophytes. Now they are given a new name: myco-heterotrophy. quite a number of orchids and gentians. 

</doc>
<doc id="50348" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50348" title="Giacomo Puccini">
Giacomo Puccini

Giacomo Puccini (23 December 1858 - 29 November 1924) was the most famous Italian opera composer after Verdi. He wrote 16 operas, most of which are performed very often today. Many of his operatic songs are known by many people, especially the aria "Nessun dorma" from "Turandot" which was sung by Luciano Pavarotti for the BBC’s television coverage of the Football World Cup which was held in Italy in 1990.
Puccini was born in Lucca, Tuscany into a musical family. He was expected to follow the family tradition and become a church organist. He started playing the organ in churches near Lucca. He liked to improvise on the organ, playing popular tunes from Verdi’s operas. He soon realized that he wanted to be an opera composer. Eventually he persuaded his family to let him study at the Milan Conservatory. His earliest compositions showed that he had a great talent for writing beautiful melodies and that he was good at writing for the orchestra. His first opera to be published, "Edgar", had a story similar to that of Bizet’s "Carmen", but it was not a suitable story for Puccini.
"Manon Lescaut" was the first opera for which Puccini chose the story himself. It is the same story as Massenet’s opera "Manon". This made Puccini internationally famous. His next opera, "La bohème", produced in 1896, is often thought to be his best opera. He worked with two poets on this opera and, although they quarrelled a lot, the result was a work in which the music flowed beautifully like a conversation. 
His next opera was "Tosca". When it was first performed in Rome in 1900 there were rumours that a bomb would be thrown, but nothing happened. "Tosca" was a great success. However, "Madama Butterfly" was hissed and booed at its first performance in Milan’s famous opera house La Scala in 1904.
It was at this time that Puccini married. He already had a son by Elvira, his wife, who had been married to someone else. When her husband died, she was able to marry Puccini. The marriage was not without difficulties. Elvira accused Puccini of having an affair with their servant girl. This servant girl committed suicide and there was a court case which resulted (after an autopsy) in Elvira being found innocent. Puccini was very upset by all this and did not compose much for several years.
When he finally started writing again his new opera "La fanciulla del West" was set in the American West at the time of the Goldrush. The music has very Impressionistic harmonies like that of Debussy. The way he writes for the orchestra shows the influence of Richard Strauss. The opera was first performed in New York. The world-famous tenor Enrico Caruso sang the main hero part and Arturo Toscanini was the conductor. With such a star cast it had to be a great success.
Puccini followed this by writing an operetta and two one-act operas. The best of these is "Gianni Schicchi" His last opera is "Turandot", which has a fairy-tale like story. While he was working very hard at it he developed throat cancer. He died of complication of the disease in autumn 1924 in Brussels. The whole of Italy went into mourning and Mussolini spoke at the funeral. Puccini had not quite managed to finish "Turandot". A man called Franco Alfano finished it using the sketches that Puccini had left.

</doc>
<doc id="50350" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50350" title="Pharaoh Hound">
Pharaoh Hound

The Pharaoh Hound is a breed of dog. Pharaoh Hounds always have a bright orange colour coat. They may have a small white spot on the front of their body. They need lots of physical exercise, and they are fast runners and can jump high. They need little brushing because their fur is very short. In the past, people used them to hunt rabbits. Now people keep them as pets.

</doc>
<doc id="50351" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50351" title="Mycelium">
Mycelium

The mycelium is the part of a fungus that is usually underground (or inside some another substance). It is composed of hyphae, which look like threads, or rootlets. The mat of hyphae may be very thickly woven. The fungus uses it to extract nutritients. The hyphae are usually syncytic, that is, they do not have complete cell walls. Fungal colonies composed of mycelium are found in and on soil and many other natural materials. 
A mycelium may be tiny, forming a colony that is too small to see, or it may be extremely large and cover the floors of a large forest.
The part of the fungus which is most visible is the reproductive body. This is often, but not always, the stem and hat of the mushroom.

</doc>
<doc id="50357" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50357" title="Lviv">
Lviv

Lviv () is the capital city of Lviv Oblast in Ukraine. 860,000 people live in Lviv. 88% of the people living there are Ukrainian, 8% are Russian, and 1% are Polish. An extra 200,000 people to Lviv every day for work.
During the city's history, it was ruled by many countries. When part of Poland it was called Lwów (pronounced and sometimes spelled "Lvov"). In German, it was known as Lemberg, that was part of the Austrian and Austro-Hungarian Empires and again under Nazi German occupation. From 1350 until 1772 it belonged to the Kingdom of Poland and from 1918 to 1939 to the Republic of Poland. 

</doc>
<doc id="50360" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50360" title="Orchestra pit">
Orchestra pit

An orchestra pit is the space where an orchestra plays in a theatre or opera house. The actors or singers are on the stage, and the orchestra pit is normally lower than the stage so that the audience can watch the play or opera. Depending on where they sit, the audience may just be able to see the heads of the musicians in the orchestra pit. It is important that singers can see the conductor so that they can watch the beat out of the corner of their eye. Opera houses nowadays often have close-circuit television monitors at the sides so that singers can watch the conductor even when they are not facing him.
The orchestra pit in the Bayreuth Festspielhaus is unusual. This opera house was designed by the composer Richard Wagner for the performance of his own operas. He did not want the audience to be able to see the orchestra at all, so it is very low. The orchestra members do not have to dress up in ties and jackets because they cannot be seen anyway.

</doc>
<doc id="50363" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50363" title="Will o' the wisp">
Will o' the wisp

A will-o'-the-wisp or ignis fatuus (Medieval Latin: "foolish fire") is a ghostly light. It is seen by travellers at night, especially over bogs, swamps or marshes.
Usually will o' the wisp looks like a ball of light or a small flame. UFOs and some ghost lights are different, they are usually in the sky while will o' the wisps are near ground.
It looks like a flickering lamp and is said to go farther back if approached. This draws travellers from the safe paths. This is a folk belief in a lot of English folklore and in much of European folklore. They are often said to be the work of fairies or elemental spirits. Some people thinks will o' the wisps are souls, spirits or spaceships.
Scientists try to use a natural explanation. Some says they are gas, like methane, that goes up from the ground and burns. Other people says they are electric things, like ball lightning. One flying ball of light was explained: it was an owl that had a bright stomach. Sometimes animals or fungus make some light - this is called bioluminescence by scientists or foxfire.
There are many old and new stories about will o' the wisps around the world. These lights have different names in different cultures and languages. Some of the names are "jack-o'-lantern", "hinkypunk", "hobby lantern" in English.

</doc>
<doc id="50387" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50387" title="Ghost light">
Ghost light

Ghost lights are lights in the air that are not well understood by scientists. There are few reports of ghost light sightings. Ghost lights can be close to ground or in the sky. Ghost lights close to ground are commonly called "will o' the wisp" while ghost lights in the sky are often called UFOs. There are very different kinds of ghost lights: some resemble balls of light, others look like flame, and some look like a bright cloud. Many ghost lights move.
Different cultures have understood ghost lights differently. People believed that they are dragons, spirits or ghosts. Today some believe they are spaceships. There are many theories about what ghost lights are. Some people say they are methane gas that comes from ground and burns in the air. Others say they are electric things like ball lightning. The fact that some animals and fungus glows may explain some ghost lights.
These are examples of known ghost lights at different places:

</doc>
<doc id="50388" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50388" title="Roman Giertych">
Roman Giertych

Roman Jacek Giertych is a former Minister of Education in Poland. He was born February 27, 1971 in Śrem.
Roman Giertych comes from a family of Polish politicians, being a son of Maciej Giertych and a grandson of Jędrzej Giertych.
His brother (holding a Ph.D. himself) said he was a young bookworm who made dozens of books, especially on history. He improved in history throughout his school years while his grades in other subjects remained normal.
He graduated from Adam Mickiewicz University in Poznań with a master's degrees in both law and history. In 1989, he reactivated the far-right "All-Polish Youth" (Młodzież Wszechpolska) organization, becoming its chairman; he remains honorary chairman to this day. For several years he was a member of the National-Democratic Party (Stronnictwo Narodowo-Demokratyczne) and the National Party (Stronnictwo Narodowe), which went with several other organizations to form the League of Polish Families (Liga Polskich Rodzin, LPR) in 2001.

</doc>
<doc id="50406" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50406" title="Smoothie">
Smoothie

Smoothies are a type of cold drink made from a liquid (either milk, fruit juice, or water), crushed ice or ice cubes, different fruits (such as banana, strawberries, or pineapple). Sometimes other foods are added to smoothies, such as yogurt, honey, maple syrup or ice cream. Smoothies are blended with an electric blender until the fruit and ice is puréed (made smooth). 
People usually drink smoothies from a tall glass or cup, and use a plastic drinking straw to suck it into their mouth. Some dieticians think that drinking smoothies is not as good as eating the original fruit, because the smoothie has less fibre, and does not provide exercise for the jaw and other digestive processes which eating the fruit would give.
Smoothies are similar to milk shakes. Milk shakes are also a cold drink made with an electric blender. Milk shakes are usually made with milk, ice cream, and sweet syrups, such as chocolate syrup.

</doc>
<doc id="50408" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50408" title="Groove">
Groove

Groove could mean:
Groove could also mean:

</doc>
<doc id="50409" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50409" title="Sheave (mechanical)">
Sheave (mechanical)

A sheave (pronounced "shiv") is a wheel or roller with a groove along its edge for holding a belt, rope or cable. When hung between two supports with a belt, rope or cable, one or more sheaves make up a pulley. The words "sheave" and "pulley" are sometimes used interchangeably.

</doc>
<doc id="50410" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50410" title="Unidentified flying object">
Unidentified flying object

A UFO (Unidentified Flying Object) is any object flying in the sky which cannot be identified by the person who sees it. Sometimes the object is investigated. If people can still not figure out what the object is after an investigation, it is called a UFO. If they figure out what the object is, it can no longer be called a UFO because it has been identified.
Even though UFOs can be anything, people often use the word "UFO" when they are talking about alien spacecraft. Flying saucer is another word that is often used to describe an unidentified flying object.
Studies estimate that 50-90% of all reported UFO sightings are identified later. Usually 10-20% are never identified. Studies also show that very few UFO sightings are hoaxes (people trying to trick other people). Most UFOs are actually natural or man-made objects that looked strange.
80-90% of IFOs are identified as one of three different things: 
10-20% of IFOs are other causes (such as birds, clouds, , searchlights, etc.)

</doc>
<doc id="50412" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50412" title="Second War of Scottish Independence">
Second War of Scottish Independence

The Second War of Scottish Independence began in 1333 when Edward III of England did not accept the 1328 Treaty of Northampton any more, under which England recognised the legitimacy of the dynasty established by Robert Bruce. Edward was determined to support the claim of Edward Balliol, the son of the former king, John Balliol, over David II, Bruce's son and heir. Balliol had ruled in Scotland for a short time in the autumn of 1332, but was thrown out of the country later in the year. The war itself lasted until 1357, when David II was released from English captivity. English involvement in Scotland was also one of the factors that lead to the outbreak of the Hundred Years' War with France in 1337.
PRIMARY
SECONDARY

</doc>
<doc id="50415" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50415" title="U.S. postal abbreviations">
U.S. postal abbreviations

This is a list of postal code abbreviations used by the United States Postal Service. They are used to help the postal service process mail. In other contexts, such as newspaper articles, the traditional abbreviations for the states are used. 
In alphabetical order by postal abbreviation (not by state):

</doc>
<doc id="50420" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50420" title="Booing">
Booing

Booing means shouting "BOO!" If people shout "boo" after a performance (for example, a concert, play or opera) they are showing that they did not like it. It is the opposite of applause (clapping to show that the performance was good).
Booing and hissing used to be very common, especially at the opera. In the early days of opera (from the 17th to the early 19th century) opera audiences often behaved badly. They went to the opera to chat with their friends, to cheer their favorite singers and to boo the singers they did not like, not to listen carefully to the music.
Booing has recently become less common in Western culture except at sports events because people think it is rude. Audiences today are more likely simply not to clap if they do not like a performance. Slow hand-clapping is also a way of showing sarcastic applause.

</doc>
<doc id="50426" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50426" title="Applause">
Applause

Applause is the noise made by an audience who are clapping their hands (applauding) to thank someone for a performance. People at a concert usually applaud when the performers come onto the stage. This is a way of welcoming them. At the end of a performance people applaud again to thank the performers.
People may applaud after someone makes a speech or at a sporting match. They will applaud after a play in the theatre or at the end of an opera. The length of applause (how long they applaud for) may depend on how much they liked the performance. If they liked it very much they may also shout "BRAVO!". When an audience applauds with really wild excitement it is called an "ovation". Very occasionally (in English-speaking cultures) an audience might all stand up as well. This is called a "standing ovation".

</doc>
<doc id="50460" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50460" title="Kyle Busch">
Kyle Busch

Kyle Thomas Busch (born May 2, 1985) is a NASCAR race car driver. Busch races in the Sprint Cup, Xfinity Series and the Camping World Truck Series. Kyle's brother, Kurt Busch also races in the Sprint Cup series.
Busch won his 100th NASCAR race on July 17, 2011. He is only the third driver in NASCAR history to do this. The other two drivers are Richard Petty with 200 wins, and David Pearson with 106 wins. With over 50 wins in the Nationwide series, Busch has more wins than any other driver in that series. At the end of the 2015 Sprint Cup Series, Kyle Busch won his first Sprint Cup Series Championship.

</doc>
<doc id="50488" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50488" title="498a">
498a

498a is an Indian law in which a husband and his family are summarily arrested without any investigation when a complaint is lodged by the wife or any of her relative claiming that the husband or his relatives treated her cruelly. Once the complaint is lodged the husband and his family are presumed guilty and it is up to them to prove that they are innocent in a court of law. This law has been under much controversy due to its increasing misuse leading to breakdown of families.
It does not cost anything to file a 498A, and there is no penalty (or even a fine) for filing a false dowry complaint which has contributed to a fast rise in the number of such cases in courts today.

</doc>
<doc id="50492" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50492" title="Caesar cipher">
Caesar cipher

The Caesar cipher is a method of cryptography. It is named after Julius Caesar who used it to communicate with his army. 
To make a message secret with the Caesar cipher, each letter in the message is changed using a simple rule: change by three. So each letter is replaced by the letter three letters ahead in the alphabet. A becomes D, B becomes E, and so on. For the last letters, we think of the alphabet as a circle and "wrap around." W becomes Z, X becomes A, Y becomes B, and Z becomes C. To change a message back, each letter is replaced by the one three before it.
However it is possible to break Caeser Cipher easily using Microsoft Excel, so it may be better to use a much more difficult code.
Changing by three is the rule that Julius Caesar used, but the same idea works for any number. ROT13 is a modern version and even easier to break.
The Caesar cipher is a "substitution cipher": each letter is replaced by another. No substitution cipher is really safe.

</doc>
<doc id="50493" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50493" title="Social engineering">
Social engineering

Social Engineering (also known as „Social Manipulation“) is a way to influence people with the goal to illegally obtain sensitive data (i.e. passwords, credit card information). Social Engineers observe the personal environment of their victims and use fake identities to gain secret information or free services. In most cases Social Engineering is used to infiltrate third party computer systems to spy on sensitive data; in that case social engineering is also called Social Hacking.
An early way of Social Engineering first occurred in the 1980's and was named Phreaking. Phreakers called phone companies and claimed to be system administrators and asked for passwords which they used to connect illegally and free of charge to the Internet.
A more modern form of Social Engineering is called Phishing (Phishing is derived from “fishing”), which is an attempt to get access to Internet user's data via faked WWW-addresses. The most common way of Phishing is Fraud Mailing also known as Scam Mailing, where the victim is being sent a fake E-Mail i.e. of a bank. In most Scam Mails the letter includes a link that is redirecting to a fake website which is logging the login id and the appropriate password of the victim. The hackers are often using DNS-Spoofing to fake the sender's E-Mail address.
The main model of Social Engineering shows up with faked phone calls: the Social Engineer calls employees of a company and impersonates a technician who needs sensitive data to complete important technical operations. In advance the attacker has gathered information about work routines of the target company from public sources or former raid attempts, that gives him advantage in further Social Engineering trials.
The invader tries to confuse his victims and to seem trustful, using trade language and involving the victims in small talk. Further the assaulter pretends authority to frighten his victims. Under circumstances the employee actually requested technical support and is expecting such a phone call.
The prevention of Social Engineering is difficult. By influencing the victim subconsciously, the invader abuses typical human behavior like helpfulness in emergency situations or to respond with help to the seemingly helpful attacker.
General mistrust would disturb the efficient and trustful team work of an organization. The most effective way to avoid Social Engineering is to assure the identity of the caller. This can already be done by asking for the caller's name and phone number and to politely ask for patience, even if the caller's issue seems to be very urgent. Even if one could verify the caller's identity, one should only hand out the absolutely necessary information. 
Social Engineering became generally known through Kevin David “Condor” Mitnick (movies: “Takedown” also known as “Hackers 2”), who became one of the most wanted persons of the United States of America because of successfully invading government systems such as the Pentagon and the NSA.
Further well known Social Engineers are the check scammer Frank Abagnale (movie: “Catch Me If You Can”).

</doc>
<doc id="50497" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50497" title="Hydroponics">
Hydroponics

Hydroponics or Hydroculture is the method of growing plants in the nutrients that they need instead of soil. The plant foods are simply put into water instead and it makes a solution for the plants to live in. Vegetables, flowers and herbs can all be grown in water.
It is quite an old idea. The earliest published work on growing terrestrial plants without soil was the 1627 book "Sylva Sylvarum" by Francis Bacon, printed a year after his death. Water culture became a popular research technique after that.
In 1929, William Frederick Gericke of the University of California at Berkeley began publicly promoting that solution culture be used for agricultural crop production.
There are many ways to grow plants in this way. Here are some examples.
This puts or floats the plants in water containing nutrients into a container. The water is renewed by a control system to prevent the plants' roots from becoming dry. The water does not flow through the container but remains static. Because the water is still algae often grows, using nutrients and covering the plants roots so that they are not able to take in the nutrients so well. Algae growth can be reduced by using some method to prevent light from reaching the roots, for example, black plastic, or aluminium foils. The static solution has to be changed every week or two to ensure it has the correct amount of nutrients.
This is growing plants in a stream of continuously running water. The plants can be placed in a shallow container and the water containing the nutrients runs through the roots. This can be carried out in several different ways, either passing the water over the bare roots inside a tube or hollow container or passing the water through a mat of fibre into which the roots have grown or variations between the two. One of the main advantages of this system is that the nutrient water can be kept in a storage container and if any changes need to be made to the nutrient it is easy to do this to the storage container. The system usually runs be gravity, the storage container is placed in a higher position than the plants and the water trickles downwards until it has passed though the roots of the plants and into a lower storage container where it is pumped back up to the higher container. The advantage of this method is that it uses the nutrients efficiently, it allows oxygen to reach the roots (important for healthy growth) and the water can be adjusted very easily. The main disadvantages are that if any fault occurs with the circulation system the plants have little water to live on until the fault is corrected and the flow channels must be regular in their slope, if they are not then water can remain in the non-sloping areas and this can cause problems.
This system does not use electricity to circulate the water containing nutrients. The system has a large container positioned higher than the plants and the water runs down through and to the plants in a controlled way. This system is used with plants that are grown in pots with the water being delivered to the base of the pot and capillary action drawing the water up into the pot.
This uses a system where the roots of the plants are contained in a chamber which is sprayed continuously or discontinuously with a fine mist of water containing nutrients. The roots of the plant hang in the air and the advantage of this system is that the roots have good access to oxygen. This system was invented in 1983 by Richard Spooner and has become a successful way of growing a wide range of crops including seed potato production, tomato production, leaf crops, and small salad leaves. Other advantages of aeroponics are that a much wider range of plants can be grown with this system, (some plants do not like to have their roots in water continuously) plants grow with only one quarter of the nutrients needed in normal hydroponics and NASA has an interest in this system because managing a spray is easier than handling liquids in zero gravity. Finally, plants grown by this method can be transferred to soil or another growing medium without suffering from a slowing of growth while they adjust to the new conditions. The main disadvantage is that this system is more costly to build and maintain than the normal hydroponic systems.
This method is also known as passive hydroponics or semi-hydroponics. This system has the plants growing in a porous material like special clay granules, vermiculite, fibre glass, coconut husk, perlite or a similar substance that holds water, has lots of air spaces but does not act directly on the plants roots. The water is run through the material to keep it wet and the material keeps the plants roots separated to allow a good contact with the air to help the plant use oxygen and carbon dioxide. this method is easy to set up and control and is suitable for a number of plants like orchids or bromeliads that in nature grow with their roots in warm damp air.
This method is also known as "Flood and Drain". It uses a method that has a large container of water with nutrients positioned below the level of the plants being grown and at intervals the water is pumped or manually lifted to irrigate the plants and then drain back into the container. This is a simple method to build and can be easily controlled with an automatic mechanism.
This is a method where plants are grown on a material that holds some water but has many air spaces, such as vermiculite, perlite, fibreglass or coarse sand. The water with nutrients is controlled by a timer and the amount of irrigation will depend on several factors such as temperature, the size of the plants, the type of material the plants are growing in and other more technical things. The water runs to a collecting container after irrigating the plants and may be used again or discarded. This system is used very widely for growing commercial crops of vegetables such as tomatoes and cucumbers.
This involves the growing of plants hanging in water with nutrients. The plants are held in nets with their roots in the water. The nets may or may not contain a material to separate the roots. The water has air pumped through it to increase the oxygen in the water which assists the roots to grow.
This is a method which is used together with the above method of Deep Water Culture. In the early stages of growth the roots of the plants are irrigated with water and nutrients that are pumped through an air-stone to introduce a high level of dissolved oxygen into the water which greatly helps the young roots to grow. It is usually used only in the early stages of growth when the plants are forming roots clumps.

</doc>
<doc id="50498" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50498" title="Crop rotation">
Crop rotation

Crop rotation is a practice used in farming. It involves the planting of different seeds on the same land in different years or seasons, using a set pattern. This technique helps replace the nutrients in the soil for the plants. It also reduces plant-specific pests on the land.

</doc>
<doc id="50500" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50500" title="A Hard Day's Night">
A Hard Day's Night

A Hard Day’s Night was a 1964 album by The Beatles, released on 10 July of that year. It was the soundtrack to the movie of the same name, starring the Beatles and directed by Richard Lester. It was their third album. It is said that the title was accidentally said by Ringo Starr during the filming of the movie.
The movie was made because United Artists, a movie company, wanted to sell a soundtrack album. Many movies that included rock and roll were not good movies. The Beatles did not want to star in a movie unless it was well made, with a good plot. United Artists agreed, and a playwright, Alun Owen, was hired.
Alun Owen travelled with the Beatles on a concert tour. He was to write a fictional story at first, based on how the band interacted with other people, but Owen decided the best story to tell was real, based on what he saw. The "grandfather" character (played by Wilfrid Brambell) was added to appeal to older viewers. Brambell was a popular television actor, who starred in "Steptoe and Son" (a forerunner of "Sanford and Son") as a "dirty old" junk dealer.
Even with a script, the Beatles improvised (made up) some of their own dialogue in the movie. They also acted out ideas from the director, Richard Lester.
In the movie's storyline, the Beatles go to London to perform in a television program. Paul's family send along his grandfather, so he and Paul can keep each other company. The grandfather is a "mixer", and likes to cause trouble between people. (He is also noticed often as being "very clean"; a play on Brambell's "dirty" television role.)
The Beatles enjoy breaking rules and expectations, and playing jokes. Their manager Norm and road manager "Shake" try to make things run smoothly, but have a busy time keeping up with both the Beatles and Paul's grandfather, and making sure the television show goes as planned. (Norm and Shake were based loosely on road managers Neil Aspinall and Mal Evans.)
This is the only Beatles album on which all songs are by John Lennon and Paul McCartney, and their first to only have only songs written by the Beatles.
The first seven songs were used in the movie.

</doc>
<doc id="50502" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50502" title="Changeling">
Changeling

In stories (folklore), a changeling is the child of a troll, elf, or fairy that has been left in the place of a human child. The stolen human child then lives with the troll family. A changeling is like a human baby but ugly, always hungry, and with a bad temper. Sometimes the changelings are much wiser than a human baby would be. 
It is thought that changeling stories came from actual events. A family who had a handicapped or sick child may have traded their sick child for a healthier, better-looking child.
Folklore says that it might be possible for parents to figure out that their child has been replaced with a changeling. If they discovered the changeling quickly enough, they could get their human child back. One way to get the child back was to put the changeling in an oven. Another way was to put the changeling in a forest so that the troll could take its child back. Sometimes children died in the oven or forest.

</doc>
<doc id="50504" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50504" title="Bomb">
Bomb

A bomb is an explosive device that makes and lets out its energy very quickly and has a big shock wave. They have been used for centuries. Some bombs also throw out dangerous metal fragments, and some are firebombs. 
Most bombs do not contain more energy than ordinary fuel, except in the case of a nuclear weapon. However, they release their energy more quickly, thus are more powerful.
A bomb is usually some kind of container filled with explosive material that is designed to destroy things when it is set off. The word bomb comes from the Greek word "βόμβος" (bombas), an onomatopoeic term with almost the same meaning as "boom" in English.
Air forces send bombers to destroy enemy targets. Terrorists use bombs in suicide attacks. Explosive materials used in mining work the same way, but are usually not called bombs.

</doc>
<doc id="50507" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50507" title="Dieter Bohlen">
Dieter Bohlen

Dieter Gunther Bohlen is a German musician, born on 7 February 1954. He was born in Berne, Lower Saxony. He was a member of Modern Talking, but now appears in the TV programme "Germany Searches for a Superstar" , which is the German version of Pop Idol and American Idol.

</doc>
<doc id="50515" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50515" title="SWOT Analysis">
SWOT Analysis

SWOT Analysis is a tool to find out the Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities, and Threats that are to be expected in a project or in a business venture or in something similar. It means that the marketing environment (internal and external to the organization or individual) is looked at. The technique was developed by Albert Humphrey, who led a research project at Stanford University in the 1960s and 1970s using data from the Fortune 500 companies. 
SWOT analysis is part of the Harvard Policy Model, which has been developed as part of the business policy courses taught at the Harvard Business School since the 1920s.

</doc>
<doc id="50518" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50518" title="Project">
Project

A project is a temporary undertaken to create a unique product or service. 
The word "project" comes from the Latin word "projectum" from "projicere", "to throw something forwards" which in turn comes from "pro-", which denotes something that precedes the action of the next part of the word in time (paralleling the Greek πρό) and "jacere", "to throw". The word "project" thus actually originally meant "something that comes before anything else is done". When the word was initially adopted, it referred to a plan of something, not to the act of actually carrying this plan out. Something performed in accordance with a project was called an object. This use of "project" changed in the 1950s when several techniques for project management were introduced. With this advent the word slightly changed meaning to cover both projects and objects. However in certain projects there may still exist so called "objects" and "object leaders", reflecting the older use of the words.
Projects differ from operations, because operations are continuous and repeating (projects are temporary), and operations deliver the same or almost the same results (project results are in contrast unique).
A project usually needs resources to deliver its results. Most of the time project execution is based on detailed plan, which considers also external factors and constraints. Planning, execution and controlling of project is the primary field of project management. For major projects it is necessary sometimes to set up a special temporary organization, consisting of a project team and one or more work teams.
Major projects can be divided into subprojects, and program denotes collection of related projects.
Projects can be categorised based on different aspects.
Based on project content
Based on initiating or participating organisation
Based on complexity

</doc>
<doc id="50525" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50525" title="Scottsdale">
Scottsdale

The place name Scottsdale can refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="50536" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50536" title="Central Time Zone">
Central Time Zone

The Central Time Zone subtracts six hours from UTC during standard time (UTC−6) and five hours during daylight saving time (UTC−5).
This time zone is called Central Standard Time (CST) during standard time (Winter). It is called Central Daylight Time (CDT) during daylight saving time (Summer). In the United States and Canada, this time zone is often just called Central Time (CT).
The zone is one hour ahead of the Mountain Time Zone and one hour behind the Eastern Time Zone.
In Canada, this time zone includes all of Manitoba, nearly all of Saskatchewan, a little part of western Ontario, and part of Nunavut (most of the Kivalliq Region and part of the Qikiqtaaluk Region).
In the United States, the time zone includes the entire area of the states of 
Alabama, 
Arkansas, 
Illinois, 
Iowa, 
Louisiana, 
Minnesota, 
Missouri, 
Mississippi, 
Oklahoma, and 
Wisconsin.
It also includes parts of Florida, Indiana, Kansas, Kentucky, Michigan, Nebraska, North Dakota, South Dakota, Tennessee, and Texas.
Most of Mexico belongs to the Central Time Zone. The six northwestern states are not part of the time zone.
Central Time Zone includes the Central American countries of Belize, Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador, Nicaragua and Costa Rica. In South America, this zone includes the Ecuadorian province of Galápagos. In Oceania, the Chilean Easter Island also belongs to this time zone.
Daylight saving time occurs from early April to late October. During daylight saving, Central Time Zone is only 5 hours behind Coordinated Universal Time (UTC−5). Most of the locations in Central Time Zone observe daylight saving time. A few places do not. These include Saskatchewan, Central America and Galápagos. They stay on standard time all year.

</doc>
<doc id="50538" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50538" title="Gioachino Rossini">
Gioachino Rossini

Gioachino Rossini (born Pesaro 29 February 1792; died Passy 13 November 1868) was an Italian composer. He was the most famous composer of operas in his time. His operas had lots of new ideas. Italian operas had become rather unimaginative, with composers such as Cimarosa and Paisiello writing the same sort of thing each time. Rossini made his operas interesting by writing skillfully for the singers, giving them good tunes, as well as giving the orchestra interesting music, and by choosing a variety of stories for his operas. The opera for which he is best known today is the "Il Barbiere di Siviglia" ("The Barber of Seville"). Many of the overtures to his operas are played at orchestral concerts. The most popular is the overture to his opera "Guillaume Tell" ("William Tell") with its ioooo
During the last 40 years of his life Rossini wrote no more music. His friends begged him to write another opera but he always refused.
Rossini was born on 29 February of the leap year 1792. His birthplace was Pesaro, a small town in Italy on the Adriatic coast. His father played the horn in military bands and opera houses and his mother sang in operas. Often his parents toured together and the young Rossini was left in the care of his grandmother. The family eventually settled in Bologna. Rossini had lessons in singing, cello, piano and counterpoint. He did not like the counterpoint lessons, but it did help him to study different styles of music and he became very good at writing harmony in a clear way.
Italian opera at this time needed a new composer to bring more life into it. Five of his first nine operas were written for the Teatro S Moise in Venice. Other theatres soon asked him to write operas. In 1812 he wrote "La pietra del paragone" for the Teatro alla Scala in Milan. It was a great success. Many of these early operas were comic operas (opera buffa). Sometimes he had to produce so many new operas that he kept reusing some of the music he had already written in another opera. Nevertheless they include a lot of fine music, and Rossini was developing his musical personality. His overtures have a fine sense of orchestral colour. He often started with a slow section and then went into fast music with a crescendo. Because he did this a lot it is often called a “Rossini crescendo” or “Rossini rocket”.
It was not easy for him to earn enough money to keep himself. He only got paid for the operas he took part in. There were no copyright laws in those days. The important singers were well paid, but the composers earned much less. We know very little about his life at this time, but we do know that he travelled a lot. His most famous operas from this period are "Tancredi", "La Gazza Ladra" ("The Thieving Magpie") and "Il barbiere di Siviglia" ("The Barber of Seville") which has often been called the greatest of all comic operas.
By 1815 Rossini’s operas were famous everywhere in Western Europe except in Naples. Neapolitan opera had been famous throughout the 18th century and the city was proud of its tradition. The Neapolitans did not want a young composer from the north to continue their operatic tradition. Nevertheless, Rossini soon won their hearts. He wrote for the Teatro S Carlo which had a fine orchestra and very good singers. He wrote many of his best serious operas (opera seria) for Naples, and this tradition which he built up made it possible for Verdi to take over thirty years later as Italy’s leading opera composer.
Rossini’s international fame took him to Vienna where he met Beethoven. After returning to Italy for a while he travelled to Paris and England. He was only 31 years old and had written 34 operas. The Paris audiences already knew his operas. In London a Rossini Festival was organized. Most of the time in England he spent at social parties at the houses of rich people who were glad to pay him money to come and be their guest. Soon after this he settled in Paris for five years. He was director of the Théâtre-Italien until 1836. His two greatest operas from this period were "Le Comte Ory" (which was an opéra comique) and "Guillaume Tell" which was based on a play by Schiller. These works have beautifully flowing tunes (like Italian opera) as well as grand drama (like French opera).
In 1829, at the age of 37, Rossini decided to retire. He had lots of money but his health was not particularly good. Although he wrote a few small pieces of music he never composed another opera. He went back to Bologna, although he returned to Paris nearly 20 years later with his wife. Here his health improved and he wrote a little music. His "Petite messe solennelle" for 12 voices, two pianos and harmonium is still performed today. When he died in 1868 thousands of people came to his funeral.
Rossini was a composer of the classical period. He was brought up hearing 18th century opera, and much of his best known music is still Classical in style, but he developed a lot as he matured and was writing in a more Romantic way by the end of his career. He gradually stopped writing music which has set numbers all the time: music divided sharply into arias and recitative. His recitative became more expressive and was accompanied by the orchestra instead of by a harpsichord. This helped to make his music more continuous. He did not often write for castrati as they were going out of fashion. The chorus have an important part in the drama of his operas (in 18th century opera they just used to comment on what was going on).

</doc>
<doc id="50542" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50542" title="Salerno">
Salerno

Salerno is a southern Italian city. It has a port. It faces the Mediterranean Sea. It is capital of the province of Salerno.

</doc>
<doc id="50543" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50543" title="Opera house">
Opera house

An opera house is a building where operas and ballets are performed. It is similar to a theatre.
The first opera houses were built in the 1630s in Italy, about thirty years after the first operas were written. Traditionally they have a stage where the action takes place and a proscenium archway with a curtain that can be drawn back when the performance begins. In front of the stage is an orchestra pit which is a little lower than the stage so that the audience can still see the stage. The audience sit in the auditorium which is often horse-shoe shaped. The downstairs seats are called “stalls”. Round the stalls there are two or three tiers (storeys) of boxes. Each box can seat a small number of people. At the top towards the back there is a balcony and often a gallery along the sides as well. Some seats in the gallery may have restricted view (it is not possible to see all of the stage).
Some of the most famous opera houses in the world are Teatro alla Scala (or “La Scala”) in Milan, the Royal Opera House in Covent Garden, London, the Metropolitan Opera House in New York, the War Memorial Opera house in San Francisco, the Bolshoi Theatre in Moscow and the Sydney Opera House in Sydney which is a very modern building.

</doc>
<doc id="50546" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50546" title="Kullervo">
Kullervo

Kullervo is a person in the Finnish national epic Kalevala. He is a good looking man with golden hair. Bad things happen to him; his destiny is tragic.
In folk stories Kullervo is the son of the giant Kaleva. In the Kalevala however Kullervo is the son of a man called Kalervo.
In the Kalevala Kullervo's family is killed by Untamo's family before Kullervo is born. Only one woman is not killed. She gives birth to Kullervo who will be a slave of Untamo. Every work that Kullervo tries goes ill. This is why Untamo sells him to a smith called Ilmarinen.
Ilmarinen puts Kullervo to shepherd cows. Ilmarinen's wife gives Kullervo bread that has stones in it. While Kullervo cuts the bread his knife hits the stone and breaks. Kullervo gets angry and curses bears to eat cows and Ilmarinen's wife. Then he escapes.
While travelling Kullervo has sex with a girl. He does not know that this is his own sister. When he finds out he goes very angry and attacks Untamo and kills him and his family. Then he commits suicide.
The story of Kullervo differs from all other folktales in the respect that it describes the effects of child abuse in a very realistic way, and in the end of the poem Väinämöinen especially warns all parents from abusing their children.

</doc>
<doc id="50549" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50549" title="Ephraïm Inoni">
Ephraïm Inoni

Ephraïm Inoni (born 16 August, 1947) is the former Prime Minister of Cameroon, a country in central west Africa. H.E. Ephraim Inoni comes from the South West province in Cameroon, which is part of the Anglophone provinces in Cameroon. Ephraim Inoni is a member of the ruling party and a strong supporter of President Paul Biya. He was part of President Paul Biya's campaign team in 2006.
"Chief Inoni Ephraim claimed his innocence after the judge gave him a 20 years sentence for his alleged participation in funds embezzlement in the Albatross affair."
Inoni was found guilty of conspiracy in the embezzlement of about $31 million in a fouled up 2001 deal to purchase an airplane for the President Paul Biya of Cameroon. He was sentenced to 20 years in prison by the Yaounde Special Criminal Tribunal.

</doc>
<doc id="50554" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50554" title="Compton scattering">
Compton scattering

In physics, Compton scattering, or the Compton effect, is the name used for what happens to the energy (or frequency or wavelength) of an X-ray or gamma ray photon when it interacts with matter; the wavelength increases (or energy/frequency decreases) as it scatters off electrons. This scattering is one of the main things that happen when gamma rays meet matter. The Compton effect was studied by Arthur Holly Compton in 1923.

</doc>
<doc id="50562" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50562" title="Scottsdale, Arizona">
Scottsdale, Arizona

Scottsdale is a city in the southwestern part of the state of Arizona in the United States. In 2000 there were 202,705 people living in Scottsdale which made it the 83nd largest city in the United States. In 2005 the Census Bureau said that more people were living in Scottsdale, about 226,000 people, this makes it the 80th largest city in the US.
The city is in the Salt River Valley, or the, "Valley of the Sun", in the northern Sonoran Desert. To the east and northeast of Scottsdale is the McDowell Mountain Range. Scottsdale borders the city of Phoenix and town of Paradise Valley to the west, Tempe to the south, and Fountain Hills to the east.
According to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of 477.7 km² (184.4 mi²). 477.1 km² (184.2 mi²) of it is land and 0.6 km² (0.2 mi²) of it (0.12%) is water.
Scottsdale's climate is arid. Winters are mild and summers are very hot. The lowest temperature ever recorded in the city is 19.0 °F (−7.2 °C), on February 20, 1955, and the highest temperature ever recorded is 119.0 °F (48.3 °C), on June 26, 1970 and August 2, 1972.
Scottsdale was originally inhabited by Hohokam. From 800 to 1400, this ancient civilization farmed the area and built ingenious irrigation canals.
The city was incorporated in 1951. The seal, which shows a mounted cowboy surrounded by a 64-pointed star burst, was designed by Mrs. Gene Brown Pennington.
There are many businesses in Scottsdale. Many of them are in a business park known as The Scottsdale Air Park. Some of these companies are: AXA, GE Capital, DHL, Discount Tire Company, Tempo Creative, Fidelity Investments, JDA Software and The Vanguard Group.
Scottsdale is seen as an upscale tourist and shopping destination. It is also known as a good model of western American style. The New York Times described downtown Scottsdale as "a desert version of Miami's South Beach." The Times article also stated there was "plenty of late night partying and a buzzing hotel scene".
Scottsdale is governed by a mayor and city council, all of whom are elected "at large" to represent the entire city. A city manager is responsible for the leadership of the city staff. He also helps carry out the council policies, develops programs and budgets to respond to council goals, and makes sure that people get effective and efficient city services. The city manager also serves as the city treasurer.
The current mayor is Jim Lane.
The Scottsdale City Hall was designed by architect Bennie Gonzales in 1968, and was designed with an area for community meetings.
Public education in Scottsdale is provided by the Scottsdale Unified School District. Some parts of the town fall under other school districts in the Phoenix Metro Area, including the "Cave Creek Unified School District", Paradise Valley Unified School District, Phoenix Union High School District, Tempe Union High School District, and the Balsz Elementary School District
There are five major high schools in Scottsdale: Arcadia High School, Chaparral High School, Coronado High School, Desert Mountain High School, and Saguaro High School.
The primary college in the city is Scottsdale Community College. The college actually lies inside the Salt River Pima Maricopa Indian Reservation. Many students also commute to nearby Arizona State University in Tempe, Arizona. Penn Foster College, a distance education college, is based in Scottsdale 
Scottsdale is also home of the International School of Arizona, a non-profit language school that teaches children who speak a foreign language (French or Spanish).
Scottsdale has four branches within the Scottsdale Public Library System. A fifth is currently being built.

</doc>
<doc id="50570" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50570" title="REO Speedwagon">
REO Speedwagon

REO Speedwagon is an American rock band. They formed in Illinois in the late 1960s. The band continues to record and tour to this day. They were most popular in the 1980s, when they had a #1 album and two #1 singles.

</doc>
<doc id="50576" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50576" title="Will">
Will

Will could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="50577" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50577" title="Carlisle">
Carlisle

Carlisle is a city in the north of England near the border with Scotland. It is in the countyof Cumbria. Carlisle has a population of 71,773 people.
Carlisle's football team is called Carlisle United and they play at Brunton Park.
Carlisle is famous for Carr's Table Water Biscuits which are only made in Carlisle and are by appointment of her majesty the Queen. 

</doc>
<doc id="50579" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50579" title="Stanislas Konarski">
Stanislas Konarski

Stanislas Konarski (in Polish: Stanisław Konarski; his true name was Hieronim Franciszek Konarski), born 30th September 1700 in Żarczyce; died 3rd August 1773 in Warsaw (Poland), was a Polish teacher and writer. He made teaching better; he wrote political books, poems, and plays. He was a monk - member of the order of Piarists; he brought the Enlightenment in Poland.
Between 1725 and 1727 Konarski learned at the Collegium Nazarenum in Rome, where he became a teacher of rhetoric - the art of good speaking. After that, in order to make better his own learning, he traveled through France, Germany and Austria. In 1730 he went back to Poland and began to work on a new text of Polish law ("Volumina legum"). 
From 1736 Konarski taught at the Collegium Resoviense in Rzeszów and in 1740 he started the Collegium Nobilium in Warsaw, a school for sons of the people of high social class ("szlachta"). Thereafter, he improved teaching of Piarists in Poland, in a way that agrees with his program of teaching ("Ordinationes Visitationis Apostolicae...", 1755). His improvements became an important point in the fight of 18th century to make the system of Polish teaching more modern.
In the beginning, Konarski was joined politically with King Stanislas Leszczynski; later, he came near to Czartoryski's "Familia" and to King Stanislas August Poniatowski. He took part in the well-known "Thursday dinners". Stanislas August Poniatowski caused that a medal was made in the honor of Konarski, with his likeness. There was written in Latin: "Sapere auso" ("who was brave to be wise").

</doc>
<doc id="50580" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50580" title="Gaetano Donizetti">
Gaetano Donizetti

Gaetano Donizetti (born Bergamo 29 November 1797; died Bergamo 8 April 1848) was an Italian composer. He was the most famous composer of operas in Italy in the years between the death of Bellini (1835) and the time when Verdi was becoming well-known. Bellini and Donizetti wrote operas in the bel canto style: music with beautiful, smooth melodies.
Donizetti’s family were very poor. His talent was discovered by Simon Mayr who was maestro di cappella (music director) at S Maria Maggiore in Bergamo. He opened a school which trained boys to sing in the church choir and gave them a good musical education. Donizetti learned a lot from Mayr and was always very grateful to him.
Donizetti’s first operas were performed in Venice. A rich lady who realized he was very talented paid so that he did not have to do military service. His opera "Zoraida di Granata" was very successful in Rome and he was given a contract for an opera for Naples. For several years he composed between two and five operas every year. They were not particularly successful. One of the reasons was that the libretti he was given (the words he had to set) were not very good. 
In 1828 he married. None of their three children lived very long and his wife died in 1837 which made him very sad during his last years. This can be felt in his music.
His opera "Anna Bolena" made him internationally famous. It was performed in London and Paris. His opera "Maria Stuarda" was based on a play by Schiller. It was not popular at first. The audience did not like the tragic ending. Today it is recognized as containing some great music, especially in the final scene. After a visit to Paris he returned to Naples to produce "Lucia di Lammermoor" which was based on Scott’s novel "The Bride of Lammermoor". There is a French version as well as an Italian version of this opera. 
In 1838 he moved to Paris where he had his operas performed in four theatres. Berlioz wrote very critical articles about him in a music journal. Donizetti had gone to Paris hoping that he would earn lots of money so that he could then retire, just like Rossini had done. However, his health was not good and he found it harder to concentrate. He managed to composed "Don Pasquale" which is one of the best comic operas every written, but it does have a lot of music that he had written earlier. He was obviously finding it difficult to think of new ideas. Soon he became really ill. He was suffering from syphilis. He was put in a sanatorium near Paris for 17 months. In 1847 some friends arranged for him to stay with them, but he was very ill by then. He was paralysed and almost unable to speak. His friends looked after him until he died.
He was buried in Bergamo. His remains are now in a church there. The house where he was born is a museum.

</doc>
<doc id="50581" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50581" title="St. Catherine">
St. Catherine

There are nine St. Catherines:
There is a
See also:

</doc>
<doc id="50583" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50583" title="Blonde">
Blonde

A blonde person is someone with light coloured hair. It can be spelled either "blonde" or "blond", according to Merriam-Webster's Dictionary. Some people are blonde because they have less pigment in their hair than dark haired people. To be blonde is usually to have blonde ancestors. Then it is genetic - blondes have genes that make them blond. Sometimes it is not genetic - this is called albinism. People can also use chemicals to make themselves blonde. Bleach is sometimes used to make the color of a person's hair lighter.
Most people are not blondes by their genes. Only some people with European ancestry are blondes by their genes, and also some Australian Aborigines have a different gene that makes them blonde. Natural blondes are most common around the Baltic Sea, especially the Nordic countries such as Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Iceland, and Finland and Ireland also has a number of natural blondes. According to recent genetic analysis, both mtDNA and Y chromosome exist in Austrians. There is also a large number of blondes in Baltic countries, Slavic countries (especially Poland), northwestern parts of Russia and among European descent that have lived in Kazakhstan since the Soviet Union. Natural blondes are also common in Canada, United States, Australia, New Zealand, Argentina, Chile, United Kingdom, and Germany. Light hair can also brought on by environmental factors, especially exposure to sunlight.

</doc>
<doc id="50586" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50586" title="Harold Macmillan">
Harold Macmillan

Maurice Harold Macmillan, 1st Earl of Stockton, OM, PC (10 February 1894 – 29 December 1986), was Prime Minister of the United Kingdom from 1957 to 1963.

</doc>
<doc id="50588" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50588" title="Crucifixion">
Crucifixion

Crucifixion is a way to execute (kill) someone, usually because they have committed a crime. It was used as a capital punishment by the government of Rome. A prisoner was beaten with whips, and made to carry their own cross. They were either tied or nailed to the cross. The Romans used different types of crosses: T-shaped, X-shaped, and sometimes just trees. It killed people by making them bleed, go into shock, and making it hard for them to breathe, eventually dying of suffocation. Some of the people would live for several days before dying. The Roman soldiers (which were like the police of that time) would often break the legs of the criminal to speed it up.
The most famous person to have been crucified was Jesus Christ, the Son of God according to the Christian religion. He was crucified along with two thieves. The cross later became a symbol of Christianity. Six of the twelve apostles of Jesus were also crucified later on, but most of them asked to be crucified in a different way from Jesus. For example, Andrew (who later became the patron saint of Scotland) was crucified on an X-shaped cross. In the year 337 AD, Emperor Constantine I abolished crucifixion in the Roman Empire.

</doc>
<doc id="50590" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50590" title="Steeple">
Steeple

A steeple is the tower at the top of a church, which is a building or temple of the Christian religion. It often has a cross at the top, in memory of Jesus' crucifixion.

</doc>
<doc id="50591" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50591" title="Baltic paganism">
Baltic paganism

When we say Baltic Paganism we actually mean many different religions and mythologies that people had in Baltic countries before Christianity and that some people still have. All of those religions have their own features but also between these religions many things are similar. Baltic pagans just like Scandinavian and Finnish pagans believes that greatest god is a male god of sky and thunder. He has a hammer or axe that makes lightning. This belief is very old. We think that in Stone Age Corded Ware culture already had this kind of a god and that his weapon was a boat shaped stone axe. Corded Ware culture lived in a large area and many features of Nordic and Baltic people are derived from it.

</doc>
<doc id="50608" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50608" title="Oxidation">
Oxidation

Oxidizationing is any chemical reaction that involves the moving of electrons. Specifically, it means the substance that gives away electrons is oxidized.
When iron reacts with oxygen it forms a chemical called rust because it has been oxidized (The iron has lost some electrons.) and the oxygen has been reduced (The oxygen has gained some electrons.). 
Oxidation is the opposite of reduction. A reduction-reaction always comes together with an oxidation-reaction. Oxidation and reduction together are called redox (reduction and oxidation). Oxygen does not have to be present in a reaction, for it to be a redox-reaction. 
Oxidation is a gain of oxygen. Reduction is a loss of oxygen. For example: 
Both reduction and oxidation go on at the same time which is a redox-reaction.
The loss of Hydrogen-atoms; and, the simultaneously gaining of oxygen-atoms, is known as oxidation.

</doc>
<doc id="50609" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50609" title="Kaleva">
Kaleva

Kaleva or Kalevi and his sons are people or creatures in Finnish, Karelian and Estonian stories. However many things about them are forgotten. 
The name of Estonian national Epos Kalevipoeg means "Sons of Kalevi" and the name of Finnish national epos Kalevala means "Land of Kaleva".
In Estonian stories sons of Kaleva are sons of King. 
Finnish people called Sirius "Kalevantähti" which means "Star of Kaleva". Belt of Orion was called Kalevas sword.
In Finnish stories they are more often giants. People told that some things in nature, like big or weird stones, are made by Kalevas sons. Stories tells that while people became Christians, they started to hate Kaleva's sons who remained pagans. Soon Kaleva's sons had to go away. All the time Christian people took more land, Kaleva's sons had to go farther away. At one island they staid and did not want to leave. Priests came and they cursed Kaleva's sons until they took a big stone and sailed with it away. They have not been seen since that, but sometimes they come at night and hits crop or even forest down.
Almost the same thing happened to Hiisi people who resembles trolls. Christian humans made them to flee also.

</doc>
<doc id="50617" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50617" title="Yellowstone National Park">
Yellowstone National Park

Yellowstone National Park is a national park in the United States. It was the known as the first national park in the world. It was created on March 1, 1872 when United States President Ulysses S. Grant signed a law to create it. The name was taken from the Yellowstone River, which flows through the park. Yellowstone was made a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1978.
Yellowstone National Park is famous for its geysers and hot springs. The park contains about half the world's geysers. The world's most famous geyser, the Old Faithful Geyser, is in Yellowstone National Park. It also is a home to grizzly bears, wolves, bison and elk. Many tourists visit the park each year to see the geysers and animals there.
The park is the center of the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem. This is the largest remaining nearly intact ecosystem in the Earth's northern temperate zone. It includes many types of ecosystems, but the biggest is the subalpine forest.
People have lived in the Yellowstone area for about 11,000 years. Some native Americans still lived there when the first people came from Europe came through in 1807/1808. John Colter, a trapper, came within the Lewis and Clark Expedition and visited a large area which was unknown to the western world at that time. Three years later, he returned to St. Louis and told the people there that he had discovered a wonderland of hot springs and geysers. This area was Yellowstone, but nobody believed him, so Yellowstone still was not a famous place.
For the next sixty years only a few other trappers traveled through the area, and the same thing happened to them. When they reported that Colter had been right, nobody listened to their stories. Then three expeditions between 1868 and 1871 visited Yellowstone and took the news of its wonders back to the East. One year later, on March 1, 1872, United States President Ulysses S. Grant signed a law to create the first national park in the world.
For the first sixteen years, there was no money for the park. So from 1886 to 1917 the US Army ran it. Then the new National Park Service took over, which has run Yellowstone since then.
Yellowstone was proposed to be a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1978. The UNESCO committee elected Yellowstone because it has "significant geological phenomena and processes, unique... geothermal forces, natural beauty, and wild ecosystems where rare and endangered species thrive. [It is] one of the few remaining intact large ecosystems in the northern temperate zone of Earth". 
About 96 percent of the park is in Wyoming. Three percent is in Montana and only one percent in Idaho. It is about large, bigger than Rhode Island or Delaware. 
The park is on the Yellowstone Plateau, at an average elevation of above sea level. There are mountain ranges on most sides of the plateau. These are mountain ranges of the Middle Rocky Mountains, which range from to in elevation. 
Three deep canyons are in the park. They were cut through the volcanic tuff of the Yellowstone Plateau by rivers over the last 640,000 years (since the last huge explosion). The most famous is called the "Grand Canyon of the Yellowstone".
The Continental Divide of North America runs diagonally through the southwestern part of the Park. This separates the Pacific from Atlantic water drainage areas. The origins of the Yellowstone and Snake Rivers are near each other but on opposite sides of the divide. As a result, the waters of the Snake River flow to the Pacific Ocean, while those of the Yellowstone find their way to the Atlantic Ocean via the Gulf of Mexico.
Yellowstone is the site of a huge ancient volcano, whose remains are called the Yellowstone Caldera. The caldera is the largest volcanic system in North America.
The cause of the volcano was a "hotspot" in the Earth's mantle, over which the American continental plate moved. 640,000 years ago a huge volcanic explosion blew of rock and lava into the air. It was 1000 times larger than the Mount St. Helens eruption. 
Yellowstone is still a geologically active volcano; what means that a eruption is expected in future. It is monitored by the U.S. Geological Survey. There is ground movement, geysers and small earthquakes. The floor of the caldera has been rising, but experts say there is no immediate danger of eruption.
For three months in 1985, 3,000 minor earthquakes occurred in the northwestern section of the park. Beginning on April 30, 2007, sixteen small earthquakes with magnitudes up to 2.7 occurred in the Yellowstone Caldera for several days. These swarms of earthquakes are common, and there have been 70 such swarms between 1983 and 2008. In January 2010, more than 250 earthquakes were detected over a two day period. Seismic activity in Yellowstone National Park continues and is reported hourly by the Earthquake Hazards Program of the U.S. Geological Survey.
Yellowstone is widely seen to have the finest megafauna (very big animals) wildlife in all over the United States. There are almost 60 species of mammals in the park, including the gray wolf, the threatened lynx, and grizzly bears. Other large mammals are the bison (buffalo), black bear, elk, moose, mule deer, white-tailed deer, mountain goat, pronghorn, bighorn sheep and mountain lion.
Bison once numbered between 30 and 60 million throughout North America. Yellowstone is one of their last strongholds. Their number had increased from less than 50 in the park in 1902 to 4,000 by 2003. 
The highest number of bison in the park was 4,900, in 2005. Despite a summer estimated number of 4,700 in 2007, the number dropped to 3,000 in 2008. That was after a harsh winter and a controversial brucellosis management when hundreds were sent to slaughter. The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) has stated that with vaccinations and other means, brucellosis can be eliminated from the bison and elk herds throughout Yellowstone.
Starting in 1914, the U.S. Congress gave funds for the purposes of ""destroying wolves, prairie dogs, and other animals injurious to agriculture and animal husbandry"" on public lands. After the wolves were gone from Yellowstone, the coyote became the park's top canine predator. However, the coyote cannot bring down large animals. The result was a great increase in lame and sick megafauna.
By the 1990s, the Federal government had changed its mind on wolves. In a controversial decision by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, wolves, imported from Canada, were brought into the park. A survey conducted in 2005 showed there were 13 wolf packs, totaling 118 wolves in Yellowstone and 326 in the whole ecosystem. 
The increase in the number of wolves in the states of Wyoming, Montana and Idaho has been so successful that they are no longer on the endangered species list.
About 600 grizzly bears live in the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem, with more than half living within Yellowstone.
There are over 30,000 elk—the largest number of any large mammal species in Yellowstone. The northern herd has become much smaller since the mid-1990s. This maybe caused by wolves. Also, elk use more forested regions to evade the wolves, and make it harder for researchers to count them. The northern herd migrates west into southwestern Montana in the winter. The southern herd migrates southward, and the majority of these elk spend the winter on the National Elk Refuge, southeast of Grand Teton National Park. The southern herd migration is the largest migration of mammals in the U.S. outside of Alaska.
In 2003, the tracks of one female lynx and her cub were spotted and followed for over . Fecal material and other evidence obtained were tested and confirmed to be those of a lynx. No one actually saw a lynx, however. Lynx have not been seen in Yellowstone since 1998, though DNA taken from hair samples showed that lynx were at least passing through the park. Other mammals that are seen less often are the mountain lion and wolverine. There are about 25 mountain lions in the park. People do not know how many wolverines there are.
Yellowstone is also home to six species of reptiles, such as the painted turtle and prairie rattlesnake, and four species of amphibians, including the boreal chorus frog.
Eighteen species of fish live in Yellowstone, including the Yellowstone cutthroat trout. This fish is highly sought by anglers, and most of them live in Yellowstone. The Yellowstone cutthroat trout has faced several threats since the 1980s, including the suspected illegal introduction into Yellowstone Lake of lake trout, an invasive species which eat the smaller cutthroat trout. The cutthroat trout has also faced an ongoing drought, as well as the accidental introduction of a parasite—whirling disease—which kills younger fish. Since 2001, all native sport fish species caught in Yellowstone waterways are subject to a catch and release law. 
311 species of birds have been reported. Almost half of them nest in Yellowstone. As of 1999, twenty-six pairs of nesting bald eagles have been documented. Extremely rare sightings of whooping cranes have been recorded; only three are known to live in the Rocky Mountains, out of 385 known worldwide. Other birds, considered to be species of special concern because of their rarity in Yellowstone, include the common loon, harlequin duck, osprey, peregrine falcon and the trumpeter swan.
The reason for the extraordinary climate in Yellowstone is the location of the Rocky Mountains. The temperature at the Mammoth Hot Springs is between in January and in July. Sudden temperature increase or decrease in the middle of a year are not a rare thing.
In summer there are temperatures of about in the lower areas, but they can go up to sometimes. There are many thunderstorms during the afternoons. There are relatively low temperatures during the night; they can get down to lower null in the mountains. Typical temperatures in winter are between .
The highest temperature was metered with in year 1936, while the lowest metered temperature is in year 1933 in Mason.
Yellowstone has had many tourists. This is mostly because of the natural beauty of the Yellowstone park. Millions of people come to see it each and every year.
The park can be reached by five entrances: from the north through Livingston and Gardiner (Montana), by northeast through the Beartooth-Pass (Wyoming), by east through Cody, by south from Jackson, by bypassing the Grand-Teton-national park and by west through the Idaho Falls (Idaho).
Yellowstone offers many beautiful attractions for example geysers, hot springs, a deep canyon, a river with many falls, forests, seas, mountains, wilderness and wildlife.
More than 2.8 million tourists have visited Yellowstone since 1990. In 2010, 3.64 million people visited it. About 140,000 people come in the winter to see snow attractions, for example driving snowmobiles. More than 4,500 people work in the various hotels, parks and shops.
Conservation of the environment and life was a main reason for creating the national parks.
Even before the creation of Yellowstone, the naturalist Henry David Thoreau and other supporters asked the government to protect nature and animals in that area. However, when the park was finally created, there was no such law. A law to protect most of the animals from being shot was not adopted until 1883, nearly 10 years after the creation of the park. Hunting "protected" animals was forbidden under that law. Nevertheless poachers could still operate. So in 1894, a new law called "National Park Protection Act" was adopted. The US Congress protected nature, wildlife and other natural resources. The new law forbade the killing or destroying of them, and only fishing was allowed. Nature, for example trees, mineral resources and other things, was not allowed to be harmed.
Because Yellowstone has many forests, some fires could occur. The last big fires were the "Yellowstone fires of 1988". They damaged more than of forest area and burned out more than of trees and forest. Also of bush and grass were damaged. The effect of the fire can still be seen in some places, even after more than 20 years.
After 1988, new fire management plans were introduced: people are now not to fight the fire, but let them burn and watch them carefully. This is to keep the fire controlled. According to the 2004 plan, natural wildfires are allowed to burn, so long as fire size, weather and potential danger are within limits.

</doc>
<doc id="50618" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50618" title="National park">
National park

A national park is a park officially recognised by a nation's government. National parks are often made to protect the animals that live inside them or the land itself. There are many National Parks in the world.
The first one established (in 1872) was the United States Yellowstone National Park. 
An international organization, the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), and its World Commission on Protected Areas, has defined National Parks as its category II type of protected areas. The largest national park in the world meeting the IUCN definition is the Northeast Greenland National Park, which was established in 1974. According to the IUCN, there are about 7000 national parks worldwide (2010 figure).
In 1969 the IUCN (International Union for the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources) declared a national park to be a relatively large area with: 
While national parks are generally understood to be administered by national governments (hence the name), in Australia national parks are run by State Governments and predate the Federation of Australia.

</doc>
<doc id="50630" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50630" title="William Ewart Gladstone">
William Ewart Gladstone

William Ewart Gladstone (29 December 1809 – 19 May 1898) was a Prime Minister of the United Kingdom. He was also leader of the Liberal Party of the UK. His career lasted more than 60 years. He served as Liberal Prime Minister four times. This was more than any other person (1868-1874, 1880-1885, February-July 1886 and 1892-1894). Gladstone was 84 years old when he resigned for the last time. This made him Britain's oldest ever Prime Minister. He served as Chancellor of the Exchequer four times (1853-1855, 1859-1866, 1873-1874, and 1880-1882). 
Gladstone was educated at Eton College and Christ Church, Oxford.

</doc>
<doc id="50631" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50631" title="Anthony Eden">
Anthony Eden

Anthony Eden (Robert Anthony Eden, 1st Earl of Avon 12 June 1897 – 14 January 1977) was Prime Minister of the United Kingdom. 
Eden was educated at Eton College and Christ Church, Oxford.
Eden was one of the best-known politicians of his generation. He was appointed Foreign Secretary in 1935 by Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain, and resigned in 1938 in protest at Chamberlain's appeasement of Adolf Hitler. He was Churchill's Foreign Secretary during World War II, and again in 19511955. 
He had operation to remove gallstones in 1953. The operation went wrong, and his health was ruined. He became Prime Minister in 1955 when Winston Churchill retired. He stopped being Prime Minister in 1957 when Harold Macmillan replaced him. The Suez Crisis of 1956 was a critical period. This and his health led up to his resignation as Prime Minister. Eden died of liver cancer, aged 79. His widow, Clarissa Eden, Countess of Avon, is in her early nineties. She is a niece of Winston Churchill.
Eden's life can be described in two halves. The first half, in the 1930s and in wartime, was brilliant. But he is often ranked among the least successful British Prime Ministers of the 20th century, although two broadly sympathetic biographies (in 1986 and 2003) have gone some way to redressing the balance of opinion. D.R. Thorpe says the Suez Crisis "was a truly tragic end to his premiership, and one that came to assume a disproportionate importance in any assessment of his career".
Eden had three sons. The elder and middle sons died before him. His Earl of Avon title was inherited by the younger son, Nicholas. When Nicholas died, the title became extinct.

</doc>
<doc id="50632" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50632" title="Stanley Baldwin">
Stanley Baldwin

Stanley Baldwin (3 August 1867 – 14 December 1947) was a Prime Minister of the United Kingdom three times. He presided over the economic crisis of the 1930s and abdication of King Edward VIII of the United Kingdom. 

</doc>
<doc id="50633" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50633" title="Alec Douglas-Home">
Alec Douglas-Home

Alec Douglas-Home (Alexander Frederick Douglas-Home, Baron Home of the Hirsel, 2 July 1903 – 9 October 1995) was Prime Minister of the United Kingdom from 1963 to 1964. 
Home was a Member of Parliament and a junior official (a Parliamentary Private Secretary) when Neville Chamberlain went to Munich to meet Adolf Hitler in 1938. He was present at the main meetings between Hitler and Chamberlain. Later in life, he was appointed by Harold Macmillan as Foreign Secretary in 1960–1963, and again in Edward Heath's government from 1970–1974.
Home's name and title changed a few times during his life. Born as Alexander Frederick Douglas-Home, he became Lord Dunglass when his father became the Earl of Home. Dunglass is a junior title, that is, a lower title which is held by the eldest son. When his father died Alec became the 14th Earl of Home. He also became Baron Douglas in the peerage of the United Kingdom (that was also a junior title).
When he was chosen as Leader of the Conservative Party after Harold Macmillan retired, he knew it would be difficult to lead a government from the House of Lords. So he renounced his title, four days after becoming Prime Minister. Once he renounced the title, he became simply Sir Alec Douglas-Home. He had been made a Knight of the Thistle in 1962. Finally, after he lost the election of 1963, he was given a life peerage, titled 'Baron Home of the Hirsel'. That title is not hereditary but, after his death, his son became the 15th Earl of Home.
Rapidly, after the title was renounced, arrangements were made. The safe Conservative seat of Kinross and Western Perthshire was vacant, and Douglas-Home was adopted as his party's candidate. Parliament was due to meet on 24 October after the summer recess, but its return was postponed until 12 November pending the by-election. For twenty days Douglas-Home was Prime Minister while a member of neither house of Parliament, a situation without modern precedent. He won the by-election with a majority of 9,328.
"The Times" considered that his reputation rested not on his brief premiership, but on his two spells as Foreign Secretary: "He brought to the office ... his capacity for straight talking, for toughness towards the Soviet Union and for firmness (sometimes interpreted as a lack of sympathy) towards the countries of Africa and Asia. But he brought something else as well: an unusual degree of international respect".
 

</doc>
<doc id="50634" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50634" title="Benjamin Disraeli">
Benjamin Disraeli

Benjamin Disraeli, 1st Earl of Beaconsfield (21 December 1804–19 April 1881), born Benjamin D'Israeli, was a British politician. He was Chancellor of the Exchequer in 1852, from 1858–1859 and from 1866–1868 He was Prime Minister of the United Kingdom in 1868 and from 1874–1880. His mainopponent was William Ewart Gladstone. Disraeli was also a novelist and biographer. 
Disraeli was born into a Jewish family which converted to Anglicanism. He is the only Prime Minister of Jewish heritage in British history. He followed his father, and converted to Anglicanism at the age of 12.
Disraeli invented the idea of "One Nation" conservatism, designed to appeal to all ranks in society. This is conservatism that values paternalism and pragmatism. Paternalism means looking after people, and pragmatism means it was practical not ideological. Disraeli wanted it to appeal to working class men as a solution to worsening divisions in society. This idea was opposed to the Liberals (or "Whigs"), which was the party of the urban elite (moneyed and well-educated people in towns and cities).
Disraeli made the Conservatives the party that supported the British Empire and the military action to go with it. This was partly in reaction to Gladstone, who disliked the expense of empire, and partly because Disraeli knew it would be popular. 
As well as Disraeli's One Nation idea, the Tories were also the party of the Church of England and most of the aristocracy. They were supported by the "Young England" group. This Victorian era political group was born on the playing fields of Cambridge University and Eton College. It was a group of Tory aristocrats who had attended public school together. 
Balancing such widely different groups ("constituencies") is a problem faced by almost all political leaders. Lord John Manners in 1843, at the time of Young England, wrote "could I only satisfy myself that D'Israeli believed all that he said, I should be more happy: his historical views are quite mine, but does he believe them?"

</doc>
<doc id="50635" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50635" title="William Pitt, 1st Earl of Chatham">
William Pitt, 1st Earl of Chatham

William Pitt, 1st Earl of Chatham (15 November 1708 – 11 May 1778) was a prime minister of Great Britain. He was appointed by King George III. 
His London house, in St. James's Square, is now the home of the international affairs think tank called Chatham House.
In 1758, during the Seven Years' War, he came up with the strategy of blocking the St. Lawrence River so the French troops in Quebec and Montreal could not get more . This weakened the French side, and helped to win the war.
His son, William Pitt the Younger, was also a prime minister.

</doc>
<doc id="50636" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50636" title="Herbert Asquith">
Herbert Asquith

Herbert Henry Asquith, 1st Earl of Oxford and Asquith, KG, PC, KC (12 September 1852 – 15 February 1928) served as the Liberal Prime Minister of the United Kingdom from 1908 to 1916. Until 5 January 1988, he had been the longest continuously serving Prime Minister in the 20th century. He was not, however, in favour of the right of women to vote.
As Prime Minister, he led the Liberal Party to a series of domestic reforms, including social insurance and the reduction of the power of the House of Lords. He led the nation into the First World War, but a series of military and political crises led to his replacement in late 1916 by David Lloyd George. His falling out with Lloyd George played a major part in the downfall of the Liberal Party.
His ministry was significant for the Old Age Pension (1908), National Insurance Act (1911) and the Parliamentary Act (1911), which restricted the power of the House of Lords. 
Asquith's descendants include: ambassador Dominic Asquith (great-grandson), actress Helena Bonham Carter (great-granddaughter) and actress Anna Chancellor (great-great-granddaughter).

</doc>
<doc id="50639" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50639" title="Commerce">
Commerce

Commerce is another word for trade or business, and can mean simply the buying and selling of goods and services. Some commerce involves high finance and big companies and organisations. Commercial real estate is a place for commerce, a place to do business. Interstate commerce is the movement of goods, money or transportation between two or more states. International trade is the exchange of goods and services between countries.

</doc>
<doc id="50640" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50640" title="Plantation">
Plantation

A plantation is a large farm which is specialized on farming one type of crop. Pantations grow cash crops, mostly for export, and less for local use. Crops grown on plantations include banana, sugarcane, coffee, tea, cotton and tobacco. 
Some of the problems with plantations come from the fact that they are monocultures, that is there is only one kind of crop that is grown there. This makes them vulnerable to pests, for example.
Among the earliest examples of plantations were the latifundia of the Roman Empire. They produced large quantities of wine and olive oil for export. Plantation agriculture grew rapidly with the increase in international trade. Like every economic activity, it has changed over time. Earlier forms of plantation agriculture were associated with large disparities of wealth and income, foreign ownership and political influence, and exploitative social systems such as indentured labor and slavery.

</doc>
<doc id="50641" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50641" title="Pine">
Pine

Pines are a genus of conifers in the family Pinaceae. There are about 115 species in the genus.
Pines live in almost the entire Northern Hemisphere. In North America, they live in the southern part of Arctic to Nicaragua and Hispaniola. In Europe, they live in areas from Portugal and Scotland to Russia. In Asia, they live in areas from Russia to Japan and the Philippines. They also live in the Himalayas, some northern parts of Africa, and north of Majorca (Mallorca) on the rugged mountains.
Pines are long-lived, typically reaching ages of 100–1,000 years, some even more. The longest-lived is the Great Basin bristlecone pine, "Pinus longaeva". One individual of this species, dubbed Methuselah, is one of the world's oldest living organisms at around 4,600 years old. This tree can be found in the White Mountains of California. 
Pines usually have male and female cones on the same tree (monoecious). The male cones are small, typically 1–5 cm long, and are only present for a short period, usually in spring. They fall as soon as they have shed their pollen. The female cones take 1.5–3 years (depending on species) to mature after pollination, with actual fertilization delayed by one year. At maturity, the female cones are 3–60 cm long. Each cone has numerous spirally arranged scales, with two seeds on each fertile scale; the scales at the base and tip of the cone are small and sterile, without seeds. The seeds are mostly small and winged, and are wind-dispersed. Some are bird-dispersed. 
At maturity, the cones usually open to release the seeds, but in some of the bird-dispersed species (e.g. Whitebark pine), the seeds are only released by the bird breaking the cones open. In others, the seeds are stored in closed ("serotinous") cones for many years until an environmental cue triggers the cones to open, releasing the seeds. The most common form of serotiny is pyriscence, in which a resin binds the cones cones shut until melted by a forest fire.

</doc>
<doc id="50642" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50642" title="Philip II of France">
Philip II of France

Philip II of France (August 21, 1165 – July 14, 1223), was King of France from 1180 to 1223.

</doc>
<doc id="50645" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50645" title="Pohjola">
Pohjola

Pohjola is an evil country in Finnish and Karelian ancient stories. Pohjola is at north and it is very cold place. Ruler of Pohjola is Louhi, an evil witch woman. We think that Pohjola does not really exist, but long ago when people thought about Pohjola they thought about Lapland and a region of Pohjanmaa.
There was high wall around Pohjola and there were gates of Pohjola that could be seen from far away. 
Many evil things, like diseases and cold are from Pohjola. In Pohjola lives people of Pohjola. They are great warriors and magicians. The ruler of Pohjola Louhi is ugly but powerful old woman who can do great magic. She had a husband and daughters. Daughters of Louhi were very beautiful. They were so white and bright that they were actually transparent; you could see flesh through their skin, bones through their flesh, and bone marrow through their bones. Daughters of Pohjola were sitting on the sky weaving gold and silver threads.
Many heroes went to Pohjola to ask daughters of Louhi them to be their wives. Louhi did not give her daughters easily. She made men to do almost impossible missions to have her daughters. One such mission was to make Sampo, a machine that would do money, crop and salt. One hero, Ilmarinen, did this machine, but still Louhi did not let her daughter to marry Ilmarinen. Ilmarinen and other heroes then stole Sampo from Louhi. Louhi attacked them. There was a big battle and Sampo was destroyed. Some pieces of Sampo drifted on sea and they came to shores of Finland. Since that they have made wealth to Finnish people.

</doc>
<doc id="50652" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50652" title="Gulf of Finland">
Gulf of Finland

The Gulf of Finland is a body of water that points east from the Baltic Sea with Finland on its north side and Estonia on its south side. Both Finnish capital Helsinki and Estonian capital Tallinn are at shore of Gulf of Finland. At the bottom of the gulf of Finland is Russia and its most important coast city St. Petersburg.
The water is less salty in the eastern side of the Gulf. This is because the Neva River flows into the Gulf in the east.

</doc>
<doc id="50660" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50660" title="Edmund II of England">
Edmund II of England

Edmund Ironside or Edmund II (; c. 989 – 30 November 1016) was king of England from 23 April to 18 October 1016 and of Wessex from 23 April to 30 November 1016.

</doc>
<doc id="50661" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50661" title="Arthur Balfour">
Arthur Balfour

Sir Arthur James Balfour, 1st Earl of Balfour, KG, OM, PC (25 July 1848 – 19 March 1930) was a British Conservative statesman and Prime Minister of the United Kingdom from 1902 until 1905.

</doc>
<doc id="50662" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50662" title="Henry Pelham">
Henry Pelham

Henry Pelham (25 September 1694–6 March 1754) was a British Whig statesman, who served as Prime Minister of Great Britain from 27 August 1743 to his death about ten years later.

</doc>
<doc id="50663" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50663" title="List of U.S. states by elevation">
List of U.S. states by elevation

This is a list of United States states by elevation. Elevation means the height of something above sea level. The highest point in the U.S. is Mount McKinley at 20,320 feet (6,194 m) above sea level. The lowest point on land in the U.S. is Badwater in Death Valley at 282 feet (86 m) below sea level.

</doc>
<doc id="50666" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50666" title="Household income in the United States">
Household income in the United States

The Household income in the United States is a measure of current private income commonly used by the United States government and private institutions. To measure the income of a household, the pre-tax money receipts of all residents over the age of 15 are combined. Most of these receipts are in the form of wages and salaries (before withholding and other taxes), but many other forms of income, such as unemployment insurance, disability, child support, etc., are included as well. The residents of the household do not have to be related to the householder for their earnings to be considered part of the household's income. While the use of household income remains among the most widely accepted as households tend to share a common economic fate, the size of a household which is commonly not considered may off-set gains in household income.
In 2005, the median annual household income according to the US Census Bureau was determined to be $46,326, similar to that of Canada which was roughly $41,510 (USD) in the year 2000. The median income per household member (including all working and non-working members above the age of 14) in the year 2003 was $23,535. In the year 2005, there were approximately 113,146,000 households in the United States. 17.23% of all households had annual incomes exceeding $100,000, while another 12.7% fell below the federal poverty threshold while the bottom 20% earned less than $19,178. While the aggregate income distribution tends to tilt towards the top with the top 6.37% earning roughly one third of all income, those with upper-middle incomes also controlled a large, though declining, share of the total earned income. Households in the top quintile, 77% of which had two income earners, had incomes exceeding $91,705. Households in the mid quintile, with a mean of one income earner per household had incomes between $36,000 and 57,657.
The 2005 economic survey also found that households in the top 40%, those with an annual household income exceeding $55,331, had a median of two income earners while those in the lower quintiles (2nd and middle quintile) had median of only one income earner per household. Due to high unemployment among those in the lowest quintile the median number of income earners for this particular group was determined to be zero. Overall the United States followed the trend of other developed nations with a relatively large population of relatively rich households outnumbering the poor. Among those in-between the relative extremes of the income strata a large and quite powerful section of households with moderately high middle class incomes and an even larger number of households with moderately low incomes. While the median household income has increased 44% since 1990 it has decreased very slightly when considering inflation. In 1990, the median household income was determined to be $30,056; $44,603 in 2003 dollars. While personal income has remained relatively stagnant since over the past few decades, household income has risen due to the rising percentage of households with two or more income earners. Between 1999 and 2004 household income stagnated showing a slight increase since 2004.
SOURCE: US Census Bureau, 2005
Households are often divided into quintiles according to their gross income. Each quintile represents 20%, or one fifth, of the population.
Household type is strongly correlated with household income. Married couples are disproportionately represented in the upper two quintiles, compared to the general population of households. Cross-referencing shows that this is likely due to the presence of multiple income earners in these families. Non-family households (individuals) are disproportionately represented in the lower two quintiles. Households headed by single males are disproportionately found in the middle three quintles; single females head households concentrated in the bottom three quintiles.
The highest income households are almost ten times as likely to own their homes rather than rent, but in the lowest quintile, the ratio of owners to renters is nearly one to one.
The New York Times has used the quintiles to define class. It has assigned the quintiles from lowest to highest as lower class, lower middle class, middle class, upper middle class, and upper class.
SOURCE: US Census Bureau, 2004
Despite great advances made to lift minorities out of poverty and many African Americans and Latino Americans joining the middle class, there is still an uneven racial distribution among the groups. While Caucasians who were not of Hispanic descent made up roughly 75.1% of all persons in 2000, 87.93% of all households in the top 5% were headed by a person who identified as being White alone. Only 4.75% of all household in the top 5% were headed by someone who identified him or herself as being Hispanic or Latino of any race, versus 12.5% of persons identifying themselves as Hispanic or Latino in the general population. Overall 86.01% of all households in the top two quintiles with upper-middle range incomes of over $55,331 were headed by a head of household who identified him or herself as White alone, while only 7.21% were being headed by someone who identified as being Hispanic and 7.37% by someone who idenitified as being African American or Black. Overall households headed by Hispanics and African Americans or Blacks were underrepresented in the top two quintiles and overrepresented in the bottom two quintiles. Households headed by persons who identified as being Asian alone, on the other hand, were overrepresented among the top two quintiles. In the top five percent the percentage of Asians was nearly twice as high as the percentage of Asians among the general population. European Americans were relatively even distributed throughout the quintiles only being underrepresented in the lowest quintile and slightly overrepresented in the top quintile and the top five percent. 
SOURCE: US Census Bureau, 2004
Household income as well as per capita income in the United States rise significantly as the educational attainment increases. In 2005 graduates with a Master's in Business Administration (MBA) who accepted job offers are expected to earn a base salary of $88,626. They are also expected to receive "…[a]n average signing bonus of $17,428." According to the US Census Bureau persons with doctorates in the United States had an average income of roughly $81,400. The average for an advanced degree was $72,824 with men averaging $90,761 and women averaging $50,756 annually. Year-round full-time workers with a Professional degree had an average income of $109,600 while those with a Master's degree had an average income of $62,300. Overall "…[a]verage earnings ranged from $18,900 for high school dropouts to $25,900 for high school graduates, $45,400 for college graduates and $99,300 for workers with professional degrees (M.D., D.O., J.D., D.D.S., or D.V.M.).
Considering how education significantly enhances the earnings potential of individuals, it should come as no surprise that individuals with graduate degrees have an average per capita income exceeding the median household income of married couple families among the general population ($63,813). Higher educational attainment did not, however, help close the income gap between the genders as the life-time earnings for a male with a professionals degree were roughly forty percent (39.59%) higher than those of a female with a professionals degree. The life-time earnings gap between males and females was the smallest for those individuals holding an Associate degrees with male life-time earnings being 27.77% higher than those of females. While educational attainment did not help reduce the income inequality between men and women, it did increase the earnings potential of individuals of both sexes, greatly enabling many households with (a) graduate degree householder(s) to enter the top household income quintile.
Household income also increased significantly with the educational attainment of the householder. The US Census Bureau publishes educational attainment and income data for all households with a householder who was aged twenty-five or older. The biggest income difference was between those with some college education and those who had a Bachelor's degree, with the latter making $23,874 more. Income also increased substantially with increased post-secondary education. While the median household income for a household with a household holding an Associates degree was $51,970, the median household income for those with a Bachelor's degree or higher was $73,446. Those with doctorates had the second highest median household with a median of $96,830; $18,289 more higher than that for those at the Master's degree level, but $3,170 lower than the median for households with a professionals degree holding householder.
SOURCE: US Census Bureau, 2003
The change in median personal and household since 1991 also varied greatly with educational attainment. While, both the overall median personal and household icome increased since 1991, this increase did not take place on all levels of educational attainment. The overall income increased over the course of the 1990s, reaching its high in 1999, but decreasing has been ever since. In 1991 the median household income in the US was $40,873 in 2003 dollars, while the median household income in 2003 was $45,016. In 1999, however, the median household income was $46,236, 2.7% higher than today. While this trend held true for all levels of educational attainment the extend of chorinical falcutations in income were greatly influenced by educational attainment. Overall the median household and personal income decreased for those with more than a 9th grade education but less than a four-year college degree since 1991. In other words, the median household income decreased for households and individuals at the high school drop-outs and graduate, some-college, and an Associates degree level. Income did, however, increase for those with a Bachelor's degree or more. The following table shows the median household income according to the educational attainment of the householder. All data is in 2003 dollars and only applies to householders whose householder is aged twenty-five or older. The highest and lowest points of the median household income are presented in bold face.
SOURCE: US Census Bureau, 2003
Household income in the United States varies substantially with the age of the person who heads the household. Overall the median household income increased with the age of householder until retirement age when household income started to decline. The highest median household income was found among households headed by working baby-boomers. Households headed by persons between the ages of 45 and 54 had a median household income of $61,111 and a mean household income of $77,634. The median income per member of household for this particular group was $27,924. The highest median income per member of household was among those between the ages of 54 and 64 with $30,544. The group with the second highest median household income, were households headed by persons between the ages 35 and 44 with a median income of $56,785, followed by those in the age group between 55 and 64 with $50,400. Not surprisingly the lowest income group was mainly comprised of those households headed by individuals younger than 24, followed by those headed by persons over the age of 75. Overall households headed by persons above the age of seventy-five had a median household income of $20,467 with the median household income per member of household being $18,645. These figures support the general assumption that median household income as well as the median income per member of household peaked among those households headed by middle aged persons, increasing with the age of the householder and the size of the household until the householder reaches the age of 64. With retirement income replacing salaries and the size of the household declining, the median household income decreases as well.
Please note that all figures are presented in 2003 dollars.
Since 1967, the median household income in the United States has risen modestly, fluctuating several times. Even though personal income has risen substantially and 42% of all household now have two income earners, the median household income has increased only slightly. According to the US Census Bureau, this paradoxical set of trends is due to the changing structure of American households. For example, while the proportion of wives working year-round in married couple households with children has increased from 17% in 1967 to 39% in 1996, the proportion of such households among the general population has decreased. Thus, while married couple households with children are the most economically prosperous type of household in the United States, their share of the population has been dwindling in the United States. In 1969, more than 40% of all households consisted of a married couple with children. By 1996 only a rough quarter of US households consisted of married couples with children. As a result of these changing household demographics, median household income rose only slighly despite an ever increasing female labor force and a considerable increase in the percentage of college graduates.
Overall, the median household income rose from $33,338 in 1967 to an all-time high of $44,922 in 1999, and has since decreased slightly to $43,318. Decreases in household income are visible during each recession, while increases are visible during economic upturns. These fluctuations were felt across the income strata as the incomes of both, the 95th and 20th percentile were affected by fluctuations in the economy. Yet, it is important to note that income in the period between 1967 and 1999 grew faster among wealthier households than it did among poorer households. For example the household income for the 80th percentile, the lower threshold for the top quintile, rose from $55,265 in 1967 to $86,867 in 2003, a 57.2% increase. The median household income rose by 30% while the income for the 20th percentile (the lower threshold for the second lowest quitile) rose by only 28% from $14,002 to $17,984. One should note that the majority of households in the top quintile had two income earners, versus zero for the lowest quintile and that the widening gap between the top and lowest quintile may largely be the reflection of changing household demographics including the addition of women to the workforce.
While per-capita, disposable income has increased 469% since 1972 it has only increased moderately when considering inflation. In 1972, disposable personal income was determined to be $4,129; $19,385 in 2005 dollars. In 2005, disposable personal income was, however, $27,640, showing a moderate 43% increase. Since 1990, household income has fallen slightly, but this does not take into account the decrease in average household size.
SOURCE: US Census Bureau, 2004 "(Page 44/45)"
The median household income by state ranged from $32,589 or 26.7% below national median, in West Virginia to $57,352 or 29% above national median, in New Hampshire. Connecticut, which is often referred to as the nation's wealthiest state, came in at number four with a median household income of $55,970. California which had the highest median home price in the nation. where home prices have far outpaced incomes only ranked number thirteen with a median household income of $49,894. While California's median income was not near enough to afford the average California home or even a starter home, West Virginia, which had the nation's lowest median household income also had the nation's lowest median home price. The northeastern states, more specifically those located in New England, as well as the western states had the highest median household income. Of the top fifteen states, all were located in the Northeast and West, with the sole exception of Minnesota which ranked fifth. The southern states had the by far lowest median household income with nine out of the country's fifteen poorest states being located in the South. It should be noted, however, that New York, Pennsylvania and the District of Columbia also fell below the national median. Overall, median household income tended to be the highest in nation's most urbanized northeastern, north mid-western and western States, while rural and mostly southern states had the lowest median household income.
SOURCE: US Census Bureau, 2004/05
The median income divides households in the US evenly in the middle with half of all household earning more than the median income and half of all households earning less than the median household income. In 2004 the median household income in the United States was $43,389. According to the US Census Bureau, the median is "considerably lower than the average, and provides a more accurate representation." Considering other racial and geographical inequities in regards to household income, it should come as no surprise that the median household income varies with race, size of household and geography. The state with the highest median household income in the United States was New Hampshire with $57,352, followed by New Jersey, Maryland and Connecticut, making the Northeastern United States the wealthiest area by income in the entire country. In terms of region the median household income was as follows: "Northeast ($47,994), West ($47,680) and South ($40,773)." Median household income in the Mid-West declined by 2.8% to $44,657. The exception was the Midwest, where income declined 2.8 percent, to $44,657. While median household income has tendency to increase up to four persons per household, it declines thereon after. This indicated that while four person households have larger incomes than those with one, two or three members, household with seem to earn progressively less as their size increases beyond four persons. According to the US Census Bureau 2004 Community Survey, two-person households had a median income of $39,755, with $48,957 for three-person households, $54,338 for four-person households, $50,905 for five-person households, $45,435 for six-person households, with seven-or-more-person households having the second lowest median income of only $42,471. In terms of race, Asian-Americans households had the highest median household income of $57,518, European-American households ranked second with $48,977, Hispanic or Latino households ranked third with $34,241. African American or Black households had the lowest median household income of all races with $30,134.
Another common measurement of personal income is the mean household income. Unlike the median household income which divides all households in two halves, the mean income is the average income earned by American households. In the case of mean income, the income of all households is divided by the number of all households. The mean income is usually more affected by the relatively unequal distribution of income which tilts towards the top. As a result the mean tends to be higher as the median income with the top earning households boosting it. Overall the mean household income in the United States according to the US Census Bureau 2004 Economic Survey was $60,528, or $17,210 (39.73%) higher than the median household income.
The mean household income for households headed by persons identifying as White alone was $65,317, $40,685 for those headed by persons identifying as African American or Black, $45,871 for those headed by persons identifying as Hispanic or Latino, and $76,747 for those households headed by persons identifying as Asian alone. Approximately one third, or 36.5%, of all households earned more than the mean income, while 63.5% earned less than the mean.

</doc>
<doc id="50669" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50669" title="Toxicology">
Toxicology

Toxicology is the study of the negative effects of chemicals on living things. The main factor in the "toxicity" of a substance is the dose (how much of the chemical has been given), as almost all substances can be toxic under the right conditions. 
Many chemicals that we call poisons are only toxic when made into different chemicals by the body. Many chemicals are made toxic in the liver by enzymes, for example paracetamol, which is a common drug. There is also some variation in liver enzymes (caused by genetic variation) in different people that can cause a substance to be more toxic in one person than it is in another. Some substances are also only toxic when they are with other chemicals, as one liver enzyme can cause activity in another enzyme.

</doc>
<doc id="50672" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50672" title="Monte Carlo">
Monte Carlo

Monte Carlo is the largest city in Monaco. Its area is 5 square km, and around four hundred people live there.
Monte Carlo is also the centre of gambling, politics, fireworks and culture. Monte Carlo has a lot of casinos, hotels and historical buildings.
Monte Carlo is one of Europe's leading tourist resorts. Within the casino complex is the Grand Théâtre de Monte Carlo, an opera and ballet house, and the headquarters of the Ballets de Monte Carlo.

</doc>
<doc id="50673" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50673" title="Trickery">
Trickery

Trickery is the act of misdirection (leading into the wrong way of thinking) or an illusion (seeing things that are not true). 
For example, magic tricks are when someone makes the person seeing it think that the magic they are doing is true, but it actually is not. But magic tricks can also be pleasant entertainment when the audience know it's all tricks. 
A trick can also mean to lie or misdirect (lead to wrong way of thinking) a person so that someone who is "tricking" the person can enjoy winning the game they are playing for example gambling.
Trick is also slang for a prostitute's client.
Some sort of useful action taught to an animal, for example from "shaking hands" to handing back tools or dropped objects so that people seeing the action can enjoy the trick
Loki is the God of trickery and cunning in the Norse Mythology.

</doc>
<doc id="50677" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50677" title="Slideshow">
Slideshow

Slideshow means a show of slides. It is a display of several slides for information or for artistic purposes. 
Slideshows are conducted by a presenter using an apparatus, such as a slide projector, an overhead projector or in more recent years, a computer running presentation software. The word comes from the use of slides which have been around for many years. Slides originally were projected on movie theater screens by magic lanterns as part of early movie house shows.
The word slideshow does not appear in the "Webster’s New Twentieth Century Unabridged Dictionary" (1973 edition), but is accepted as correct spelling in Microsoft Word in both "Office 2000" and "Office XP" editions. 

</doc>
<doc id="50678" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50678" title="Slide">
Slide

In photography, a slide is a thin translucent photograph bound in paper, plastic or similar frame and often used for projection with use of a slide projector for a slideshow. The terms reversal film and transparency are also used. 
One can it from negative and print.

</doc>
<doc id="50680" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50680" title="Slide (disambiguation)">
Slide (disambiguation)

Slide could be related to any of these.

</doc>
<doc id="50681" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50681" title="Projection">
Projection

Projection can be any of:

</doc>
<doc id="50682" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50682" title="Slide projector">
Slide projector

A slide projector is a device that is used to view photographic slides by using optical and mechanical
methods. It contains an electric light bulb. focusing lenses.
reflector and condensing lenses. a holder that holds the slide.  
A flat piece of heat absorbing glass is often placed between the condensing lens and the slide, to avoid damaging the slide. This glass absorbs infrared. Light passes through the transparent slide and lens, and the resulting image is enlarged and projected onto a screen. So the audience can view its reflection.
The image may be projected onto a translucent "rear projection" screen. That is used for continuous automatic display for close viewing. This form of projection also avoids that people who look at the show interrupt the light stream or bump into the projector.
Slide projectors were common in the 1950s and 1960s as a form of entertainment; family members and friends would gather to view slideshows.
In-home photographic slides and slide projectors have largely been replaced by low cost paper prints, digital cameras, DVD media, video display monitors and digital projectors.
As of October 2004, "Kodak" no longer manufactures slide projectors. It is also increasingly difficult in some countries to locate photo processors who will process slide film. this is how to make an easy and cheap slide projector at home !! this can be also used for projects.

</doc>
<doc id="50684" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50684" title="Video projector">
Video projector

A video projector takes a video signal and projects the corresponding image on a screen using a lens system. All video projectors use a very bright light to project the image, and most modern ones can correct any curves, blurriness, and other inconsistencies through manual settings. Video projectors are widely used for conference room presentations, classroom training, and home theatre applications.
A video projector may also be built into a cabinet with a rear-projection screen to form a single unified display device, now popular for “home theater” applications. 
Common display resolutions for a portable projector include SVGA (800×600 pixels), XGA (1024×768 pixels), and 720p (1280×720 pixels). 
The cost of a device is not only determined by its resolution, but also by its light output, acoustic noise output, contrast, and other characteristics. 

</doc>
