<doc id="15790" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15790" title="Bangladesh">
Bangladesh

Bangladesh (officially called People's Republic of Bangladesh) is a country in South Asia. It is next to the North-east Indian provincial regions of India, which converges with Southeast Asia to the east. Its full name is The People's Republic of Bangla-Desh. The capital and the largest city is Dhaka (also spelled 'Dacca'). Bangladesh is surrounded on all three sides by the Republic of India (Bharat), and Myanmar (Burma) on the south-eastern corner, it is near the People's Republic of China, Bhutan, Sikkim and Nepal. Its independence was fully realised after it declared it self as independent most of 1971 from Pakistan after a bloody war in which over a million people died. Later by Indian military intervention, by that time the provisional government went into exile in Calcutta, Bengal (India) which they considered their homeland to be under Pakistani military occupation. After the Instrument of Surrender, the Bengali peoples became a sovereign nation and when its founder was released from political imprisonment had returned in 1972. Present-day Bangladesh has an area of 56,977 mi² or (147,570 km²).
The local currency is called Taka. The official language is Bengali.
There are two main rivers in Bangladesh, the Ganges and Brahmaputra Rivers are holy to Hindus. There are often floods because of these two rivers.
The delta and surrounding hills has been inhabited for hundreds of generations (thousands of years). The area supported agriculture very early on. About 500 BC there was a shift to growing rice. This led to the development of urban areas. Because there were no stone quarries in the area houses were built of wood and mud (including adobe). Because of the monsoon climate very little evidence of the earliest inhabitants remains. From about 300 BC to the 1700s AD the Bengal delta saw the development of writing, the Bengali language, religions and the rise and fall of states. By the 1500s, the area was prosperous and even peasants had plenty to eat.
For much of its history the area was simply called "Bengal" and was considered a part of India. The last few centuries several foreign powers involved themselves with the area resulting in several wars. The 20th century brought more wars, genocide, and political states. Bengal was under British rule from 1757–1947. It was a part of British India. In 1947 East Bengal and West Pakistan separated from India and formed a new country called Pakistan. But the east and west provinces were on either side of India and separated by . In 1949 the Bangladesh Awami League formed to favor separation between east and west Pakistan. In 1955 East Bengal was renamed East Pakistan. Dacca was then the legislative capital of Pakistani Bengal provincial region. The peoples of East Pakistan were mostly ethnic Bengalis who had a different language and culture to the people of western Pakistan. These differences eventually led to the Bangladesh Liberation War. On 16 December 1971, Bangladesh gained independence, with the help of allied forces against West Pakistani forces.
The East Bengal Legislative Assembly was the law-making body of the province of East Bengal. It was later renamed the East Pakistan Legislative Assembly and would be succeeded by the Jatiyo Sangshad in 1971.
After the birth of Bangladesh, Bangla replaced Urdu and English as the sole national and official language, and was the language taught in schools and used in business and government. The Bangla Academy was important in this change. In the 1980s, British-style education was maintained through private English-language institutions attended by upper class children. English continued to be taught in higher education and was offered as a subject for university degrees.
At first, Arabic also lost ground in independent Bangladesh. This trend ended in the late 1970s, however, after Bangladesh strengthened its ties with Saudi Arabia and other oil-rich, Arabic-speaking countries. An unsuccessful attempt was made in 1983 to introduce Arabic as a required language in primary and secondary levels. Arabic is widely studied in Madrassas and Islamic institutions around the country for better understanding of the Quran, Hadith and any other Islamic texts.
Despite 30 years of independence, Bangladesh is still a poor country and has problems with corruption and political troubles as the other country have. Presently more than half of the people can read and write.
Bangladesh has heavy cyclones and natural disasters, due to this many lives are often lost. The country is one of the most densely populated in the world. Cyclones are very common in the Bay of Bengal during the middle of the year, particularly in the south of country in areas like Sundarban, Chittagong, Cox's Bazaar,or in neighboring Myanmar and Republic of India. Despite the many storms, Bangladesh does not have a very effective storm prevention system, and cyclones usually inflict heavy damage.
Bangladesh is in the Ganges Delta. This is where the Ganges, Brahmaputra, and Meghna come together. Most parts of Bangladesh are less than above the sea level. The highest point in Bangladesh is in Mowdok range at in the Chittagong Hill Tracts to the southeast of the country. Cox's Bazar, south of the city of Chittagong, has a beach that is uninterrupted over .
A large part of the coastline is a marshy jungle, the Sundarbans. They are the largest mangrove forest in the world.
Bangladesh is divided into seven administrative divisions,: Barisal (বরিশাল), Chittagong (চট্টগ্রাম), Dhaka (ঢাকা), Khulna (খুলনা), Rajshahi (রাজশাহী), Sylhet (সিলেট), and Rangpur (রংপুর).
Divisions are divided into districts. There are 64 districts in Bangladesh.
Dhaka is the capital and largest city of Bangladesh. Other major cities include Chittagong, Khulna, Rajshahi, Sylhet, Barisal, Bogra, Comilla, Mymensingh and Rangpur. For more locations see List of settlements in Bangladesh.
The main religion in Bangladesh is Islam (85%). Many people also follow Hinduism (14%). Most Muslims are Sunni. Islam was made the state religion in the 1980s. Christians make up less than 1% of the population.
The earliest literary text in Bengali is the 8th century Charyapada. Medieval Bengali literature was often either religious or from other languages. The 19th century had poets such as Rabindranath Tagore, Michael Madhusudan Dutt and Kazi Nazrul Islam.
The musical tradition of Bangladesh is lyrics-based with little instruments. Folk music is often accompanied by the ektara, an instrument with only one string. Bangladeshi dance forms are from folk traditions.
Bangladesh makes about 80 films a year. Mainstream Hindi films are also quite popular. Around 200 daily newspapers are published in Bangladesh, along with more than 500 magazines.
Rice and fish are traditional favourite foods. Biryani is a favourite dish of Bangladeshis.
The sari is by far the most widely worn dress by Bangladeshi women.The salwar kameez (shaloar kamiz) is also quite popular among espcially the younger females, and In urban areas some women wear western attire. Among men, western attire is more widely worn.
Eid ul-Fitr and Eid ul-Adha have major festivals. Buddha Purnima, which marks the birth of Gautama Buddha, and Christmas, called "Bôŗodin" (Great day), are both national holidays. The most important non-religious festival is Pohela Boishakh or Bengali New Year, the beginning of the Bengali calendar.
Cricket is the most popular sport in Bangladesh. Next is football (soccer). The national cricket team was in their first Cricket World Cup in 1999. In 2011, Bangladesh successfully co-hosted the ICC Cricket World Cup 2011 with India and Sri Lanka.
Hadudu (kabaddi) is the national sport in Bangladesh. Other popular sports include field hockey, tennis, badminton, handball, basketball, volleyball, chess, shooting, angling, and carrom.

</doc>
<doc id="15797" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15797" title="Yugoslavia">
Yugoslavia

Yugoslavia was a country in Europe, mostly in Balkan Peninsula, its meaning South Slavs deriving from Slavs who came from area what is now Poland in 7th century. It existed in three forms during 1918–2006.
From 1918 until 1928 it was called the "Kingdom of the Serbs, Croats, and Slovenes". From 1928 until World War II it was the "Kingdom of Yugoslavia". After WW 2 it was renamed to the "Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia" with six republics, 2 autonomous provinces: Bosnia-Herzegovina, Croatia, Macedonia, Montenegro, Serbia and Slovenia and two autonomous provinces in Serbia: Vojvodina in the north, and Kosovo, next to Albania. 
In 1991, came the independence of Slovenia, Croatia, in 1992, Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, causing the end of the country. Serbia and Montenegro, were the last two republics in the Socialist Yugoslavia. In 1992, they formed a new "Federal Republic of Yugoslavia" (FRY) which fell in 2006
In 1903 the Serbian king was murdered and replaced with Peter I. After this Serbia became more nationalist. Tensions with Austria-Hungary heightened when it conquered Bosnia in 1908. During this period Serbia managed to extend its borders and capture Kosovo and Macedonia from the Ottoman Empire. Many Serbian nationalists wanted to create a unified state for the Slavs of the Balkans. Covert gangs attempted to assassinate Austro-Hungarian officials, like the Bosnian governor. In June 1914 a Bosnian Serb called Gavrilo Princip killed Austrian Archduke Franz Ferdinand in Sarajevo, Bosnia. This event eventually led to the outbreak of the Great War (World War One).
Yugoslavia came into existence in 1918 after World War I. Most of its northern territories were given to it from Austria-Hungary when it collapsed during the war. Southern territories were taken by Serbia from the Ottoman empire during the Balkan Wars (1912-13). The reigning king in Serbia became the king of all Yugoslavia.
For ten years it was known as the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes. It began using the name 'Yugoslavia' in 1929. The name 'Yugoslavia' is Serbo-Croatian for 'Land of the Southern Slavs'. The Kingdom was invaded by axis powers in 1941 and quickly fell during World War II. A Federal Democratic Republic was declared in 1943 with the King's approval, but the monarchy was abolished shortly after.
A People's republic was created in 1945 by a newly established communist government. It was ruled by Josip Tito from then until 1980. The country renamed itself SFR Yugoslavia in 1963. It was made up of six individual Socialist Republics: SR Croatia, SR Bosnia and Herzegovina, SR Macedonia, SR Montenegro, SR Serbia and SR Slovenia. The SFR Yugoslavia was different to other socialist states of the Cold War, deciding to keep itself out of it. Yugoslavia was the only socialist state to have open borders and allowed Yugoslavs and tourists to freely move around the country. Yugoslavia also kept warm relations with the West. It was also an enemy of the Soviet Union after the Tito-Stalin split as Stalin considered him a traitor. In 1968 the Soviet Union invaded socialist Czechoslovakia to stop its leader from making the country more free. Tito told the Czechoslovak leader that he was willing to fly to Prague to help him face the Soviets if he wanted.
The Yugoslav republics began turning against one another in the 1970s and 1980s. Josip Tito ruled Yugoslavia with an iron fist and crushed any nationalist movements that wanted to see the country break up. His government forced the six republics to stay part of Yugoslavia. When he died in 1980, the new leaders were less strict and let nationalist feelings to grow in the republics of Yugoslavia. The breakup was caused by many things like nationalism, economic difficulty and ethnic problems. The Socialist state was dissolved in 1992 during the Yugoslav wars. Serbia and Montenegro stayed together as FR Yugoslavia.
After the dissolution of the SFR Yugoslavia only Serbia and Montenegro were willing to remain in union. They renamed themselves the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in 1992. The country was led by the controversial statesman Slobodan Milosevic from 1997 until 2000. He was widely accused of having his opposition assassinated in 2000. Yugoslavia applied for UN membership in October 2000 and was granted the following month. For most of its existence the country was involved with what was called the Yugoslav Wars. There was much ethnic violence including mass genocide in Bosnia and Herzegovina (1995) and ethnic cleansing in Kosovo (1998). It was the worst acts of war seen in Europe since World War II. The country was bombed by NATO forces in 1999 during the Kosovo war. In the late 1990s separatism was growing in Yugoslavia and the country dropped the name Yugoslavia in favour of a state union in 2003. Serbia and Montenegro became independent states in 2006, formally ending the last remaining parts of Yugoslavia. 
Now, Yugoslavia has been split up and made into these countries:

</doc>
<doc id="15798" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15798" title="Major League Baseball">
Major League Baseball

Major League Baseball (MLB) is a professional baseball league in North America. It is the highest level of professional baseball in the world. There are two leagues that make up the MLB: the American League, also called AL, and National League, also called NL. MLB owns everything that happens in major league baseball games. It also includes MLB Productions and MLB Advanced Media, which are in charge of major league baseball games on television and the teams and company web pages. There are currently 30 teams in MLB, 29 from the United States and one from Canada, the Toronto Blue Jays.
The 30 teams in MLB are divided into two leagues: American and National. Each league is divided into three divisions: East, Central, West. Since the 2013 season, each division has five teams. The most recent change took place after the 2012 season, when the Houston Astros moved from the NL Central to the AL West.
Each team in Major League Baseball is scheduled to play a 162-game season. This season begins in April (or sometimes the end of March) and ends in October. The teams play other teams in their own division the most, and play very few (no more than six) games against teams in the other league. Teams usually play each other in series of three or four games at a time. If a game is cancelled because of bad weather, it may be held again at a different date, sometimes as part of a doubleheader (two games in one day). Sometimes these games are not held again if it would not affect either team's place in the standings (the list of teams ordered by their number of wins and losses). If teams are tied at the end of a season, "and" at least one of the tied teams cannot make the playoffs, they will play an extra game (or, with more than one team involved, a series of single games) to decide which team(s) will make the playoffs. However, these games are played only to decide which team (or teams) is out of the playoffs. If the tied teams will all make the playoffs, tiebreakers are used to decide playoff seeding.
In July, there are three days where teams do not play normal games, and a group of players voted on by fans play in the "Major League Baseball All-Star Game". This period is called the "All-Star Break", and it is thought of as the point where half of the season is over. Lately, some games at the beginning of the regular season have been played in other countries, such as Japan.
There is one difference between games played in the American League and games played in the National League. The American League teams play with a "designated hitter", a player who bats in place of the pitcher and does not play in the field. In the National League, the pitcher must bat along with the other players. In games played in teams from both leagues, the rule that the home team usually plays by is used.
At the end of every season, ten teams play in the playoffs. Five teams from the AL, and five teams from the NL are in the playoffs. The team from the West, Central, or East division from each league with the most wins makes the playoffs (a team with the best record in its division is said to have "won its division". The next two best teams in the AL and the next two best teams in the NL also get to play in the playoffs. They are called "wild card" teams. The first playoff round is called the Wild Card game. The two wild card teams from each league play each other in a one-game playoff. The winner of each game moves on to the Division Series. The team with the best record in each league plays the winner of its league's Wild Card game. The division winner with the second best record plays against the division winner with the third best record. 
In the Division Series, teams play "best out of 5". Once one team beats the other three times, the winning team moves onto the next round of the playoffs. The teams that lose are out of the playoffs. The AL teams that win play in the AL Championship Series. The NL teams that win play in the NL Championship Series. The Championship series is "best out of 7 games". Once one team beats the other four times, the winning team moves onto the next round of the playoffs. After the Championship Series, there are only two teams left. These two teams play each other in the World Series, which is also a "best out of 7 games" series. The winner of the World Series is the champion of the league.
The first league of professional baseball teams began in 1871 and was called the National Association. This league did not play baseball the same way MLB does. For example, batters would walk after nine pitches instead of four. Many of the teams had problems with money and split up after only one or two seasons. However two teams are still playing today. Those teams were the Boston Red Stockings, which today are the Atlanta Braves, and the Chicago White Stockings, which today are the Chicago Cubs. In 1876, a league that was run better, the National League, began, and included the Red and White Stockings as well as six other teams. Even though this league was run better, many teams still would split up after only a few seasons, though some, like the teams that are now called the Philadelphia Phillies and San Francisco Giants, are also still playing today. There were other leagues also. The American Association started in 1882 and was almost as good as the National League. However many of its teams would go to the National League, and the American Association disappeared in 1891. The National League had problems, though. Players and fans did not behave well, and once a fire that destroyed part of Boston happened during a game. 

</doc>
<doc id="15799" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15799" title="Lou Gehrig">
Lou Gehrig

Henry Louis Gehrig (born Ludwig Heinrich Gehrig; June 19, 1903 — June 2, 1941) was an American baseball player. He played with Babe Ruth and the New York Yankees who were thought the best team of that time. He played with the Yankees for most of his playing time which started in 1923 and ended in 1939. He played in 2,130 games without a rest, which was the most of any player until Cal Ripken, Jr. in 1995. When he stopped playing as well, he went to a doctor who found out Gehrig had amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS – which is now sometimes called Lou Gehrig's disease). The doctor told Gehrig he had only a short time to live. On July 4, 1939, there was a celebration of Gehrig by the other Yankees, and Gehrig gave a speech that became well-known. When he spoke that day he said he was "the luckiest man on the face of the earth". The mayor of New York City congratulated him for his teamwork. He died less than two years later in New York City.

</doc>
<doc id="15800" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15800" title="United States Senate">
United States Senate

The United States Senate is part of the United States Congress, which is a group of elected people who decide the laws of the country. Every U.S. state elects two people to represent them in the US Senate. These people are called senators. Since there are 50 U.S. states, there are 100 senators. Senators serve six years at a time, and one-third of them are picked every two years. Originally the legislature of each state decided who their senators would be. After 1913, all the people of the state chose their senators by vote. The Vice President of the United States is in charge of the Senate, but only does anything when there is a tie vote or a special event.
In order to be a senator, a person has to be 30 years old or older, and has to be a citizen of the United States for 9 years or more. He or she must also live in the state they represent at election time.
The Senate, along with the United States House of Representatives, votes on which laws the United States should have. In most cases, both of these groups have to agree on the suggested law and the President has to sign it before it becomes a law.
The Senate is the side of Congress where every state has the same number of votes (two). This is different from the House of Representatives, where states with more people have more votes than states with fewer people. This was decided during the time the United States Constitution was written, because small states like Rhode Island and Delaware did not want the larger states to be able to decide everything. Also, only part of the Senate runs for election during elections. Every two years, 33 (two elections) or 34 (one election) senators are elected. For each state, this means that after two elections to the Senate, during one election no one will be elected to the Senate.
Also, like the House, the Senate can override the president's veto with a ⅔ (67 votes) vote. But unlike the house, some bills require a 3/5 (60 votes) vote (it used to be ⅔ of the vote) to overcome the filibuster. A filibuster is when senators band together, they can stop bills from going through the senate. 
The Senate is also in charge of agreeing to treaties with other countries. The Senate has the sole responsibility for confirming presidential appointments. These include federal judges, foreign ambassadors and Cabinet members. If the Senate and President do not agree, the President has to pick someone else the Senate will agree to.
Committees of the United States Senate and other important jobs in the Senate are assigned by the majority political party. Right now, the Senate is made up of 54 Republicans (they are the majority). There are 44 Democrats, and 2 Independents.

</doc>
<doc id="15803" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15803" title="Fair use">
Fair use

Fair use is the idea that it should be okay for a person to reuse something that another person has created, in certain amounts and for certain purposes, without breaking the law.
In most countries, art and other made-up things, like stories, books, TV shows, and pictures, are owned by the person that first made them. This person can let someone else own the things they make, sometimes for money. The person that owns these things has a "copyright" for them, which means that person can decide who can copy their work. If someone else copies that work without asking the owner first, that person is breaking the law. The owner can take the person to court and try to get money from them because of what they did.
Since a lot of creative work is popular, people want to talk about them, and they may want to talk about them on TV or in a book. This might mean that they want to use a little bit of it when they talk about it. The idea of "fair use" was added to most copyright laws to make sure that it would be OK do to this, as long as only a little bit of someone's work is used.
Since a lot of creative work is now on computers and on the Internet, it is very easy to copy things and send them to lots of people. To make sure that people cannot always do this, there are computer programs that try to stop people from copying other people's work (known as digital rights management). One problem with these programs is that they also mean that you cannot copy even a small part of someone's work, so you cannot do "fair use" without cheating the program. In some countries, cheating those software programs is also breaking the law.

</doc>
<doc id="15860" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15860" title="Duodenum">
Duodenum

The duodenum is a short section of the small intestine that receives secretions from the pancreas and liver via the pancreatic and common bile ducts. It is the place where most digestion occurs.

</doc>
<doc id="15861" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15861" title="Soil erosion">
Soil erosion

Soil erosion is the washing or blowing away (by water or wind) of the top layer of soil (dirt). 
This is a serious problem for farmers. If the soil has eroded, the crops that make food will not grow very well. 
Soil erosion was a big problem in the Midwestern United States in the 1930s dust bowl.
Erosion also leaves large sinkholes in the ground, which can weaken buildings and even cause them to collapse. Urban areas are usually protected from soil erosion, so not many buildings collapse from erosion. 
Soil erosion can be conserved in several ways: 

</doc>
<doc id="15862" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15862" title="Compost">
Compost

Compost is a type of fertilizer that is made from rotting plants. It is easy and cheap to make, as all it really requires is vegetable waste. The vegetable waste is broken down by bacteria (germs), and made into compost.
To make a compost heap, you need some space fairly far from anyone who might have a problem with the smell. The bottom corner of a garden, or some other place a distance from the house is a good place. Compost heaps should also be placed on soil, or grass: a paved yard or concrete are bad places.
The compost heap should not be in a dark or closed corner.
The best base for a compost heap is a layer of sand, bricks or gravel about 1m long by 1m wide. This is not needed, but it can be a good idea. If using bricks, leave spaces to allow the air to move through. It also allows for the water to run away. The best compost heaps have lots of little spaces inside, to allow air to move around.
Once the first layer is down, one can begin adding the waste. 
Some good types of waste are:
Adding meat scraps is a bad idea, as they rot slowly, smell bad and attract rats and other vermin. Human or pet feces is also a very bad idea, as this can transmit disease. Waste from plants that have died of disease is also bad. The disease can spread to the plants that the compost is used with.
When making a compost heap, different types of waste should be layered. A layer of cut grass can be followed by a layer of vegetable waste and table scraps.
Watering the compost heap is a good idea, especially in dry areas. The water helps encourage the waste to rot and turn into compost.
In anywhere from 3 to 6 months, the compost will be ready. The compost is ready when it smells like thick earth, with no smell of decay or rot. Of course, if you have been adding waste all this time, the compost will all be at the bottom of the heap, and will have to be dug out.
The stuff that has not rotted can be used as part of a new compost heap.

</doc>
<doc id="15863" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15863" title="Haiti">
Haiti

Haiti (French: "Haïti"; Haitian Creole: "Ayiti"), officially the Republic of Haiti (French: "République d'Haïti"; Haitian Creole: "Repiblik d Ayiti") is a country on the Caribbean island of Hispaniola. The other country on the island is the Dominican Republic. Haiti has two official languages: French and Haitian Creole, or ""Kreyol"", which is a simple version of French mixed with African languages. Its capital city is Port-au-Prince.
Haiti has a tropical climate. In French, the country is called ""La Perle des Antilles"" (The pearl of the Antilles), because of its natural beauty. There are many mountains in Haiti. The country used to be covered with forests. However, it no longer is, because of deforestation. It is the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere.
Haiti is divided into ten "departements". The main religion is Roman Catholicism. However, many Haitians also practice Voodoo. This is a religion which came from African folk beliefs in Benin. Haiti has many holidays; the largest and most important is the "Mardi Gras".
Haiti has a total area of 27,750 km². Most of it is in the western third of the Hispaniola island. There are also smaller islands near the Haitian coast, like "Gonâve", "Île de la Tortue", "Les Cayemites", "Île-à-Vache" and "La Navase".
Haiti has many mountains. There are only some coastal plains and few valleys. The largest valley is the "Cul-de-Sac". Port-au-Prince is in the western end of this valley. The country's main river is the Artibonite, which is also the longest in Hispaniola. Haiti's biggest city is Port-au-Prince, with more than 3 million people in its metropolitan area. The second largest city is Cap-Haïtien.
Haiti has a tropical climate. The rainy season lasts from April to June, and from October to November. Hurricanes are common during summer. In the past, hurricanes have caused a lot of damage and killed many people.
The Taino people were a tribe of Arawak Amerindians. They lived on the island of Hispaniola before Christopher Columbus found the island and started a European colony there. Columbus discovered the island of Hispaniola on his first trip to the Americas. Within twenty-five years after Columbus arrived, all of the Arawaks had been killed by Spanish conquistadors.
In the early 17th century, the French set up a colony on Hispaniola. In 1697, Spain sold the western third of the island - Haiti - to the French. The French colony was based on forestry and making sugar. It became one of the wealthiest in the Caribbean. However, to do this, the colony brought many slaves over from Africa and destroyed much of the environment.
By the late 18th century, there were nearly half a million slaves in Haiti. They revolted, led by Toussaint L'Ouverture. After a hard and bloody struggle, they won their independence. In 1804, Haiti became the first independent black republic in the world. Today there are many monuments in Haiti remembering the Haitian Revolution. One of the largest is "La Citadelle Laferriere".
On January 12, 2010, in the afternoon of a Tuesday, Haiti was struck by a magnitude-7.0 earthquake. This was the worst earthquake to hit the country in the past 200 years. The quake's epicenter was just outside the Haitian capital of Port-au-Prince. The quake caused major damage to Port-au-Prince and nearby areas. Over 200,000 people were thought to have been killed, but it was hard to be sure because many people were buried in mass graves before they could be identified.
Haiti is made of ten regions known as departments (, singular "départment"). These departments are further divided into 41 "arrondissements", and 133 "communes". These are the second and third level units of administration.
The 10 departments, with their capital cities in parentheses, are:
Official holidays (on the same day every year)
Traditional and religious holidays (dates vary according to the liturgical calendar of the Catholic Church)
Haiti is the least developed country in the Americas. It is also one of the least developed and poorest countries in the world.
There are indicators that can be used to compare social and economic situations between countries. Some indicators show that Haiti has fallen behind other poor developing countries since the 1980s. In 2006, Haiti ranked 146th of 177 countries in the United Nations Human Development Index (2006). About 90% of the Haitian people were living in poverty in 2003. Haiti is the only country in the Americas on the United Nations list of Least Developed Countries and it is the poorest country in the Americas. The was economy staying even or falling behind even before their big earthquake.
About 66% of all Haitians work in agriculture. Most of them do small-scale subsistence farming (meaning that they are able to grow just enough to survive). This does not bring in much money.
Very few jobs were created in the last ten years. However, the informal economy is growing. Mangoes and coffee are two of Haiti's most important exports. Haiti has consistently ranked among the most corrupt countries in the world on the Corruption Perceptions Index.
About one third of the national government's budget is money given to them by other countries. The United States gives the most money. Canada gives the second largest amount of money. The European Union, Venezuela and Cuba also give and help Haiti's economy in different ways. Haiti has renewed its alliances with Venezuela and Cuba in 2006 and 2007.
From 2001-2004, the United States stopped giving aid to Haiti completely. The aid was cut off after Haiti's 2000 election. The election's results were questioned, and President Aristide was accused of cheating to win the election. Aristide was overthrown in 2004. After that, the United States started giving aid to Haiti again. The United Nations led a peacekeeping operation called the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti. (The Mission is called called MINUSTAH in Haiti; this is an acronym for the Mission's name in French). The Brazilian army led the peacekeeping operation.
Even after President Aristide was overthrown, corruption continued to be very common in Haiti.
Haiti has a large amount of foreign debt (money owed to other countries and international institutions to repay loans). The Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) program planned to forgive about $525 million of Haiti's debt by mid-2009.
In 2009, the population of Haiti (the number of people living in the country) was about 10,090,190. Figures from the DNA Nation-wide Studies Institute say that the racial makeup of the population is:
Some Asian people also live in the country.

</doc>
<doc id="15864" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15864" title="1500s">
1500s


</doc>
<doc id="15865" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15865" title="1901">
1901

1901 (MCMI) was a common year starting on Tuesday of the Gregorian calendar, and starting on a Monday in the Julian calendar. It was the first year of the 20th century.

</doc>
<doc id="15866" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15866" title="1880">
1880


</doc>
<doc id="15867" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15867" title="1864">
1864


</doc>
<doc id="15868" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15868" title="1897">
1897

The year 1897 (MDCCCXCVII) was a common year starting on Friday on the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="15872" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15872" title="Hodgenville, Kentucky">
Hodgenville, Kentucky

Hodgenville is a town in the American state of Kentucky. It is the county seat of Larue County. It is most famous as the birthplace of President Abraham Lincoln. A memorial featuring a replica (copy) of the cabin Lincoln was born in is near the town.

</doc>
<doc id="15874" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15874" title="University of Oxford">
University of Oxford

The University of Oxford is a university in Oxford, England. It is the oldest university in the English-speaking world. The Times Higher Education World University Rankings said it is the second-best university in the world with Harvard University.
The university is 38 colleges and six private halls. All of these colleges have their own buildings and their own staff. Oxford is quite different from most modern universities where all the students live on a campus. Oxford does not have a campus, although it does have some central places where students from different colleges can come together (for example, libraries and the students Oxford Union). 
Oxford is the world's third-oldest university after the University of Bologna, and the world's second-oldest surviving university. 
There is no known date of foundation, but there is evidence of teaching as far back as 1096. It grew rapidly from 1167 when Henry II banned English students from attending the University of Paris. English students were not allowed to continue studying in Paris after Thomas Becket was murdered. 
There were fights between the students in Oxford and the people who lived there in the early 13th century. Some students and teachers left the university in 1209, and made a new university in Cambridge. These two universities are now great rivals, and together are sometimes known as "Oxbridge".
Until 1920, women were not allowed to take degrees at Oxford, although some women studied at Oxford before that time. Nowadays, all the colleges allow both men and women as students, and the number of male and female students is roughly equal.
One of the most famous teachers at the university was Lewis Carroll, author of "Alice in Wonderland" and "Through the Looking-Glass", nonsense stories for children.
There are 38 colleges at Oxford and 6 permanent private halls.
A college will normally offer the students accommodation (a room to sleep and study in) for the first and last years of their time at University. Many also offer accommodation for other years. A college will also have space for teaching and socializing. When most of the older colleges started they were only for people of one sex, but St Hilda's College, the last college to allow only women to study there, recently allowed men as well.
A permanent private hall is slightly different to a college. They were normally started by religious groups to educate their members in philosophy and theology, but some have since grown and offer a broader range of subjects. Some halls are run by monks, and one of them – St Benet's Hall – will only accept male students.
Most colleges will teach at both undergraduate (the more basic first degree that a student takes) and postgraduate (a higher level of study) level. There are also some special colleges that are more restrictive. Five colleges only offer space to postgraduate students. Harris Manchester College is only for "mature students" (those who are over 21 when they start their degree). All Souls College does not take students – all of its members teach students or do research.
Oxford, like Cambridge, is very popular, but there are only a limited number of spaces for students. It is therefore harder for students to get into these universities. The colleges look for the students with the best school results in the subjects for which they are applying, typically A marks on A-levels.

</doc>
<doc id="15876" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15876" title="Def Leppard">
Def Leppard

Def Leppard was one of the first hard rock bands. They formed in Sheffield, England in 1977. Its founding members include: lead singer Joe Elliot, bassist Rick Savage, guitarist Pete Willis, and drummer Tony Kenning. When Kenning was fired from the band in 1978, he was replaced by Frank Noon. The same year, Def Leppard had their first recording. They recorded "The Def Leppard EP". Frank Noon was replaced by drummer Rick Allen the same year and guitarist Steve Clark joined the band shortly after. They played their first show at Westfield School in Sheffield in the same year.
Their first album, "On Through the Night" (1980), was a hit in many parts of England. In April 1980, Def Leppard signed with Leber Krebs management. In the same year they went of their first U.S. tour with Ted Nugent, AC/DC, and Judas Priest. In 1981 the band released their second album, "High ‘n’ Dry". At that time, MTV aired Def Leppard for the first time. MTV aired their hit “Bringin’ on the Heartbreak.” 
In 1982, Pete Willis was replaced by Phil Collen. The same year, the recording with Mutt Lange for their third album takes place. In 1983, their third album "Pyromania" is released. The single “Photograph” was released and the album sells 100,000 copies a week for that year. In 1984, drummer Rick Allen suffers the loss of an arm due to a car accident. He soon mastered an electronic drum kit and teaches himself how to play with one arm. In 1986, Rick Allen plays his first gig out with the band since his accident. In 1987, the band’s fourth album, “Hysteria” is released. The album has 12 hit singles and sells 16 million copies. 
In 1991, guitarist Steve Clark passes away. His death was due to a mixture of alcohol and a drug overdose of prescription pain killers. In 1992 Vivian Campbell joins the band. Vivian Campbell was the former guitarist for Dio and Whitesnake. That year, the album “Adrenalize” is released. This album remains number one for five weeks and sells six million copies.
In 1993 the band has their first expirence having their music in movies. Their song “Two Steps Behind” was used for the end credits of “Last Action Hero”. The same year the album “Retro Active” is released. In 1995 “The Vault” is released. It is a compilation of all of Def Leppard’s biggest hits. “The Vault” hits number two on the charts. In 1996, the album “Slang” is released.
In 1998, Def Leppard had their first taste of TV. VH1 produced a “Behind the Music” episode on Def Leppard. Other TV exposure followed such as “Storytellers”, and “Ultimate Albums.” In 1999, they receive the Diamond Award in the U.S. Also in 1999, the album “Euphoria” is released. In the year 2000, the band is inducted into the Hollywood Rock Walk of Fame.
In 2001, the band releases their first DVDs, “In the Round, In your Face” and “Historia”. The same year, VH1 broadcasts the movie “Hysteria: The Def Leppard Story.” n 2002 the album “X” is released. In 2004 the band releases a newer version of the album “The Vault”. In 2005 the album and DVD “Rock of Ages” is released. In 2006, Def Leppard releases their album “Yeah”. The album “Yeah” is a cover album. In 2008 the band’s 12th album “Songs from the Sparkle Lounge” is released. The same year the band crosses genres with the country hit “Nine Lives.”

</doc>
<doc id="15878" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15878" title="Husband (disambiguation)">
Husband (disambiguation)

A husband is the male spouse in a marriage.
Husband may also refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="15879" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15879" title="46 BC">
46 BC

Year 46 BC was the last year of the pre-Julian Roman calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Caesar and Lepidus.

</doc>
<doc id="15880" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15880" title="Winter storm">
Winter storm

Winter storms or snowstorms happen when warm, wet air meets with cold air. The warm, wet air mass and the cold air mass can each be 1000 km or more in diameter. Snowstorms affecting Northeastern United States often get their moisture from air moving north from the Gulf of Mexico and cold air from air masses coming down from the Arctic. In the Northwest United States warm, wet air from the Pacific Ocean cools when it is pushed upward by the mountains. Many different things can affect the direction of movement, content and temperature of air masses. All of these differences affect the type and severity of the snowstorm.
Winter storms and blizzards can make several feet of snow that blow into big drifts. Sometimes the drifts can be over ten feet tall. They could even cover a house.
Lots of popular winter storms are part of North America's history. In 1846 the Donner Party traveled away by covered wagons from Illinois headed for Sutter's Fort near Sacramento, California. As an answer of bad decisions and slow going, they tried to go across the big Sierra Nevada Mountains in the late October. Usually, California is still warm at that time of the year. As the party crossed the Sierra Nevada Mountains, they did not see any snow and was not worried.
However, after they left, a huge snowstorm hit. The party was forced to camp near Truckee, California. The snow was so deep that the wagon wheels became stuck, so they could not move anyplace. They tried to wait the storm out, but when one blizzard ended, another began immediately before they had time to escape.
Their food became short, so some of the people decided to hike out and find help rather than to starve to death. Most of them died in the freezing weather, and many of those who stayed behind in the camp survived. Of the 87 people who started in Illinois, only 47 lived.

</doc>
<doc id="15886" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15886" title="Sri Lanka">
Sri Lanka

The Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka (in Sinhala in Tamil) is a tropical island nation off the southeast coast of the Indian subcontinent. The capital of the country is Sri Jayawardanapura while the largest city is Colombo.
It was known as Ceylon before 1972, and Serendib and Sinhale, among other names, before that. It was South Asia's oldest democracy.
Sri Lanka has three main ethnic groups. They differ in their religions and origins, and there has often been difficulties between the groups. The total population of the island is over 20 million people, and rapidly expanding.
The largest of the three groups is the population of Sinhalese people, most of whom are Buddhist, and who have their own language, Sinhala. They make up about 75% of the population.
The second largest group is the Tamil people, who are Hindu. There are about 2,271,000 Tamils in Sri Lanka.
The third largest group is the Sri Lankan Moors, who are Muslim. There are over one and a half million people in this group. They use Tamil as their language today.
There are a number of smaller ethnic groups, of which the Veddas are notable because they may be the original inhabitants of the island, or at any rate the earliest to survive today. They have "indigenous people" status in the island.
The island was subject to waves of European settlement and eventually colonisation. The Portugese in the 16th and 17th centuries, the Dutch in the 17th and 18th centuries, and lastly the British from 1796 to 1948. The British, always interested in trade, developed plantations of coffee and tea. Tea was planted after a fungus destroyed the coffee plantations in 1869. The tea plantations were the basis of Sri Lankan prosperity for a hundred years. Lastly, rubber plantations were started in the early 20th century. In 1965, Ceylon became the world's leading exporter of tea, with 200,000 tonnes of tea being shipped internationally annually.
Independence from the British was got in 1948, together with Dominion status in the British Commonwealth of Nations. In 1972, Ceylon changed its name officially to the Republic of Sri Lanka, and is still a member of the Commonwealth.
In 2009 came the end of a long civil war between Sinhalese and Tamils. Since then tourism has rapidly grown as a source of foreign investment and currency.
The Sri Lanka flag is also known as the Lion flag because of the Lion on it. The Lion is holding a sword in its right paw. There is a crimson background with four leaves in each corner. There is a yellow border. On the left of the flag there are the colors green and saffron.
The lion represents bravery. The four leaves represents Karuna, Meththa, Muditha and Upeksha. The orange stripe represents the Sri Lankan Tamils and the green stripe represents the Sri Lankan Moors.
Sri Lanka has 9 provinces.

</doc>
<doc id="15887" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15887" title="Reptile">
Reptile

Reptile is the common name for one of the main groups of land vertebrates. It is not used so much by biologists, who use more accurate terms.
The name "reptile" comes from Latin and means "one who creeps". All living reptile species are cold blooded, have scaly skin, and lay cleidoic eggs. They excrete uric acid (instead of urea), and have a cloaca. A cloaca is a shared opening for the anus, urinary tract and reproductive ducts. Reptiles also share an arrangement of the heart and major blood vessels which is different from that of mammals.
Many important groups of reptiles are now extinct. The great marine reptiles of the Mesozoic era, the ichthyosaurs, plesiosaurs and mosasaurs, are extinct. We used to say the dinosaurs were extinct, but they survive in the form of their feathered descendents (birds). Ancient reptiles that do survive include the turtles, the crocodiles and the "Tuatara", the lone survivor of its group. The great majority of present-day reptiles are snakes and lizards.
The study of living reptiles is called "herpetology".
Some reptiles are more closely related to birds than they are to other reptiles. Crocodiles are more closely related to birds than they are to lizards. Theropod dinosaurs are even more closely related, because birds evolved from them.
Cladistic writers prefer a more unified (monophyletic) grouping. This puts the birds (over 10,000 species) with what people normally call reptiles. (see Sauropsida)
Reptilia is an evolutionary grade rather than a clade. The main reason is that the term 'reptile' does not include birds, the descendents of theropod dinosaurs. Another reason is that the word 'reptile' is misleading because many extinct types were very different from living reptiles.
So instead of Reptilia as a taxonomic class, today most experts use Class Sauropsida (which includes all reptiles and birds, living and extinct). Class Synapsida includes mammals and all their forebears. "Reptile" is still the usual informal term to describe living snakes and lizards. Mammals are a genuine clade, and so Mammalia is still the taxonomic term. 
Since reptiles are not monophyletic, reclassifying them is one of the key aims of researchers. Some taxonomists, such as Benton, make Sauropsida and Synapsida as class-level taxa. The two groups split in the Carboniferous, from stem-group Amniotes (the early tetrapods, which laid cleidoic eggs).
Living reptiles are "cold-blooded" (poikilothermy). This mean their physiology does not keep them at a particular temperature. Most species live in warmer climates, where they may adjust their temperature by moving in or out of the direct sunlight.

</doc>
<doc id="15890" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15890" title="Snake">
Snake

Snakes are reptiles. They are part of the order Squamata. They don't have legs, voice, ears, and eyelids. Despite this, snakes are successful carnivores. There are at least 20 families,and about 500 genera and 3,400 species.
They have a long, slender body, and are very mobile in their own way. Most of them live in the tropics. Very few snake species live beyond the Tropic of Cancer or Tropic of Capricorn, and only one species, the common viper ("Vipera berus") lives beyond the Arctic Circle. Their skin is covered with scales. They can see well enough, and they can taste scents with their tongues by flicking them in and out. They are very sensitive to vibrations in the ground.
Though they do not have a voice, they can hiss. Most snakes live on the ground, others live in the water, and a few live under the soil. Like all reptiles, snakes need the heat of the sun to control their body temperature. That is why most snakes are in the warm, humid tropical regions of the world.
They range in size from the tiny, 10.4 cm-long thread snake to the reticulated python of in length. The fossil "Titanoboa" was long.
Snakes are thought to have evolved from lizards. The earliest snake fossils are from the Lower Cretaceous. A wide range of snakes appeared during the Paleocene period ("c" 66 to 56 million years ago).
The Squamata are definitely a monophyletic group: it is a sister group to the Tuatara. Judged by their fossil record, the squamates were present in the Mesozoic, but had a minor place in the land ecology. Three of the six lines are recorded first in the Upper Jurassic, the others in the Cretaceous. Probably all, certainly the lizards, arose earlier in the Jurassic. The Mosasaurs of the Upper Cretaceous were by far the most successful of all the lizards, becoming the top predator in their ecosystem.
Although snakes and lizards look very different, "neither is a proper clade". Snakes did descend from early lizards, not once, but a number of times. 
There is a monophyletic clade within the Squamata. It is the Toxicofera. It includes all venomous snakes and lizards, and many related non-venomous species. The evidence for this is in recent molecular analyses.
The fossil of a primitive snake from the Lower Cretaceous has been found. It lived about 113 million ears ago. It had rather small front and rear legs. Several other fossil snakes have been found with small rear legs, but this is the first one with all four legs. The snake, "Tetrapodophis amplectus", lived on land and was adapted to burrowing. The researcher said there were "a lot of very advanced snake features, including its hooked teeth, flexible jaw and spine – and even snake-like scales. And there's the gut contents – it's swallowed another vertebrate. It was preying on other animals, which is a snake feature". The snake came from the Crato Formation in Brazil, and lay in a private collection for many years. It was re-discovered in a museum at Solnhofen, Bavaria. 
Most snakes are nonvenomous. Those that have venom use it mainly to kill and subdue prey rather than for self-defense. Some have venom potent enough to cause painful injury or death to humans. Nonvenomous snakes either swallow prey alive or kill by squeezing.
Two taxonomic families are entirely venomous: 
A third family with the "rear-fanged" snakes (and most of the other snake species) is the
Many snakes have skulls with more joints than their lizard ancestors. This helps them swallow prey much larger than their heads. The bones of the head and jaws can move apart to let large prey move into their body. The throat, stomach and intestines can also expand in a most extraordinary manner. In this was, a thin-looking snake can swallow and digest a larger animal.
To fit their narrow bodies, snakes' paired organs (such as kidneys) are one in front of the other instead of side by side, and most snakes have only one working lung. Some species have a pelvic girdle with a pair of vestigial claws on either side of the cloaca. This is a relic of the legs which do not appear in modern snakes.
Snakes need to shed their skin regularly while they grow. This is called moulting. Snakes shed their skin by rubbing their head against something rough and hard, like a piece of wood or a rock. This causes the skin, which is already stretched, to split open. The snake keeps on rubbing its skin on various rough objects until the skin peels off from its head. This lets it crawl out, turning the skin inside out.
All snakes eat other animals. venomous snakes inject poison by grooves in their teeth. Constrictors are not venomous, so they squeeze their prey to death. They swallow their food whole, and they cannot chew. Because they are cold-blooded, they do not have to eat so regularly as mammals. People who own pet snakes feed them as infrequently as once per month. Some snakes can go as long as six months without a good meal.
The lack of limbs does not impede the movement of snakes. They have developed several different modes of locomotion to deal with particular environments. Each mode of snake locomotion is discrete and distinct from the others.
Lateral undulation is the sole mode of aquatic locomotion, and the most common mode of terrestrial locomotion. In this mode, the body of the snake alternately flexes to the left and right, resulting in a series of rearward-moving "waves". While this movement appears rapid, snakes have rarely been documented moving faster than two body-lengths per second, often much less. This mode of movement has the same net cost of transport (calories burned per meter moved) as running in lizards of the same mass.
Terrestrial lateral undulation is the most common mode of terrestrial locomotion for most snake species. In this mode, the posteriorly moving waves push against contact points in the environment, such as rocks, twigs, irregularities in the soil, etc. Each of these environmental objects, in turn, generates a reaction force directed forward and towards the midline of the snake, resulting in forward thrust while the lateral components cancel out. The speed of this movement depends upon the density of push-points in the environment, with a medium density of about 8 along the snake's length being ideal. The wave speed is precisely the same as the snake speed, and as a result, every point on the snake's body follows the path of the point ahead of it, allowing snakes to move through very dense vegetation and small openings.
Snakes move forward in water by moving their bodies in a wave-like motion. The waves become larger as they move down the snake's body, and the wave travels backwards faster than the snake moves forwards. Thrust is got by pushing their body against the water: this results in the observed slip. In spite of overall similarities, studies show that the pattern of muscle activation is different in aquatic versus terrestrial lateral undulation, which justifies calling them separate modes. All snakes can laterally undulate forward (with backward-moving waves), but only sea snakes have been observed reversing the motion (moving backwards with forward-moving waves).
This is most often used by colubroid snakes (colubrids, elapids, and vipers). They use it when the environment lacks anything firm to push against, such as a slick mud flat, or a sand dune. Sidewinding is a modified form of lateral undulation in which all of the body segments oriented in one direction remain in contact with the ground, while the other segments are lifted up. This results in a peculiar "rolling" motion. This mode of locomotion overcomes the slippery nature of sand or mud by pushing off with only static portions on the body, thereby minimizing slipping. The static nature of the contact points can be shown from the tracks of a sidewinding snake, which show each belly scale imprint, without any smearing. This mode of locomotion has very low caloric cost, less than ⅓ of the cost for a lizard or snake to move the same distance.
When push-points are absent, but the space is too narrow for sidewinding, such as in tunnels, snakes rely on concertina locomotion. In this mode, the snake braces the back part of its body against the tunnel wall while the front of the snake extends and straightens. The front portion then flexes and forms an anchor point, and the back part is straightened and pulled forwards. This mode of locomotion is slow and very demanding, needing up to seven times the energy of laterally undulating over the same distance. This high cost is due to the repeated stops and starts of portions of the body as well as the need to use the muscles to brace against the tunnel walls.
The slowest mode of snake locomotion is rectilinear locomotion, which is also the only one where the snake does not need to bend its body laterally, though it may do so when turning. In this mode, the belly scales are lifted and pulled forward before being placed down and the body pulled over them. Waves of movement and stasis pass posteriorly, resulting in a series of ripples in the skin. The ribs of the snake do not move in this mode of locomotion and this method is most often used by large pythons, boas, and vipers when stalking prey across open ground as the snake's movements are subtle and harder to detect by their prey in this manner.
The movement of snakes in trees has only recently been studied. While on tree branches, snakes use several modes of locomotion depending on species and bark texture. In general, snakes will use a modified form of concertina locomotion on smooth branches, but will laterally undulate if contact points are available. Snakes move faster on small branches and when contact points are present, in contrast to limbed animals, which do better on large branches with little 'clutter'.
Gliding snakes ("Chrysopelea") of Southeast Asia launch themselves from branch tips, spreading their ribs and laterally undulating as they glide between trees. These snakes can perform a controlled glide for hundreds of feet depending upon launch altitude and can even turn in midair.

</doc>
<doc id="15892" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15892" title="Freddie Mercury">
Freddie Mercury

Freddie Mercury (5 September 1946 – 24 November 1991) was a British singer, songwriter and record producer, best known as the lead vocalist of the rock band Queen.
Mercury was born in Stone Town in Zanzibar in Africa. His parents were Jer and Bomi Bulsara. They were both Persian. His father worked as a cashier in the British Colonial Office, a branch of the government. Mercury had a younger sister named Kashmira. His friends at school gave him the name "Freddie." His family then began calling him Freddie, too.
At age eight, Mercury was sent to a boarding school in India. The school, St. Peters English Boarding school in Panchgani, was about 50 miles outside the city of Bombay (now called Mumbai). He began to show talent as an artist and a sportsman. At age ten, he was named the school champion of Table Tennis. When he was twelve, he received a trophy called the Junior All-rounder.
While in school he joined a choir and began to learn to play the piano. He had a four octave vocal range. To be able to reach very high notes while singing is unusual for a man.
In 1964, Mercury moved to London with his family. He studied art at Ealing Art College. While in London, he became fond of Mary Austin, a woman he met though his guitarist, Brian May. They lived together for several years before and after the band became famous. They moved into a house in London nicknamed "The Court of King Freddie". Mary still lived in that house after she and Mercury broke up.
Mercury was in love with a local barber when he died. They had been in a relationship for six years when it was learned by the media that Mercury had AIDS. One day after the news was broadcast, Mercury died of a type of pneumonia caused by AIDS, on 24 November 1991.

</doc>
<doc id="15893" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15893" title="Sun Tzu">
Sun Tzu

Sun Tzu (544 BC – 496 BC) also called Sun Wu, was an ancient Chinese general, military expert and philosopher. He is widely believed to have been the author of the most important work of military strategy and theory, "The Art of War". His name means 'Master Sun'. His family name is Sun, Tzu is an honorific (title of respect) meaning 'master'. 
Most of what we know about Sun Tzu comes from Ssu-ma Ch'ien's "Shih chi", also called the Records of the Grand Historian. According to the Grand Historian, Sun Tzu lived during the period called 'The Spring and Autumn Period of China'. This era dates from 770 BC to 476 BC.
Sun Tzu was born in the State of Qi (modern Shandong province). This is according to the Records of the Grand Historian. However, the "Spring and Autumn Annals of Wu and Yueh" claim he was born in Wu. Sun Tzu lived during the turbulent period of the late Chou dynasty. His grew up in a military family and he studied military science. Not much is known about his childhood or early life. It is known that at some point in his life he became known as a great general and a military strategist. He became a general for King Helü of Wu.
Sun Tzu won battles by not actually fighting his enemy when it wasn't necessary. He recommended spies, deception and a commander having complete control of his soldiers. When he did fight, he understood warfare better than most of his opponents. Sun Tzu learned to win battles with the least loss of his own men.
Many historians believe he was the victor at the Battle of Boju in 506 BC. The great historian Sima Qian (145/135–86 BC), author of "Shiji" (Historical Record), called Sun Tzu an exceptional strategic battlefield commander. He also said Sun Tzu was both flexible and had unlimited surprises for his enemies. Sima Qian wrote that in his nearly 40-years as a general, Sun Tzu never lost a battle, a campaign or a war.
The Art of War was one of the earliest books on Chinese warfare. It remains one of the best known and most influential books ever written. The book was widely copied in the ancient world. An early copy was discovered in 1972. It was written on bamboo slats that were sewn together. It became known in the western world during the late 18th century. It wasn't translated into English until the 20th century.
At that time the rules for warfare were based on chivalry. War was the sport of rich noblemen. Sun Tzu refused to see war as a sport. He used Taoist principles and applied them to warfare. In doing this he changed the rules of war. Unlike generals who enjoyed long campaigns, he understood war was was serious. Sun Tzu believed that once a war started, the goal was to defeat the enemy. Sun Tzu was unconventional in that he didn't follow the prevailing wisdom of his time. Other generals were simply unprepared for Sun Tzu's tactics.
For at least the last two thousand years, Sun Tzu has had a tremendous influence on military thinking. The Art of War is credited by Mao Zedong as having helped him defeat Chiang Kai-Shek in the Chinese Civil War. Ho Chi Minh was a fan of Sun Tzu. He led the Communist Vietnamese in their fight against American-backed South Vietnam. American generals Norman Schwarzkopf, Jr. and Colin Powell followed principals in the Art of War in the Gulf War.
<br>

</doc>
<doc id="15897" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15897" title="Western world">
Western world

"Western world" has meant various things at various times. During the Roman Empire it meant Italy and the countries west of there. At other times it has meant Western Europe or Europe or Christendom. During the Cold War it sometimes meant the democratic countries or those allied with the various NATO powers. Today it often means the places where most people speak European languages. 

</doc>
<doc id="15901" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15901" title="Mouse">
Mouse

A mouse (plural "mice") is a rodent, which is a kind of mammal. 
It has a pointed snout, small rounded ears, a body-length scaly tail and a high breeding rate. The best known mouse species is the common house mouse ("Mus musculus"). It is also a popular pet. In some places, certain kinds of field mice are also common. They are known to invade homes for food and occasionally shelter.
These small animals are often used in science experiments, or sometimes kept as pets. Some mice carry diseases. This causes some people to think of mice as vermin or pests. Many other people think mice are cute and fun animals. 
Mice are rodents, therefore they are related to squirrels, rats, and beavers. Mice eat weeds, seeds, berries, and more. They are eaten by owls, foxes, and cats, amongst others.
The word "mouse" should only be used for small murines, but does get used for other distantly-related small rodents. The murines are the largest subfamily of mammals. In fact, it is larger than almost all mammal orders.
The common house mouse is thought of as a pest. They are found in the homes of humans.
Voles are "not" mice, they are in a different family of rodents. 
These are not mice either, or only distantly related. These mice live in forests. They can run and jump better than mice, and they get their common name from this.
The aggressive "grasshopper mouse" rarely eats other mice, but it does like grasshoppers and insects. It is also only a distant relative.
Two mice found in popular culture are Disney characters: Mickey and Minnie Mouse. Though they are mice, they can walk, talk, and act like people.
Chuck E. Cheese is another famous mouse. He is the mascot of Chuck E. Cheese's pizza restaurants.

</doc>
<doc id="15902" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15902" title="Advance Wars">
Advance Wars

Advance Wars is a video game for the Game Boy Advance. It is based on earlier games for Nintendo systems such as the Famicom and Game Boy. It is a strategy game: players must think of ways to win.
The game can be played with two, three, or four players at a time. Each player takes turns controlling their military-style playing pieces, called "units." Every unit can move along the playing field, which is split up into squares. The amount of squares a unit can move in one turn is different for each unit.
Most units can attack other units. Each unit has its own strength and defense. Strength is how much damage the unit can do to another unit. Defense is how much damage it can avoid taking whenever it is attacked. For example, the tank unit has more defense than the soldier, so even though the helicopter always has the same amount of attacking power, it can do more damage to the soldier than the tank.

</doc>
<doc id="15905" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15905" title="Solomon Islands">
Solomon Islands

The Solomon Islands are a group of islands in the South Pacific. They are known for their beauty and for the many languages spoken there. The capital of the Solomon Islands is Honiara.
The country is divided into nine provinces and the town of Honiara.

</doc>
<doc id="15908" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15908" title="Intestine">
Intestine

The intestines of an animal are like a hollow tube so that food and bile from the stomach can reach the small intestine and large intestine. 
The first part of the small intestine is called the duodenum. It is where most of the food is broken down by enzymes. Further on, the small intestine absorbs useful compounds from the digested food. It does this through small villi or tiny microvilli. These are very small, hair-like structures in the walls of the intestine. 
The large intestine is also called the bowel. It absorbs water, and any nutrients still remaining. It also absorbs vitamins made by the gut flora in the colon. Finally it expels waste through the anus.

</doc>
<doc id="15909" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15909" title="Chemical equation">
Chemical equation

A chemical equation is a way to predict the way that two or more chemicals will work together. Using what chemists know about the way chemicals act, we add the letter symbols together just like a math problem. In this way we can correctly guess if we will get a new chemical when we mix two or more chemicals together, and what that chemical will be.
Chemical equations are either worded or written using the elements' symbols, how much of the element and in what state (solid[s], liquid[l], gas[g]) it is in.
For example: An aqueous solution of sodium chloride (NaCl[aq]) and another aqueous solution of silver nitrate (AgNO[aq]). These mixed together form sodium nitrate (NaNO[aq]) and silver chloride (AgCl[s])
Which in symbols is:
NaCl(aq) + AgNO(aq) → NaNO(aq) + AgCl(s)
The solutions formed the solid AgCl. This formation can be called a precipitate and the reaction between the two solutions a precipitation reaction, because the solid produced is not dissolved, whereas all the other products are dissolved.
Chemical equations need to be balanced to satisfy the law of conservation of matter. Chemical equations tell that in a closed system matter is neither make nor damage. The chemical equation needs to be balanced so that it follows the law of conservation of mass. A balanced chemical equation happens when the number of the different atoms of elements on the reactants side is equal to that of the products side. 
Balancing chemical equations is a process of trial and error. To balance the equation, the amounts of the reactants and products must be changed. As necessary, by adding coefficients in front of the appropriate formulas. When balancing an equation, never change the subscripts, because that changes the substance. To determine the number of atoms of each element, the coefficient is multiplied times the subscripts in each formula.
A chemical equation is a written symbolic representation of a chemical reaction. The reactant chemicals are given on the left-hand side and the product chemical on the right-hand side. The law of conservation of mass says that no atoms cannot be made in a chemical reaction. Also, it cannot be destroyed. So the number of atoms that are present in the reactants has to balance the number of atoms that are present in the reaction. 
There are two practices of balancing a chemical equation. The first one is balancing by Inspection. Balancing by inspection is the most basic method used. It works best for simple problems. More complicated ones require experience. The second one is Balancing by Numerical Method. The most important parts of the numerical methotrexate, contrary to the inspection method, it gives the answer. If the reaction can be balanced, coefficients can be seen. If the reaction can't be balanced, it means that there are more unidentified than independent statements, or that statements are opposite. With inspection method, it won't prove that the equation can't be balanced.

</doc>
<doc id="15925" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15925" title="Lucifer">
Lucifer

Lucifer is another name for "Satan". This is because people interpret a passage in the Book of Isaiah of the Bible in a certain way. Lucifer is Latin. It is made of two parts, "lux-lucis" (light) and "ferre" (to bring).
There are two mentions of "Lucifer" in the Latin Vulgate. It is used to refer to the morning star, the planet Venus that appears at dawn: once in to translate the Greek word "Φωσφόρος" (Phosphoros), which has exactly the same literal meaning of "Light-Bringer" that "Lucifer" has in Latin; and once in to translate "הילל" (Hêlēl), which also means "Morning Star".
"Lucifer" is the Latin name for the "Morning Star", both in prose and poetry, as seen in works by Marcus Terentius Varro (116–27 BC), Cicero (106-43 BC) and other early Latin writers
Cicero wrote:
And Pliny the Elder:
Poets also used the word "Lucifer". Ovid has at least eleven mentions of the Morning Star in his poetry. Virgil wrote: 
And Statius:
Lucifer is very evil in the Christian religion. He is also the symbol for not obeying. Lucifer is believed by some to be Satan's name when he was still an angel, but it is Latin for 'light bringer' and not originally in the Bible. 
The word "Lucifer" was also used in Latin to mean the "morningstar", the planet Venus, and this word was used in the Latin version of Isaiah 14, where the Hebrew version was speaking to a king of Babylonia. 
The reason people came to think this was a name of Satan has been argued about for many years. Some people think that it is a misnomer, or a wrongly given name. Others believe that he was the best out of all the angels before he rebelled against God.
There is no Lucifer in Hebrew. The Jewish scholars do not know who this Lucifer that was put in the KJV. It should not be used since this statement in Isaiah 14:12. Thus Lucifer is not an evil character in the Bible. That is just misinformation.

</doc>
<doc id="15927" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15927" title="Astrobiology">
Astrobiology

Astrobiology is the study of life in outer space. The field of astrobiology looks for conditions necessary for life, like liquid water, a good temperature, or the presence of oxygen.
Some possible places to find life in the solar system are Europa and Ganymede, moons of Jupiter, or Titan and Enceladus, moons of Saturn. These places may have liquid water. They are may be too cold to support life on their surfaces, but if they have liquid water, the water must be warm enough to support life. Astrobiologists suggest that there may be a liquid water ocean under its surface.

</doc>
<doc id="15933" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15933" title="Castle">
Castle

A castle (from the Latin word "castellum") is a fortified structure made in Europe and the Middle East during the Middle Ages. People argue about what the word "castle" means. However, it usually means a private structure of a lord or noble. This is different from a fortress, which is not a home, and from a fortified town, which was a public defence. For about 900 years that castles were built they had many different shapes and different details.
Castles began in Europe in the 9th and 10th centuries. They controlled the places surrounding them, and could both help in attacking and defending. Weapons could be fired from castles, or people could be protected from enemies in castles. However, castles were also a symbol of power. They could be used to control the people and roads around it.
Many castles were built with earth and wood at first often using manual labour, and then had their defences replaced by stone instead. Early castles often used nature for protection, and did not have towers. By the late 12th and early 13th centuries, though, castles became longer and more complex.
Europe began using gunpowder in the 14th century. It did not stop castle building at first. But by the 15th century, shots became powerful enough to break through stone walls. Castles were still built, but new ways to protect castles from cannons and guns made them uncomfortable places to live in. Because of this, people stopped building true castles. Instead, country houses or military forts were built. From the 18th century, people began building castles again from new interest in Gothic architecture, but they were not used for fighting.
The word "castle" comes from the Latin word "castellum", which is a diminutive of the word "castrum", meaning "fortified place". The Old English "castel", French "château", Spanish "castillo", Italian "castello", and many other words in other languages also come from "castellum". The word castle became a part of the English language soon after the Norman Conquest to describe this new type of building. However, though these words all came from the same basic meaning, they can describe different types of structures. For example, the French "château" can simply be used to describe a great country house in the middle of an estate.
A castle is seen by most to be "a private fortified residence" (place to stay). This makes it different from earlier fortifications, such as walled cities like Constantinople and Antioch in the Middle East. Castles were not made to protect the community. They were built and owned by lords, either for themselves or for their ruler.
A castle's main defense was a wall. A wall was used to block the offensive side from breaking into a castle. The rooms inside the castle sometimes had small holes, or slits, cut in the walls, so the soldiers could fire out through them without being hit. These were called arrowloops. The way a person or thing got into a castle was through a gate. A gate was a mostly wooden structure with a heavy metal gate behind it. This was used for two purposes: to let allies in or out, and to keep enemies out. If an attack did get past a gate, missiles and other objects would be dropped through holes (called murder holes) in the upper part of the gate. The gate was also one of the most protected parts of a castle. 
Some castles also had moats which were water filled ditches encircling the whole castle where the only way in was over a drawbridge which was a heavy wooden door that could be pulled up by chains to protect the main gate and let down to act as a bridge over the moat to allow access to the castle. You could also pour oil that was hot down a hole.
The soldiers attacking the castle sometimes tried to knock down the castle walls, or dig under them. A siege was when the attackers just sat outside and waited. When the people inside were starving they had to give up and come out, which is called surrender. A siege could go on for months, if the castle had plenty of food and water.
Castles were built for defense until about 500 years ago, at the end of the Middle Ages. After that people still built very big stone buildings. They looked like castles, but they had bigger windows and more fireplaces and were much more comfortable. Really they were just great big houses. When castles were built to be homes instead of fortresses, the word 'Castle' was often put at the front of the name. One example is Castle Oliver in Ireland. This had 215 windows and 65 chimneys, as well as dozens of bedrooms. It was built about 150 years ago. It is very light and bright inside, because it was built to have parties, not to keep out soldiers.
Many castles are very beautiful and are public. Sometimes you can see furniture and clothes, armour, musical instruments, carpets, cannon and other weapons that once belonged to the people who lived there. Some castles have legends of ghosts. Some had very famous owners, like mad King Ludwig of Bavaria. Some, only a very few, are still lived in by the families who built them. Many others have become hotels or museums.
Castles seem romantic and mysterious to us now, but they were cold, dark places to live, often damp. Because the walls were so thick, sometimes 12 feet (4 metres) or more, they never got warm. Their windows also had no glass in them. Castles might have been safe, but they weren't very comfortable.

</doc>
<doc id="15935" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15935" title="Wikimedia Commons">
Wikimedia Commons

Wikimedia Commons is a website owned by the Wikimedia Foundation, based on a wiki. Anybody can upload images, sounds, videos, and other multimedia files to the website. The files uploaded to Wikimedia Commons can be used by any other Wikimedia Foundation project, like Wikipedia or Wiktionary. For example, Wikipedia uses images on Wikimedia Commons to include pictures in their encyclopedia articles.
Other websites based on wikis can also use files from Wikimedia Commons, even if they are unrelated to the Wikimedia Foundation.
Wikimedia Commons has categories, which are groups of files that have something in common or similar. For example, there is a category for pictures of cats. Wikimedia Commons is a multilingual website, meaning that it can be used in every language. However, some parts of Wikimedia Commons are only in English, like names of categories.
Wikimedia Commons also has sound files. Not all of these are music. For example, there are recordings that read words out loud. These files are used in Wiktionary, a free dictionary, to teach people how to say words. 
For every file on Wikimedia Commons, the person who made it has to let everybody use it and change it as much as they want, including companies (see Creative Commons). Many files are public domain but others must not be used without the permission of the people who made them, because that would break copyright laws.
Wikimedia Commons reached 10 million files on April 15, 2011.
The Wikimedia Foundation was given money to make it easier for people to use their websites. They used some of this money to make the UploadWizard, a new system for uploading files on Wikimedia Commons. People started using the UploadWizard in December 2010. 
The UploadWizard also teaches new uploaders about copyright law. It has a tutorial for users to read so that they can check if the file they are uploading is violating copyright.
Right now, the UploadWizard is not being used by everybody. Only a few people who want to try it are using it. But in the future everybody will use the UploadWizard.
Before, Wikimedia Commons only let people upload one file at a time. The UploadWizard lets people upload multiple files at the same time and include all the required information about each one.
The logo of Wikimedia Commons has a red circle inside a blue circle. There are many small blue arrows pointing from the blue circle to the red circle in the middle, and one big blue arrow pointing upwards. The small blue arrows represent the different projects of the Wikimedia Foundation. The large arrow is to show that Wikimedia Commons is constantly improving.
This logo was chosen in a vote in 2004.

</doc>
<doc id="15937" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15937" title="Bulgaria">
Bulgaria

Bulgaria (officially called the Republic of Bulgaria) is a country in southeastern Europe.
The capital and the biggest city is Sofia. Their money is called the lev. The Bulgarian government is a member of the European Union and NATO. The current president is Rosen Plevneliev. The population of Bulgaria is a little more than 7 million people.
Bulgaria has its own language, called Bulgarian. It is a type of Slavic language. It is related to languages like Serbian and Russian. Bulgaria became independent in 1908 from the Ottoman Empire. Bulgaria borders Romania, Serbia, the Republic of Macedonia, Greece, Turkey, and the Black Sea.
One of the national heroes of Bulgaria is Vasil Levski who led the fight for independence in the late 1800s. Bulgaria is an ancient country, some places have had people living there for over 6,000 years.
In what is now Bulgaria, many different people and different cultures lived over time. This includes Neolithic, Hamangia culture, Vinča culture, eneolithic, Varna culture (5th millennium BC) and the Bronze Age Ezero culture. The Thracians lived in the area of modern Bulgaria. King Tere united the people in Odrysian kingdom around 500 BC. Alexander the Great had influence over the people on the 4th century and later by the Roman Empire during the time of Christ. Eurasian Avars, South Slavs and Huns settled all over the territory of modern Bulgaria during the 6th century.
The first Bulgarian empire was established in 681 AD. But the first Bulgarian Empire came to fall under the pressure of the Byzantine Empire (se also Battle of Kleidion). The second Bulgarian empire started about 1185 AD, with Turnovo as the capital. But it only lasted about 70 years and there was too much fighting with their neighbors and with themselves. After a while the country separated into three parts. Then the Ottoman empire took over in 1396, and ruled Bulgaria for about 500 years. The Ottomans had very strict rules and the Bulgarians suffered. The Bulgarians rebelled several times against the Turkish rulers but did not win. After the first Balkan war (1876), Bulgaria pulled away from Ottoman Empire's influence with the help of the Russian Empire who were already fighting the Ottomans. But it was not until 1908 that the whole country of Bulgaria was united as modern Bulgaria.
Bulgaria joined the side of Germany in World War I and lost.
During the first year of World War II Bulgaria said it was neutral and refused to join sides with Germany, Balkan or the Soviet Union. But the increased tension in the war made the leaders sign the three-powers pact with Germany in March 1941. This let German forces to go through Bulgaria to reach Greece. But Bulgaria did not follow Hitler's wishes. Bulgaria's troops refuse to participate in the military coups and also refused to send Jews to concentration camps in the Holocaust. This made Adolf Hitler very suspicious, and the king of Bulgaria, Tsar Boris III, died one day after talking to Hitler.
In 1944 when it became clear that the Allied Powers will win the war, Bulgaria had to find another solution. Their leaders declared that they withdrew from the Axis forces and they let the Soviets come in. But the Soviet Union didn't respect Bulgaria's wish to be neutral. They replaced the royal monarchy with Communism in 1947 before they withdrew from Bulgaria. For 40 years, under their leader Todor Zhivkov, Bulgaria was very close to the Soviet Union and followed their instructions.
Shortly after the fall of the Berlin Wall, on 10 November 1989, the Communist party gave up their rule and allowed the country to elect leaders of their own choice. But in a few years Bulgaria had serious money problems under the new socialist government. Since that time Bulgaria has recovered in many ways, and is much more stable. But it is still one of the poorest countries in Europe. Problems in the administration, a weak court system and organized crime are the biggest issues for Bulgaria.
Bulgaria's economy was dependent on the COMECON market. This was a group of communist countries (Soviet Union, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, and Romania) that agreed to work together. This group fell apart in 1989 with the fall of communism in Europe. While this was good for personal freedom, it was too much of a change for the businesses and jobs. Also Yugoslavia, their neighbor, fell into a civil war as their country broke apart, and that did not help Bulgaria. Living standards fell by 40 percent as people lost their jobs and their savings were not worth much, and even some newborn babies were sent to orphanages when their parents could not take care of them.
In 1994 Bulgaria had a short economic boom. But that slowed down in 1996 from bad finance deals and other banking problems. In 1997 there was high inflation (the money could not buy as much as it did before). Retired people had little income (their pension did not go up as fast as inflation did) and their savings were not worth very much. Many retired people were begging in the streets for food. But since then the economy has grown steadily. People from outside the country started putting money into businesses and houses, and Bulgarians learned how to make their own businesses.
Today Bulgaria has Europe's lowest income and corporate tax, 10 percent for both individuals and businesses. This makes Bulgaria a very good place for business. Bulgaria also has skilled and educated workers. The average monthly salary in Bulgaria is still cheap at 400 euro or $541 USD.
The state no longer has free health care. This system has been replaced by an insurance plan that people pay for, and drug costs are based on income. Private health care is encouraged nowadays. Help for people who lose their jobs is no longer automatic, but some help is available, based on family status and length of unemployment.
The retirement age for men is 63 years and for women 60 years.
Since 1999, Bulgaria has been divided into 28 provinces or regions. Each province is named after its local capital. The provinces are divided into municipalities, there are 264 in total.
There are 6 Bulgarian development regions of 27 smaller provinces. See List of settlements in Bulgaria for a list of all large locations.
In Bulgaria there are 5,664,624 citizens of Bulgarians, 1,200,000 citizens of Turks and 800,000 Citizens of Roma/Gypsies.
Bulgaria is classified as an development country by the EU.

</doc>
<doc id="15938" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15938" title="Alps">
Alps

The Alps is the greatest mountain range of Europe. It reaches from Austria and Slovenia in the east; through Italy, Switzerland, Liechtenstein and Germany; to France in the west. The original meaning of the word was 'white'.
The highest mountain in the Alps is Mont Blanc, at , on the Italian–French border.
The Alps stretch from Austria and Slovenia in the east, through Italy, Switzerland, Liechtenstein and Germany to France in the west.
The mountains are divided into the Western Alps and the Eastern Alps. The division is along the line between Lake Constance and Lake Como, following the Rhine. The Western Alps are higher, but their central chain is shorter and curved; they are located in Italy, France and Switzerland. 
The Eastern Alps (main ridge system elongated and broad) belong to Austria, Germany, Italy, Liechtenstein, Slovenia and Switzerland. The highest peaks of the Western Alps are Mont Blanc, 4,808 metres (15,774 ft), Mont Blanc de Courmayeur 4,748 metres (15,577 ft), the Dufourspitze 4,634 metres (15,203 ft) and the other summits of the Monte Rosa group, and the Dom, 4,545 metres (14,911 ft). The highest peak in the Eastern Alps is Piz Bernina, 4,049 metres (13,284 ft). Perhaps the most famous location for tourist to the Alps are the Swiss Alps.
The main chain of the Alps follows the watershed from the Mediterranean Sea to the Wienerwald, defining the northern border of Italy. It then passes over many of the highest and most famous peaks in the Alps. From the Colle di Cadibona to Col de Tende it runs to the west before turning to the northwest and then, to the north, near the Colle della Maddalena. Upon reaching the Swiss border, the line of the main chain goes about northeast, a heading it follows until its end near Vienna.
The Alps do not make an impassable block; they have been traveled by for war and commerce, and later by pilgrims, students and tourists. Crossing places by road, train or foot are called "passes". These are depressions in the mountains into which a valley leads from the plains and hilly pre-mountainous places.
The Union Internationale des Associations d'Alpinisme (UIAA) has defined a list of 82 "official" Alpine 4,000-meter (13,123 ft) peaks. The list has many sub-peaks with little prominence, but good for mountaineering. Here are the twelve four-thousanders with at least 1 km prominence.
Karl Blodig was the first person to climb all the main four-thousand meter peaks, round 1900.
The reason mountains form is usually the moving together of continental plates of the Earth's crust. The Alps rose as a result of the slow but gigantic pressure of the African plate as it moved north against the stable Eurasian landmass.
This all took place in the Tertiary period, mostly in the Miocene and Pliocene. That's about 35 to 5 million years ago.
The Alps are just a part of a larger orogenic belt of mountain chains, called the Alpide belt. It reaches through southern Europe and Asia from the Atlantic Ocean most of the way to the Himalayas. 
A gap in these mountain chains in central Europe separates the Alps from the Carpathians off to the east. Subsidence is the cause of the gaps in between.
A great and ancient ocean was once between Africa and Europe, the Tethys Ocean. Now sediments of the Tethys Ocean basin and its Mesozoic and early Cenozoic strata sit high above sea level. Even metamorphic basement rocks are found high on Mont Blanc, the Matterhorn, and other high peaks in the Pennine Alps and Hohe Tauern.
The formation of the Mediterranean Sea is a more recent development.
The Alps are popular both in summer and in winter. The Alps as a place for sightseeing and sports. Winter sports (Alpine and Nordic skiing, snowboarding, tobogganing, snowshoeing, ski tours) can be learned in most regions from December to April. In summer, the Alps are popular with hikers, mountain bikers, paragliders, and mountaineers. There are also alpine lakes which attract swimmers, sailors and surfers. The lower places and bigger towns of the Alps are well served by motorways and main roads, but higher passes and by-roads can be bad even in the summer. Many passes are closed in winter. Many airports around the Alps (and some within), as well as long-distance rail links from all bordering countries, afford large numbers of travelers easy access from abroad. The Alps normally has more than 100 million visitors a year.
The Alps is split into five climate zones, each with a different kind of environment. The climate, plant life and animal life vary on different sections or zones of the mountain. 
The Alps is a classic example of what happens when a temperate area at lower altitude gives way to higher land. A rise from sea level into the upper regions causes the temperature to decrease. The effect of mountain chains on winds is to carry warm air belonging to the lower region into an upper zone, where it expands and loses heat, and drops snow or rain.
The typical trees—oak, beech, ash and sycamore maple have a natural height limit: the 'tree line'. Their upper limit matches the change in climate which comes with increasing height. The change from a temperate to a colder climate is also shown true by a change in the wild flowering plant life. This limit normally lies about above the sea on the north side of the Alps. On the southern slopes, it often reaches to , sometimes even to .
The Alps do not always have the typical trees. People have felled them in many places. Except for the beech forests of the Austrian Alps, forests of the typical deciduous trees are hardly found. Where such woods were, Scots pine and Norway spruce now grow. These trees are less sensitive to the attacks of goats who eat the saplings of deciduous trees.
Above the tree line, there is often a band of dwarf pine trees ("Pinus mugo"), which is taking place of dwarf shrubs. These shrubs are "Rhododendron ferrugineum" (on acid soils) or "Rhododendron hirsutum" (on non-acid soils). 
Above this is the alpine meadow. Above the alpine meadow is where plant life becomes less and less common. At these great heights, the plants are likely to make separate groups. In the Alps, many species of flowering plants have been recorded above . These are like "Ranunculus glacialis", "Androsace alpina" and "Saxifraga biflora".
Species common to the Alps. 

</doc>
<doc id="15939" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15939" title="Rwanda">
Rwanda

Rwanda is a country in Africa. It is near Burundi, Congo-Kinshasa, Uganda, and Tanzania. The official language is Kinyarwanda. The country has three ethnic groups (though there is debate about whether or not these groups really are tribes): Bahutu, Batutsi and Batwa. It is now known mostly because it is the place where the most efficient genocide in history happened.
During the Scramble for Africa, Belgium conquered Rwanda. The Belgians then began to divide Rwandans into groups: Bahutu, and Batutsi. The Belgians picked people that they thought looked more European to be abatutsi. The rest became abahutu. The Belgians told Rwandans that Batutsi were superior to Bahutu. They allowed Batutsi to rule over Bahutu.
On July 1, 1962, Rwanda became independent and Bahutu were given power. Thus, anti-Tutsi purges occurred frequently. Many abatutsi fled to Uganda, where they formed the Rwandan Patriotic Front, or RPF, which tried to invade Rwanda in 1990.
On the night of April 6, 1994, dictator Juvénal Habyarimana's plane was shot down, but it is still not clear who did it. Within half an hour, roadblocks manned by the Interahamwe militia were seen all over the capital, Kigali. The Rwandan Genocide had begun. It lasted for about 100 days, and it left over one million, (1,000,000), Tutsi and moderate Hutu dead. The main weapon used was the machete, or "umupanga". Other countries paid little attention to the killing. On July 2, 1994, the RPF captured Kigali. The other countries let the Rwandans sort out their own problems because they didn't care.
There are five provinces in Rwanda. These are Northern Province, Southern Province, Eastern Province, Western Province, and the Municipality of Kigali in the centre.
This is a list of cities in Rwanda
At , Rwanda is the world's 149th-largest country. The entire country is at a high altitude. The lowest point is the Rusizi River at above sea level. Rwanda is in Central/Eastern Africa. It is bordered by the Democratic Republic of the Congo to the west, Uganda to the north, Tanzania to the east, and Burundi to the south. It is a few degrees south of the equator and is landlocked. The capital, Kigali, is near the centre of Rwanda.
The country's longest river is the Nyabarongo. The Nyabarongo-Kagera eventually drains into Lake Victoria. Rwanda has many lakes, the largest being Lake Kivu. It is one of the twenty deepest lakes in the world. Other sizeable lakes include Burera, Ruhondo, Muhazi, Rweru, and Ihema. Ihema is the largest of a string of lakes in the eastern plains of Akagera National Park.
There are many mountains in central and western Rwanda. The highest peaks are found in the Virunga volcano chain in the northwest. This includes Mount Karisimbi, Rwanda's highest point, at . The centre of the country is mostly rolling hills. The eastern border area has savanna, plains and swamps.
Rwanda has a temperate tropical highland climate. It has lower temperatures than are typical for equatorial countries. This is because of its high elevation. Kigali, in the centre of the country, has a typical daily temperature range between and . There is little change through the year. There are two rainy seasons in the year. The first runs from February to June and the second from September to December. These are separated by two dry seasons. The major one is from June to September, during which there is often no rain at all. There is a shorter and less severe one from December to February.
In prehistoric times montane forest occupied covered one third of the land of present-day Rwanda. Naturally occurring vegetation is now mostly in the three National Parks, with terraced agriculture in the rest of the country. Nyungwe, the largest remaining forest, has 200 species of tree as well as orchids and begonias. Vegetation in the Volcanoes National Park is mostly bamboo and moorland, with small areas of forest. Akagera has a savanna ecosystem. Here there are mostly acacia. There are several rare or endangered plant species in Akagera, including "Markhamia lutea" and "Eulophia guineensis".
The greatest diversity of large mammals is found in the three National Parks. Akagera has typical savanna animals such as giraffes and elephants, while Volcanoes is home to about one third of the worldwide mountain gorilla population. Nyungwe Forest has thirteen primate species including chimpanzees and Ruwenzori colobus arboreal monkeys. The Ruwenzori colobus move in groups of up to 400, the largest troop size of any primate in Africa.
There are 670 bird species in Rwanda. There is a difference between the east and the west. Nyungwe Forest, in the west, has 280 recorded species. Species include the Ruwenzori Turaco and Handsome Francolin. Eastern Rwanda, by contrast, has savanna birds such as the Black-headed Gonolek and those who live near swamps and lakes, including storks and cranes.

</doc>
<doc id="15940" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15940" title="Lake Ontario">
Lake Ontario

Lake Ontario is the smallest of the Great Lakes in North America. 
It is found on the border between Canada and the United States of America. Its inlet is the Niagara River (from Niagara Falls), and its outlet is the Saint Lawrence River. Nearly 9 million Canadians live near Lake Ontario. It is also the only Great Lake that does not touch the U.S. state of Michigan, the "Great Lakes State".

</doc>
<doc id="15941" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15941" title="Lake Superior">
Lake Superior

Lake Superior is a lake in Canada and the United States. 
The Ojibwe Native Americans call it Gitchigume. Lake Superior is in between Ontario and Minnesota to the north and Wisconsin and Michigan in the south, and is the largest of North America's Great Lakes. It is the world's third largest lake, and the world's largest freshwater lake (by area).
Over 80 species of fish live in Lake Superior.

</doc>
<doc id="15942" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15942" title="SS Edmund Fitzgerald">
SS Edmund Fitzgerald

SS "Edmund Fitzgerald" was a freight ship on Lake Superior, carrying iron ore, which suddenly sank on November 10, 1975 at around 7:30 PM. Nobody knows why the boat actually sunk. All 29 men aboard the boat died. The people who were on the boat were remembered by their families and in a song called "The Wreck of the Edmund Fitzgerald" by Canadian singer Gordon Lightfoot. 

</doc>
<doc id="15944" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15944" title="Gordon Lightfoot">
Gordon Lightfoot

Gordon Meredith Lightfoot, Jr. CC, born November 17, 1938, is a Canadian singer and songwriter. He is famous around the World for his folk, country, and pop music songs. He was first heard in the 1960s and had hit radio songs in the 1970s such as: ""If You Could Read My Mind"", ""Sundown"", ""Carefree Highway"', ""Rainy Day People"" and ""The Wreck of the Edmund Fitzgerald".
Some of his songs have been recorded by other famous singers including: Elvis Presley, Johnny Cash, Marty Robbins, Jerry Lee Lewis, Barbra Streisand and Tony Rice
Robbie Robertson of the Canadian music group called The Band said Gordon Lightfoot was his "favourite Canadian songwriters."
Gordon Lightfoot's music career has lasted almost fifty years and he has recorded more than 200 songs. His folk music of the 1960s and 1970s influenced many famous singers including Bob Dylan and Jim Croce. Like Robertson, Bob Dylan called Lightfoot one of his favourite songwriters.
In his career Gordon Lightfoot has received sixteen Juno Awards. He won Junos as ""top folk singer"" in 1965, 1966, 1968, 1969, 1973, 1974, 1975, 1976 and 1977. He won a Juno as ""top male vocalist"" in 1967, 1970, 1971, 1972 and 1973 And he won in 1972 and 1976 for being ""composer of the year."" He received ASCAP awards for songwriting in 1971, 1974, 1976 and 1977. And he has been nominated for five Grammy Awards. In 1980 Gordon Lightfoot was named ""Canadian Male Recording Artist of the Decade"" for his music of the 1970s.
Gordon Lightfoot was inducted into the Canadian Music Hall of Fame in 1986 and he was added to Canada's Walk of Fame in 1998. He was inducted into the Canadian Country Music Hall Of Fame in 2001.
In May 2003 he was made a Companion of the Order of Canada which is one of Canada's highest awards.

</doc>
<doc id="15949" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15949" title="Cornish">
Cornish

Cornish might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="15957" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15957" title="Chameleon">
Chameleon

Chameleons are a family of lizards. Most can change the colour of their skins for camouflage, or to signal mood to other chameleons. 
They are a distinct clade of lizards. They have parrot-like zygodactylous feet, separately mobile and stereoscopic eyes, very long tongues they can flick out, a swaying gait, their prehensile tail, crests or horns on their strange-shaped heads, and many can change colour. 
There are about 160 species, living in Africa, Madagascar, Spain and Portugal, across south Asia, Sri Lanka. They have been introduced to Hawaii, California and Florida, and are found in warm habitats that vary from rain forest to desert conditions. Chameleons are often kept as household pets.
Chameleons have long sticky tongues that they can fire out in a fraction of a second. They stretch up to twice their body size. Their eyes can move independently. The largest species is about 1.5 feet when fully grown. They are mainly insectivores, but they do take occasional smaller lizards.
The world's tiniest chameleon has been found on Madagascar. At 2.9 cm, it is one of the world's smallest lizards.
Genetic analysis proved there are four different species of this tiny animal.

</doc>
<doc id="15961" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15961" title="Interjection">
Interjection

An interjection is a spoken or written expression of emotion like "Wow!" for surprise, "Ouch!" for pain, or "Argh!" for frustration. These phrases can stand alone, and are usually capitalized and punctuated.

</doc>
<doc id="15962" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15962" title="Millard Fillmore">
Millard Fillmore

Millard Fillmore (January 7, 1800 – March 8, 1874) was the 13th President of the United States. He was President from 1850 to 1853. He was the last Whig President, and the last President who was not a Democratic or Republican.
Fillmore became president in 1850 when the previous president, Zachary Taylor, died. The Whig party did not pick him to run for president in 1852. He ran for president in 1856 for the American Party, but lost.
Millard Fillmore grew up in a poor family. He worked hard to do well in school, and went to college. He got a job as a lawyer in 1823. In 1828 he was voted to be part of the New York congress, and made friends in the Whig Party. This helped him get chosen to run for vice president in 1848.
When he was vice president, Millard Fillmore was in charge of the United States Senate while it was fighting over a decision about slavery involving Texas and New Mexico.
When he became president, the slavery issue was very intense (to the point where the southern states were close to choosing to not be a part of the United States anymore).
Fillmore signed the Compromise of 1850 (five laws which would calm down the slavery issue by pleasing both the northern states and the southern states). Although, the Compromise of 1850 made the northern states and the southern states get along, the peace did not last forever. In the late 1850's the north and the south stopped getting along.
California was made a part of the U.S. on September 9, 1850. It became the 31st state.
His decision to sign the Compromise of 1850 made many of the people in his Whig Party upset at him. They stopped him from running for president in 1852.
He started the first library at the White House.
After Fillmore, Franklin Pierce became the 14th president. Fillmore got a job in charge of the University of Buffalo. Fillmore joined the Know Nothing Party and tried to run for president again, but the Know Nothing Party was not very successful.
There is a statue of Millard Fillmore at City Hall in Buffalo, New York.

</doc>
<doc id="15963" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15963" title="John Tyler">
John Tyler

John Tyler (March 29, 1790 – January 18, 1862) was the 10th President of the United States of America, from 1841 to 1845. He was the first vice president to become president after the president before him died. He was also the first President born after the United States Constitution was ratified.
Tyler grew up in Virginia and became a lawyer. His father was also a lawyer who later became governor of Virginia. Tyler became a state representative in the United States Congress, and then also became governor of Virginia like his father.
Tyler started in government as a member of the Democratic Party, but later he changed to the Whig Party, which was very new. He was chosen to run as vice president next to William Henry Harrison. Whig Party people used to say "Tippecanoe and Tyler Too" to get people to vote for them. (William Henry Harrison was famous for being a general in a battle in a place called Tippecanoe, and that was his nickname.)
Harrison and Tyler won the election, but Harrison died one month later. Tyler then became president.
Some people thought that Tyler was not the real president, because he had not been elected. But the United States Constitution says that the vice president takes over if the president dies, and Tyler said that meant he was the new president. At first, the rest of the government agreed and declared him the new president. But the Whig Party did not want Tyler to be president, and a lot of people called him "the accidental president" or "His Accidency".
Tyler made the Whig Party angry when he picked people from the other party (the Democratic Party) to work in his government. He wanted to bring the two Parties to work together, but instead this made him unpopular. He rejected many of the Whigs' ideas. The Whig Party decided not to pick him to run for president in 1844.
While he was president, Florida became a new state. Texas was its own country, after winning a war against Mexico. Tyler wanted Texas to be a U.S. state and tried to make this happen while president, but it did not happen until a few months afterwards.
The Whig Party did not want Tyler to be president again, and did not pick him to run for president in 1844. He had some friends in the Democratic Party who sometimes asked him for ideas, but that Party did not like him enough to be president, either. Tyler was sometimes called "the President without a party" since both groups did not want him.
When the Confederate States of America was created, Tyler thought that states should be allowed to make their own laws, even about slavery. He did not want a civil war. Instead, he tried to get the United States to agree to let the southern states keep slavery. But the United States Congress said no, and Tyler decided that Virginia had to join the Confederacy. He later was elected to the Confederate congress, but died before taking the job.
Taylor died in Richmond, Virginia, Confederate States of America on January 18, 1862. Tyler's death was the only one in Presidential history not to be officially recognized in Washington, D. C. because of his loyalty to the Confederacy. His coffin was covered with the Confederate flag. He is the only United States President ever to be buried and honored ceremoniously under a foreign flag that is not the United States flag. He is the only President to die in another country.

</doc>
<doc id="15964" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15964" title="Peter Davison">
Peter Davison

Peter Davison (born Peter Moffett April 13 1951) is an English actor. He is best known for his roles as Tristan on "All Creatures Great and Small", and as the Fifth Doctor on "Doctor Who" from 1981 to 1984.

</doc>
<doc id="15965" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15965" title="Ballerina">
Ballerina

A ballerina is a name given to a female ballet dancer. Only very good female ballet dancers are called ballerinas. A ballerina is a principal dancer in a classical ballet company. The topmost female dancer in a company was usually called the prima ballerina.
Today the term 'ballerina' has gone rather out of fashion. Now they are simply called 'Principal dancers'. Dancers in a company are ranked by the company, and paid accordingly. They have to prove themselves in lesser parts before they can get promoted. 
Example of the ranks in a modern dance company:

</doc>
<doc id="15966" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15966" title="Buffalo, New York">
Buffalo, New York

Buffalo is a city in the U.S. state of New York. Buffalo is the second-biggest city in New York State. 
There are about 280,000 people in the city of Buffalo. There are more than a million people in the surrounding area. 
Buffalo is on the eastern side of Lake Erie near the Niagara River. It is close to Niagara Falls, and to Canada. 
Buffalo has an NFL team called the Buffalo Bills (who play in the suburb of Orchard Park, NY) and an NHL team called the Buffalo Sabres.

</doc>
<doc id="15975" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15975" title="1394">
1394

Geoffrey Chaucer wrote the Canterbury Tales.

</doc>
<doc id="15977" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15977" title="Hertford">
Hertford

Hertford is the county town of Hertfordshire, England.

</doc>
<doc id="15978" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15978" title="Jackie Chan">
Jackie Chan

Jackie Chan (成龍) (born Chan Kong-Sang on October 7, 1954) is a famous and well-renown martial artist, stuntman, actor, director, producer, screenwriter, singer and entrepreneur who hails from Hong Kong. He is perhaps most famous and best known for his uncanny combination and twist of both action and comedy in his films. He has also appeared and provided the voice for his character's animated counterpart in the animated TV series "Jackie Chan Adventures" which originally aired from 2000-2005. He is also the famous and well-renown legendary and rich father of actor and singer Jaycee Chan.
In his earlier roles, Chan did all of the dangerous stunts without safety equipment. Possibly the role where this was taken farthest is "Rumble in the Bronx", which was his ultimate breakthrough American movie, where he subjected his already aging body to several leaps and falls, which while finally gaining his American stardom, led to injuries including a broken ankle.
His 2 worst injuries occurred during the making of "Armour of God" and "Police Story". Footage of the former's aftermath was shown over the credits and showed a subdued and bloodied Chan in a spinal injury stretcher. Also, a tree branch in which he was to swing off had snapped just when he did jump upon and over for it. Chan fell 10 meters onto the rocky ground.
In "Police Story", Chan was doing a stunt when and where he fell off from about 5 to 6 stories through a series of window canopies. Chan nearly became disorientated about halfway through down. Instead of landing on upon his feet, Chan fell in a head-down position. His arms became caught in the material of the last canopy. He landed on his head first and his head was then forced on to the side as he could not break his fall up with his arms.
While the "Police Story" fall looked worse, Chan has also said that the "Armour of God" fall was the closest he has come to death while filming.

</doc>
<doc id="15985" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15985" title="Ron Weasley">
Ron Weasley

Ronald Bilius "Ron" Weasley is a character from the "Harry Potter" stories. He is a red haired child, who comes from a poor background. He wishes he had money. He comes from a big family, with five brothers and one sister. He is Harry Potter's best friend. It is revealed in later books, that Ron is romantically interested in Hermione Granger. The two are hinted to be romantically involved in the Deathly Hallows.

</doc>
<doc id="15986" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15986" title="Hermione Granger">
Hermione Granger

Hermione Jean Granger is a character from the "Harry Potter" series. She is one of Harry's best friends. She spends a lot of time with Harry and Ron Weasley. Her parents are Muggles (not magical) though she is very clever and a very good witch. Her parents are dentists. Her mind is full of intelligence and her forte is the ability to remember all that she has read. Due to this, Hermione can ace her tests. Although she is smart, she also is brave and has street-smarts. She can be a little bossy to Ron and Harry. She cares about house-elves and has made the club S.P.E.W., the Society for the Promotion of Elfish Welfare, which Ron calls "Spew." Her appearance is made up of frizzy brown hair, dark brown eyes, and slightly freckled skin. It is also noted at the end of "Deathly Hallows" that she marries Ron and they have two children together. She belongs to Gryffindor, though the Sorting Hat thought about putting her in Ravenclaw. Hermione has a pet cat called Crookshanks. Crookshanks, in the third book, largely annoyed Ron, but then he started liking the cat.

</doc>
<doc id="15989" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15989" title="Milk shake">
Milk shake

In North America, a milk shake (or milkshake) is a cold drink usually made with milk, ice cream, and sweet syrups, such as chocolate syrup, mixed in a blender. People usually drink milkshakes with a drinking straw and from a tall glass or cup.
Milk shakes are similar to smoothies. Smoothies are a type of cold drink made with an electric blender. Smoothies are made with a liquid (either milk, fruit juice, or water), crushed ice or ice cubes, different fruits, and honey or maple syrup.
Milk shakes and other cold drinks such as "ice cream floats" (a scoop of ice cream placed in a glass of cola or other carbonated soda drink) or "malts" (a milk shake with malt powder added to it) were popular among teenagers in the 1950s. Teenagers would go to ice cream parlors and order cold drinks.

</doc>
<doc id="16003" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16003" title="Bollington">
Bollington

Bollington is a village in Cheshire. The village is home to over twenty pubs. Bollington was home to the biggest water wheel in England and only second in Britain to the Laxey wheel in the Isle of Man. The wheel powered huge mills for the production of cotton. Two of the huge mills were the Adelphi and Clarence.
By 1914 Bollington had a population of around 6000 people and was dominated by fine cotton spinning. The symbol of Bollington has to be White Nancy. A small white cone-like house stands alone on top of a hill overlooking all of Bollington. It was built by the Gaskell family early in the nineteenth century. It has now been sealed. 
Sport has been important in the life of Bollington. Even though the village did not have a football team successful enough to rival the cricket team it was still very popular amongst the people of Bollington. The most popular team was St Johns team which was quite successful in the lower leagues. Today there are good teams competing in the amateur leagues such as Bollington United.

</doc>
<doc id="16006" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16006" title="KFC">
KFC

Kentucky Fried Chicken (KFC) is a chain of fast food restaurants known for their fried chicken. It was started by Colonel Sanders in Corbin, Kentucky in 1952. They are now all over the world. They not only sell chicken, but other things like salads and french fries. 
KFC is well known for their "finger lickin' good" slogan. It was first used, along with others, beginning in 1956. It is the current slogan.
Other early slogans included "North America's Hospitality Dish" (1956–1966) and "We fix Sunday dinner seven nights a week" from 1957 until 1968. The two slogans were phased out in favor of the "finger lickin' good" slogan. It was trademarked in 1956.
After a local KFC TV ad showed an employee licking his fingers in the background, a viewer phoned the station to complain. The main actor in the ad answered back: "Well, it's finger lickin' good." The phrase was adopted nationally by the company in the 1960s. It became one of the best-known slogans of the twentieth century. 
When the trademark expired in the United States in 2006, it was replaced with "Follow your taste" until 2010. In 2011, the "finger lickin' good" slogan was dropped in favor of "So good", to be used around the world. The meaning was supposed to include employees and service, as well as food.
"Nobody does chicken like KFC" was first begun by KFC Australia in 1998. It is still used by KFC in some worldwide markets.
KFC has been criticised for different things. Greenpeace accused KFC of destroying the Amazon Rainforest. This is because KFC bought their soy they use for chicken food from Cargill. The soy has been traced back to the European KFC. Cargill has reportedly been exporting soy illegally for several years. The Greenpeace organization researched the issue and brought it to the attention of the parent company YUM! Brands, Inc. The parent company denied the illegal operation, and said that their supply of soy is grown in parts of Brazil. Greenpeace has called on KFC to stop purchasing soy from Cargill, to avoid contributing to the destruction of the Amazon.
Since 2003, animal rights and welfare organizations, led by People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), have been protesting KFC’s treatment of the animals used for its products. These groups claim that the recommendations of the KFC Animal Welfare Advisory Council have been ignored. Adele Douglass, a former member of the council, said in an SEC filing reported on by the Chicago Times, that KFC "never had any meetings. They never asked any advice, and then they touted to the press that they had this animal-welfare advisory committee. I felt like I was being used."
KFC responded by saying the chickens used in its products are bought from suppliers like Perdue Farms, Tyson Foods, and Pilgrim's Pride, and that these suppliers are routinely monitored for animal welfare violations. Several PETA undercover investigations and videos of these and other KFC suppliers purport to show chickens being beaten, ripped apart, and thrown against walls contradict KFC’s claims. PETA has criticised some of the practices of chicken breeders, such as beak trimming and overcrowding, but KFC says its suppliers meets UK legal requirements. The Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs recommends a maximum stocking density of 34 kg—around 30 chickens—per square metre, and say that in circumstances where beak trimming needs to be carried out to prevent the birds injuring each other, only one third of the beak should be trimmed "measured from the tip towards the entrance of the nostrils". PETA states that they have held more than 12,000 demonstrations at KFC outlets since 2003 because of this alleged mistreatment of chickens by KFC suppliers.
In June 2008, KFC Canada agreed to PETA's demands for better welfare standards, including favoring suppliers who use controlled-atmosphere killing (CAK) of chickens, and other welfare standards as well as introducing a vegan sandwich at 65% of its outlets. PETA has called off its campaign against KFC Canada, but continues to demonstrate against KFC elsewhere in the world.

</doc>
<doc id="16025" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16025" title="Cytoplasm">
Cytoplasm

The cytoplasm (also known as cytosol) is the protoplasm of a cell outside the cell nucleus. It is the gel-like material plus the organelles outside the nucleus, and inside the cell membrane. 
Many important functions of a cell take place in organelles, which are like bits of machinery for doing jobs. The cytoplasm is highly structured: it is not some kind of soup, even though it is made out of 7580% water.
The cytosol contains a complex mixture of cytoskeleton filaments, including the endoplasmic reticulum and the Golgi apparatus. It includes dissolved molecules, and water that fills much of the cell. Due to this network of fibres, membranes and the many dissolved macromolecules such as proteins, the cytosol does not act like a simple liquid

</doc>
<doc id="16026" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16026" title="Crusades">
Crusades

The Crusades were a series of religious wars fought between Christians and Muslims over control of the Holy Land. Traditionally, they took place between 1095 and 1291. The Holy Land was and still is a place that is very important for the three major monotheistic religions: Islam, Judaism, and Christianity. There are many important religious sites in the Holy Land. This is the land now called Israel or Palestine. 
Jerusalem, Nazareth, Bethlehem and other religious sites fell under the control of Muslims during the Caliphate of Omar (634-44). 
There were many different crusades. The most important and biggest Crusades took place from the 11th century to the 13th century. There were 9 large Crusades during this time. They are numbered 1 through 9. There were also many smaller Crusades. Some crusades were even within Europe (for example, in Germany, Austria and Scandinavia). The smaller Crusades continued to the 16th century, until the Renaissance and Reformation.
The word "Crusade" is related to the word "Cross", and means a Christian holy war. There is also the Arabic word "Jihad", referring to a holy war fought by Muslims. All sides (Christians, Muslims, and Jews) believed very much in their religions. They also had political reasons for fighting. The strong belief made people less able to understand other people during times when there was no peace. The Crusades and Jihads caused very much loss of life and property for all sides.
Alexius I was a ruler of the Byzantine Empire. When Alexius called for help to defend his empire against the Seljuk Turks in 1095, Pope Urban II asked all Christians to join a war against the Turks. The Pope told the Christians that fighting the war would repay God for their sins and that if they died on a crusade they would go straight to heaven. The Christian soldiers were called "crusaders". The armies marched to Jerusalem, attacking several cities on their way. In 1099 they won the battle for Jerusalem. As a result of the First Crusade, several small Crusader states were created, including the Kingdom of Jerusalem.
After some years of peace, Bernard of Clairvaux called for a new crusade when the town of Edessa was attacked by the Turks. French and German armies marched to Holy Land in 1147, but were defeated. On the way the Crusaders helped the Portuguese capture Lisbon from the Moors.
In 1187, Saladin recaptured Jerusalem. Pope Gregory VIII called for a new crusade, led by several of Europe's kings: Philip II of France, Richard I of England and Frederick I, Holy Roman Emperor. Frederick drowned in Cilicia in 1190. The Crusaders re-established the Kingdom of Jerusalem in Acre. Richard defeated Saladin at Arsuf and Jaffa but lacked the men needed to attempt recapturing Jerusalem. Richard and Saladin made a truce that let the Christians travel safely through Jerusalem. Afterward Richard left in 1192. On Richard's way home, his ship was wrecked, leading him to Austria. In Austria his enemy Duke Leopold captured him, and Richard was ransomed.
The Fourth Crusade was started by Pope Innocent III in 1202, with the idea to attack the Holy Land through Egypt. The Venetians changed this crusade, and went to the Christian city of Constantinople, where they attempted to place a Byzantine exile on the throne. After a series of misunderstandings and outbreaks of violence, the city was sacked in 1204.
The Albigensian Crusade was started in 1209 to eliminate the Cathars of southern France.
The Children's Crusade is a crusade of 1212. An outburst of the old popular enthusiasm led a gathering of children in France and Germany. A boy, from either France or Germany, said that Jesus had visited him, and told him to peacefully convert Muslims to Christianity. Following this vision, many children formed bands, and marched to Italy. There, they were put onto ships which either capsized in a storm, or which went to Morocco. Most of the children either starved to death or were sold into slavery.
It looks like there were really two groups of people who moved, in 1212. Both movements were very similar. For this reason, those who wrote the chronicles put them together, as a single movement.
In the first movement, Nicholas, a shepherd from Germany, led a group across the Alps and into Italy in the early spring of 1212. About 7,000 arrived in Genoa in late August. However, their plans did not bear fruit when the waters failed to part as promised and the band broke up. Some left for home, others may have gone to Rome, while still others may have travelled down the Rhône to Marseille where they were probably sold into slavery. Few returned home and none reached the Holy Land.
The second movement was led by a "shepherd boy" named Stephen de Cloyes near the village of Châteaudun. In June of that year, the boy said that he had a letter for the king of France from Jesus. He could gather a crowd of over 30,000 and went to Saint-Denis. There he was seen to work miracles. On the orders of Philip II, on the advice of the University of Paris, the crowd was sent home, and most of them went. None of the contemporary sources mentions plans of the crowd to go to Jerusalem.
Later chroniclers elaborated on these events. Recent research suggests those taking part were not children, at least not the very young. In the early 1200s, bands of wandering poor started cropping up throughout Europe. These were people displaced by economic changes at the time which forced many poor peasants in northern France and Germany to sell their land. These bands were referred to as "pueri" (Latin for "boys") in a condescending manner, in much the same way that people from rural areas in the United States are called "country boys."
In 1212, a young French "puer" named Stephen and a German "puer" named Nicholas separately began claiming that they had each had similar visions of Jesus. This resulted in these bands of roving poor being united into a religious protest movement which transformed this forced wandering into a religious journey. The "pueri" marched, following the Cross. They associated themselves with Jesus's biblical journey. This, however, was not a prelude to a holy war.
At that time, chronicles were mostly kept by the Catholic Church. They were written in Latin.
Thirty years later, chroniclers read the accounts of these processions and translated "pueri" as "children" without understanding the usage. So, the Children's Crusade was born. The resulting story illustrates how ingrained the concept of Crusading was in the people of that time— the chroniclers assumed that the pueri must have been Crusaders. In their innocence, they returned to the foundations of crusading characteristic of Peter the Hermit, and met the same sort of tragic fate.
According to Matthew Paris, one of the leaders of the Children's Crusade became "Le Maître de Hongrie," the leader of the Shepherds' Crusade in 1251.
During 1213, Pope Gregory IX pushed Frederick II into leading the Fifth Crusade. 
The Church tried another crusade to attack the Holy Land. A crusading force from Hungary, Austria, and Bavaria captured Damietta, a city in Egypt, in 1219. The crusaders had to surrender, due to a losing the battle for Cairo.
In 1228, Emperor Frederick II set sail from Brindisi for Syria. He did this after the Pope excommunicated him. By talking to the Turks he had success, and Jerusalem, Nazareth, and Bethlehem was given to the Crusaders for ten years without fighting. This was the first major crusade not initiated by the Papacy, a trend that was to continue for the rest of the century. This crusade only lasted for a year, from 1228-1229.
The Templars argued with Egypt in 1243. In 1244, Egypt attacked Jerusalem. Louis IX of France started a crusade against Egypt from 1248 to 1254. It was a failure, and Louis spent much of the crusade living in Acre. In the midst of this crusade was the first Shepherds' Crusade in 1251.
The Eighth Crusade was organized by Louis IX of France in 1270, to help the Crusader states in Syria. However, the crusade got as far as Tunis, where Louis died a month later.
Before he was the king, Edward I of England started a crusade in 1271. He retired the following year after a truce.
In time, the people went on Crusades for other purposes. The Crusades ended two centuries after they had begun, achieving mixed results. The crusades ended with the Fall of Acre in 1291.

</doc>
<doc id="16028" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16028" title="Saladin">
Saladin

Saladin, or Sultan Ṣalāḥ ad-Dīn Yūsuf ibn Ayyūb (25 December 1138–1193) was a famous Arabic Sultan during the Crusades. 
A Muslim of Kurdish origin, Saladin led the Muslim opposition to the European Crusaders in the Levant. At the height of his power, his sultanate included Egypt, Syria, Mesopotamia, Hejaz, Yemen and other parts of North Africa.
His father, who worked for the Turkish governor, decided to raise him in Syria where he received his education. Another influential figure in his life was his uncle Shirkuh who was a military leader and later commanded for Saladin during the wars. Many Muslims consider him a hero for defeating the Crusaders over 20 years of battles. The Crusades were series of battles between Christian Europe and Islamic Near East over holy land in what is now known as Palestine. Saladin’s is army protected Egypt from the Crusaders in 1168. By taking Egypt, he became Vizier, a high ruler of Egypt. Just before the Caliph died, Saladin was crowned Sultan of Egypt and Syria. His greatest victory was at the Horns of Hattin in July 1187 AD, after which Jerusalem fell to the Muslims (October 1187) and was never again recovered by the Crusaders. He is also remembered for his series of battles and wins and losses against King Richard I of England. These were inconclusive and in the end resulted in a moral victory for Sultan Salah ad-Din, when Richard's Crusade failed and returned to Europe.
He founded the Ayyubid dynasty of Egypt, Syria, Yemen (except for the Northern Mountains), Iraq, Mecca Hejaz and Diyar Bakr. Salah ad-Din is a title which translates to "The Righteousness of the Faith" from Arabic.
Many books were written about Saladin, the things he did and the battles he won. "Daastaan Imaan Farooshoon Ki" is one book in Urdu written by Althamash that says very good things about Saladin and compares and contrasts him to other kings and princes, in a favourable light.

</doc>
<doc id="16034" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16034" title="1889">
1889


</doc>
<doc id="16050" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16050" title="1877">
1877


</doc>
<doc id="16051" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16051" title="1860">
1860


</doc>
<doc id="16058" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16058" title="Aphex Twin">
Aphex Twin

Aphex Twin (born Richard David James, August 18, 1971, in Limerick, Ireland) is an Irish-born Cornish musician. He lives and works in the United Kingdom. He is a famous electronic musician.
Aphex Twin is not his real name. His real name is Richard David James. His name is a combination of Aphex Systems Limited, a brand of audio signal processing equipment and the word Twin to remember his brother. His brother was stillborn, but given the name Richard James.
Aphex Twin was born in Limerick, Ireland. He grew up in Cornwall, U.K. He started to make music when he was a teenager. In 1991, he formed a record label called Rephlex Records.
After he became well known, he moved to London. This was so he could be in a place that was closer to other people. He however returned to Cornwall a few years later after meeting his wife. He still makes a lot of music today and uses many different pseudonyms (names). He lives in an old bank. He has bought interesting things like a tank and a submarine.
AFX
Bradley Strider
Caustic Window
Gak
Martin Tressider
In the Universal Indicator series:
Polygon Window
Power Pill
Q-Chastic
Universal Indicator

</doc>
<doc id="16065" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16065" title="Niagara Falls">
Niagara Falls

Niagara Falls is the group name of three big waterfalls on the Niagara River in eastern North America, on the border between the United States and Canada. The three waterfalls are: the Horseshoe Falls, sometimes called the Canadian Falls, the American Falls, and the smaller Bridal Veil Falls. The American Falls and the Horseshoe Falls are separated with Goat Island, and the Bridal Veil Falls separated from the other waterfalls with Luna Island.
Niagara Falls were formed when glaciers receded at the end of the Wisconsin glaciation (the last ice age), and water from the newly formed Great Lakes carved a path through the Niagara Escarpment en route to the Atlantic Ocean.
Although not very high, Niagara Falls is very wide, and is probably the most popular waterfall in the world. The Horseshoe Falls are the largest out of the three falls. It is named the Horseshoe Falls because it looks like a horseshoe. 
Niagara Falls is a very popular tourist place and many people visit it on holiday in Canada.

</doc>
<doc id="16125" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16125" title="1831">
1831


</doc>
<doc id="16126" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16126" title="1842">
1842


</doc>
<doc id="16129" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16129" title="Custard">
Custard

Custard is kind of food prepared with milk and eggs. Custard can be the dessert or its sauce.
Custard is an important part of dessert recipes from many countries, including the United Kingdom, France, Portugal, Spain, Italy, Australia, and Malaysia.

</doc>
<doc id="16130" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16130" title="Huckleberry">
Huckleberry

Huckleberry is a name used in North America for several plants in two closely related genera in the family "Ericaceae": "Gaylussacia" and "Vaccinium". The huckleberry is the state fruit of Idaho.
Some "Vaccinium" species, such as the red huckleberry, are always called huckleberries. Other species may be called blueberries or huckleberries in different locations.
There is much confusion in naming of berries in American English. The 'garden huckleberry' ("Solanum melanocerasum") is not a true huckleberry but a member of the nightshade family.
The fruit of most species of huckleberry can be eaten. The berries are small and round. They are usually less than 5 mm in diameter and contain 10 seeds. Berries range in color from bright red, through dark purple, and into the blues. In taste the berries range from tart to sweet. They have a flavor similar to that of a blueberry. Huckleberries are well liked by many mammals such as bears and humans.

</doc>
<doc id="16131" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16131" title="Cheesecake">
Cheesecake

A cheesecake is a dessert made of cream cheese (or sometimes ricotta), milk, eggs, and flour and usually has a graham cracker crumb base. The graham cracker crumb base is sometimes held together by melted butter. The filling is mostly cream cheese with some sugar to sweeten it and sometimes sour cream to make it easier to shape and fill the crust.
Cheesecake has a smooth texture, and comes in a variety of flavours such as strawberry, blueberry, lemon, and so on. It is often topped with fruit or chocolate.
The cheesecake is believed to have come from Greece. The earliest writer who wrote about cheesecakes is Aegiums, who wrote a book how to make cheesecakes (). Historians think that cheesecake was served to the athletes during the first Olympic Games held in 776 BC. However, cheese making began at about 2,000 BC, and anthropologists have found cheese molds dating back to that period. Alan Davidson, author of the Oxford Companion to Food, wrote that "cheesecake was mentioned in Marcus Porcius Cato's "De re Rustica" around 200 BC and that Cato described making his cheese libum (cake) with results very similar to modern cheesecake".
The Romans spread cheesecake from Greece to across Europe. Centuries later, cheesecake appeared in America, the recipes brought over by immigrants.
There is an all-garlic restaurant in Stockholm where they offer a garlic cheesecake.
Cheesecake may be thought as an American classic, but they have been popular through all ages. In ancient Greece, different types of cheesecake were popular.
Sonya Thomas holds the world record for eating the most cheesecakes in a given time. She ate 11 pounds of cheesecake in nine minutes.

</doc>
<doc id="16132" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16132" title="Rhubarb">
Rhubarb

Rhubarb is one of about 60 plants in the genus Rheum, family Polygonaceae. The vegetable rhubarb is "Rheum rhabarbarum" (or "Rheum x hybridum"). The leaves are toxic, but the red stalks are baked in pies, with sugar to soften their tart flavor.
There are many varieties grown for eating. The drug "rheum" is prepared from the rhizomes and roots of another species, "R. officinale" or medicinal rhubarb.

</doc>
<doc id="16133" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16133" title="Monkey">
Monkey

Monkeys are arboreal mammals. They are in the primate order. Apes are the descendants of Old World monkeys. Monkeys are intelligent, social animals. They are famous for climbing trees easily. Almost every monkey has a tail, even if it is very short.
The word "monkey" is not a scientific term. It is used for two rather different groups of primates. The big distinction is between Old World monkeys and New World monkeys.
Both these groups are in the infraorder Simiiformes. That infraorder also includes the great apes and man.
Some monkeys live in trees. Others live partly on the ground. Most monkeys are mainly vegetarian, with a strong preference for fruit. However, they may eat a wide range of other food, including insects. Monkeys can live in forests and savannahs. Monkeys do not live in deserts. They can live in snowy mountains. They most commonly live in rainforests, but there are none in the rainforests of Australia and New Guinea.
Some monkeys are small, about long and in weight. Other monkeys are much larger, about long and in weight. A group of monkeys is called a "troop" of monkeys or a "tribe" of monkeys.
There are two groups of monkeys that live in different places: the "New World Monkeys" in South America and the "Old World Monkeys" from Africa and Asia. New World Monkeys are often smaller than Old World Monkeys. Monkeys have long arms and legs to help them swing from trees. Some monkeys' tails can wrap tightly around branches, almost like a "fifth limb". This type of tail is prehensile. Most monkeys are arboreal (live in the trees), but some live on the ground.
The smallest known monkey is the pygmy marmoset. It is about 14-16cm in size (without the tail). It weighs about 120 grams. It lives in the treetops of rainforests in Brazil, Colombia and Ecuador. The largest known monkey is the mandrill. It can grow to about 1 m in size. Adults weigh up to 35 kg. The monkeys often climb with the help of their tails.
The word "monkey" might have come from a popular German story, "Roman de Renart" ("Reynard the Fox"). In there, the name of the son of Martin the Ape is "Moneke".
In Africa, monkeys can be sold as "bushmeat" (meat of wild animals). Monkey brains are eaten in some parts of Africa, South Asia, and China.

</doc>
<doc id="16146" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16146" title="Civilization">
Civilization

Civilization (or civilisation) comes from the Latin word "civis" meaning someone who lives in a town. When people are civilised, they live in large well-organized groups like towns, not in small tribes or isolated family groups. 
However, a civilization is something more than a town. It is an advanced stage of organisation. That means it has laws, culture, a regular way of getting food and protecting the people. Most civilizations have agriculture, and a system of government like monarchs or elections. They speak a common language, and 
usually have a religion of some kind. They teach their young the knowledge they need. All civilizations since the Sumerians and the Egyptians have some kind of writing. Writing lets people store and build up knowledge.
The Roman Empire is an example of a large civilization. It was governed from Rome. This empire once stretched from the Scottish borders to North Africa and the eastern Mediterranean. They had their own language, Latin. 
Latin became the preferred method of communication among educated people until long after their civilization had vanished. Today lawyers and politicians, doctors and scientists, scholars and others still use Latin in the course of their everyday work, even though the Roman civilization died out more than 1,500 years ago. It is said that William Shakespeare excelled at Latin. Latin is still taught in some schools. We still admire and copy Roman architecture, use Roman numerals to count certain things, use the names of Roman gods to mark the days and months of our calendars, name the constellations in the sky by the same names that the Romans used and we model our Western political constitutions and structures on Roman models (Senate, Governor, election, tribunal, justice, vote, census, even the word Constitution, are all Latin words, their meaning unchanged in thousands of years). 
The Roman civilization lasted almost 1000 years, but the Ancient Egyptian civilization was older and lasted longer. The Romans and Egyptians fought each other in the Battle of Actium. Rome won, and Egypt became part of the Roman Empire.

</doc>
<doc id="16150" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16150" title="Enlightenment (Buddhism)">
Enlightenment (Buddhism)

In Buddhism, enlightenment (called "bodhi" in Indian Buddhism, or "satori" in Zen Buddhism) is when a Buddhist finds the truth about life and stops being reborn. Buddhists believe a person can become enlightened by following the Middle Way.
Buddhists become enlightened by using meditation (deep thought). While they meditate, they concentrate very hard and clear their minds of all thoughts.
Siddhartha Gautama (the Buddha) is the first person thought to have reached enlightenment. The story of his life is told as an example of what he learned.
Siddhartha was a rich prince and the son of a king. His father went to a fortune teller who predicted that Siddhartha would either become a king or a religious leader. His father wanted him to become a king. He gave Siddhartha many things and did not let him see anything bad. Siddhartha married a woman and had a son. He named his son Rahula. The name meant "chains". Siddhartha named his son that because he was frustrated. He left the palace on the day his son was born. 
Siddhartha went to the Shramana teachers to ask for help. Siddhartha traveled for four days. On the first day, he saw an old man. On the second day, he saw a sick woman. On the third day, he saw a funeral. It was his first time seeing death. On the fourth day he saw a sadhu (holy man). This man was very poor. Siddhartha thought that the man was happy even though he was poor. Siddhartha also knew that he was not happy even though he was rich. He decided to leave the palace and never go back.
Siddhartha walked through the forest. In the forest, he found a group of ascetics. He watched them and thought this was the way to be enlightened. For six years he lived with the ascetics. He ate one grain of rice and drank from the river every day. One day a boat was on the river with a musician and his students on it. Siddhartha heard the musician say, "If the string is too tight, it will snap. If it is too loose, it will not play." After hearing that, Siddhartha knew that he wanted to find a middle way. He took a bowl of rice from a village girl. He had broken his promise to be an ascetic.
Siddhartha sat at the bottom of the Bodhi tree. He made a promise to keep meditating until he was enlightened. For forty days Devaputra Mara, the leader of demons, tried to stop Siddhartha. He made Siddhartha think of scary things. He made demons try to hurt Siddhartha with spears, arrows, fire, and rocks. Siddhartha thought very hard and made the hurtful things look like flowers and many colored lights. His hard thinking made him enlightened. After he was enlightened, he taught people about what he had learned. He died when he was 80 years old.

</doc>
<doc id="16155" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16155" title="Mail">
Mail

Mail is part of the postal system. The postal system is a system where written documents and small to medium packages are sent (delivered) to places around the world. Anything sent through the postal system is called mail or post.
A postal service can be private or public. Governments often make rules about private postal delivery systems. Since the early 19th century, national postal systems have mostly been controlled entirely by governments. The governments make people pay a fee to send something. This fee is usually in the form of stamps. Some governments only let private postal services deliver parcel (non-mail) packages.
Postal systems often do things other than sending letters. In some countries, the postal system is also in charge of telephone and telegraph systems. The postal systems in other countries can help people apply for government papers such as passports and driver's licenses. Many places the post offices also work like banks. This is so that people can take out money or pay bills at a nearby post office, instead of travelling to a big bank in the nearest town.

</doc>
<doc id="16156" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16156" title="The Righteous Brothers">
The Righteous Brothers

The Righteous Brothers were an American pop group consisting of two men named Bill Medley and Bobby Hatfield. They formed in California in 1962. Some of their hits include "You've Lost That Lovin' Feelin'" and "Unchained Melody". Phil Spector produced those songs.

</doc>
<doc id="16157" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16157" title="Gene Pitney">
Gene Pitney

Gene Francis Alan Pitney (17 February 1940 – 5 April 2006) was an American rock singer and songwriter. He was born in Hartford, Connecticut. Some of his most well-known songs are "Town Without Pity", "The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance" and "Twenty Four Hours From Tulsa". He died of a heart attack in Cardiff in 2006 while on tour in the UK.

</doc>
<doc id="16166" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16166" title="Federal Bureau of Investigation">
Federal Bureau of Investigation

The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) is an agency of the United States Government. It investigates crime across the country. It is dedicated to national security and law enforcement. The Bureau of Investigation was founded in 1908. It was renamed the Federal Bureau of Investigation, FBI for short, in 1935. J. Edgar Hoover was the Director of the Bureau from its start, and continued as Director of the FBI until his death in 1972. Although the FBI work worldwide, their headquarters is in Washington DC. They have 56 main offices in cities throughout the United States.
The FBI's mission is to protect the USA and maintain justice. They do this in many ways:
The FBI is organized into branches and the Office of the Director. This office contains most administrative offices. An executive assistant director manages each branch. Each branch is then divided into offices and divisions. Each division is headed by an assistant director. The various divisions are further divided into sub-branches. Each sub-branch is led by deputy assistant directors. Within these sub-branches there are various sections headed by section chiefs. Section chiefs are ranked analogous to special agents in charge.
Four of the branches report to the deputy director while two report to the associate director. The functions branches of the FBI are:
The FBI Crisis Negotiation Unit (FCNU) is a 24/7 operational response to crisis and to negotiate person(s) who are threatening to commit suicide or other harmful situations after a crime has been committed. The FBI's lead negotiator contacts the person(s) involved, with a hard-wire phone line to communicate with the person(s) to try convincing them to give themselves up to local police who are on stand-by.

</doc>
<doc id="16167" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16167" title="1596">
1596

1596 was a year in the 16th century. It was a leap year.

</doc>
<doc id="16170" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16170" title="Nothofagus">
Nothofagus

Nothofagus is a kind of plant, also called southern beech. It is a tree which can reach 35 m tall. "Nothofagus" is found in South America, New Zealand, Australia and New Guinea.
There are 34 species, considering pollen morphology four sections are recognized, i.e. Brassospora, Fuscospora, Lophozonia, and Nothofagus.

</doc>
<doc id="16174" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16174" title="Ancient Greek language">
Ancient Greek language

Ancient Greek was the language spoken by the people of Ancient Greece from the 9th to 4th century B.C. Ancient Greek and Latin are the most important ancient languages (languages which are no longer spoken) for speakers of English today. This is because a very large number of English words come from Greek and Latin. 
The Greek language had many different dialects, but the “Attic Greek” which was spoken by the people of Athens is thought to be the purest of the forms. Because the Greeks became very powerful in the countries around the Mediterranean Sea their language spread very quickly. Alexander the Great even took it into Asia. Later, in the Roman world, children were taught Greek as a second language in the same way that many non-English speakers today learn English as their second language. This all makes Ancient Greek very important. 
The great poems of the Ancient Greek poets like Homer were written in Greek. The poems of the "Iliad" and the "Odyssey" tell exciting stories about warfare, travel and the Greek gods. In the 5th century B.C., some great plays were written by Aeschylus, Sophocles and Euripides. This was the "Golden Age" of Ancient Greece. These works of Ancient Greek literature inspired people for centuries and are still read today.
All languages change with time, and Greek has changed a lot since 25 centuries ago. Modern Greek is often said to have started in the year 1453 A.D.
Unlike Latin, the Ancient Greek language did not split into many languages, but it is still considered to be a separate language from the Modern Greek language. Pronunciation has changed extensively. For instance, the letter "b" called beta is now pronounced "v" and Greeks now call this letter "vita". The spelling has not changed, which gives the appearance of less change than actually happened. Also, many different vowels and diphthongs all merged into "i", the vowel sound in the English word "meet". The verbal system has radically changed. It is now much simpler. The tonal system of Ancient Greek has disappeared. In spite of this the language, until recently, was spelled as if the old tones were still present. In spite of the extensive changes, it is remarkable how much has survived intact through the centuries.
There is a community near Trabzon in Turkey which speaks a dialect very like that of Ancient Greece. 

</doc>
<doc id="16190" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16190" title="Autobahn">
Autobahn

Autobahn (engl. "motorway") is the name for freeways (large streets) in Germany, Austria, and Switzerland. Those in Germany are famous because in many parts of the roads, there are no speed limits and drivers can drive as fast as they want to.
Usually an autobahn consists of two lanes in each direction. Sometimes there may be more than two lanes for one direction (or an additional lane for cars that are stuck).
All drivers are supposed to drive on the outer-most right lane except when they move past other cars or trucks that are going slower.
Many autobahns in Germany have no speed limit. There is only a speed recommendation of per hour. However, drivers going faster than 130 km/h can be made responsible for an accident that they are involved in. The German traffic law says that it is only permitted to drive as fast as the track conditions allow.
An emergency telephone is located at a German autobahn every . Junctions between two autobahns are called "Dreieck" (Triangle), if one autobahn ends there or "Kreuz" (Cross). Junctions with normal roads are called "Anschlussstelle". All junctions of an autobahn are numbered sequentially.
Driving on a German autobahn is free for cars. Trucks (12,5 tons and above) do have to pay a toll of about a twelve cents (-,€12) per kilometre.
On autobahns in Austria there is a general speeding limit of 130 km/h. However, there were some test sections where 160 km/h was allowed before April 2007. It is legal to drive with a car, truck, motorbike... if you can drive with it more than 60 km/h.
Austrian autobahns are not free of charge. Car drivers have to buy a "vignette" (which permits driving on the autobahn for a few days or months or even a year). Trucks do have to pay a distance-dependent toll (as in Germany). On some sections you have to pay toll and need no "vignette", like big tunnels and other expensive buildings in the mountains.
Junctions among Austrian autobahns are called "Knoten" (instead of "Kreuz") and there is often a speeding limit of 100 km/h.
On the "Wiener Süd-Ost Tangente" (engl.: Vienna South-East Bypass) are about 200,000 cars every day. There is the most traffic in Austria and it is an important autobahn of the capital city Vienna.
Autobahns in Switzerland have a speed limit of 120 km/h. Until 1997 they were called "Nationalstrassen" (and labeled with an "N" instead of "A"). As in Austria, car drivers have to buy a "vignette" which is always valid for one year (calendar year). Junctions between autobahns in Switzerland are called "Verzweigung".

</doc>
<doc id="16191" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16191" title="Arnold Schoenberg">
Arnold Schoenberg

Arnold Franz Walter Schoenberg (originally written 'Schönberg') (13 September 1874 – 13 July 1951) was an Austrian-born composer. He was known for his twelve-tone system of writing music.
Schoenberg came from a strict Jewish family who had moved to Austria from Hungary. They were quite poor and Schoenberg taught himself about music. When he was grown up he had to do a lot of teaching to try and earn enough money to live. In later life he went to live in the United States. It took a long time before he was recognized world-wide as a great composer. His two most famous pupils were Alban Berg (1885-1935) and Anton Webern (1883-1945). He taught them how to write twelve-tone music and they became famous composers.
When Arnold Schoenberg was a young man he was living in the late 19th century. If you look at the way composers wrote music at this time you will find that their compositions became more and more chromatic. This means that more and more sharps and flats were used during the piece, and the music went from one key to another (modulated) very quickly. Richard Wagner wrote very chromatic music, especially in his opera "Tristan and Isolde".
In 1898 Schoenberg converted to Christianity in the Lutheran church. According to MacDonald, this was partly to connect with Western European cultural traditions, and partly as a means of self-defence "in a time of resurgent anti-Semitism". 
In 1933, after long thought, he returned to Judaism, because he realised that "his racial and religious heritage was inescapable", and to take up an unmistakable position on the side opposing Nazism. He would self-identify as a member of the Jewish religion later in life.
Schoenberg’s early works are mostly Late Romantic. His piece "Verklärte Nacht" (which can be played by six string instruments or by a whole orchestra) has very beautiful harmonies which go quickly from one key to another. Gradually Schoenberg’s music changed. It became so chromatic that it was no longer in any key at all. Music like this (called “atonal”) is much harder to understand. His "Five Orchestral Pieces" were played by the conductor Sir Henry Wood at a Promenade Concert in 1912. The audience did not like it at first and took some time to get used to the sound.
In 1923 Schoenberg developed the twelve-tone system for which he is famous. This is music which is based on a particular row of notes. Twelve-tone music is atonal because there is no feeling of being in any key, because of the equal use of every pitch.

</doc>
<doc id="16193" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16193" title="Slovak koruna">
Slovak koruna

The Slovak Crown or Slovak Koruna (in Slovak, Slovenská koruna, "koruna" means crown) has been the currency used in Slovakia since February 8, 1993. It replaced the Czechoslovak Crown. Slovak koruna should not be mistaken with the Slovak koruna during the World War II (Slovak: Koruna slovenská, short Ks, notice word order)
The ISO 4217 code for the Slovak Koruna is SKK. The symbol is Sk. One Koruna is equal to 100 hellers (written shortly as "hal.", in Slovak singular: halier). The symbol is put after the amount. 
Slovak koruna exists in these values: 50 h, 1 Sk, 2 Sk, 5 Sk, 10 Sk, 20 Sk, 50 Sk, 100 Sk, 200 Sk, 500 Sk, 1000 Sk and 5000 Sk. 10 h and 20 h are not used since 31 December 2003.
The central rate of Slovak koruna against Euro was 35.4424 SKK as of 19 March 2007. Slovakia will use Euro instead of koruna from 1 January 2009.
Slovakia is using Euro now, so the Slovak koruna is not the valid currency any more.

</doc>
<doc id="16195" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16195" title="War of the Roses">
War of the Roses

War of the Roses may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="16213" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16213" title="Full Metal Jacket">
Full Metal Jacket

Full Metal Jacket is a 1987 American war drama movie directed by Stanley Kubrick. It is based on the Gustav Hasford book "The Short-Timers". The name of the movie comes from the full-metal jacketed bullets used in the military. The movie follows soldiers who are drafted to fight in the Vietnam War. The story is set in the late 1960s and follows the characters from their time in recruit training and them fighting in the war. 

</doc>
<doc id="16226" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16226" title="Cambridgeshire">
Cambridgeshire

Cambridgeshire is a county in England. The counties around Cambridgeshire are Lincolnshire to the north, Norfolk to the northeast, Suffolk to the east, Essex and Hertfordshire to the south, and Bedfordshire and Northamptonshire to the west. The county town is Cambridge.

</doc>
<doc id="16227" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16227" title="1468">
1468


</doc>
<doc id="16228" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16228" title="English Channel">
English Channel

The English Channel is a body of water that separates the island of Great Britain from the rest of Europe. People who live in the UK and want to visit Europe, or people from Europe who want to visit the UK, can take a ferry across or ride a train under the channel in a special tunnel called the Channel Tunnel (nicknamed the "Chunnel"). Both the ferries and trains carry cars. It is 563 km long, 246 km wide, and its narrowest part (34 km) is the Strait of Dover. On a clear day, it is possible to see the cliffs of Dover from Calais on the French side.
In 1875, Matthew Webb became the first known person to swim the English Channel, crossing it in just under 22 hours. The first woman to do this was Gertrude Ederle. In 2004, over 600 people were recorded making the crossing. The fastest time was achieved by Bulgarian swimmer Peter Stoychev in 2007, who managed it in 7 hours. Recently, officials have outlawed swimming in the English Channel.
In France, it is known as "La manche" (The Sleeve).

</doc>
<doc id="16256" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16256" title="Upminster">
Upminster

Upminster is a place in the east London Borough of Havering, England. It is the eastern end of the London Underground system, on the District line. It is also a station on the c2c line, but Oyster cards and travel cards are not valid beyond Upminster. Nearby places include Hornchurch, Upminster Bridge and Cranham.
Saint Laurence Church in Upminster is where William Derham measured the speed of sound.

</doc>
<doc id="16258" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16258" title="Colin Baker">
Colin Baker

Colin Baker (born June 8 1943) is an English actor. He is most famous as the Sixth Doctor on "Doctor Who" from 1984 to 1986. He has no relation to Tom Baker, who played the fourth incarnation of the Doctor.

</doc>
<doc id="16259" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16259" title="Boxing">
Boxing

Boxing is one of the world's oldest combat sports. It is usually held in a ring and two boxers (people who fight in boxing fights) wear special gloves and try to hit one another.
There are a few different ways to win in boxing. One is by a way of a knockout, which is when a fighter is knocked to the ground and cannot get back up within ten seconds. Another way is by a technical knockout, which is when the fighter can not continue fighting or the referee stops the fight. Another possibility is winning on points, which a boxer gets by outboxing his or her opponent by hitting the opponent more often, harder, and more accurately. There are also draws in boxing. What in other sports are called "tie" in boxing it's called "draw". A referee can announce a technical draw due to an accidental cut or an accidental wound like a headbutt. Generally, it is considered a "no contest" (NC). However, from the second round, or four in some fights, if the score cards for both fighters are equal, the fight could be called a draw. Boxing is very popular around the world. It is a way to defeat your enemy by physical force.

</doc>
<doc id="16260" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16260" title="1900s">
1900s

The 1900s was the decade that started on January 1, 1900, and ended on December 31, 1909. It was the decade which spanned the 19th century and the 20th century.

</doc>
<doc id="16261" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16261" title="Tux Racer">
Tux Racer

Tux Racer is a video game made by Sunspire Studios where the player moves Tux, the Linux Penguin . In the game, Tux goes down a hill on his belly and collects fish. There are many things that slow Tux down. There are also things that may be hard for Tux to get past.
The developers of Tux Racer have long abandoned making and programing the game. But some programmers took the source code and they call their new version Extreme Tux Racer, it is much newer and has many improvements over the old Tux Racer.

</doc>
<doc id="16264" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16264" title="Northwest Territories">
Northwest Territories

The Northwest Territories is a territory in northern Canada. 42,944 people lived there as of January 1, 2005. It is 1,171,918 square kilometers.
The capital of the Northwest Territories is Yellowknife. Yellowknife was the capital since 1967. The Northwest Territories have many geographical features, like the Great Bear Lake, the Mackenzie River and Nahanni River, which is a national park and a UNESCO World Heritage Site.
The Northwest Territories entered the Canadian Confederation in 1870. The Hudson's Bay Company gave the land to the Dominion of Canada. The Northwest Territories have one person in the House of Commons and the Canadian Senate. A lot of parts of the Northwest Territories were given to other provinces, including British Columbia, Alberta, Manitoba, Ontario, and Quebec. In 1999, the eastern part of the Northwest Territories became the territory of Nunavut.

</doc>
<doc id="16267" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16267" title="Straight">
Straight

The word straight means something that goes in one direction without turns, bends, or curves. 
Lines can bend in a curve. If lines do not bend, they are straight. For example, the edge of a circle is not straight. The edge of a circle bends in a curve. 
Light bends in a curve in air and water, but travels in a straight line away from the earth or other bodies in outer space where there is no air.
The word "straight" is also a slang term for "heterosexual"

</doc>
<doc id="16270" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16270" title="SS Richard Montgomery">
SS Richard Montgomery

The SS "Richard Montgomery" was an American ship built during World War II. "Montgomery" was wrecked off the coast of Kent in 1944 with around 1,500 tons of explosives on board, which continue to be a hazard to the area
"Montgomery" sank in the Thames estuary in August 1944. It was loaded with 15,000 tons of explosive munitions. The Admiralty decided to leave the wreck and its dangerous cargo undisturbed. The wreck lies just a few hundred yards offshore between an oil refinery and the several towns. Southend on Sea is just a couple of miles away on the other side of the Thames estuary. Rumours about the ship and its cargo have circulated in these towns ever since. Denials have been issued by ministers in the House of Commons in response to MPs questions about the presence on board of biological, chemical and gas warheads. Nevertheless, rumours persist that the real reason the wreck was not made safe was because of the existence of ‘dirty weapons’ on board.

</doc>
<doc id="16275" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16275" title="Inno e Marcia Pontificale">
Inno e Marcia Pontificale

Hymn and Pontifical March (Inno e Marcia Pontificale) is the national anthem of the Vatican City. It was adopted in 1950.
O Roma felix - O Roma nobilis.<br>
Sedes es Petri, qui Romae effudit sanguinem,<br>
Petri, cui claves datae sunt regni caelorum.<br>
Pontifex, Tu successor es Petri;<br>
Pontifex, Tu magister es tuos confirmas fratres;<br>
Pontifex, Tu qui Servus servorum Dei,<br>
hominumque piscator, pastor es gregis,<br>
ligans caelum et terram.<br>
Pontifex, Tu Christi es vicarius super terram,<br>
rupes inter fluctus, Tu es pharus in tenebris;<br>
Tu pacis es vindex, Tu es unitatis custos,<br>
vigil libertatis defensor; in Te potestas.<br>
Tu Pontifex, firma es petra, et super petram hanc<br>
aedificata est Ecclesia Dei.<br>
O felix Roma - O Roma nobilis.<br>
[Hymn]<br>
O Rome immortal, city of martyrs and saints, <br>
O immortal Rome, accept our praises. <br>
Glory in the heavens to God our Lord <br>
And peace to men who love Christ! <br>
To you we come, angelic Pastor,<br>
In you we see the gentle Redeemer.<br>
You are the holy heir of our Faith,<br>
You are the comfort and the refuge of<br>
Those who believe and fight.<br>
Force and terror will not prevail,<br>
But truth and love will reign.<br>
[Pontifical March]<br>
Hail, O Rome,<br>
Eternal adobe of memories;<br>
A thousand palms and a thousand altars<br>
Sing your praises.<br>
O city of the Apostles,<br>
Mother and guide of the elect,<br>
Light of the nations,<br>
And hope of the world!<br>
Hail, O Rome!<br>
Your light will never fade;<br>
The splendour of your beauty<br>
Disperses hatred and shame.<br>
O city of the Apostles,<br>
Mother and guide of the elect,<br>
Light of the nations,<br>
And hope of the world!<br>

</doc>
<doc id="16295" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16295" title="Northern Mariana Islands">
Northern Mariana Islands

The Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands is a group of islands in the Pacific Ocean that are a political division controlled by the United States. Its capital is Saipan.
The Northern Mariana Islands, together with Guam to the south, compose the Mariana Islands. The southern islands are limestone, with level terraces and fringing coral reefs. The northern islands are volcanic, with active volcanos on Anatahan, Pagan and Agrihan. The volcano on Agrihan has the highest elevation at . 
Anatahan Volcano is a small volcanic island north of Saipan. It is about long and wide. Anatahan began erupting suddenly from its east crater on May 10, 2003, at about 6 p.m. (0800 UTC). It has since alternated between eruptive and calm periods. On April 6, 2005, approximately of ash and rock were ejected, causing a large, black cloud to drift south over Saipan and Tinian.

</doc>
<doc id="16296" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16296" title="1890s">
1890s


</doc>
<doc id="16297" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16297" title="Benjamin Harrison">
Benjamin Harrison

Benjamin Harrison (August 20, 1833–March 13, 1901) was the 23rd president of the United States (1889-1893).
He was the grandson of William Henry Harrison. His home was in Indianapolis, Indiana. He was a member of the Republican party. He was elected to the White House in 1888, beating Grover Cleveland. Harrison is the only president to be the grandson of a former president. Harrison was the first president of the United States to use electricity in the White House.
After Benjamin Harrison served one full four-year term as president, Cleveland ran again and, this time, beat Harrison. Benjamin Harrison's first wife was Carrie Harrison. After Carrie Harrison died, his second wife was Mary Dimmick Harrison. Besides being president, Benjamin Harrison was a successful lawyer. He argued many cases before the United States Supreme Court.
Benjamin Harrison as president wanted to increase tariffs (a tax on goods that come into the country) for two reasons:
Harrison spent the money received from the tariffs to give money to injured American Civil War veterans.
Harrison was the first president to have a billion dollar budget for the government. People criticized him for that.
He also signed the Sherman Anti-Trust Act which gave the U.S. government the power to regulate big businesses. 
Harrison did not use that power much.

</doc>
<doc id="16298" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16298" title="Pablo Picasso">
Pablo Picasso

Pablo Ruiz Picasso (25 October 1881 in Málaga, Spain – 8 April 1973) was a Spanish painter and sculptor. Pablo Picasso created over 20,000 images.
He is considered one of the greatest artists of the 20th century. He is best known as the co-founder of cubism. A work of art is cubist when the artist opts to break up objects and re-assemble them in abstract and geometric form. Picasso could draw and paint when he was very young. His first word was "lápiz", the Spanish word for "pencil".
Perhaps his most famous painting is "Guernica", which shows the horrors of war after the bombing of the town of Guernica.
He was 90 years old when a number of his works were shown in an exhibition at the Louvre in Paris. He was the first living artist to have an exhibition at the Louvre.
Picasso had four children with three women. He died of heart failure in Mougins, France, on 8 April 1973.
Pablo Picasso was born as the son of the painter and teacher José Ruiz Blasco and his wife María Picasso López. His birthplace was Málaga in Spain. In his first years, until 1898, he used both, the name of his father and his mother to sign pictures. Since around 1901, he only used his mother's one. At the age of eight, Picasso created his first oil painting called "The Picador". In 1891, Pablo moved with his family to Northern Spain, where his father taught at the "Instituto da Guarda". One year later, Pablo studied at this institute. Pablo's father was his teacher at this time. In 1896, he started to attend the art school in Barcelona after passing the entrance examination.<ref name="picasso-de/"></ref> One year later in 1897, Picasso started to study at the "Academia San Fernando" in Madrid. In 1898. he left the academy and went to a rest to Horta de Ebro. In 1900, he published his first illustrations in a newspaper in Barcelona. This had over 50 portraits.
Picasso also made in 1900 his first travel to Paris. There, he lived with Max Jacob, a poet and journalist. When Max was working during the day, Pablo slept and when Max slept in the night, Pablo worked. Picasso had to burn his paintings to keep himself warm. "Lovers in the Street" and "Moulin de la Galette" are examples of his work in Paris. Both pictures were painted in 1900.
He went back to Madrid in 1901. There, he worked for a newspaper called "Arte Joven". He was responsible for the illustration. He shortened his signature in this time to "Picasso" only rather than "Pablo Ruiz y Picasso". At the same time, his so called "Blue Period" started. Picasso made three trips to Paris. In 1904, he settled there. The "Blue Period" ended in 1904. "The Soup" and "Crouching Woman" are two examples of paintings from Picasso. Both were painted in 1903.
In 1905, Picasso made a trip to Holland. In the same year, Pablo's "Rosa Period" started. During this period, Picasso mostly painted circus motives. "Girl Balancing on a Ball" and "The Actor" are two paintings from this time. Both were painted in 1905 at the beginning of the Rosa Period. The end of the period is dated to 1907.
The next years in Picasso's life are called "Cubism". The start of this period is dated to the year 1909 and ended around 1912. This period was inspired by the French painter Paul Cezanne. This period is called "Cubism" because he often painted cubes. During this time, Pablo Picasso preferred to paint musical instruments and still-life objects. He also painted his friends.
Picasso had his first exhibition in the United States in 1911. One year later in 1912, he had his first exhibition in Great Britain. Pablo's father died in May 1913.
From 1912 to 1919 was Picasso's so called "Synthetic Cubism Period". During this time, he started to use collages in his paintings. His works from this time are called "papiers collés". He has spent the his time during the First World War in Rome. In 1914, Picasso spent the whole summer in Avignon. In 1915, he started to paint realistic again. At the end of the same year, his wife Eva died. During the World War, he also worked as a designer for Sergey Diaghilev.
In 1917, Picasso met Olga Koklova, a Russian dancer. In the same year, he painted several realistic portraits of her and their friends. One year later, he married her. The last summer of the wartime, Picasso and his wife spent in Barcelona and Biarritz.
In 1921, Picasso's son Paul was born. Due to this occasion, he painted several paintings with his wife and his son on it. Paul was Picasso's only legitimate son. In 1925, he took part in the first Surrealist exhibition in Paris. Between 1924 and 1926, Picasso preferred to paint abstract still lifes. in 1927, he got known to Marie-Thérèse Walter. She became his model and mistress. In 1928, he started a new period. He began to make sculptural works. In 1931, he left his wife and moved with his mistress to Boisgeloup. There they lived in a country home. There, Picasso had a room for his sculptures only. Since 1932, he used Marie-Thérèse as model. During a travel in Spain, he started to use the bullfight as a new topic of his paintings. In 1935, Picasso's daughter, Maïa, was born. At this time, he got divorced from his wife because of the birth of Maïa. In 1936, Picasso got a job as director of the Prado-Museum in Madrid. During this time, the Spanish Civil War started. German bombs fall on Guernica in Spain on 26 April 1937. Picasso used this impact to paint one of his most famous paintings, Guernica. This painting was completed in about 2 months. It was first shown in the Spanish Pavilion in Paris in 1937.
In 1938, Picasso's mother died. After the Second World War started on 1 September 1939, Picasso returned to Paris. Around 1943, he got known to the painter Françoise Gilot. She bore to him one son and one daughter. In 1941, he wrote his first play "Le désir attrapé par la queue" (English: "Desire Caught by the Tail"). It was first shown in 1944. Also in 1944, Picasso joined the communist Party. Picasso spent almost the full war time in Paris.

</doc>
<doc id="16299" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16299" title="1880s">
1880s


</doc>
<doc id="16302" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16302" title="1881">
1881


</doc>
<doc id="16316" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16316" title="Wake Island">
Wake Island

Wake Island is an atoll (a type of island) in the Pacific Ocean, near Hawaii. It is controlled by the United States Army and United States Air Force. It is a territory of the United States, part of the United States Minor Outlying Islands. From December 1941 to August 1945 the Empire of Japan ruled Wake Island.
Wake is located to the west of the International Date Line and sits in the Wake Island Time Zone, one day ahead of the 50 U.S. states.
Referring to the atoll as an island is the result of a pre-World War II desire by the United States Navy to distinguish Wake from other atolls, most of which were Japanese territory.

</doc>
<doc id="16317" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16317" title="William McKinley">
William McKinley

William McKinley (January 29, 1843 – September 14, 1901) was the 25th President of the United States, from 1897 until his assassination in 1901. 
Before he became President, McKinley was a congressman of Ohio. 
McKinley was inaugurated in 1897. This was the first presidential inauguration to be filmed.
When the USS "Maine" was sunk, the public wanted war. Congress declared war against Spain in Latin America. This was the Spanish-American War. It started the era of imperialism for the United States.
During his presidency, McKinley also supported higher tariffs (taxes on countries which trade with the US). During his term, the United States annexed Hawaii, Cuba, the Philippines, and Wake Island.
McKinley was elected to a second term as president in 1900. His second term did not last very long. He was shot by an anarchist named Leon Czolgosz on September 6, 1901. His later later became infected and resulted in gangrene. He died on September 14. Czolgosz said the President committed war crimes in the Philippines and was an enemy of the people. Czolgosz was executed in the electric chair. McKinley was the third American President to be assassinated. 
After McKinley's death, his vice president Theodore Roosevelt became president.

</doc>
<doc id="16318" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16318" title="Record producer">
Record producer

A record producer (or music producer) is a person who takes charge of a recording session, in the same kind of way that a movie director is in charge of filming movies. Record producers help musicians and recording artists to make singles and albums. The producer controls the recording sessions, coaches and guides the musicians and supervises the recording, mixing and mastering processes to make the music finalized. 

</doc>
<doc id="16321" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16321" title="Gliwice">
Gliwice

Gliwice is a city in south Poland, in Silesian Voivodeship and along the Kłodnica River. According to a count in 2004, it has a population of 200,361 people.
In the late Middle Ages, around 1276, was the first known time that there was a reference to Gliwice in history. At first, it was ruled by Polish dukes, but later became a part of Bohemia in 1335. Later on, in 1526, it was conquered by Austria.
In the middle of the 18th century, Gliwice was taken from the Austrian ruling family and became a part of Prussia. However, in the unification, or coming together, of Germany in 1871, Gliwice became a part of the German empire.
In the 19th century, Gliwice became more developed and was home to many businesses, including one of the most famous theaters in Germany at the time.
In 1945, Gliwice passed into Polish rule.

</doc>
<doc id="16323" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16323" title="First aid">
First aid

First aid is basic knowledge about how to help people who are suddenly sick (illnesses) or hurt (injuries or body damage). For example, first aid is used at accidents to help an injured person until he receives medical treatment (help by doctors, nurses or ambulances). First aid is also used to help people who suddenly become sick, until help arrives or they can be taken to medical care.
A person does not need a lot of equipment to give first aid. A package of things useful to give first aid is called a first aid kit. Lives can be saved even without a first aid kit. First aid can be done just about anywhere. In places far from hospitals, first aid may be the only help possible until the person can be taken to a hospital or clinic.
Emergency medical dispatchers are trained in first aid, so that if there is an emergency, they can give the caller some information on what to do until the ambulance arrives. This can include the "C-A-B" listed below.
First aid skills are kept simple on purpose so that people can remember and use them in an emergency to save at least one life.
One set of goals of first aid is called the ""Three P's"":
Another set of goals for keeping a badly hurt person alive is sometimes called "C-A-B" :
People can learn about first aid from books ("manuals") and videos. A good first aid kit will often include a simple First Aid Guide.
It is best to have good training to give first aid. In addition to books and videos, good training includes a good teacher and the chance to practice. For example, CPR is practiced on a dummy called a manikin, so a student can learn to push down on someone's chest in an emergency without actually doing it to a person. The teacher makes sure the first aid student is doing the skill correctly.
Training can be given by an organization or by a professional medical person, like a doctor, a nurse, or a paramedic. Organizations that teach first aid include the International Red Cross, schools, hospitals, the military, and rescue groups such as fire departments.
The level of training needed to be a first aid helper changes from country to country. For example, in the United Kingdom and the United States, you can go on a 1-day course to become a first aid giver. In the U.K., you can go on a 4-day course for emergencies in a place of work. All firefighters, police officers, and soldiers are trained in first aid during their basic training.
First aid kits may be kept in cloth bags or plastic or metal boxes. They are often labeled with a symbol such as those on the upper right. A first aid kit may contain many items, but basic items that can help with first aid include:

</doc>
<doc id="16324" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16324" title="1868">
1868


</doc>
<doc id="16325" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16325" title="1814">
1814


</doc>
<doc id="16326" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16326" title="1846">
1846

1846 was a year in the 19th century.

</doc>
<doc id="16327" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16327" title="1705">
1705

Year 1705 (MDCCV) was a common year starting on Thursday. It was a common year starting on Monday on the 11-day slower Julian calendar. In the Swedish calendar, it was a common year starting on Sunday. The Swedish calendar is one day ahead of the Julian and ten days behind the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="16330" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16330" title="Wausau, Wisconsin">
Wausau, Wisconsin

Wausau is a city in Marathon County in the U.S. state of Wisconsin. It is the largest city in the county, and it is the county seat (where the government of the county works). According to the 2000 census (official count), 38,426 people lived in the city.
The Wisconsin River flows through the middle of the city.

</doc>
<doc id="16331" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16331" title="1749">
1749


</doc>
<doc id="16333" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16333" title="1852">
1852

Year 1852 (MDCCCLII) was a leap year starting on Thursday of the Gregorian calendar. It was a leap year starting on Tuesday of the 12-day slower Julian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="16334" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16334" title="701">
701


</doc>
<doc id="16335" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16335" title="1158">
1158


</doc>
<doc id="16336" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16336" title="1201">
1201

1201 is a year in the 13th century.

</doc>
<doc id="16337" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16337" title="Care Bears Movie II: A New Generation">
Care Bears Movie II: A New Generation

Care Bears Movie II: A New Generation is an animated movie from 1986, made by Canada's Nelvana Limited and distributed by Columbia Pictures. A follow-up to the first "Care Bears Movie", it tells of the beginnings of the Kingdom of Caring, and of the Care Bears' first Caring Mission, which takes place at a summer camp.
The movie made $8.5 million in the United States during its original run at theatres. Only one more addition to the original Care Bear trilogy, "Adventure in Wonderland", would premiere on the big screen the next summer.
"A New Generation" is a prequel to the Nelvana television series that would be shown on the ABC network the following September.
In this second movie, the Great Wishing Star helps True Heart Bear and Noble Heart Horse start the Care Bear Family, as they try to save them and the Kingdom from a demon villain named Dark Heart. A camper named Christy makes a deal with the villain that makes her a success at anything she never did before, even cartwheels. In turn, he plans to forever capture the Care Bears and Care Bear Cousins, one at a time, inside a magic red bag, and them trap them all inside a secret location somewhere at camp.
Christy's two friends, Dawn and John, later join the Care Bear Family so that they can put an end to his evil doings.
An episode of DiC's Care Bears show also took place at a summer camp. But the storyline of "A New Generation" does not borrow from it.
This was one of only two Care Bear movies to have Harmony Bear as a character; the other one was 2005's "Big Wish Movie". Her second and final 1980s appearance was in the animated series' "Great Race" episode.

</doc>
<doc id="16339" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16339" title="35">
35

35 is a year in the 1st century. It was a common year starting on Saturday of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Gallus and Nonianus.

</doc>
<doc id="16340" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16340" title="1025">
1025

1025 (MXXV) was a common year when the Julian calendar was used. It was the twenty-fifth year of the 2nd millennium and the 11th century.

</doc>
<doc id="16368" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16368" title="Mikhail Bakunin">
Mikhail Bakunin

Mikhail Alexandrovich Bakunin (30 May 1814 – 1 July 1876) was a Russian anarchist. He was one of the early founders of anarchism.
Mikhail was born in the Russian Empire to a family of Russian nobles, He spent his youth as a junior officer in the Russian army but resigned his commission in 1835. He went to school in Moscow to study philosophy and began to attend radical groups where he was greatly influenced by Alexander Herzen. Bakunin left Russia in 1842 for Dresden, and eventually Paris where he met George Sand, Pierre-Joseph Proudhon and Karl Marx
He was eventually deported from France for speaking against Russia's oppression of Poland. In 1849 he was apprehended in Dresden for his participation in the Czech rebellion of 1848. He was turned over to Russia where he was imprisoned in Peter-Paul Fortress in Saint Petersburg. He remained there until 1857, when he was exiled to a work camp in Siberia.
He escaped to Japan, the U.S. and finally ended up in London for a short time, then Switzerland and Italy.
In 1868, Bakunin joined the socialist International Working Men's Association, a federation of trades union and workers' organizations. A showdown with Marx, a key figure in the General Council of the International, ended with Bakunin expelled for having a "secret organisation within the International".
The far larger Bakuninist international outlasted its small Marxist rival, which was isolated in New York. Bakunin promoted the basic ideas of syndicalism and of anarchism. From 1870 to 1876, Bakunin wrote some of his longer works, such as "Statism and Anarchy" and "God and the State". 
The Paris Commune fitted many elements of Bakunin's anarchist programme – self-management, mandates delegates, a militia system with elected officers, and decentralisation. Despite declining health, Bakunin also tried to join anarchists in Bologna, Italy, but was forced to return to Switzerland in disguise, where he settled in Lugano. He remained active in the worker's and peasant's movements of Europe and was also a major influence on movements in Egypt and Latin America.

</doc>
<doc id="16377" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16377" title="Internet Relay Chat">
Internet Relay Chat

Internet Relay Chat (IRC) is a chat system on the Internet. It allows people from around the world to have conversations together, but it can also be used for two people to chat privately.
The IRC chat rooms are also called "IRC channels". These channels are on IRC servers, which you can connect to by finding that server's information. This information will often begin with "irc," then a period, the name of the server, then another period, and finally, .com .org or .net. An example would be 'irc.[Servername].org'
There are small IRC servers (for example, OperaNet) to medium IRC servers (freenode and DalNet, which have about 30,000 users) and big IRC servers (for example, EFNet, UnderNet, which have over 100,000 users).
An IRC client is needed to use IRC. An IRC client is a computer program designed to work with IRC. There are many Java web browser based clients as well as application based. Popular stand-alone clients includes mIRC for Microsoft Windows and XChat for Linux and Microsoft Windows. The Opera web browser has an IRC client built into the browser. ChatZilla is a chat client which is a plugin to Mozilla Firefox.
IRC bots are computer programs used to help control and protect channels.
IRC channels usually begin with a hash (#). 
IRC is an open protocol that uses TCP and optionally TLS. An IRC server can connect to other IRC servers to expand the IRC network. Users access IRC networks by connecting a client to a server. There are many client and server programs, such as mIRC and the Bahamut IRCd, respectively. Most IRC servers do not require users to log in, but a user will have to set a nickname before being connected.
IRC was originally a plain text protocol (although later extended), which on request was assigned port 194/TCP by IANA. However, most servers now run IRC on 6667/TCP and nearby port numbers (for example TCP ports 6112-6119) so that the server does not have to be run with root privileges.
This is a list of some programs that allow users to connect to IRC.

</doc>
<doc id="16382" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16382" title="Spring">
Spring

Spring is the season after winter and before summer. Days become longer and weather gets warmer in the temperate zone because the Earth tilts towards the Sun. In many parts of the world plants grow and flowers bloom. Often people with hay fever suffer more, because of the allergens. Many animals have their breeding seasons in spring.
In many parts of the world it rains for hours. This helps the plants, grow and the flowers bloom.
At the start of spring, people suffering from seasonal affective disorder will feel better. Hay fever, however, often becomes worse.
Spring break is a vacation period in early spring at universities and schools in various countries in the world. Holidays celebrated in spring include Passover and Easter.

</doc>
<doc id="16384" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16384" title="1862">
1862

1862 was a year.

</doc>
<doc id="16385" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16385" title="1801">
1801

1801 was the first year of the 19th century.

</doc>
<doc id="16386" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16386" title="Muse">
Muse

The Muses are goddesses representing different arts and sciences in Greek mythology. They are the daughters of Mnemosyne and Zeus.
Most commonly the Muses are:
The word "muse" is also sometimes used for a person who inspires somebody else, or any other type of inspiring object. Muse can also be used to describe one's creative thoughts, such as poetry or a musical composition.

</doc>
<doc id="16388" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16388" title="Yes (band)">
Yes (band)

Yes are a progressive rock band that formed in London, England in 1968 that is among the most influential progressive bands of all time. The band has received wide critical praise for their work. Their best known songs include "Owner of a Lonely Heart", "Roundabout" and "I've Seen All Good People". 

</doc>
<doc id="16389" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16389" title="Mason Williams">
Mason Williams

Mason Williams (born August 24, 1938) is an easy listening guitarist. His most famous work is "Classical Gas".
Also a photographer, Williams published a life-sized photo print of a Greyhound bus in the 1960s. He appeared with the print on the cover of his first album, "The Mason Williams Phonograph Record". The print is now in the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, DC.

</doc>
<doc id="16390" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16390" title="Leaf">
Leaf

A leaf is an above-ground plant organ. Its main functions are photosynthesis and gas exchange. A leaf is often flat, so it absorbs the most light, and thin, so that the sunlight can get to the chloroplasts in the cells. Most leaves have stomata, which open and close. They regulate carbon dioxide, oxygen, and water vapour exchange with the atmosphere.
Plants with leaves all year round are evergreens, and those that shed their leaves are deciduous. Deciduous trees and shrubs generally lose their leaves in autumn. Before this happens, the leaves change colour. The leaves will grow back in spring.
Leaves come in many shapes and sizes. The biggest undivided leaf is that of a giant edible arum. This lives in marshy parts of the tropical rain forest of Borneo. One of its leaves can be ten feet across and have a surface area of over 30 square feet (~2.8 sq. metres).
A leaf is a plant organ and is made up of a collection of tissues in a regular organisation. The major tissue systems present are:
The epidermis is the outer layer of cells covering the leaf. It forms the boundary separating the plant's inner cells from the external world.
The epidermis is covered with pores called "stomata". They are part of a complex with a pore surrounded on each side by chloroplast-containing guard cells, and two to four subsidiary cells that lack chloroplasts. Opening and closing of the stoma complex regulates the exchange of gases and water vapor between the outside air and the interior of the leaf and plays an important role in allowing photosynthesis without letting the leaf dry out.
Most of the interior of the leaf between the upper and lower layers of epidermis is a tissue called the mesophyll (Greek for "middle leaf"). This assimilation tissue is the main place photosynthesis takes place in the plant. The products of photosynthesis are sugars, which can be turned into other products in plant cells.
In ferns and most flowering plants, the mesophyll is divided into two layers: 
Leaves are normally green in color, which comes from chlorophyll found in the chloroplasts. Plants that lack chlorophyll cannot photosynthesize.
The 'veins' are a dense network of xylem, which supply water for photosynthesis, and phloem, which remove the sugars produced by photosynthesis. The pattern of the veins is called 'venation'. 
In angiosperms the pattern of venation differs in the two main groups. Venation is usually is parallel in monocotyledons, but is an interconnecting network in broad-leaved plants (dicotyledons). 
Many leaves are covered in trichomes (small hairs) which have a wide range of structures and functions. Some trichomes are prickles, some are scaled, some secrete substances such as oil. Carnivorous plants secrete digestive enzymes from trichomes.
What leaves look like on the plant varies greatly. Closely related plants have the same kind of leaves because they have all descended from a common ancestor. The terms for describing leaf shape and pattern is shown, in illustrated form, at Wikibooks.
Different terms are usually used to describe leaf placement (phyllotaxis):
Leaves form a helix pattern centered around the stem, with (depending upon the species) the same angle of divergence. There is a regularity in these angles and they follow the numbers in a Fibonacci sequence. This tends to give the best chance for the leaves to catch light.
Two basic forms of leaves can be described considering the way the blade (lamina) is divided. 
Some leaves have a petiole (leaf stem). Sessile leaves do not: the blade attaches directly to the stem. Sometimes the leaf blad surrounds the stem, giving the impression that the shoot grows through the leaf.
In some "Acacia" species, such as the Koa Tree ("Acacia koa"), the petioles are expanded or broadened and function like leaf blades; these are called phyllodes. There may or may not be normal pinnate leaves at the tip of the phyllode.
A stipule, present on the leaves of many dicotyledons, is an appendage on each side at the base of the petiole resembling a small leaf. Stipules may be shed or not shed.
In the course of evolution, many species have leaves which are adapted to other functions.

</doc>
<doc id="16391" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16391" title="War on Terrorism">
War on Terrorism

The War on Terrorism or War on Terror is a campaign that the United States and some of its allies started to remove terrorist groups and to punish the states that sponsor terrorism. The former United States President Bush's argument was that the countries like North Korea, Cuba, Iran, Iraq, Syria, Afghanistan, and Libya were a direct threat to the United States and its allies. The term was typically used with a particular focus on militant Islamists and al-Qaeda.
The Administration of US President Barack Obama uses the term "Overseas Contingency Operation".

</doc>
<doc id="16399" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16399" title="Alkali metal">
Alkali metal

Alkali metals are the chemical elements in group one of the periodic system. They are silver-coloured when pure, soft and have only one valence electron. They like to make reactions in which they give up this single electron and then have a charge of +1. They react strongly with water and because of this, they have to be stored in petrol. Alkali metals are the first group in the periodic table. They are never found in nature uncombined because they are unstable and they react fast to other elements. They bond well with all elements except the noble gases. When they are in air, they quickly turn black. 
The alkali metals are lithium (Li), sodium (Na), potassium (K), rubidium (Rb), caesium (sometimes written "cesium", although "caesium" is preferred) (Cs), and francium (Fr). Lithium is the least reactive. Although it was thought before that francium would be the most reactive, although it is very rare, it was more recently predicted that caesium is in fact more reactive than francium due to relativity.
Sodium is the most important alkali metal. One of the most important salts of sodium is sodium chloride (NaCl) (common 'table salt'). It also forms a hydroxide, sodium hydroxide (NaOH), which is commonly called 'caustic soda'. It is a very strong base.

</doc>
<doc id="16401" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16401" title="Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl">
Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl

Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl is a 2003 movie from Walt Disney Pictures. It is set in the early eighteenth century in the British Empire.
When the movie begins, a young girl called Elizabeth Swann (Keira Knightley) is seen on a ship with her father, who is the major of a British colony in the Caribbean. Elizabeth catches sight of a boy in the water and the ship's crew save him. He is called Will Turner (Orlando Bloom). Elizabeth finds a chain around his neck with a golden medallion. This leads her to believe that Will is a pirate. She takes the medallion and keeps it.
Eight years later, Elizabeth has grown up, and her father is now governor of Port Royal. James Norrington, a commodore in the Royal Navy, proposes to her. She accepts, despite the fact that she in love with Will Turner, who is her father's blacksmith.
When James Norrington proposes to her, she faints (seemingly overcome by Norrington's proposal, but she actually fainted because her corset was too tight, and she could not breathe.) and falls off the ledge into the water below. Jack Sparrow sees her fall and rescues her. Despite this, James Norrington believes he should be arrested. Jack then threatens Elizabeth's life, and tries to escape. However, his escape fails due to Will Turner and he is taken to prison.
That night, the cursed crew of the "Black Pearl" attack Port Royal and kidnap Elizabeth. Jack Sparrow escapes his prison. He steals a ship to travel to Tortuga, a privateer port where he hopes to assemble a crew. Will Turner goes with him to rescue Elizabeth. Jack Sparrow went to Tortuga for the treasure, not for Elizabeth. On Will and Jack's journey to Tortuga, Will finds out his father was a pirate.
Elizabeth, on board the "Black Pearl", learns that the crew is under the curse of a chest of Aztec gold. They need the blood of each crew member to break the curse. However, Bootstrap Bill was killed, and they still need his blood, or the blood of his descendant. They believe Elizabeth is his descendant. They plan to spill her blood on the chest of Aztec gold in hopes to break the curse. 
Will secretly takes away Elizabeth to safety and the zombies of the Black Pearl invade the British's ship positioned not far from the land. An epic fight goes on between the zombies and the british, Jack Sparrow and Captain Barbosa (Captain of the Black Pearl), and Will Turner/Elizabeth Swan and some left over zombies.
Jack Sparrow uses his one shot to shoot Captain Barbosa and Will puts his blood on the Aztec Gold, causing the bullet to cause damage to Captain Barbosa. 
The British win the fight against the zombies that are now humans. Jack Sparrow is captured by the British but Will Turner saves him from the lynching and Jack escapes with the Black Pearl. Before Barbosa, he use to be the Captain of the Black Pearl.

</doc>
<doc id="16407" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16407" title="1866">
1866


</doc>
<doc id="16410" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16410" title="Buenaventura Durruti">
Buenaventura Durruti

Buenaventura Durruti Dumange (1896-1936) was a Spanish anarchist leader. He was born in the town of León and died in Madrid when he was killed by a person using a gun. Durruti was a central figure of Spanish anarchism during the country's civil war of 1936-1939. He helped to fight against fascism.

</doc>
<doc id="16411" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16411" title="Chester">
Chester

Chester is a city in the north-west of England. It is almost 2000 years old and was started by Romans. A person from Chester is called a Cestrian.
Chester is on the river Dee, and is the county town of the county of Cheshire. It is near to the country Wales. Almost 120,000 people live in Chester. It is just south of Liverpool.
Near to Chester is Chester Zoo, which is the biggest zoo in the United Kingdom. There are other interesting places in Chester, and many are connected to its history. For example, there is the old Roman amphitheatre. This is the biggest in the UK. The Rows are unusual shops. In the centre of the town, the main streets have two rows of shops, one on top of the other. The Rows have been part of Chester since the Middle Ages. 

</doc>
<doc id="16413" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16413" title="The Secret of NIMH">
The Secret of NIMH

The Secret of NIMH is an animated movie directed by Don Bluth and released by his studio United Artists in 1982. The movie was based on Robert C. O'Brien's children's book "Mrs. Frisby and the Rats of NIMH". (The main character's name was changed to "Brisby", so that its audiences would not take its sound for the Frisbee toy.) Bluth began the idea of creating this movie after disagreement with Disney over "The Fox and the Hound". Before that he worked with the previous Disney animated movie which was also about mice: "The Rescuers". Later he made another animated movie about mice called "An American Tail", which came out in 1986.
A widow mouse named Mrs. Brisby does what she can to move her home, a stone block, before humans invade her place with a tractor. To do that, she must find help from a comic, love-seeking crow and a group of very smart rats from NIMH, the National Institute of Mental Health. In order to get the task done, she must see the leader of the rats, an old magician named Nicodemus, for a glowing red amulet that could rescue her home and her children (Martin, Teresa, Cynthia and a sick Timothy). She also learns, from him, a secret about his group that could forever change her life.
<nowiki>*</nowiki> Hartman's final role before her retirement from acting, and eventual suicide.
In spite of its critical success, this movie had a mediocre run at the box office, mostly because of a much bigger rival, Steven Spielberg's E. T. (Ironically, Spielberg saw the Bluth movie and asked its director to work on "An American Tail".)
Many fans and critics have called "NIMH" Don Bluth's most important work and magnum opus and masterpiece. Even though this movie was not a big box office success, "An American Tail" and 1997's "Anastasia" became his most successful works in later years.
In 1998, MGM released a direct-to-video sequel called "The Secret of NIMH 2: Timmy to the Rescue". In the sequel, Timothy goes to a place called Thorn Valley because he wants to become a hero like his father. His brother Martin has turned evil (although he does not want to), and Timothy must fight him in order to save the Rats of NIMH. At Thorn Valley Timothy learns from a young girl mouse that the mice who were thought to have been killed during the escape from NIMH are still alive, so he and the rats try to rescue them.
The sequel was hated by the fans of the first movie and the movie critics because of its clichéd and familiar storyline, and because many people thought that the magic of Don Bluth's dark and original "NIHM" was destroyed by the sequel, because MGM toned down the darkness of the story.

</doc>
<doc id="16416" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16416" title="397">
397


</doc>
<doc id="16427" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16427" title="Nonmetal">
Nonmetal

Nonmetal or non-metal is a chemical element that does not have the properties of a metal. They can either be gases or elements that do not look like metals. Examples of gaseous elements are: hydrogen, helium, oxygen, nitrogen, fluorine, neon, or radon, just to name a few. An example of a solid that is a nonmetal is sulfur. It is yellow and not shiny at all. An example of a liquid that is a nonmetal is bromine. It is red. A non metal is also a good insulator for heat and cold. Usually, gases or brittle solids are non-metals. Elements on the periodic table can be classified as metal, semimetal, or non-metal.
Five times more elements are metals than nonmetals. Two of the nonmetals—hydrogen and helium—make up over 99 per cent of the observable Universe, and one—oxygen—makes up close to half of the Earth's crust, oceans and atmosphere. Living organisms are also composed almost entirely of nonmetals, and nonmetals form many more compounds than metals.

</doc>
<doc id="16433" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16433" title="Holly Marie Combs">
Holly Marie Combs

Holly Marie Combs (born December 3, 1973 in San Diego, California) is an American actress. She is best known for working on the television series "Charmed". Before "Charmed", she work in the TV series "Picket Fences".

</doc>
<doc id="16434" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16434" title="Bengal tiger">
Bengal tiger

The Bengal tiger ("Panthera tigris tigris") is a tiger subspecies native to the Indian subcontinent. It lives in Bhutan, Nepal, Bangladesh and northern India. It is the National animal of both India and Bangladesh.
The tiger's habitat includes tropical moist evergreen forests, tropical dry forests, tropical and subtropical moist deciduous forests, mangroves, subtropical and temperate upland forests, and alluvial grasslands.
In 2010 it became endangered by IUCN. There are less than 2,500 of these tigers. There are about 1,520–1,909 in India, 440 in Bangladesh, 124–229 in Nepal and 67–81 in Bhutan. New tiger census 2014 showed the population of tiger in India approximately 2,226 which is 30% more from 1706, counted in the year 2010. 
The Bengal tiger's coat is yellow to light orange. Its stripes go from dark brown to black. The belly and the inside parts of the limbs are white. The tail is orange with black rings.
They are the second largest tiger, after the Siberian tiger also known as the Amur Tiger. Male Bengal tigers have a total length, including the tail, from . Females go from . The average weight of males is . Females are .

</doc>
<doc id="16499" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16499" title="Taekwondo">
Taekwondo

Taekwondo (also spelled tae kwon do, taekwon-do, or more exactly taegwondo) is a martial art (system of fighting) of Korean origin, similar enough to the Japanese karate. It is based on the utilization of the hands and feet in order to attack or to be defended from an adversary, although some techniques use fingertips, elbows, or knees in order to strike the opponent. Taekwondo is a national sport in South Korea, "kyeorugi" is a sport event in the Olympic Games. In the Korean alphabet hangeul, "태" (跆) signifies "to strike with the foot"; "권" (拳) to "strike with the hand"; and "도" (道) signifies "way", "road" or "route". "Taekwondo" can therefore be translated as "way of the foot and of the fist". 
Taekwondo refers to a great tradition of Korean martial arts (higher or under 2000 years), but exists in its current form only near 50 years. Today, it has been changed into a sport practiced very much. In the Olympic Games of Seoul 1988 and of Barcelona 1992 it became Olympic sport of exhibition and at present it has come to be Olympic sport of competition.
Taekwondo is best known for its use of kicks. This makes it different from other martial arts such as karate or certain forms of southern kung-fu. Kicking is important because the leg is the most powerful and longest body part that the martial artist can use as a weapon. Therefore, a fighter who kicks well can hurt his opponent without hurting himself.
One of the most important exercises is the act of doing "poomse" ("katas" in terminology of karate). The "poomses" are the arranged groups of movements of defense and of attack. They simulate a combat against diverse adversaries, and they are related directly to the different degrees of belts. They are done with the purpose to improve the equilibrium, the elasticity, the rapidity and the control of the different movements.
Taekwondo as a sport and as an exercise is popular among people of both sexes and many ages. Taekwondo develops force, speed, balance, flexibility, and stamina. It also involves mental focus. Breaking boards, for example, demonstrates a union of mental and physical discipline. Breaking a board with one's hand or foot requires both the physical mastery of the technique and a concentrated focus on one's force.
Even though some things in Tae Kwon Do have changed over the years, respect is not one of those things. Respect is the biggest part of Tae Kwon Do, without respect Tae Kwon Do would not be the huge art it is today. Some of the things that have changed are the belts. The original colors are still the same, but every time you test you either receive a new belt or receive a stripe to place on you current belt. Legend has it that long ago there was just one belt. There still were colors though: white, the color the belt was originally; yellow, the color achieved thorough sweat soaking into the belt; green, a color that came though practicing outside and falling; blue, the color of the sky; red, the color of blood; and black, the color of all the dirt mixing with everything else on the belt.
There are several world-wide taekwondo associations. The most known of them are:

</doc>
<doc id="16500" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16500" title="Fish and chips">
Fish and chips

Fish and chips is a kind of food that originally came from the United Kingdom. It is a popular kind of fast food in some parts of the world. As the name says, it made of chips and a deep fried fish fillet.
Shops and restaurants that have fish and chips are easy to find in England and Wales. They are common in British cities. The first Fish and Chips were found in the East end of London in the late 19th Century. So they are not as traditional as we think. 
Traditionally, cod, haddock, or (rarely) flounder are used to make fish and chips. Of these, cod is by far the most popular. Other fish with white meat can be used as well, for example whiting or plaice. Many places that serve fish and chips have more than one kind of fish. The customers can then choose what kind of fish they want...
The fish is always dipped in batter, which is a kind of liquid mixture which hardens upon frying. After that, it will be fried for a short time. The phrase 'fish & chips' implies that it will be fried in batter; of course, in a fish restaurant, grilling or boiling would be alternatives. Fish cooked like that do not have batter. Typically Fish and Chips is eaten with lots of vinegar and salt. 
The chips are made from sliced potatoes. They are larger than French fries. Large slices of potatoes are fried.
Very often there are other side-dishes that are served with Fish and chips (also called a 'chippie' or 'fish shop'). They include mushy peas, onions, gherkins(which are baby cucumbers),baked beans and saveloys (long sausages). Sometimes, you can ask for 'scrapings' which are the bits of crunchy batter that have fallen off the fish when it was frying.
In Northern England there is also the variety chips and gravy (a little sauce) on the chips. It is less common in the rest of the country but sometimes you can also find 'curry sauce' in other parts of the UK.
Fish and chips are also sold out of mobile shops. Very often the shops and restaurants that serve fish and chips do not have a license to serve alcohol. Some nutritionists criticize fish and chips, because the meal contains a large amount of fat.

</doc>
<doc id="16504" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16504" title="Marxist economics">
Marxist economics

Marxist economics comes from the ideas of a philosopher named Karl Marx applied to economics. He created it to explain the "rules of motion" of production and exchange under capitalism. This theory was used to argue against the middle class theories of economics common at that time. Marx wanted this to be a tool for the working class (the proletariat) to use to overthrow capitalism and replace it with socialism, then with communism. Socialism, would be a step towards the disappearance of the state, and communism would be, according to Marx, a society where goods and services would be distributed "to each according to his need, from each according to his ability."
Marx used the Labor Theory of Value, which says that the value of a commodity is determined by the labor required to produce it. More specifically, Marx defined the value of a commodity as the Socially necessary labor time required to produce it, the average (taken across all of society) time required to produce a given commodity under the average conditions of production. It follows from this that the [working class] is responsible for the production of all of the [value] (wealth) consumed by all members of society.
Marx viewed the capitalist class (the bourgeoisie), those who control the means of production, as leech-like and unnecessary; they are not necessary for the production of the goods society must consume in order to meet human needs and reproduce itself. Rather, Marx saw the capitalist class as getting wealth for itself by the exploitation of the working class. Marx argued that wages under capitalism are determined not by the value created by workers during a given period of time, but by the cost of their labor power (ability to work). He argued that the cost of labor power is determined by the cost of the goods and services (food, clothing, shelter, child care, education etc.) necessary to maintain and reproduce workers. So, capitalists do not pay workers for the value they create: they extract Surplus value, the difference between the value created by a worker and the cost of their labor power (their wages), from the working class. In other words, surplus value is unpaid labor performed by the working class for the capitalist class, which Marx termed exploitation.
Marx argued that because the capitalist class enriches itself by the exploitation of the working class, the economic interests of the two classes are opposed and therefore incompatible. He saw the dispossession of the capitalists and the seizure of control of the means of production by the working class as historically progressive in that it would bring about the end of class society, remove the contradictions inherent under capitalism (a result of the antagonism of the two major classes, the bourgeoisie and proletariat), and qualitatively increase the scope of human development in many areas.

</doc>
<doc id="16510" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16510" title="South African rand">
South African rand

The rand (sign: R; code: ZAR) is the South African currency. 100 cents make up one rand. 
The rand is named after an area near Johannesburg called the Rand, which is famous for its gold mines.
The symbol for the rand is a capital R, written before the sum. Thus, one hundred rands is written as R100.

</doc>
<doc id="16511" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16511" title="The Care Bears Movie">
The Care Bears Movie

The Care Bears Movie is a Canadian animated movie that came out on March 29, 1985. It was produced by Nelvana Limited of Canada, and was distributed by The Samuel Goldwyn Company. It was the first in a trilogy(or set of three) of big-screen movies that had the Care Bears in lead roles, and the first to be based directly on a toy line. The movie's success led to a spin-off television series that premiered on ABC a year after its release.
There were well-known celebrities among the movie's starring line-up, such as Carole King, who wrote and sung its opening theme. John Sebastian and NRBQ also contributed to its score. The movie also had the voices of Mickey Rooney, Canadian actress Georgia Engel, and voice actress Cree Summer.
It was made as a full-length commercial for the title toys, and had mixed views from critics. But its $23 million gross at the box office made it the biggest animated work outside the Disney market when it came out. It is one of the most profitable releases in the animation industry (its cost was $3 million). The movie saved Nelvana from closing down when "Rock & Rule", the company's first production, did not do well.
The Care Bears Movie holds financial records for non-Disney animation (at the time it first came out), for Canadian moviemaking (only rivalled by "Porky's" and, more recently, "The Wild"), and for its distributor Samuel Goldwyn.
Its director, Arna Selznick, was one of three women to ever lead the production for a full-length cartoon. To this day, she is proud of these efforts, though she was aware of the strategy to promote it.
In this movie, an orphanage caretaker named Mr. Cherrywood tells the story of how the Care Bears come to help two children who do not care for anyone (Kim and Jason). The Care Bears live in Care-a-lot, a cloud-filled place up in the sky. As the two of them become friends with the Bears, a carnival magician's helper, Nicholas, turns from good to bad, because of an evil spirit he got from an old book.
When the boy's evil grows more and more, the Care Bears and their Cousins (from the Forest of Feelings), along with Kim and Jason, come back to Earth to end his evil doings. In turn, the carnival and the whole world will be saved.

</doc>
<doc id="16512" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16512" title="1779">
1779


</doc>
<doc id="16513" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16513" title="1700">
1700


</doc>
<doc id="16515" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16515" title="1322">
1322


</doc>
<doc id="16516" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16516" title="1463">
1463


</doc>
<doc id="16517" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16517" title="1205">
1205

1205 is a year in the 13th century.

</doc>
<doc id="16520" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16520" title="Victoria (Australia)">
Victoria (Australia)

Victoria is a state in Australia, in the south-east corner of the country. Its capital, largest and most-populated city is Melbourne. Geelong is Victoria's second biggest city, Ballarat is the third and Bendigo the fourth.
At the end of 2015 Victoria's population was an estimated 5,996,400 . After British settlement in Australia in 1788, it was called the Port Phillip District of New South Wales. In 1851, it became an independent colony. It was named after Queen Victoria. In 1901 it became a state in Australia.
Victoria's premier is Daniel Andrews from the Labor Party.
The state's emblems are:
Victoria has the highest population density of a state in Australia. Highways lead to and from population centres, mainly Melbourne and other major cities. Rail transport in Victoria is common. Major railway line operators include Metro Trains Melbourne, V/Line and Pacific National.
Melbourne Airport is the biggest domestic and international airport for Victoria. It is linked to Melbourne by the Tullamarine Freeway.
The Port of Melbourne is the largest port for cargo in Australia, located in Melbourne near Yarra River. Additional seaports are at Westernport Bay, Geelong, and Portland.
See main article Melbourne.
The city of Melbourne has many attractions, including shopping, the Crown Casino, Melbourne Zoo, Melbourne Museum, Melbourne Aquarium, Melbourne Docklands, Southbank and St. Kilda. Melbourne is also the home of cultural and sporting icons such as The Arts Centre, National Gallery of Victoria and the Melbourne Cricket Ground (MCG) which held the 1956 Summer Olympic Games.
The historic cities of Ballarat, Beechworth, Bendigo, Castlemaine, Maldon and Daylesford which were all towns built on the goldfields during the 1850s.
Natural attractions include The Twelve Apostles on the Great Ocean Road, Wilson's Promontory, The Grampians, Buchan Caves, Gippsland Lakes and the penguins on Phillip Island. The Dandenong Ranges just east of Melbourne has the Puffing Billy Railway and Healesville Sanctuary.
The Murray River which is the state's northern border, has towns including Echuca and Mildura. Boating, fishing and other water sports are popular along the river.
Geelong, south west of Melbourne on Corio Bay, has many beaches, and hosts the Australian International Airshow. Nearby is the Bellarine Peninsula, which has many famous beaches such as Bells Beach, Torquay and Queenscliff.
The Mornington Peninsula is well known for its beaches and wineries.
The Victorian Alpine Region in the Australian Alps is popular for skiing with resorts at Falls Creek, Mount Hotham, and Mount Buffalo.
Victoria is the home of AFL, with ten of the eighteen clubs of the Australian Football League based in Victoria. The traditional Grand Final is held at the Melbourne Cricket Ground on the last Saturday in September.
Victoria's cricket team, the Victorian Bushrangers play in the national Pura Cup cricket competition.
Victoria has one team each represented in the National Rugby League and the Australian Rugby Championship, the Melbourne Storm and Melbourne Rebels respectively.
Victoria's climate varies greatly despite its small size. It ranges from the snowfields in the north east where the temperatures can be below freezing, to the dry semi-arid Mallee area of the north west where it can get very hot.
Overall, the southern position of Victoria means it tends to be a bit cooler and wetter than the other Australian mainland states.
The hottest temperature recorded in Victoria was 48.8 °C at Hopetoun, on the 9 February, 2009.
The coldest temperature recorded in Victoria was -11.7 °C at Omeo, on 15 June, 1965.
The highest daily rainfall was 375mm at Tanbryn, on 22 March, 1983.
Victoria was the scene of much volcanic activity which started 40 million years ago. The Western Volcanic Plains which cover 10% of the state are the third largest volcanic plains in the world. Most of the plains were formed about six million years ago. There are about 400 volcanoes on the plains.
It is unknown exactly when humans settled in Victoria. A site near Keilor has evidence of Australian Aborigines living near on the Maribyrnong River more than 31,000 years ago. Victoria was one of the most populated areas of Australia. The Aborigines used fire-stick farming to burn the volcanic plains regularly, and they became some of the biggest grass plains in the world. This supported large numbers of animals such as kangaroos and wallabies. The Kulin federation were a large language group that lived on the plains and included the Watha wurrung, Boon wurrung, Woi wurrung, Daung wurrung and Djadja wurrung people. Other groups in Victoria included the Jari Jari, Ladji Ladji, Wemba Wemba, Wergaia, Jardwadjali, Gunnai, Waywurru and the Taungurung. In the rivers, creeks and wetlands the Aboriginals had built large fish traps to catch both fish and eels. In the Yarra River wetlands, some of these traps had stone walls about high.
Within ten years of the British settlement at Sydney in 1788, explorers began looking at the coast of Victoria. The first settlement in Victoria was at Sorrento, just inside the entrance to Port Phillip Bay. A small group of 51 soldiers, 308 convicts, 17 free settlers, 12 officials, one missionary and his wife, led by Lieutenant-Governor David Collins set up camp at the end of 1803. They had come from England to set up a colony because the British government was worried that the French may try to claim the area. However they were unable to find water and gave up the settlement within six weeks. They went further south and began the settlement of Hobart, Tasmania. While at Sorrento, a convict named William Buckley escaped. He lived with Aboriginal tribes until meeting with Europeans again when Melbourne was settled in 1835. On 12 December 1826, Captain Samuel Wright, Lieutenant Burchill, explorer William Hovell and 21 convicts tried to start a settlement near Corinella, on Westernport Bay. This was also unsuccessful and the group went back to Sydney on 19 February 1828.
Although the two official attempts to settle in Victoria had failed, there were a number of unofficial settlements along the coast. From 1820 small groups of people lived at various places along the south coast, including Phillip Island. They were hunting seals and Southern Right Whales. The Launceston Fishing Company had a base at Portland Bay. These hunters were often in conflict with the Aboriginal communities. The Europeans often captured Aboriginal women to use as slaves and for sex. Edward Henty moved to Portland Bay and began sheep farming in December 1834. These settlements were against the law, as the British government was trying to restrict the areas of settlement. They argued that they did not have the ability to provide support to remote and isolated settlements. Repeated requests for official permission to settle in Victoria were refused by the government.
In 1835 a group of settlers, farmers and government officials from Tasmania formed the Port Phillip Association. Led by John Batman, who had heard about the grass plains from William Hovell, the group decided to ignore the British government and move flocks of sheep to Victoria. Batman landed at Indented Head, Victoria on 29 May 1835. He began exploring Port Phillip Bay. On 6 June 1835 he met with Aboriginal leaders near Merri Creek, and made a treaty. Under this treaty the Aboriginals agreed to allow Batman to use their land for his sheep. In return, they could continue to stay on the land, they would be provided with food and goods, and they would receive protection from other Europeans. This was the only treaty ever made with the Australian Aborigines. On 26 August 1835, the Governor of New South Wales, Sir Richard Bourke, said the treaty was against the law. The land belonged to the crown, and did not belong to the Aboriginals.
At the end of 1835, the British government changed its policy on settlement in eastern Australia. People were allowed to use large areas of the country for sheep farming. If people paid a £10 fee, they could settle wherever they liked. These farmers became known as "squatters", as they "sat" on the land, which they did not own. The effect of this new policy meant that between 1835 and 1838, more land was settled than had been since 1788. It has been described as the fastest land occupation in history. By 1849, just 1019 squatters had taken over 17.7 million hectares of land.
The effect of the fast land occupation had terrible consequences for the Victorian Aborigines. The squatters moved their sheep onto the grasslands that had once been the Aborigines main source of food. The squatters built their farms near the waterholes and creeks where the Aborigines had camped for thousands of years. The Aborigines began to kill sheep to eat, and attempted to stop people from taking their land. The early settlers tried to remove the Aborigines from the land. Sometimes they were chased away, and sometimes they were murdered. For example, at Murdering Creek, near Camperdown, 35-40 men, women and children were shot dead by the manager of Glenorminston Station, Frederick Taylor and several of his farm workers.
Gold was found in Victoria at Clunes on 28 June 1851. With further discoveries at Ballarat, Bendigo and Castlemaine there was a huge increase in the population as people came from all around the world.

</doc>
<doc id="16522" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16522" title="Chaos theory">
Chaos theory

Chaos theory is a part of mathematics. It looks at certain systems that are very sensitive. A very small change may make the system behave completely differently. 
Very small changes in the starting position of a chaotic system make a big difference after a while. This is why even large computers cannot tell the weather for more than a few days in the future. Even if the weather was perfectly measured, a small change or error will make the prediction completely wrong. Since even a butterfly can make enough wind with its wings to do this, a chaotic system is sometimes called the "butterfly effect". No computer knows enough to tell how the small wind will change the weather.
Some systems (like weather) might appear random at first look, but chaos theory says that these kinds of systems or patterns may not be. If people pay close enough attention to what is really going on, they might notice the chaotic patterns.
The main idea of chaos theory is that a minor difference at the start of a process can make a major change in it as time progresses. Quantum chaos theory is a new idea in the study of chaos theory. It deals with quantum physics.
As an example, take a pendulum that is attached at some point, and swings freely. Connecting a second pendulum to the first will make the system completely different. It is very hard to start in exactly the same position again - a change in starting position so small that it cannot even be seen can quickly cause the pendulum swing to become different from what it was before. 
A very important part to the study of chaos theory is the study of mathematics functions that are known as "fractals". Fractal functions work like chaotic systems: a small change in the starting values can change the value of the function in ways that look random. Due to the fact that they are mathematical, they are easy to study.

</doc>
<doc id="16524" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16524" title="1540">
1540


</doc>
<doc id="16527" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16527" title="First World">
First World

First World is a term used in politics and economics to refer to the richer and better developed nations. In these countries, the majority of the people are in the middle class and enjoy a good standard of living. This term is being used less, as terms like "global North" and "developed world" become more common.

</doc>
<doc id="16530" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16530" title="Mulan (movie)">
Mulan (movie)

Mulan is a 1998 American animated movie produced by Walt Disney Feature Animation. It is the 36th movie in the Walt Disney Animated Classics series. It is set in old-time China and based on local legend. The movie stars the voices of Ming-Na Wen and Eddie Murphy. "Mulan" was a success with its fans because it was different from Disney's other movies in terms of music and artistic design. The music was written by Jerry Goldsmith who also wrote the music for another animated movie, 1982's "The Secret of NIMH". Christina Aguilera sang "Reflections" for the movie's soundtrack.
A direct-to-video sequel, "Mulan II", was released on February 1, 2005.
The story is about a girl called Mulan. An army of Huns from Mongolia, led by Shan Yu, attack China. The Chinese army must face them, and needs one man from every family to go to war. Mulan's father is willing to join, but he is old and has a limp, and it is clear that he cannot fight and will die in the war. Mulan is supposed to get married, but is so clumsy that she fails the test to prove she would be a good wife.When seeing the match-making mistress she fails to be elegant and lady-like. Mulan fears she has dishonoured her family, but now decides that she must save her father. Mulan decides to become a boy to bring "honor" to her family. She secretly takes her father's armour and weapon and leaves to report in the Chinese army.
Mushu is an old spirit guardian of the Fa family, who has lost his job and been turned into a dragon. The family ancestors want to send someone to watch over Mulan on her journey, and Mushu takes the job in order to restore his honour. He and the lucky cricket of the family catch up with Mulan, as she joins the small army led by Li Shang. Mulan pretends to be a man, called Ping. All the men in the new army need a lot of training, but after a while the soldiers must face the enemy. 
The army meets the Huns in the snowy mountains. When the Chinese are attacked, Mulan uses a cannon to start an avalanche that covers all the Mongolians. Mulan is hurt by a sword, and the doctor who examines her finds that she is not a boy but a girl. Li Shang becomes angry and leaves Mulan alone in the mountains. The army then travels to the Emperor's palace in the Imperial City. As Mulan and her animals spend the night trying to light a fire, they witness some of the surviving enemies climbing from the snow, and they start moving towards the Emperor's city. Mulan decides to follow them and warn her friends in the army.
In the Imperial City the army is celebrated for winning the war, and no one will listen to Mulan's warnings, since she is a girl. Suddenly Shan Yu and his surviving men step forward, kidnap the emperor and hide in the palace. Mulan and her soldier friends dress up as palace women and manage to fool the attackers and move the emperor to safety. With her friends' help, Mulan destroys Shan Yu using a store of fireworks. The emperor rewards her for saving the country.
Mulan returns home with her imperial gifts to show her family. The honour of Mulan, of her family and also of the dragon is now restored. Shang is encouraged by the emperor to marry Mulan. He travels to her town, pays a visit and is invited to dinner by her family.

</doc>
<doc id="16531" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16531" title="1823">
1823


</doc>
<doc id="16532" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16532" title="1876">
1876


</doc>
<doc id="16534" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16534" title="1861">
1861


</doc>
<doc id="16535" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16535" title="1829">
1829


</doc>
<doc id="16536" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16536" title="Baltimore">
Baltimore

Baltimore is the biggest city in the U.S. state of Maryland. In 2010 it had about 620,961 people living there. It is not in any county, so it is called an independent city. It is next to the Chesapeake Bay and used to be an important port for trade by ships. There is still some shipping but the Inner Harbor is now mostly famous for shopping and restaurants, and also for the National Aquarium and other museums.
Baltimore is home to the Ravens (football) and Orioles (baseball), both professional sports teams. Its main newspaper is the "Baltimore Sun." There is a place for horse races in the city called Pimlico. There are many colleges and universities in Baltimore, like Johns Hopkins University.
The city was made in 1729 and is named after the British Lord Baltimore who started the colony of Maryland. The mayor of this city is Stephanie Rawlings-Blake. She is the second woman to be the mayor of Baltimore, the first was Sheila Dixon. Many governors of Maryland were mayor of Baltimore first. One famous thing that happened in Baltimore was in the War of 1812, when the British attacked the city and Francis Scott Key wrote a song about it called "The Star-Spangled Banner". It is now the national song of the United States.
Some famous people from Baltimore are the Supreme Court judge Thurgood Marshall, the poet and writer Edgar Allen Poe, the baseball player Babe Ruth, the singer Billie Holiday, and the movie director John Waters.
In 1706, the colony of Maryland's General Assembly created the Port of Baltimore at Locust Point. It was built for tobacco trading. The Town of Baltimore was founded on July 30, 1729. It was named after Cecilius Calvert, the British Lord Baltimore. Calvert was the first Proprietary Governor of the Province of Maryland. Baltimore grew quickly in the 1700s as a granary (place for storing cereals and grains) for the sugar plantations in the Caribbean.
Baltimore was important in the time leading up to the American Revolution. Leaders like Jonathan Plowman Jr. got the city to refuse to pay taxes to Britain. Merchants (people who buy and sell things) signed agreements to not trade with Britain. The Second Continental Congress met in the Henry Fite House from December 1776 to February 1777. This made Baltimore the capitol of the United States during this time. In 1796, after the war, the Town of Baltimore, nearby Jonestown, and an area called Fells Point were incorporated as the City of Baltimore. (This means that these areas all merged and became the City of Baltimore.) The city was a part of Baltimore County until 1851. It then became an independent city.
During the War of 1812, the Battle of Baltimore happened in the city. The British attacked Baltimore on the night of September 13, 1814. This was right after they burned Washington D.C.. United States soldiers from Fort McHenry defended the Inner Harbor. Francis Scott Key watched the battle from a British ship in the harbor. He wrote the poem "The Star-Spangled Banner" about the attack. Later, "The Star-Spangled Banner" became the official National Anthem of the United States.
After the war, the number of people who lived in the city grew quickly. The National Road (now part of U.S. Route 40) and the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad (B&O) connected the city with big markets in the Midwest. This made Baltimore a very important shipping and manufacturing center. Baltimore was nicknamed "the Monumental City" by President John Quincy Adams in 1827. During an event, Adams gave a toast and said: "Baltimore: the Monumental City – [m]ay the days of her safety be as prosperous and happy, as the days of her dangers have been trying and triumphant." In 1835, the Baltimore bank riots happened. These were one of the worst riots of the antebellum South. (The "antebellum" period is the time right before the American Civil War.)
During the American Civil War, Maryland did not secede from the Union. (That is, Maryland stayed a part of the Union and did not join the Confederacy.) When Union soldiers marched through the city at the start of the war, some people attacked the soldiers. This started the Baltimore riot of 1861. Four soldiers and 12 civilians were killed. After the riot, Union soldiers occupied (stayed in) Baltimore. During the war, Maryland was governed directly by the federal government and the state government did not have any power. This was to keep the state from seceding (leaving the Union). After the war ended in April 1865, Maryland began governing itself again.
During the 1870s there was an economic depression called the "Panic of 1873." After the Panic, the Baltimore & Ohio Railroad company decided to pay its workers less. This caused the Great Railroad Strike of 1877. These strikes stopped train service in Cumberland in western Maryland. On July 20, 1877, the Maryland Governor, John Lee Carroll, ordered the Maryland Army National Guard to stop the strikes. People who supported the railroad workers attacked the national guard soldiers. Soldiers from the 6th Regiment fired their guns at the crowd. 10 people were killed, and 25 people were hurt. This started a riot. Trains were damaged and parts of Camden Station were burned. US Army soldiers came to Baltimore to protect the railroad and end the strike. The riot and strike ended on July 21–22, 1877.
The Great Baltimore Fire started on February 7, 1904. It burned for 30 hours and destroyed 1,500 buildings. More than 70 blocks of downtown burned to the ground. The fire caused about $150 million of damage (US$ million in 2016.)
The city grew bigger by annexing (absorbing) suburbs from nearby counties. The last suburb was added in 1918. The city added parts of Baltimore County and Anne Arundel County. In 1948, the state constitution was amended (changed). It now required a special vote by citizens before an area could be added to the city. This stopped the expansion (growth) of the city.
In 1950, the city was 23.8% black. By 1970, it was 46.4% black. After Martin Luther King, Jr. was murdered in Memphis, Tennessee on April 4, 1968, the Baltimore riot of 1968 started. It lasted until April 12, 1968. The riot cost the city about $10 million (US$ million in 2016). During the riot, 11,000 Maryland National Guard soldiers and US Army soldiers tried to protect the city. It is possible to see some effects of the riots today. Parts of North Avenue, Howard Street, Gay Street, and Pennsylvania Avenue are barren, empty, and not taken care of.
During the 1970s, Baltimore's downtown area, called the "Inner Harbor," was run down and neglected. It was full of empty and abandoned warehouses. The city began trying to redevelop the area. The Baltimore Convention Center was opened in 1979. Harborplace, a shopping and restaurant area, opened in 1980. The National Aquarium in Baltimore (Maryland's largest tourist destination) and the Baltimore Museum of Industry opened in 1981. In 1992, the Baltimore Orioles baseball team moved from Memorial Stadium to Oriole Park at Camden Yards near the harbor. Six years later the Baltimore Ravens football team moved into M&T Bank Stadium next to Camden Yards.
The National Register of Historic Places lists 280 historical properties in Baltimore city.
Baltimore is in north-central Maryland. It is on the Patapsco River, close to where it empties into the Chesapeake Bay. It is on the fall line between the Piedmont Plateau and the Atlantic Coastal Plain. (The "fall line" is a phrase in geology that means that this is a place where two different kinds of earth meet.) The fall line splits Baltimore into a "lower city" and "upper city."
At the harbor, the city is at sea level. The highest point is near Pimlico in the northwest. There the elevation is .
According to the 2010 census, the city has a total area of . This is of land and of water. The total area of Baltimore City is 12.07% water.
Baltimore is in the humid subtropical climate zone ("Cfa".) This is according to the Köppen climate classification
July is usually the hottest month of the year. The average temperature in July is . Summer is usually very humid. The highest temperature on record is in 1936.
January is the coldest month of the year. Sometimes wind from the subtropics brings springlike weather during winter. At night, winds from the Arctic make temperatures drop into the teens (in Fahrenheit; less than -7 °C.) Some nights the temperature drops to the single digits (less than -12 °C.) The coldest temperature on record is from 1934.
Downtown Baltimore and the parts of the city that are on the coast are usually warmer than other parts of Baltimore. This is because of the urban heat island effect. Also the Chesapeake Bay acts to moderate the effects of temperature. This means that the water helps keep the temperature from changing greatly.
Baltimore gets a lot of rain during the whole year. There is no "rainy season" or "dry season." This is normal in most cities on the East Coast of the United States. Every month, about of precipitation (rain, snow, sleet, etc.) falls in Baltimore. The total rainfall yearly average is around . There are usually about 105 sunny days in a year. There are lots of rain showers and thunderstorms during spring, summer, and fall. In the winter, there are longer but lighter rain showers, and less sunshine and more clouds. It sometimes snows in the winter. The average snowfall is .
Baltimore has architecture in every style from the last 200-plus years. Many famous architects have designed buildings in the city. Some of these architects are Benjamin Latrobe, George A. Frederick, John Russell Pope, Mies Van Der Rohe and I. M. Pei.
The city has some buildings that are thought to be important to the history of architecture. Baltimore Basilica (1806–1821) was designed by Benjamin Latrobe in the neoclassical style. It is the oldest Roman Catholic Cathedral in the United States. The Municipal Museum of Baltimore, often called the Peale Museum, was build in 1813 by Robert Cary Long, Sr. It was built for Rembrandt Peale and is the first building in the United States designed specifically to be a museum. The McKim Free School, built by Isaac McKim in 1822, shows the interest of early American architects in ancient Greek art.
The Phoenix Shot Tower (1828) was the tallest building in the United States until the Civil War. It is tall. The tower was build without scaffolding. The Sun Iron Building (1851) was the first iron-front building. Brown Memorial Presbyterian Church (1870) has stained glass windows by Louis Comfort Tiffany. It has been called "one of the most significant buildings in this city, a treasure of art and architecture" by "Baltimore Magazine". The 1845 Greek Revival style Lloyd Street Synagogue is one of the oldest synagogues in the United States.
The Baltimore World Trade Center was built in 1977 by architect I.M. Pei. The building is in the shape of an equilateral pentagon (it has five equal sides.) It is the tallest building of this shape in the world.
Oriole Park at Camden Yards is considered by many to be the most beautiful baseball park in Major League Baseball. It is designed to be "retro style". The park has inspired many other cities to build their own retro ballparks. Camden Yards and the National Aquarium have helped revive the Inner Harbor. The area used to be an industrial district of run-down and abandoned warehouses. Today it is a lively commercial district full of bars, restaurants, and stores.
Baltimore is officially split into nine regions. These regions are based on geography. Each region is patrolled by their own Baltimore Police Department district. These regions are: Northern, Northwestern, Northeastern, Western, Central, Eastern, Southern, Southwestern, and Southeastern. Locals sometimes split the city into "East Baltimore" and "West Baltimore" along Charles Street. Other locals sometimes split the city into "North Baltimore" and "South Baltimore" along Baltimore Street.
The Central district includes Downtown Baltimore, Harborplace, The Camden Yards Sports Complex (Oriole Park at Camden Yards and M&T Bank Stadium), the Convention Center, and the National Aquarium in Baltimore. It is the city's main commercial area. It also has many nightclubs, bars, restaurants, shopping centers, and other attractions. Many of the city's key businesses are in this area as well. The University of Maryland, Baltimore campus, University of Maryland Medical System, Maryland Institute College of Art, the Peabody Institute of music, the Lyric Opera House, The Walters Art Museum, and The Joseph Meyerhoff Symphony Hall are also in the central district.
The Northern District is north of the Central district. Loyola University Maryland, The Johns Hopkins University and College of Notre Dame of Maryland are in this district. Some of the more affluent (rich) residential neighborhoods are also here. The neighborhood of Roland Park, the first planned suburban community in America, is one of these richer neighborhoods. The borders of the district are made by The Alameda on the east and Pimlico Road on the west.
The Southern district is the part of the city below the Inner Harbor and east of the B&O Railroad tracks. It is a mix of industrial and residential areas. It is also a mix of many demographics, cultures, and ethnicities. It is home to the ethnically diverse neighborhood of Locust Point, the historic neighborhood Federal Hill, and poor residential neighborhoods like Cherry Hill. There are two Port of Baltimore terminals in this district. The old Domino Sugar plant is also here.
The Northeastern district is mostly residential. It is home to Morgan State University. Today it is mostly African-American. The district is bordered by the city line to the north and east; Sinclair Lane, Erdman Avenue, and Pulaski Highway on the south; and The Alameda on the west.
The Eastern district is mostly poor, African-American residential neighborhoods. There are entire blocks of abandoned buildings. The district is also dangerous and has a problem with drug trafficking. For this reason, the TV show "The Wire" was often filmed in this district. This area is also home to Johns Hopkins Hospital and Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine. The district is bordered by Erdman Avenue, Sinclair Lane, and Orleans Street.
The Southeastern district is a mix of industrial and residential areas. Neighborhoods in this district usually have a mix of races and cultures. The district is bordered by Orleans Street, the Inner Harbor, the city line, and the Baltimore harbor.
The Northwestern district is mostly residential. It is also home to the Pimlico Race Course and Sinai Hospital. Until the 1960s, Baltimore's Jewish community was based in the Park Heights neighborhood. Since then, there has been "white flight" and the neighborhood today is almost all black. Northern Parkway is a dividing line in the district. North of the parkway, the neighborhoods are mostly white. Some of these are Mount Washington and Cheswolde. South of the parkway, the neighborhoods are mostly black. The borders of the district are made up by the county line on the north and west, Gwynns Falls Parkway on the south and Pimlico Road on the east.
The Western district is the home of Coppin State University, Mondawmin Mall, and Edmondson Village. These are important to the culture, economy and history of the city's African American community. This district used to be the home to many middle and upper class African Americans, but they have moved away since. Today, more than 45% of people living in some neighborhoods have income levels below the poverty line. Some of the crime from this district was used in the TV show "The Wire". The district is west of downtown. Its borders are Gwynns Falls Parkway, Fremont Avenue, and Baltimore Street.
The Southwestern district is a mix of industrial parks and residential areas. St. Agnes Hospital is in this district. It has Baltimore County to the west, Baltimore Street to the north, and the downtown area to the east.
The City of Baltimore is next to several communities. All of these are unincorporated census-designated places.
Baltimore is sometimes called the "city of neighborhoods." This name comes from the fact that it has 72 official historic districts (areas). People of one ethnic group mainly live in each one of these areas. Some of the most important today are downtown. These are the Inner Harbor, Fells Point, and Little Italy. The Inner Harbor has lots of hotels, shops, and museums. Many tourists visit the Inner Harbor. Fells Point used to be a place where sailors went for entertainment. Today it has been rebuilt and cleaned up. This is the neighborhood in the movie "Sleepless in Seattle". Little Italy is where the Italian-American people live and work. Nancy Pelosi grew up in this neighborhood. She used to be Speaker of the House in Congress.
Another important neighborhood is Mount Vernon. This neighborhood is the center of culture and art in Baltimore. There are many important monuments and museums there. One important monument is the Washington Monument. This monument was built in the 1800s in a plaza. It is older than the Washington Monument in Washington, D.C..
Every year there is an art festival called Artscape. The festival is in the Bolton Hill neighborhood. This is very close to the Maryland Institute College of Art. Artscape is called the "largest free arts festival in America." Another art festival that happens in Baltmore is the Maryland Film Festival. It happens every year in May. At the Film Festival, movies are shown at the Charles Theatre. (The Charles Theatre is an old cinema.)
One of Baltimore's nicknames is "Charm City." Some advertisers wanted to make the city's reputation better. They started using the name in 1975.
People in Baltimore speak English. They have a very unique accent and way of speaking (dialect). For example, they pronounce "Baltimore" as "Balamer" or "Balmer." The Baltimore dialect is sometimes called "Baltimorese." It is a kind of Mid-Atlantic English. People from Baltimore will often call each other "Hon."
There are movies that parody (make fun of) the way people from Baltimore talk. A lot of these movies are made by John Waters. He is a movie maker from Baltimore. Most of Waters's movies were made in Baltimore. "Pink Flamingos" and "Hairspray" are some of these movies. Waters also wrote the musical version of "Hairspray."
Many very famous and important people were born or raised in Baltimore. Some of these are:
Baltimore used to be mostly industrial. There was a lot of steel processing, shipping, car manufacturing, and transportation. Deindustrialization happened, and Baltimore lost a lot of jobs that paid a lot of money and did not need a lot of training or skill. Today, most of the jobs in Baltimore are service economy jobs. These jobs do not pay very much. 90% of jobs are service jobs today.
In July 2012, the unemployment rate was 11%. Also in 2012, the steel mill (factory) at Sparrow's Point closed. This will mean more people will lose their jobs. 25% of people who live in Baltimore, and 37% of all children living in Baltimore, live in poverty.
Johns Hopkins Hospital is in Baltimore. Some big companies from Baltimore are Under Armour, Cordish Company, and Royal Farms. There is a big sugar refinery in Baltimore. It is owned by American Sugar Refining.
There are eight Interstate Highways in Baltimore. These are:
Some of these highways do not connect to each other. I-70 stops at a parking lot just inside of the city. This is because of "freeway revolts" that happened in Baltimore. The interstate highways were supposed to go through downtown Baltimore, but the people in the city did not want this to happen. Barbara Mikulski, now a United States Senator, started the "freeway revolts" to keep the highways from being built in downtown.
Today there are some highways numbered U.S. highways and state routes that run through downtown. These are US 1, US 40 National Road, and the Baltimore-Washington Parkway. There are also some tunnels underneath the Baltimore harbor. I-95 runs through the Fort McHenry Tunnel. I-895 runs through the Harbor Tunnel.
Baltimore has a beltway. A beltway is a highway that circles around a city. The Baltimore Beltway is I-695. It crosses over the Chesapeake Bay on the Francis Scott Key Bridge. This bridge is just south of the Inner Harbor.
Baltimore is an important train stop. Amtrak trains in the Northeast Corridor stop in Baltimore. Penn Station is one of the busiest train stations in the country. In 2008 it was the 8th busiest train station in the United States. That year, more than 1 million people took a train to or from Penn Station. Another important train station is at Baltimore-Washington International Thurgood Marshall Airport. Many Amtrak trains stop at the BWI Rail Station. The Amtrak trains that stop in Baltimore are: "Acela Express", "Palmetto", "Carolinian", "Silver Star", "Silver Meteor", "Vermonter", "Crescent", and "Northeast Regional". The MARC commuter rail service also has trains that stop in Baltimore. The MARC trains run from Camden Station and Penn Station in Baltimore to Union Station in Washington, D.C..
Baltimore has many colleges and universities. These are both public (run by the government) and private. Some of them are:
Baltimore City Public School System runs Baltimore's public schools. Some of these schools are well known. Carver Vocational-Technical High School was the first vocational high school for African-Americans in Maryland. Lake Clifton Eastern High School is the biggest school campus in Baltimore City. Frederick Douglass High School is the second-oldest African-American high school in the United States. Baltimore City College is the third oldest public high school in the country. Western High School is the oldest public all-girls school in the nation. Baltimore City College and Baltimore Polytechnic Institute are football rivals. This is the second-oldest high school football rivalry in the country.
Baltimore's main newspaper is "The Baltimore Sun." In 1986, the newspaper was sold to the Times Mirror Company. This company was bought by the Tribune Company in 2000. Today, "The Sun" is still a Tribune newspaper.
Baltimore had two newspapers until 1986. (It was very common for US cities to have two newspapers.) The other main newspaper was the "Baltimore News-American". The "News-American" went out of business in 1986.
"The Baltimore Examiner" was started in 2006 to compete with "The Sun." It was owned and run by a company that also published newspapers like "The San Francisco Examiner" and "The Washington Examiner". "The Examiner" was a free newspaper that was paid for by advertising. ("The Sun" is not free.) "The Examiner" was not able to make money, and it stopped being published on February 15, 2009.
According to Nielsen Market Research, Baltimore had the 26th-largest television market in 2008-2009. It was the 27th-largest market for 2009-2010. Arbitron listed Baltimore as the 22nd-largest radio market in Fall 2010.
Baltimore has a long baseball history. The first team to play for Baltimore were the 19th century Baltimore Orioles (1882-1899). This was one of the most successful early baseball teams. The team had many hall of famers play for them. The great Babe Ruth was born in Baltimore in 1895. He played for the minor league Baltimore Orioles team. This team existed from 1903 to 1914 and from 1916 to 1953.
Today, Baltimore's Major League Baseball team is the Baltimore Orioles. They play in the American League. The Orioles came to Baltimore in 1954. Before that, the team had been in St. Louis, Missouri, where they were called the St. Louis Browns. The Orioles went to the World Series in 1966, 1969, 1970, 1971, 1979 and 1983. They won the World Series three times: in 1966, 1960, and 1983. 
In 1995, Cal Ripken, Jr. broke the record for the most games played in a row. The old record was set by Lou Gehrig, and was 2,130 games. Ripken was added to the Baseball Hall of Fame. He was also named "Sportsman of the Year" by "Sports Illustrated" magazine. There are six Orioles players and two managers in the hall of fame.
Baltimore's first football team were the Baltimore Colts. The team came to Baltimore in 1953. Before then, they had played in Dallas, Texas as the Dallas Texans. The Colts played for Baltimore until 1984. In 1984, the team moved to Indianapolis and took the name. Today the team still plays as the Indianapolis Colts.
In 1996, the Cleveland Browns came to Baltimore. They were renamed the Baltimore Ravens. The Ravens won a Super Bowl championship in 2000 and again in 2012. They also won three American Football Conference (AFC) North division championships in 2003, 2006, and 2011. In addition, the played in three AFC Championship Games in 2000, 2009, and 2011.
Baltimore has an indoor soccer team, the Baltimore Blast. They play for the Major Indoor Soccer League at the 1st Mariner Arena. The team joined the League in 2001. The Blast have won 5 league championships: 2002, 2003, 2005, 2007 and 2008.
The Baltimore Blues are a semi-professional rugby league football club. They will compete in the USA Rugby League in 2012. Other professional or semi-professional Baltimore teams include Crystal Palace Baltimore, an outdoor soccer franchise of
USL Second Division. The Charm City Roller Girls are a member of the Women's Flat Track Derby Association since 2005.
The Preakness Stakes are held every May at the Pimlico Race Course in Baltimore. The Preakness is the "second jewel" in the United States Triple Crown of Thoroughbred Racing.
Car races are held on the streets of downtown every year in September. The Baltimore Grand Prix runs through the Inner Harbor. It started in 2011. The American Le Mans Series, IndyCar Series, Indy Lights, and other races are a part of it.
Baltimore has eleven sister cities. These were picked by Sister Cities International.

</doc>
<doc id="16537" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16537" title="Chantilly, Virginia">
Chantilly, Virginia

Chantilly is a community in Fairfax County, Virginia. The Battle of Chantilly was fought here during the American Civil War.

</doc>
<doc id="16539" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16539" title="Corpus Christi, Texas">
Corpus Christi, Texas

Corpus Christi, Texas is a city in the United States. It is near the coast of the Gulf of Mexico and is one of the fastest growing cities in America. Its economy is based around petroleum refining and tourism.
The city was founded in 1839 as "Kinney's Ranch" and has been known as Corpus Christi since 1847.

</doc>
<doc id="16541" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16541" title="Sick">
Sick

To be sick can mean:
Sick may also refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="16544" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16544" title="Panama Canal">
Panama Canal

The Panama Canal is a waterway (a canal) in the country of Panama in Central America, that connects the Atlantic Ocean and the Pacific Ocean. Because of the way Panama twists, the entrance to the Pacific Ocean is farther east than the entrance to the Atlantic Ocean. This is the opposite of what one would expect.
The Panama Canal is 77 km (48 miles) long and cuts across the Isthmus of Panama. At each end it uses three pairs of "locks" for lifting and lowering ships on different water levels. This saves ships 15,000 km (10,000 miles) compared to going around South America. Each year, about 14,000 ships come through the canal. By 2002, around 800,000 ships came through. The biggest ships that can go through the Panama Canal are called Panamax. New locks opened in 2016 to allow ships more than twice as big, called New Panamax.
The French people tried building it in 1880, but couldn't finish it. It was finally finished in 1914 by the United States who spent ten years and 375 million dollars building it. It is such an amazing achievement that it has been named one of the Seven Wonders of the Modern World.

</doc>
<doc id="16545" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16545" title="Suriname">
Suriname

Suriname, or Surinam, Dutch Guiana, Dutch Guyana or Sranang is a country in South America. The official name of the country is Republiek Suriname (this is Dutch and translates to "Republic of Suriname"). It used to be known as "Nederlands Guyana", "Netherlands Guiana" or "Dutch Guiana". It is between Guyana and French Guiana. Paramaribo is the capital city. About half a million people live in the country. Suriname became independent from the Netherlands in 1975. Before that, it was a part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. 
There are border disputes with French Guiana and Guyana all to the south of the country. 
The industry of the country is centered on the mining and processing of bauxite. This makes up 15 percent of the Gross Domestic Product and more than 70% of the exports. Other exports are sugar, oil and gold. About 25% of the working people are employed in agriculture. The main trade partners are the Netherlands, the United States and countries in the Caribbean. 
Dutch, French, Spanish and English explorers discovered the area in the early 16th century. A century later, sugar plantation colonies were established by the Dutch and English along the many rivers in the fertile Guyana plains. After the second Anglo-Dutch War England traded any claims to the territory for New Amsterdam which became New York.

</doc>
<doc id="16547" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16547" title="Aarre Merikanto">
Aarre Merikanto

Aarre Merikanto (29 June 1893 — 29 September 1958) was a Finnish composer. His parents were Liisa Häyrynen and composer Oskar Merikanto.
Merikanto was born in 1893. He studied music in Helsinki (1911), Leipzig (1912-1914) and Moscow (1916-1917). He tried composing an opera for the first time when he was 18 years old. The result was "Helena", which was completed in early 1912. The opera had one act and its libretto was written by Jalmari Finne. In the 1920s Merikanto created his own modernist style. Merikanto was a professor of composition in the Sibelius Academy, Helsinki from 1951 to his death. Merikanto died of lung cancer in Helsinki in 1958.

</doc>
<doc id="16550" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16550" title="1878">
1878


</doc>
<doc id="16551" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16551" title="1325">
1325


</doc>
<doc id="16554" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16554" title="1076">
1076


</doc>
<doc id="16555" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16555" title="1568">
1568


</doc>
<doc id="16559" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16559" title="Tribe">
Tribe

A tribe is a group of people who live and work together. A "tribal society" is a group of tribes organized around kinships. Tribes represent a part in social evolution between bands and nations.
A tribe can be a collection of families or of families and individual people living together. A tribe usually divides up the jobs that need to be done among themselves. Most tribes have special customs or traditions.
Tribes are the type of groups humans lived in before they started living in cities and nations. There are still tribal groups all over the world. Their numbers are getting smaller and smaller.

</doc>
<doc id="16563" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16563" title="1832">
1832


</doc>
<doc id="16564" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16564" title="Satan">
Satan

Satan (meaning "the enemy" or "the trouble-maker" in Hebrew), sometimes called the Devil, is a figure found in the writings of the Abrahamic religions. Muslims, Christians and Jews believe that he tempts people to do bad things. His role is to question and tempt people's faith. They also say that he was once an angel named Lucifer.
In Satanism, Satan is thought to be just a metaphor for what humans want. In Theistic Satanism, Satan is considered to be a good force.
In Islam, a "shayṭān" is any sort of evil creature. The Qu'ran describes Satan as arrogant. The story about him begins in surah Baqarah. It states that Satan views himself as a greater entity than Gods' other creations because he was created from fire. After this, the Qu'ran states:
Many people believe that Satan was first an angel called Lucifer that left Heaven and took many other angels with him. He did this because he thought he was as powerful as God. 

</doc>
<doc id="16573" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16573" title="Hiking">
Hiking

Hiking is a general word for travelling on foot in the mountains or the countryside.
Hiking is a kind of physical activity as well as a leisure activity (a way of spending free time). Hikers (the people who do hiking) enjoy fresh air and the beauty of nature. Hiking can also be an attraction for people who enjoy challenging their physical and mental strength. Hiking gives them the chance to become stronger.
In general, people can make profit on it for having rest, health, and everyday life.
The three parts to the hiking process are: 
Planning means a hiker should decide what he wants from the hike. A traveller should examine the information on landscape, climate, weather, plants, animals, type of ground, and so on. Based on that information, a hiker decides what equipment (tools) he needs. Writing everything on paper is strongly suggested not to forget anything. A hiker should choose the itinerary (the way of the hike).
Equipping means getting specialized clothing and equipment. Different suggestions can be found on each point in any hiking book. A hiker is suggested to learn more than one source and work. Equipping sometimes needs getting skills in using the apparatus. Basic skills–different ways of orientation (the ability to find the way, for example)–must be developed before hiking.
Hiking itself lies in the observation of the presented steps and hiker's skills. There are different hiking tips and suggestions on the internet (see other websites).
Hiking can quickly become a fight for life. For this reason everything in hiking is very important. Nobody should hike alone, no matter what the situation, until a hiker feels certain of his hiking abilities.
Every hiker should keep in mind that theory is important, but it can hardly replace firsthand experience. To be safe a traveller should have enough experience. A hiker had better start by taking short hikes.
A hiker is strongly suggested to check from time to time (at least every hour) whether he is going the right way. On no account should he go on travelling if he finds out he has lost his way. The first thing a hiker should do is find the direction in which he was travelling before getting lost. Using the compass and the map, he should choose a reference point nearby (railway, road, river, etc.).

</doc>
<doc id="16574" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16574" title="Saint Petersburg">
Saint Petersburg

Saint Petersburg (Sankt-Peterburg/Санкт-Петербург) is a Russian city in northwestern Russia near the Gulf of Finland of the Baltic Sea. Over five million people live in St. Petersburg as of 2015, and it is the second biggest city in Russia. It connects with the rest of the world's shipping paths through the Baltic Sea.
Saint Petersburg and its surroundings are a World Heritage Site called The Historic Centre of Saint Petersburg and Related Groups of Monuments.
Saint Petersburg was started by the Russian Tsar, Peter I as the capital of the Russian Empire in 1703, to take the place of the earlier capital, Moscow. It was the capital of Russia until 1918. Peter the Great established Saint Petersburg as a warm-weather port in order to show Russian dominance in the Baltic and to increase trading opportunities. Peter sought to modernize Russia, therefore he tried to make Saint Petersburg as different as possible from the former capital, Moscow, by modernizing the city.
Saint Petersburg has changed its name many times. During World War I, when Russia and Germany were fighting each other, Russians thought the name Sankt Peterburg sounded too German, so Tsar Nicholas II, on August 31 (August 18, Old Style), 1914 decided that the city was renamed Petrograd. At the time of the Russian revolution, the Soviet capital was moved to Moscow, still the capital of Russia now.
After the Soviet capital was moved to Moscow, on January 26, 1924, five days after Lenin's death, Petrograd was renamed Leningrad in his honor. During World War II, the city was surrounded by the German army for twenty-nine months.
Leningrad again took its old name of St. Petersburg on September 6, 1991, when Russia stopped being communist. In every-day Russian, the city is often called just ""Piter"". The name of the "Oblast" (administrative province) where the city is the capital is still called "Leningrad Oblast".
Saint Petersburg was a beautiful city planned by Peter I. There are many man-made rivers (or canals) in the city, so the city is sometimes called the "Venice of the North". There are also beautiful buildings built by Russian emperors in other places of the city. Some of these buildings are the Hermitage Museum and the Winter Palace. 

</doc>
<doc id="16576" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16576" title="Kiwifruit">
Kiwifruit

Kiwifruit ("Actinidia deliciosa") is a fruit. It has an oval shape. It is green on the inside with small black seeds that can be eaten. The kiwi has furry brown skin that is edible but is usually removed. The skin is relatively thin. The kiwi is native to South China.
The fruit was named in 1959 after the kiwi, a bird and the symbol of New Zealand. Before that, its English name was Chinese gooseberry.
The kiwifruit is healthy and contains many vitamins and minerals. Kiwis are rich in vitamin C, vitamin K, potassium, and fiber. Kiwis have more vitamin C than an equivalent amount of orange.
There are different types of kiwifruit. The main types are Hayward (the most common green kiwifruit), chico, Saanichton 12, and golden kiwifruit. Golden kiwifruit are sweeter than normal green kiwifruit. Golden kiwifruit was invented by grafting and cross-pollinating different types of kiwifruit.

</doc>
<doc id="16583" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16583" title="Aardvark">
Aardvark

The Aardvark ("Orycteropus afer") is a mammal from Africa; its name means "earth pig" in the language Afrikaans. It is the only living member in its order, though some fossil genera have been found
The Aardvark looks a bit like the South American anteaters but they are not related. It is in a proposed clade Afroinsectiphilia, with the golden moles and tenrecs. Another proposal is to out it in the Pseudungulata, with the elephants and Sirenia. There is no consensus at present.
Adult aardvarks weighs about 60 kilograms (130 pounds) and a little more than one meter (45 inches) long.
Aardvarks eat mostly ants and termites. They have a long sticky tongue which makes it easy to pick up many ants at once.
Aardvarks are nocturnal, which means they are awake at night and asleep during the day.

</doc>
<doc id="16591" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16591" title="Rutherford B. Hayes">
Rutherford B. Hayes

Rutherford Birchard Hayes (October 4, 1822 - January 17, 1893) was the 19th President of the United States. He served only one term, from 1877 to 1881. Hayes was a Republican. He was elected governor of Ohio three times before becoming president. Hayes barely won the election of 1876, only defeating Democratic opponent Samuel Tilden after a Congressional committee gave Hayes some disputed electoral votes.
Hayes was born in Delaware, Ohio. He went to Kenyon College in Gambier, Ohio, and then went to Harvard Law School. After graduating from law school, he became a lawyer. In 1849, he joined the Republican Party, which was new then, because he was against slavery. In 1852, he married Lucy Webb, a woman who was also against slavery. In the 1860s, he served in the American Civil War on the Union side, and became a major general. After the war ended, he was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives as a part of the Republican Party. In 1867, he became the governor of Ohio.
Ulysses S. Grant had been president since 1869, and was not going to run for president a third time in 1876. Grant was a member of the Republican Party, and while he was president, became known for allowing corruption to go on around him. The Republican Party did not want people to think that everybody in the party was corrupt, so they decided to make Hayes their candidate. They thought he was a good candidate because he had made many changes in Ohio while he was governor there that people thought were good, and because he was thought to have been a hero in the Civil War.
Hayes ran against Samuel Tilden, whom the Democratic Party nominated. The election was close, and many people who did not think that Hayes fairly won the election called him "His Fraudulency". Tilden actually got more votes than Hayes, but Hayes got 185 votes in the Electoral College, while Tilden got 184, so Hayes won the election.
While he was president, Hayes ended the Reconstruction period that followed the American Civil War. Rutherford B. Hayes ordered military forces that had been in the Southern states to leave. He also sent federal troops to end a railroad strike. Hayes refused to seek a second term as president.
After being president, Hayes retired to Fremont, Ohio. Meanwhile He spent time talking about his beliefs that all children should have the chance to go to school, that people who had been in the military should get their fair payments for their service, and that people in prisons should be treated better.

</doc>
<doc id="16604" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16604" title="Eyebrow">
Eyebrow

An eyebrow is the stripe of hair about 2 cm over the eye. Eyebrows protect the eyes, if water runs over the face or if there is too much sunlight. The eyebrow's ability to move is also important in facial expression.

</doc>
<doc id="16611" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16611" title="Solstice">
Solstice

A solstice is an astronomical event that happens twice each year when the Sun reaches its highest position in the sky as seen from the North or South Pole. The day of the solstice is either the "longest day of the year" or the "shortest day of the year" for any place on Earth, because the length of time between sunrise and sunset on that day is the yearly maximum or minimum for that place. The name is derived from the Latin words "sol" (“sun”) and "sistere" (“to stand still”). During the solstice, the Sun stands still; that is, the seasonal movement of the Sun's path comes to a stop before reversing direction. The “Northern Solstice” occurs in June, when the sun is at its highest point seen from the North Pole. The “Southern Solstice” occurs in December, when the sun is at its highest point seen from the South Pole.
The solstices, together with the equinoxes, are connected with the seasons. In some cultures they mark either the beginning or the middle of summer and winter.
The June Solstice happens when the Northern Hemisphere of the Earth is tilted toward the Sun and the Southern Hemisphere of the Earth is tilted away from the Sun. At the North Pole, the Sun reaches its highest point in the sky, and then begins moving lower. At the moment of the June solstice, the Sun is directly overhead some point on the Tropic of Cancer; this is the furthest north that the subsolar point ever reaches. In the Northern Hemisphere the June solstice is called the Summer Solstice (and marks the longest day of the year), while in the Southern Hemisphere it is called the Winter Solstice (and marks the shortest day of the year). The June Solstice is usually on June 21.
The December Solstice happens when the Southern Hemisphere of the Earth is tilted toward the Sun and the Northern Hemisphere of the Earth is tilted away from the Sun. At the South Pole, the Sun reaches its highest point in the sky, and then begins moving lower. At the moment of the December solstice, the Sun is directly overhead some point on the Tropic of Capricorn; this is the furthest south that the subsolar point ever reaches. In the Southern Hemisphere the December solstice is called the Summer Solstice (and marks the longest day of the year), while in the Northern Hemisphere it is called the Winter Solstice (and marks the shortest day of the year). The December Solstice is usually on December 21.
While the exact causes were long unknown, the effect (of days getting shorter or longer) was recognised in many ancient cultures. Many of the pre-Christian cultures, like the druidic, the Germanic and the Norse faith therefore celebrated these events as holidays.
When the importance of the old faiths vanished, the Christian religion took over some of the festivities, which were then carried out in the honour of a new (Christian) occasion. For instance, the date of Christmas in the Catholic and Protestant faith is just 3 days away from the December Solstice.

</doc>
<doc id="16613" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16613" title="Secular humanism">
Secular humanism

Secular humanists believe that each human being is worth something and has dignity. They think that people are happiest when they give something to society. They also believe that human beings can solve problems without help from god(s).
Secular humanists are not religious. Usually they are atheists.

</doc>
<doc id="16622" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16622" title="Quebec City">
Quebec City

Quebec City is the capital of the Canadian province of Quebec. It is the second largest city in Quebec, behind Montreal. It is known for its winter fair, beautiful churches, and an old hotel called Château Frontenac. It is next to the Saint Lawrence River. There are almost 700,000 people in the whole area.
The city was created in 1608 at a First Nations (native) Canadian place called Stadacona. People came from France to live there. The English captured the city in 1759 during the Battle of the Plains of Abraham. The walls made to keep the city safe are still there. The walls that surrounded Old Quebec are the only remaining fortified city walls that still exist in the Americas north of Mexico. They were declared a World Heritage Site by UNESCO in 1985.
Quebec City has a humid continental climate ("Dfb" in the Köppen climate classification).

</doc>
<doc id="16623" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16623" title="Vancouver Island">
Vancouver Island

Vancouver Island is in the province of British Columbia in Canada. You can go there by boat from Vancouver (across the Strait of Georgia) or from the state of Washington (across the Strait of Juan de Fuca). Over 750,000 people live on the island. The first people to live on the island, before Europeans came, were the Nuu-chah-nulth, Salish, and Kwakiutl. The University of Victoria is on Vancouver Island.
Some cities and towns on Vancouver Island:

</doc>
<doc id="16625" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16625" title="First Nations">
First Nations

First Nations are the people of native tribes who lived in Canada before Europeans came there. Many Canadians also use "First Nations" to mean people with natives in their family trees. Many say it because these nations were here long before Canada, and to make it clearer that the First Nations have many cultures, and that some of the cultures are very different from others. Some consider it a respect to those who first cultivated certain patches of land.
Other words that have been used for First Nations people, tribes, and cultures have been "indigenous", "aboriginal", "Indian", "Native Indian", "Amerind," or "native." Now many people say "Indian" only about people from India.

</doc>
<doc id="16626" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16626" title="New Brunswick">
New Brunswick

New Brunswick is a province in the eastern part of Canada. Its capital city is Fredericton. Other large cities are Saint John and Moncton. More than 750,000 people live in New Brunswick.
The English and French languages are both spoken in New Brunswick, and is the only province in Canada where both languages are official. This is because about 33% of the people living in New Brunswick speak French.
Some industries such as forestry, mining, farming and fishing are important to the province, as it is near the Atlantic Ocean.

</doc>
<doc id="16628" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16628" title="AC/DC">
AC/DC

AC/DC is a hard rock band from Australia. They formed in Sydney, Australia in November 1973. AC/DC has sold an estimated 200 million albums worldwide, including 68 million in the United States of America. The two primary founders of the band, Malcolm Young and Angus Young, developed the idea for the band's name after their sister Margaret saw the initials "AC/DC" written on a sewing machine. "AC/DC" is an abbreviation for "alternating current/direct current," which refer to the two different types of charges used in electricity. The band chose the name because of their energetic “electrical” style of playing rock and roll. Even though AC/DC considers their music style simply as "rock and roll", AC/DC are often considered pioneers of heavy metal.

</doc>
<doc id="16629" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16629" title="Double bass">
Double bass

Double bass is a widely-used name for a large stringed instrument. Other terms, perhaps more correct, include contrabass and upright base. It is used in orchestras, jazz bands, rockabilly bands, bluegrass music, and some country music bands. It plays low-pitched musical notes in musical ensembles and bands. In jazz bands, these low-pitched musical notes are called the "bass line." The double bass looks like smaller instruments like the violin, viola, and cello.
The double bass is usually made from wood. Double basses have a hollow wooden body which helps to amplify the sounds of the instrument ("amplify" means "to make louder"). A wooden neck is attached to the body, and a flat wooded fingerboard is glued onto the neck. It usually has four metal strings which are strung with tension on the neck. It has a peg at the bottom to stand it.
In an orchestra, double bass players bow the strings with a wooden bow strung with horsehair, or pluck the strings with their fingers (plucking the strings is called pizzicato). In jazz the double bass is played pizzicato most of the time. However some jazz players use the bow to play melodies on the double bass.
Double bass players hold down the metal strings against the fingerboard with their left hand and then bow the string or pluck it with their right hand. To play different notes the double bass players move the left hand to different positions on the fingerboard.
Double bass players in jazz bands or rock bands often connect their double bass to an electronic amplifier and a loudspeaker, to make a louder, stronger sound. This makes it easier for the double bass player, the other musicians, and the audience to hear the double bass's musical notes.
The double bass is usually considered a member of the violin family, because it is constructed using many of the same techniques as violins. The double bass also has influences from the viol family. Viols are old string instruments from the 1400s and 1500s with sloping "shoulders" on the instrument's body and flat backs. Like the viols, the double bass also has sloping "shoulders" on its body and a flat back.
The double bass is generally tuned in fourths, in contrast to members of the orchestral string family, which are tuned in fifths. Modern double basses are usually tuned, low to high, E-A-D-G, which is one octave lower than the four lowest-pitch strings on a guitar.
Throughout classical repertoire, there are notes that fall below the range of a standard double bass. Notes below low E appear regularly in double bass parts in the Baroque and Classical eras, when the double bass was typically doubling the cello part an octave below. In the Romantic era and the 20th-century, composers such as Mahler, Beethoven, Busoni, and Prokofiev also requested notes below the low E. There are two common methods for making these notes available to the player. Major European orchestras generally use basses with a fifth string, tuned to B three octaves and a semitone below middle C. Players with standard double basses (E-A-D-G) typically play the notes below "E" an octave higher.
In the United States, Canada and United Kingdom, most professional orchestral players use four-string double basses with a "C extension," which extends the lowest string down as far as low C, an octave below the lowest note on the cello. More rarely would one find a four-string double bass with a "B extension", extending the lowest string down to a low B. The extension is an extra section of fingerboard mounted up over the head of the bass. There are several varieties of extensions.
In the simplest version, there are no mechanical aids attached to the fingerboard extension except a locking nut for the "E" note. To play the extension notes, the player reaches back over the pegs to press the string to the fingerboard. The advantage of this "fingered" extension is that the player can adjust the intonation of all of the stopped notes on the extension, and there are no mechanical noises from metal keys and levers. The disadvantage of the "fingered" extension is that it can be hard to perform rapid alternations between low notes on the extension and notes on the regular fingerboard, such as a bassline that quickly alternates between "G" and the low "D".
The simplest type of mechanical aid is the use of wooden "fingers" that can be closed to press the string down and fret the C#, D, Eb, or E notes. This system is particularly useful for basslines that have a repeating pedal point such as a low D, because once the note is locked in place with the mechanical "finger", the lowest string then sounds a different note when it is played "open" (e.g., a low D).
With the B extension, the "fingers" can fret the low C.
The double bass also has many other names. Some bluegrass musicians call it a "bass fiddle" or a "bull fiddle." Rockabilly bands often call it an "upright bass" or "Doghouse" Some orchestra musicians call it a "contrabass." In a military concert band, it is often called the "string bass." Sometimes the double bass is simply called a "bass."
b'

</doc>
<doc id="16631" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16631" title="Allies of World War II">
Allies of World War II

The Allied Powers (or Allies of World War II) were a group of nations that fought against the Axis countries in World War II. They were successful in defeating the Axis nations. The war ended in 1945. The group of nations was later named the United Nations by U.S. President Franklin Roosevelt. The main great powers, sometimes called "The Big Three", were the United Kingdom, the United States, and the Soviet Union.
Some of the powers fought for a short time. Romania, Bulgaria, and Finland fought from 1944-1945 and before that were Axis powers.
These nations were:

</doc>
<doc id="16633" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16633" title="Convair B-36 Peacemaker">
Convair B-36 Peacemaker

The B-36 Peacemaker was a strategic bomber. It was used in the United States. The B-36 could carry a 21,000 pound bomb. The B-36 was never used in wartime, but was in a movie called Strategic Air Command. The Peacemaker could fly for 48 hours non-stop and was one of the longest ranged bombers at the time. It first flew in 1948, and the last combat flight was in 1959.

</doc>
<doc id="16634" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16634" title="Wing">
Wing

A wing is the part of an animal or airplanes that allows it to fly.
A "wing" is part of an animal that allows it to fly. By moving its wings, the animal can produce lift and get off the ground.
Animals that have wings are insects, birds and bats. Birds' wings are made of feathers. The wings of bats are made of skin, which is stretched between the bones of the bat's arms and fingers. Not all insects and birds can fly, even if they have wings.

</doc>
<doc id="16642" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16642" title="Disability">
Disability

A disability is a condition that a person has which limits them in some way.
People with a disability or disabilities may need to use special equipment that can help them. This can include using a wheelchair, a cane or walking stick, hearing aids, a Teletypewriter (TTY) and using specially designed software and hardware for the personal computer.
People who use a wheelchair or cane/walking stick cannot walk up or down stairs in a building. They need to use ramps and elevators when going into and moving around in a building. Wide doorways and accessible toilets also make it easier for people with physical disabilities to use.
Prejudice towards people with disabilities is common. This is sometimes called 'ableism'. A person with such a prejudice is called an ablecentrist.

</doc>
<doc id="16653" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16653" title="Newfoundland">
Newfoundland

Newfoundland is an island off the East Coast of Canada, and is part of the Canadian province of Newfoundland and Labrador. The capital city of Newfoundland is St. John's, on the north-east part of the island. Over 500,000 people live in Newfoundland (these people are called Newfoundlanders). It, along with Labrador on the mainland, became part of Canada on March 31, 1949. There is no bridge or tunnel from Newfoundland to the rest of the country but there is a ferry to Nova Scotia.
In Newfoundland, most people speak English, but there are also French speakers on the island, mostly in the south-west. In some areas of Newfoundland, people speak with an accent and use words that are not in standard English. There is even a dictionary of Newfoundland English.
People first came to Newfoundland from countries like Norway, England, Portugal, France, and Ireland in the 16th century. The first explorers were the Vikings from Norway and they settled in L'Anse aux Meadows. They came because of the good fishing off the coast, especially off the south-east coast. Eventually they left because of disagreements with aboriginals.Today, there is still fishing, but not very much because people fished too much, and now there are not many fish left.
Cutting down trees and mining have also been attractions of the island. There are some paper mills (paper factories) in a few cities in Newfoundland.

</doc>
<doc id="16656" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16656" title="Kiss (band)">
Kiss (band)

Kiss is an American hard rock/heavy metal band. The band started in the early 1970s. They formed in New York City in 1973. The original members are Gene Simmons, Paul Stanley, Peter Criss, and Ace Frehley. They are most famous for their stage show and songs like "Rock and Roll All Nite" (1975), "Strutter" (1974) and "Detroit Rock City" (1976).
KISS has had several changes in style and lineup. Their more famous era was in the mid 1970s, particularly the first 6 studio albums, and the first live album, Alive! which was widely popular. In the 1980s, KISS started to follow the trend taking place with more synthesizers, and songs that many fans didn't like because of a big change in style. In the 1990s, KISS changed toward the grunge and heavier trend with Revenge and . The original members reunited for Psycho Circus and then parted ways again in 2002. Tommy Thayer and Eric Singer replaced Frehley and Criss, and the current lineup has made the 2009 album Sonic Boom, which was a return to the classic style of the 70's, and many fans liked it. The follow up to that is going to be released in June 2012, titled Monster. 

</doc>
<doc id="16672" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16672" title="The Visioner's Tale">
The Visioner's Tale

The Visioner's Tale is one of the little-known writings of Geoffrey Chaucer. Only parts of the story were left from when Chaucer wrote it in the 14th century, so it is not normally included in modern versions of the Canterbury Tales.
Here is the tale, as put together by someone from Denmark who studied the parts of the story, and tried to put them together:
"My lady's touch upon the lute is light,"
"yet she weaves the streams of melody,"
"with such profound synchicity,"
"that the river of time spills into dream,"
"into that ocean of unspoken promise,"
"where lives primordial the memory of future things,"
"here vision and voice and sound,"
"and meaning emerge at last as one."

</doc>
<doc id="16687" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16687" title="Geoffrey Chaucer">
Geoffrey Chaucer

Geoffrey Chaucer (c. 1343–25 October 1400) was an English writer, poet, and philosopher. He is most famous for writing Canterbury Tales which had 24 stories but was not completed. He was one of the first writers to write in English.
Chaucer was probably born in London. His father, John, and grandfather were prosperous wine merchants in London. The name "Chaucer" is French and means shoemaker. However, not many details are known of his early life and education.
By 1357, Chaucer was a page to Elizabeth, Countess of Ulster, wife of Lionel, 1st Duke of Clarence. In 1360, he was captured by the French near Reims during a battle in the Hundred Years' War. He was then ransomed and released. King Edward III gave £16 towards his release. Chaucer married Phillipa (de) Roet. She was a lady-in-waiting to the queen and had close family connections to John of Gaunt. He had about three or four children.
Chaucer may have studied law in the "Inner Temple". He joined the Royal court and travelled around Europe on business for the king. He became one of the king's esquires. One of his first known poems was written in 1369. It was called "The Book of The Duchess", and was written after the death of John of Gaunt's wife, Blanche. In 1374, he became "Comptroller" (in charge of the money) of the Customs for the Port of London. He did this job for 12 years. It was a well paid job and Chaucer was quite rich.
When Richard II became king, Chaucer continued to work in Customs. He was also sent to Europe on several more diplomatic jobs for the king.
Chaucer moved to Kent in 1385 where he had a new position as Justice of the Peace. He was also elected as one of two knights of the shire to be a member of parliament. At the end of the year he lost his customs jobs. His wife, Phillipa, died in 1387. But on 12 July 1389, he was made the "Clerk of the Kings Works", looking after repairs to the royal palaces. He was given other small positions, including looking after the river banks of the Thames, and as a deputy forester in the Royal Forest. Over the next few years, Chaucer became poorer and often was given small payments and pensions from the king.
He died at St.Mary's Chapel in Sevenoaks on 25 October 1400. Chaucer is buried in Westminster Abbey, in what is now called the Poets' Corner.
Chaucer did most of his writing between 1369 and 1393. He is famous for his collection of stories in verse called the "Canterbury Tales". He also wrote "The Book of the Duchess", "The House of Fame" and "Troilus and Criseyde".

</doc>
<doc id="16731" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16731" title="Echidna">
Echidna

Echidna, the spiny anteater, is a monotreme that lives in Australia and in New Guinea. They are the living members of the family Tachyglossidae.
Echnidas have a long, tube-like mouth with a sticky tongue, and they are also covered in spines. They have mammary glands, and lay eggs.
The echidna has a way of protecting itself. With its long, sharp claws, they quickly dig a hole until only their spines are showing. The predator will not be able to get to it without injuring itself.
When there is a fire, the Echidna will dig down out of reach of the fire.
The short-beaked echidna ("Tachyglossus") eats termites and ants. The three "Zaglossus" species also eat other small insects and grubs. Echidnas pick up the prey with their sticky tongues.

</doc>
<doc id="16760" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16760" title="2002 Bali terrorist bombing">
2002 Bali terrorist bombing

The 2002 Bali terrorist bombings took place in Kuta on the Indonesian island of Bali. The attack was the deadliest act of terrorism in the history of Indonesia. Kuta is a popular tourist destination. 202 people were killed. 164 of them were foreigners, 38 were Indonesian citizens. Most of those killed were Australians, Britons or Indonesians. In addition, 209 people were injured. 
At around 11 in the evening, a bomb destroyed a bar on Bali. The bomb was in a backpack, and only the person that owned it died. A few seconds later, a larger bomb went off. This bomb was close to 1,000 kilograms.
A terrorist group called Jemaah Islamiyah are believed to be responsible for making and exploding the device.
In total, four people were charged with the terrorist attack. An Indonesian court sentenced three of them to death. One person received a long prison sentence.

</doc>
<doc id="16779" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16779" title="Boeing B-17 Flying Fortress">
Boeing B-17 Flying Fortress

The Boeing 17 Flying Fortress was a heavy bomber, that was used by the United States Eighth Air Force during World War II. It first flew in 1935, and was introduced in 1938. It had a shorter range, and a smaller bomb load, then its sister bomber the B-24 Liberator, but it had more defensive arment. It dropped large amounts of bombs, and was also used during air raids against Germany, such as the raid on Dresden. The B-17 was also used in the Pacific, at the Battle of Midway. The flying fortress had its name for a good reason, it could take the hits and dish them out, being able to fly while under intense enemy fire. the B-17 was a heavy duty bomber plane that carried 2 tons of bombs. Not many B-17's survived WWII. It was the result of the lack of escortations of fighters. Although the Flying Fortress took down many opposing fighters they also took a beating. Later in WWII, the U.S. air force decided to add escortations to the bombers giving them more protection. The escortations lasted till the end of WWII. 

</doc>
<doc id="16782" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16782" title="Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith">
Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith

Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith is the third film in the "Star Wars" saga produced by Lucasfilms It was released in 2005.
The movie shows the events that led to the transformation of Anakin Skywalker to Darth Vader of the original trilogy. It also shows how Palpatine turned the Galactic Republic into the Galactic Empire as well as showing the destruction of the Jedi because of Order 66.
little known facts
star wars is based on a story about 2 people starting to fight an inventor and a warrior and he created lightsabers.
Example.jpg|Caption1
Example.jpg|Caption2

</doc>
<doc id="16785" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16785" title="Midway Atoll">
Midway Atoll

Midway Atoll was the site of a famous battle in World War II, the Battle of Midway. The atoll is currently held by the United States of America.
Midway Atoll is now home to 67-70% of the world's Laysan Albatross population, and 34-39% of the global Black-footed Albatross.
While Midway supports nearly three million birds, each seabird species has carved out a specific site on the atoll in which to nest. Seventeen different species of seabird can be found, the rarest of which is the Short-tailed Albatross, otherwise known as the “Golden Gooney.” Fewer than 2,200 are believed to exist due to excessive feather hunting in the late nineteenth century.
Over 250 different species of looli marine life are found in the of lagoon and surrounding waters. The critically endangered Hawaiian monk seals raise their pups on the beaches. Monk seals are benthic foragers and rely on the Midway Atoll’s reef fish, squid, octopus and crustaceans. Green sea turtles, another threatened species, occasionally nest on the island. The first was found in 2006 on Spitsy Rinaia Island and another in 2007 on Sand Island. A resident pod of 300 spinner dolphins live in the lagoons and nearshore waters.

</doc>
<doc id="16801" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16801" title="Beşiktaş J.K.">
Beşiktaş J.K.

Beşiktaş Jimnastik Kulübü (Besiktas JK) is a Turkish football club from Istanbul. Besiktas JK was founded in 1903 by 26 young men in "Osman Pasa Konagi".
It was the beginning of the 20th century and it was forbidden then to attend sports activities on a club basis. People were gathering together all around Istanbul. Twenty-six young men (Huseyin Bereket, Mehmet Samil, Ahmet Fetgeri, Mehmet Ali Fetgeri, Fuat Balkan, Muhittin Pasa, Mazhar Kazanci, Nazim Nazif Ander, Haydar Bey, Cami Baykurt, Behcet Bey, Sevket Cenani, Mahmut Naci Bey, Refik Bey, Sukru Pasa, Haci Ahmet Pasa, Kilic Ali, Ziya Karamursel, Kenan Bey, Yuzbasi Fethi Bey, Seraffettin Bey, Seref Bey, Celal Davut, Hami Bey, Fuat Pasa, and Kamil Beyler) gathered together on November in 1902 and decided to found a club. Next year in 1903 the vision came to life and Besiktas JK was founded.
Besiktas is one of the 3 big clubs in Turkey. Others are Galatasaray and Fenerbahçe.

</doc>
<doc id="16805" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16805" title="Phosphorus">
Phosphorus

Phosphorus has the chemical symbol P, and its atomic number is 15. Its mass number is 30.97. It is not found in nature as an element but as compounds, such as phosphates. It can be a red or a white waxy solid.
Phosphorus comes in several forms. White and red phosphorus are the most common forms. White phosphorus is a waxy white solid. When pure, it is colourless. It is insoluble in water, but soluble in carbon disulphide, an organic solvent. It turns light yellow when in air. It glows in the dark because it "burns" very slowly in air.
When exposed to sunlight, or when heated in its own vapour to 250 °C, it is converted to the red variety. This form does not ignite spontaneously and it is less toxic and less flammable than white phosphorus. The red modification is fairly stable and sublimes with a vapor pressure of 1 atmosphere at 417 °C.
White phosphorus is more reactive than red phosphorus. White phosphorus catches fire spontaneously in air, burning to make smoke of phosphorus(V) oxide. If it burns in a little air, it produces poisonous phosphorus(III) oxide. When white phosphorus is heated in an alkali, it disproportionates to produce hypophosphites and phosphine. Red phosphorus can burn but needs to be ignited. Phosphorus reacts with the halogens to make phosphorus halides. It reacts with some metals to make phosphides.
Phosphorus compounds are chemical compounds containing phosphorus. They are listed below with some of their properties. Phosphorus comes in several oxidation states, the number of electrons moved during a redox reaction. -3 is flammable, powerful reducing agent, and toxic; +1 is a strong reducing agent and is rare; +3 is a weaker reducing agent that is poisonous; +5 is not a reducing agent and is very common.
It is an essential component of living systems and is found as phosphate in nervous tissue, bones and cell protoplasm. It is also found in the earth as phosphate rock. Phosphate rock is the main source of phosphorus and phosphorus compounds. Many body tissues have calcium phosphates in them.
Phosphorus was first made by heating a mixture of phosphates and carbon in an iron pot. The phosphates were made by dissolving bones in strong acids and evaporating the solution.
Phosphorus is made now by heating calcium phosphate, carbon, and silicon dioxide in an electric arc furnace. The heat of the electric arc melts the mixture of materials, and phosphorus gas is given off. It is absorbed under water. This makes white phosphorus.
White phosphorus is used in incendiary weapons and smoke grenades. It is also used to make organic compounds that have phosphorus in them. Phosphorus is used to dope semiconductors. Phosphorus is used to remove oxygen from copper. It is also used in making alloys. Red phosphorus is used in matches and flares.
Phosphorus compounds are used for fertilizers, soft drinks, toothpaste, and detergents. Most of these are phosphates. Phosphides can be used to kill rodents.
White phosphorus is very dangerous. It is very toxic and ignites easily, burning with a very hot flame. Red phosphorus is much safer. Some phosphorus compounds are toxic, but the common phosphates are not toxic.

</doc>
<doc id="16842" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16842" title="Franklin Pierce">
Franklin Pierce

Franklin Pierce (November 23, 1804 – October 8, 1869) was the 14th President of the United States (1853–1857) and is the only President from New Hampshire. Pierce was a Democrat and a "doughface" (a Northerner with Southern sympathies) who served in the U.S. House of Representatives and the Senate.
Pierce was born on November 23, 1804, in Hillsborough, New Hampshire. He attended school at Hillsborough Center but then moved to Hancock Academy in Hancock at the age of 12. After attending school there for five years, he was transferred to Phillips Exeter Academy in the spring of 1820. After he entered, he felt homesick and returned home. Consequently, his father then put him in a wagon, drove him half way back to school, and left him on the roadside without saying a word. Franklin walked the seven remaining miles back to school. Later that year, he was transferred to Phillips Exeter Academy to prepare for college. That fall, he was sent to Bowdoin College in Brunswick, Maine. While he was there, Franklin Pierce participated in literary, political, and debating clubs. During his second year there, his grades were the lowest in his class, but he was able to improve them and graduated with the rank of fifth in his class.
Once finished with college, he went to law school in Northampton, Massachusetts. Pierce was admitted to the bar and began law practice in Concord, New Hampshire, in 1827. Franklin Pierce rose to a central position in the Democratic party of New Hampshire and was elected to the lower house in New Hampshire’s General Court in 1828. Pierce served in the State House from 1829 to 1833 and also served as Speaker from 1832 to 1833. Then in 1832, Franklin was elected Democrat to the 23rd and 24th of Congress from March 4, 1833, to March 4, 1837. At 27 years of age, Pierce was the youngest U.S. Representative at that time. In 1836, he was elected by the New Hampshire General Court as a Democrat to the U.S Senate, serving from March 4, 1837, to February 28, 1842. After serving in the Senate, Pierce went back to Concord to resume law practice. He then was U.S. Attorney from 1845 to 1847 for the district of New Hampshire, though he declined Democratic nomination for Governor of New Hampshire and refused the appointment as General of the United States.
On November 19, 1834, Franklin Pierce married Jane Means Appleton. They had three children, all of which died in childhood. Franklin Pierce Jr. died only three days after birth; and Frank Robert Pierce died at four years of age from epidemic typhus; just two months before his inauguration, Franklin Pierce and his family boarded a train bound for Boston. Shortly after, their derailed car started to roll down an embankment. Franklin and Jane survived, merely shaken up, but saw their 11-year-old son Benjamin get crushed to death. Jane Pierce thought the train accident was a divine punishment for Franklin’s pursuit and acceptance of high office.
Franklin Pierce served as President from March 4, 1853, to March 4, 1857. He was the first President to “affirm” his oath of office instead of swearing it (the only other president to do this has been Herbert Hoover). So rather than placing his hands on the Bible, Franklin Pierce placed his hands on a law book. He was also the first President to recite his inaugural address from memory. Surprisingly, Franklin Pierce selected men of different opinions for his Cabinet. Many people expected a diverse group to break up quickly, but the Cabinet stayed together for Pierce’s four-year term.
Franklin Pierce’s toughest challenge as President was the passage of the Kansas-Nebraska Act in 1854. This act repealed the Missouri Compromise and, in the west, reopened the question of slavery. These and more triggered a series of events known as "Bleeding Kansas". Pro-slavery Border Ruffians, mostly from Missouri, illegally voted in a government. Pierce recognized this and called the Topeka Constitution, set up by Free-Staters, as an act of “rebellion.” Overall, Franklin Pierce is ranked among the least effective Presidents of the United States, as he was unable to steer a steady, prudent course.
After losing the Democratic reelection in 1856, Pierce retired with his wife. Franklin Pierce died in Concord, New Hampshire on October 8, 1869 at the age of 64. He was buried in Old North Cemetery in Concord.

</doc>
<doc id="16844" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16844" title="Ottoman Empire">
Ottoman Empire

The Ottoman Empire lasted from 1299 to 1923. It was centered in Turkey and controlled the eastern and southern lands around the Mediterranean Sea. The empire was founded by Osman I around 1299, and was most powerful from around 1400 to 1600, when it controlled trade and politics in southeastern Europe, southwest Asia, and northern Africa. Suleiman the Magnificent was one of the most powerful rulers. 
The empire was a collection of conquered countries. The Sultan sent governors to rule these countries or provinces, with titles such as Pasha or Bey. The most famous in the early 19th century was Muhammad Ali Pasha. Besides provinces, the empire also had tributary states. 
In later years, the Ottoman Empire began to weaken. In the latter part of the 19th century became known as "the sick man of Europe". The empire was defeated in World War I and broke into pieces. 
The empire was a hereditary monarchy. The ruler's title was 'Sultan'. In the early years of the empire, shahzadahs, the sons of the Sultan, were sent to different parts of the empire (Sanjaks) to get experience of governing. Later they might be candidates for the Sultanate and Caliphate. 
After Ahmed this system changed. In the new system the Sultan would keep his male relatives locked in a small apartment called a "kafes" where they would never be able to see the outside world, and would therefore be unable to take power from him. Often, a new Sultan would have his male relatives killed, a simpler solution since it removed competition for the Sultanate and prevented rebel movements. However, the women in his harem often sought greater status and influence, and the Sultan's mother might become a powerful political force in the Empire. Each mother in the harem would try to make her own son the next Sultan, since they knew he would probably be killed if he was not. 
The Sultans gradually lost their ability to govern far-away territories well. Distant governors did whatever they wanted and made their own laws instead of obeying the Sultan. By its end, the Ottoman Empire grew so worn out and corrupt that it was ready to collapse.
Bursa was the first capital of the Ottoman Empire. Edirne in Thrace became the capital city of the Ottoman Empire in 1365, until Istanbul was conquered by the Turks and became the empire's final capital.
Many places were vassal states to the empire rather than being directly ruled. These included Transylvania, Moldavia, Wallachia, (Romania), Caucasus (Georgia, Dagestan, and Chechnya. Their rulers received a degree of independence and autonomy from the Ottoman Empire. The price for this autonomy was more money (tax or tribute) paid to the Sultan.

</doc>
<doc id="16846" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16846" title="Strategic bombing">
Strategic bombing

Strategic bombing is a military strategy used to destroy the enemies' economic ability to fight a war. It is an attack from the air. Strategic bombing missions usually attack targets such as factories, railroads, oil refineries and cities. Tactical bombing missions would attack targets such as military bases, command and control facilities, airfields, and ammunition dumps.
The United States Air Force (USAF) over the years have used strategic bombers. Such bombers used to bomb cities and camps used by the opposing force.
Strategic bombing was an idea first tried in World War I. It was used by the German Luftwaffe. They bombed London. Later Gotha bombers could carry over a ton of bombs. United States Army Air Force (USAAF) Colonel Billy Mitchell promoted strategic bombing in the United States. He had new ideas on the strategic, and tactical air war. The first USAAF strategic bomber was the B-17 Flying Fortress. 
Strategic bombing was important in World War II. In the Battle of Britain the German Air Force almost defeated Britain by attacking the Royal Air Force and the factories that supplied their equipment. Later the large bomber fleets of the enemies of Nazi Germany and the Empire of Japan devastated those countries.
After World War II, the Strategic Air Command was located at Omaha, Nebraska, at Offutt Air Force Base. Nuclear weapons became an important mission. 
A full cadre of generals at Offutt participated in many of the missions of the "Looking Glass", a KC-135 air tanker which was stipped and refitted with state of the art electronics which would take over in case the president was killed in wartime. The plane had several generals on board to assume wartime duties. The "red telephone" was an instant connection to the president at the White House. The plane flew all day every day, three planes took off a day in overlapping flights to provide this level of coverage. Since the end of the cold war, this flight ended, however, the Strategic Air Command still maintains the main facility at Offutt AFB (this is where President Bush flew to when the Twin Towers were bombed on 9-11-01 to set up his command center.)

</doc>
<doc id="16847" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16847" title="Edsel">
Edsel

Edsel was a make of car and a new car making division introduced by the Ford Motor Company on September 4, 1957. The company called that day, "E-Day." It was named after Henry Ford's son, Edsel Ford. The Edsel was also one of the biggest failures in history. It was sold for only three years, ending in 1960.
Ford planned to move their Lincoln brand upmarket and put another make in beneath it. Design of the Edsel began in 1955 under the name "E-car" which stood for "Experimental car". 
Edsel produced four models their first year, the 1958 model year. These were the large Citation and Corsair, and the smaller, easier to buy Pacer and Ranger.
These were the different body styles offered:
The Bermuda, Villager and Roundup were station wagons based on the two smaller Edsel models. They were basically the same as the 1957-59 Ford wagons.
63,110 Edsels sold the first year, which was the second largest car launch for any brand in history. Only the Plymouth introduction in 1928 was better, but still not as many cars as Ford hoped would sell.
There were only 2 Edsels in 1959, the Ranger and the Corsair. Only 44,891 cars were sold in that model year. 
Only the Ranger and Villager were produced in 1960. These were almost exactly like the 1960 Ford cars. Only 2848 cars were built before the Edsel Motor Division was closed on November 19, 1959.
Edsel's failure is very famous because it failed after Ford put US$400,000,000 into its development. It had many innovations which are still in use today, including brakes which adjusted themselves and a very powerful V-8 engine called the "FE-series" that would be used for many years in later Fords. Also, the car did not live up to all of the promises in the advertisements before it was released. Some people blamed the look of the new car because of its very unusual grille shaped like a horse's collar. One famous quote from an auto writer said that the Edsel looked like "an Oldsmobile sucking on a lemon." Quality of the Edsel was a problem as well. Even the name was a problem to some buyers. Worst of all, the U.S. was entering a period of recession. All car sales were down. 
Many drivers did not like having the automatic transmission as push-buttons mounted on the steering wheel hub. Since this was the place the horn was normally found, drivers ended up shifting gears instead of honking the horn. 
The planned 1960 Edsel Comet compact car was relabeled Mercury Comet and sold more cars in its first year than all models of Edsel ever produced. 
Fewer than 6,000 Edsels survive and today they are considered collectors’ items, with convertibles sometimes selling for over US$20,000 if in good condition. As usual with classics, hardtop models are worth considerably less, station wagons less than that, and sedans least of all. It is possible to get a very good 1959 sedan for about US$3000–$3500.

</doc>
<doc id="16851" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16851" title="1000">
1000

1000 (M) of the Gregorian Calendar was the last year of the 10th century as well as the last year of the first millennium of the Christian era ending on December 31. According to the then used Julian Calendar, 1000 AD was a leap year starting on Monday. In the Gregorian Calendar (not invented at the time) the year would have been a common year starting on Wednesday.
It is one of only seven years to use just one Roman numeral. The seven are 1 AD (I), 5 AD (V), 10 AD (X), 50 AD (L), 100 AD (C), 500 AD (D), and 1000 AD (M).

</doc>
<doc id="16852" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16852" title="1830">
1830


</doc>
<doc id="16868" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16868" title="Chino Hills, California">
Chino Hills, California

Chino Hills is a city in the U.S. state of California. It is in San Bernardino County. Almost 75,000 people live in Chino Hills. It is named for the hills that cover most of the city.

</doc>
<doc id="16872" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16872" title="Learning">
Learning

Learning is getting new stuff into your brain. 
There are a number of different types of learning: 
Learning may occur as a result of habituation or classical conditioning, seen in many animal species, or as a result of more complex activities such as play, seen only in relatively intelligent animals. Learning may occur consciously or without conscious awareness. There is evidence for human behavioral learning prenatally, in which habituation has been observed as early as 32 weeks into gestation, indicating that the central nervous system is sufficiently developed and primed for learning and memory to occur very early on in development. According to James Zull, Professor of Biology and Biochemistry at Case Western University, "Learn­ing is phys­i­cal. Learn­ing means the mod­i­fi­ca­tion, growth, and prun­ing of our neu­rons, connectionscalled synapsesand neu­ronal net­works, through expe­ri­ence".

</doc>
<doc id="16877" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16877" title="Acrocorinth">
Acrocorinth

Acrocorinth is the acropolis of the Greek city Corinth.

</doc>
<doc id="16913" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16913" title="Neutron">
Neutron

Neutrons, with protons and electrons, make up an atom. Neutrons and protons are found in the nucleus of an atom. Unlike protons, which have a positive charge, or electrons, which have a negative charge, neutrons have zero charge which means they are neutral particles. Neutrons bind with protons with the residual strong force.
Neutrons were predicted by Ernest Rutherford, and discovered by James Chadwick, in 1932. Atoms were fired at a thin pane of beryllium. Particles emerged which had no charge, and he called these 'neutrons'. They were later added to the modern image of the atom. 
Neutrons have a mass of 1.675 × 10g, which is a little heavier than the proton. Neutrons are 1839 times heavier than electrons. 
Like all hadrons, neutrons are made of quarks. A neutron is made of two down quarks and one up quark. One up quark has a charge of +2/3, and the two down quarks each have a charge of -1/3. The fact that these charges cancel out is why neutrons have a neutral (0) charge. Quarks are held together by gluons.
Neutrons can be found in almost all atoms together with protons and electrons. Hydrogen-1 is the only exception. Atoms with the same number of protons but a different number of neutrons are called isotopes of the same element. 
The number of neutrons in an atom does not affect its chemical properties. However it affects its half-life, a measure of its stability. An unstable isotope has a short half-life, in which half of it decays to lighter elements. By contrast, a stable isotope has a long half-life, much longer than that of an unstable isotope. The stability of an isotope is related to radioactivity: an unstable isotope can be highly radioactive.
Neutrons are the key to nuclear chain reactions, nuclear power and nuclear weapons.

</doc>
<doc id="16927" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16927" title="LiveJournal">
LiveJournal

LiveJournal (often called LJ) is a website on which Internet users can keep a blog. It is also the name of the software that was designed to run it. LiveJournal is different from some other blogging sites, because a user can interact with friends in certain ways that are unique to the website (such as instant messaging in LJ Talk). It is based in San Francisco, California.
LiveJournal was started in 1999 by Brad Fitzpatrick as a way of keeping his high school friends updated on his activities. In January 2005, a blogging software company called Six Apart bought Danga Interactive, the company that was owned by Fitzpatrick, which operates LiveJournal.
LiveJournal has a service called a "friends list", which makes the site a way to socialise with friends and other people, even though it is a blog service too.
LiveJournal lets users change their accounts in several ways. A programming language called S2 can help users make their blogs look different. Users may upload small pictures (maximum 100 by 100 pixels) called "userpics", which appear next to the username. People can pay to get more features, like extra userpics, the ability to record their voices into a post ("voice posts"), the ability to make polls, and better layouts.
Each user also has a "User Info" page, which may contain contact information, a biography of the user, and lists of friends, interests, communities, and even schools the user had attended.
Currently LiveJournal has five kinds of accounts. About 95% of all LiveJournal users use a non-paid account ("plus" accounts). People can pay for their accounts ("Paid" accounts) and get more features, or they can get a "sponsored" account, which is free and has more features, but has advertisements. "Early adopters" are the accounts of people who signed up for LiveJournal back in 1999 or 2000. There are also permanent accounts. Most people can not get a permanent account. LiveJournal only sells them sometimes, and they may not sell them again.

</doc>
<doc id="16928" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16928" title="RNA">
RNA

RNA is an acronym for ribonucleic acid, a nucleic acid. Many different kinds are now known.
RNA is physically different from DNA: DNA contains two intercoiled strands, but RNA only contains one single strand. RNA also contains different bases from DNA. These bases are the following:
Adenine often forms bonds with uracil, and guanine often forms bonds with cytosine. In this way, we say that adenine is complementary to uracil and that guanine is complementary to cytosine. The first three bases are also found in DNA, but uracil replaces thymine as a complement to adenine.
RNA also contains ribose as opposed to deoxyribose found in DNA. These differences result in RNA being chemically more reactive than DNA. This makes it the more suitable molecule to take part in cell reactions.
RNA is the carrier of genetic information in certain viruses, especially the retroviruses like the HIV virus. This is the only exception to the general rule that DNA is the hereditary substance.
The main function of RNA is to carry information of amino acid sequence from the genes to where proteins are assembled on ribosomes in the cytoplasm. 
This is done by messenger RNA (mRNA). A single strand of DNA is the blueprint for the mRNA which is transcribed from that DNA strand. The sequence of base pairs is transcribed from DNA by an enzyme called RNA polymerase. Then the mRNA moves from the nucleus to the ribosomes in the cytoplasm to form proteins. The mRNA translates the sequence of base pairs into a sequence of amino acids to form proteins. This process is called translation.
DNA does not leave the nucleus for various reasons. DNA is a "very" long molecule, and is bound in with proteins, called histones, in the chromosomes. mRNA, on the other hand is able to move and to react with various cell enzymes. Once transcribed, the mRNA leaves the nucleus and moves to the ribosomes.
Two kinds of non-coding RNAs help in the process of building proteins in the cell. They are transfer RNA (tRNA) and ribosomal RNA (rRNA).
Transfer RNA (tRNA) is a short molecule of about 80 nucleotides which carries a specific amino acid to the polypeptide chain at a ribosome. There is a different tRNA for each amino acid. Each one has a site for the amino acid to attach, and an anti-codon to match the codon on the mRNA. For example, codons UUU or UUC code for the amino acid phenylalanine.
Ribosomal RNA (rRNA) is the catalytic component of the ribosomes. Eukaryotic ribosomes contain four different rRNA molecules: 18S, 5.8S, 28S and 5S rRNA. Three of the rRNA molecules are synthesized in the nucleolus, and one is synthesized elsewhere. In the cytoplasm, ribosomal RNA and protein combine to form a nucleoprotein called a ribosome. The ribosome binds mRNA and carries out protein synthesis. Several ribosomes may be attached to a single mRNA at any time. rRNA is extremely abundant and makes up 80% of the 10 mg/ml RNA found in a typical eukaryotic cytoplasm.
Small nuclear RNAs (snRNA) join with proteins to form spliceosomes. The spliceosomes govern alternative splicing.
Genes code for proteins in bits called exons. The bits can be joined together in different ways to make different mRNAs. Thus, from one gene many proteins can be made. This is the process of alternative splicing. Any unwanted versions of the protein get chopped up by proteases, and the chemical bits re-used.
There are a number of RNAs which regulate genes, that is, they regulate the rate at which genes are transcribed or translated. 
Micro RNAs (miRNA) act by joining an enzyme and blocking mRNA, or speeding its breakdown. This is called RNA interference.
Small interfering RNAs (sometimes called silencing RNAs) interfere with the expression of a specific gene. They are quite small (20/25 nucleotides) double-stranded molecules. Their discovery has caused a surge in biomedical research and drug development.
Transposons are only one of several types of mobile genetic elements.
Retrotransposons copy themselves in two stages: first from DNA to RNA by transcription, then from RNA back to DNA by reverse transcription. The DNA copy is then inserted into the genome in a new position. Retrotransposons behave very similarly to retroviruses, such as HIV. 
Viral genomes, which are usually RNA, take over the cell machinery and make both new viral RNA and the protein coat of the virus.
Phage genomes are quite varied. The genetic material can be ssRNA (single-stranded RNA), dsRNA (double-stranded RNA), ssDNA (single-stranded DNA), or dsDNA (double-stranded DNA). It may be between 5 and 500 kilo base pairs long with either circular or linear arrangement. Bacteriophages are usually between 20 and 200 nanometers in size.
Phage genomes may code for as few as four genes, and as many as hundreds of genes.

</doc>
<doc id="16947" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16947" title="Figure skating">
Figure skating

Figure skating is both an art and a sport, in which people skate around on ice, doing jumps and spins. It is done at the Winter Olympics, and it has its own world championships. The name means to make figures or patterns on the ice. People skate with music.
In figure skating, sometimes women or men skate alone, or they skate in couples. Couples dancing includes "pairs" and ice dancing. Pairs skating has jumps, and sometimes the man lifts the woman in the air. These things are not done in ice dancing. In ice dancing, the woman must be held in the man's arms. Another kind of figure skating is synchronized skating done in groups.
The first ever figure skating club was started in 1742 in Edinburgh, Scotland. World Championships began in 1896 (the first in St. Petersburg, Russia). Before the Winter Olympic Games were started, competitions in figure skating were part of the Summer Olympic Games, in 1908 and 1920.
The International Skating Union (ISU) make the rules. 
Singles skating is composed of a Short Program and a Free Skate. Both of them have a technical score and a presentation score.
Under the ISU Judging System the Judges focus entirely on evaluating the quality of each element performed (technical aspect) and the quality of the performance. There will be a panel of 9 Judges per segment. Out of these 9 scores, the highest and lowest score of each element or program component are ignored and the average will be taken.
The score for the element is composed of a “Base Value” of each element and the “Grade of Execution - GOE”. GOE is that the Judge grades the quality of the element on a scale of +3, +2, +1, 0, -1, -2, -3. The total of all the elements scores gives the Technical Score.
The Judges award points on a scale from 0.25 to 10,00 with increments of 0.25 for the Presentation Score to grade the overall presentation of the performance. There are five items in the Presentation Score.
Skating Skills
Transitions, Linking Footwork and Movement
Performance/Execution
Choreography/Composition
Interpretation
There are six types of jump that ISU decides to score. The following items are listed in order of the score (difficulty). There are two types of jumps: edge jump and toe jump. The Axel, loop, and Salchow are edge jumps and the lutz, flip and toe loop are toe jumps.
Spins are classified as Sit spins, Upright spins or Camel spin. Each of them has various variations. Any position which is not basic is a non-basic position.
Sit spin
The position of this spin is that the upper part of the skating leg is at least parallel to the ice.
Upright spin
The position of this spin is any position with the skating leg is extended or slightly bent which is not a camel position.
Camel spin
The position of this spin is any position where the free leg backwards and the knee is higher than the hip level, however Layback, Biellmann and similar variations are still considered upright spins.
Pairs:
Ice dance:

</doc>
<doc id="16948" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16948" title="Gabriel">
Gabriel

Gabriel (meaning "God is my strength" or "man of God"), in the Bible and Qur'an, is an angel, specifically an archangel (arch means "highest" or "chief"). 
Gabriel is first mentioned in the Bible, in the book of Daniel, when he appeared to Daniel. In the New Testament, St. Gabriel appears first in the book of Daniel in the Old Testament, the angel announced to Daniel the prophecy of the seventy weeks. And most famously, to Mary to announce the coming birth of Jesus. The Catholic feast of the Annunciation celebrates this visit every year, nine months before Christmas. The Bible does not say angels have wings, but Christian artists usually show them that way.
Gabriel ("Jibril" in Arabic) is a messenger from Allah. He is the angel who tells Mary that she will have a baby boy. Gabriel is one of four names of angels in holy Qur'an. He revealed the Qur'an to the prophet Muhammad.
Gabriel has sometimes been used as a given name in English-speaking counties because of a Continental European influence. Cognates: Hungarian: Gábor. Italian: Gabriele. Finnish: Kaapo.
The feminine form of the name Gabriel is Gabrielle.

</doc>
<doc id="16949" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16949" title="Post office">
Post office

A post office is a place that is made available by the postal system to post, receive, sort, handle, and to move or deliver mail. You can buy postage stamps to mail things like packages or letters and drop them off there, and they will bring it to where you want it to go.

</doc>
<doc id="16950" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16950" title="Lahn">
Lahn

The Lahn is a river in Hesse, Germany with a length of .
Its source is in the Rothaargebirge.
It flows through the towns Marburg, Gießen, Wetzlar, and Limburg an der Lahn.
It joins the River Rhine at Lahnstein, near Koblenz.

</doc>
<doc id="16961" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16961" title="Rottweiler">
Rottweiler

The Rottweiler is a large breed of dog. Their coat of fur is mostly black, with brown on the legs and face. They are excellent guard dogs, as well as herding, and companion dogs.
Dogs are pack animals. When they feel threatened, they will defend themselves. They will also protect other members of the pack to a certain extent. How they defend themselves, and how close they feel to the rest of the pack (their owners) depends on the dog's nature. It also depends on how they were raised. Since dogs judge dangerous situations differently, they should not be left unattended near a place where people are arguing. They may also judge "unattended" moves of a child as an attack. Therefore dogs should not be left alone near children.
There is no specific weight for a Rottweiler to qualify to be judged in dog shows. The dog must be neither too thin or too fat for its size. Both males and females must be "medium-large" in size for the American Kennel Club. The General German Rottweiler Club (ADRK) lists 50 kilograms (110 pounds) for males and 42 kilograms (93 pounds) for females .
When the Rottweilers' owners are not experienced, problems arise. Sometimes humans, mostly children, are attacked by these dogs. The attacks are often a result of irresponsible owners. Rottweilers are very intelligent and need equally smart handlers to raise them. 
In some areas, breeding certain dogs has been restricted or forbidden.
 

</doc>
<doc id="16964" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16964" title="Anne Murray">
Anne Murray

Morna Anne Murrary (born June 20, 1945) is a Canadian Pop and Country musician. She was born in Nova Scotia. She was a teacher, but also sang and made records. One of her records, "Snowbird", became a hit late in 1970. The song was not about Christmas, but was popular during the Christmas season. The record became a perennial through association with the holiday.
Murray later had hits with remakes of Beatles ("I'm Happy Just to Dance With You") and Monkees songs ("Daydream Believer"). She also recorded "Shadows in the Moonlight" and "A Little Good News", which became popular.

</doc>
<doc id="16966" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16966" title="Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets">
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets

Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets by J. K. Rowling is the second novel (published in 1998) in the Harry Potter series of books. A movie of the book was released in 2002. 
The story begins as Harry, orphaned, spends summer with an aunt, uncle and cousin who do not love him. Harry is visited by Dobby, a house-elf, who is forced to serve the Malfoy family. Dobby warns Harry not to go back to Hogwarts, the magical school that Harry went to the year before, saying that terrible things will happen there. Harry doesn't listen to the warning, so Dobby causes a mess to make Harry's aunt and uncle angry. They lock Harry in his room for the rest of the summer. Harry is rescued by his friend Ron Weasley in a flying car. He spends the rest of the summer at the Weasley home, called "The Burrow". The reader is introduced to the Weasley family, including Ron's sister Ginny, who is just starting at Hogwarts.
Mr Weasley works for the Department of Magic. He is fascinated by "Muggles" (ordinary people) and the way that they manage to live without magic. It is his job to prevent wizards from illegally enchanting Muggle objects. But he does not always do his job in the way the Department would like. In fact, he drives his family to catch the school train in a magical Ford Anglia. The magical train leaves Paddington station in London from Platform 9¾. But because of strange happenings, Harry and Ron miss the train to school.
Harry and Ron go to school, very late, and in disgrace. Harry has not been back at school very long before it becomes clear that everybody inside the school is in danger. One by one students, and even the caretaker's cat, are affected by a strange and frightening spell. As everyone becomes more and more frightened, they start to be suspicious of other people.

</doc>
<doc id="16971" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16971" title="Personal computer">
Personal computer

A personal computer (PC) is the common name for a type of computer that is most popular in offices and homes. The first PC called the "IBM PC" was made by the company called IBM in 1981, although many computers were made before like the Commodore PET. Smartphones and tablet computers are also computers for personal use, but they are not often called "personal computers". 
Today, most PCs usually have a basic set of software called an operating system. The operating system is responsible for several tasks including providing an user interface (UI). The most popular operating system on PCs is Windows, sold by Microsoft Corporation. PCs made by a company called Apple Inc. can use a different system of software called Mac OS that is sold by Apple Inc. 
Many free operating systems are available. They are called Linux operating systems. There are over 300 different Linux "distributions". Each one has a different purpose. Ubuntu-Linux is the most-used Linux because it is the easiest to use.
A modern PC has a minimum set of parts to be useful. The "Base unit" or "Tower" is the main part of the computer. A mouse and keyboard are used for input. A monitor is needed to view output. In a laptop computer these parts are all together. 
Inside the base unit or tower there are many electronic parts. The main parts are the motherboard, CPU, the Hard disk and memory.
The CPU (Central Processing unit) follows the instructions in the operating system and application programs. The memory, or RAM (random access memory), is for moving information (or data) quickly to and from the processor. The hard drive holds programs and data while the computer is powered off. Floppy drives, CD-ROM drives are used for storing information on removable disks. 
Computers often have a modem to send and receive data over a phone line, or more recently, over cable television lines. Computers can also be connected to a computer network. 
Modern PCs have various sockets called ports. The most common ports are known as USB ports.
Computers may be used for work, including doing research using the internet, keeping records; or writing documents. Other uses include communicating, with people across the world using Instant messaging, e-mail or Skype or recreation activity such as playing computer games.

</doc>
<doc id="16972" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16972" title="MS-DOS">
MS-DOS

MS-DOS is a computer operating system by Microsoft Corporation. It stands for "Microsoft Disk Operating System", and came from an operating system Microsoft bought called QDOS, or the "Quick and Dirty Operating System." It was popularly used in PCs before an operating system called Microsoft Windows came out and still is in some places today. OS/2 was originally made by a joint agreement with companies that are called Microsoft and IBM. OS/2 was maintained by IBM until 2006. OS/2 was supposed to replace MS-DOS, but that replacement did not succeed. MS-DOS was the framework behind Windows operating systems until an operating system known as Windows XP.
MS-DOS is a text-based operating system, meaning that a user works with a keyboard to input data and receives output in plain text. Later on, MS-DOS often had programs using a mouse and graphics to make work more simple and quick. (Some people still believe that working without graphics is really more efficient.) It is called a disk operating system because it was originally made to be loaded into a computer's memory with a floppy disk each time the computer is started (booted) up.

</doc>
<doc id="16975" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16975" title="DOS">
DOS

A disk operating system (DOS) will load from a floppy disk each time a computer starts, and will access that disk for software to complete operations. MS-DOS is probably the most well-known DOS, and was purchased by Microsoft Corporation from a system known as QDOS. As operating systems became more complicated and took up more space, they began to be permanently installed on hard drives, which are faster and more reliable than floppy disks, and can store more data. This was encouraged by a steady drop in hard drive prices.
"DOS"es are usually text-based and without graphics to save space on a floppy disk. Although DOSes have mostly been replaced by Windows, Macintosh, and Linux systems, among others (sporting a GUI, or Graphical User Interface), they are still in use in some places, mostly on older computers. This may be because of a lack of money, the need to use software which still runs on a DOS system, nostalgia for an older operating system, or the belief that text-based systems are more efficient.
Although GUIs are more popular, in times of emergency or when one needs to install special software, a boot disk allows a user to start his computer into a DOS.

</doc>
<doc id="16976" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16976" title="Internet service provider">
Internet service provider

An Internet service provider, or ISP, maintains, installs and provides internet connection to residential or commercial areas. Some examples of ISP clients include - homes, coffee shops, hotels, libraries, offices. They usually charge a fee for installing the connection and a monthly fee for maintaining it.
The internet is basically a web of interconnected networks - which are maintained by a huge number of different ISPs. They keep connected around the world by giving their clients access to other ISP networks. This is called peering.
Many ISPs have other services such as e-mail and web hosting service. 
ISPs offer different types of connections such as dial-up, DSL, through optical fiber wires, through a cable television connection, or wireless. Communications satellite connections are used mainly in remote areas. Dial-up is the slowest connection, while a direct fiber-optic connection is usually the fastest.

</doc>
<doc id="16982" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16982" title="National Women's Hockey League">
National Women's Hockey League

The National Women's Hockey League (NWHL) was an ice hockey league in Canada that was formed in 1999 and ended in 2007. The best female players in the world played in this league and in the Western Women's Hockey League. The mayor of Brampton, Ontario, Susan Fennell, was the NWHL's commissioner (president).
]

</doc>
<doc id="16983" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16983" title="Western Women's Hockey League">
Western Women's Hockey League

The Western Women's Hockey League (WWHL) is an ice hockey league in North America. It was formed in 2004. The best female players in the world play in this league and in the National Women's Hockey League (NWHL). Some WWHL teams began in the NWHL. The Minnesota Whitecaps and the Manitoba Maple Leafs continue to be active teams and are playing a number of exhibition games as the league expands to include several new teams.

</doc>
<doc id="16986" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16986" title="Yukon">
Yukon

The Yukon is part of Canada, north of British Columbia, west of the Northwest Territories, and east of the American state of Alaska. Its population is 31,000. Most of the territory's people live in the capital of Whitehorse. Many of the people are native Canadians (First Nations).
The Yukon became a territory in 1898. It was part of the Northwest Territories from 1870 to 1898. Many people came to live in the Yukon during the Yukon Gold Rush of the 1890's.
Mount Logan, at 5959 metres above sea level, is Canada's highest mountain.
The most important industry in the Yukon is mining.

</doc>
<doc id="16987" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16987" title="Saanich">
Saanich

The District of Saanich is a region of Greater Victoria, British Columbia. It is north of the City of Victoria. Over 100,000 people live in Saanich. It is named after the Saanich First Nation.
Some communities within Saanich include Gordon Head, Royal Oak, Cordova Bay, Tillicum-Gorge, Cadboro Bay, Broadmead, Cedar Hill, and Ten-Mile Point.
Saanich Commonwealth Place, a recreation centre first used for swimming and diving at the 1994 Commonwealth Games, is located in Saanich.
Saanich celebrated its 100th anniversary in 2006.
The mayor of Saanich is Frank Leonard.

</doc>
<doc id="16988" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16988" title="Emily Carr">
Emily Carr

Emily Carr (December 13, 1871 - March 2, 1945) was a Canadian artist and writer.
Emily Carr was born in Victoria, British Columbia in 1871. Her parents died while she was a young teenager. She began art lessons when she was sixteen. When she was nineteen, she went to study art in San Francisco. She also studied art in England but she got sick and came back to Victoria. After she got better, she went to France to continue her art studies. She saw paintings by many French artists who were experimenting with new ways of painting. She was most influenced by French impressionism and post-impressionism, though.
When Carr came back to Canada, she had trouble selling her paintings because they looked unusual to many people. Her paintings were even laughed at. She had to make money to support herself so she ran a small apartment house. She was so busy that she did not have much time to paint.
In 1927, she met a famous group of Canadian painters called the Group of Seven. They were impressed by her paintings and she became respected for her art.
In the later years of her life, Carr started writing books. "Klee Wyck" was the title of one of these books. It won the Governor General's Award which is an important award for literature in Canada. She also wrote "The Book of Small." She died in 1945 in Victoria.
Carr painted scenes from nature and from First Nations culture. For example, she painted many Haida and Tlingit totem poles. The Tlingit people called her Klee Wyck, which means "the laughing one." She went on long trips by canoe to visit First Nations villages.
She also liked to paint Canadian nature. She believed it was important that Canadian paintings have a different style than paintings from Europe. She liked the paintings of the Group of Seven because of their originality.
One of Carr's most famous paintings is "The Raven." The Emily Carr Institute of Art and Design was named after her and two schools are also named after her. She is considered one of Canada's most famous artists.

</doc>
<doc id="16997" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16997" title="Hatikvah">
Hatikvah

Hatikvah (also transliterated as Hatikva, or, without vowels, H-t-k-v , "The Hope") is the national anthem of Israel. The song tells about the 2000-year-old hope of the Jewish people to return to their homeland, Israel. The song lyrics (words) were originally a 9-stanza poem called "תקותנו" (Tikvatenu), or "Our Hope," written by Naphtali Imber. "Hatikvah" uses only the first stanza and the refrain of Imber's poem. The last line of the refrain was changed, and the words were put to music. The music is from a very old--and very popular--folk song that Samuel Cohen, a Jew born in Spain, found himself humming one day. It is in a minor key, which is usually not used for national anthems, because it sounds sad, but the words to the song are about the Jews' hope that one day their sadness will be turned into joy.
כל עוד בלבב פנימה
נפש יהודי הומיה,<br>
ולפאתי מזרח קדימה<br>
עין לציון צופיה -
עוד לא אבדה תקותנו,<br>
התקוה בת שנות אלפים,<br>
להיות עם חופשי בארצנו<br>
ארץ ציון וירושלים.
HATIKVA<br>
Kol ʻod balevav penimah<br>
Nefesh Yehudi Homiyah<br>
Ulfa'atey Mizrakh Kadimah<br>
ʻAyin letzion Tzofiyah
ʻOd lo avdah tikvatenu<br>
Hatikvah bat shnot alpayim<br>
Lihyot am chofshi be'artzenu<br>
Eretz Tziyon v'Yerushalayim<br>
As long as in the heart, within, 
A Jewish soul still yearns, 
And onward, towards the ends of the east, 
An eye still looks toward Zion; 
Our hope is not yet lost, 
The hope of two thousand years, 
To be a free nation in our land, 
The land of Zion and Jerusalem.

</doc>
<doc id="17007" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17007" title="Virology">
Virology

Virology is the study of viruses such as the cold virus.
Virologists are responsible for many immunisations against common viruses like the common influenza (Flu) and things like chickenpox and smallpox.

</doc>
<doc id="17035" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17035" title="Stanley Cup">
Stanley Cup

The Stanley Cup is a trophy given to the champions of the National Hockey League (NHL) every year.
It was bought by Lord Stanley, the Governor General of Canada, in 1892, for $50. The first team to win it was the Montreal A.A.A. in 1893. Other teams could challenge for it. By 1915, it was awarded on a yearly basis.
The names of players and others such as coaches are put on the cup every year. As a result, the NHL had to make the cup bigger, by adding layers to the bottom. When the first cup was full of names, they made a copy of it, which is now what is awarded.
Today, there are 30 teams in the NHL. They play 82 games per year, and then 16 teams make the playoffs. These teams play best-of-seven series until there is only one champion.
The Montreal Canadiens have won the Stanley Cup 24 times, the most of any team. They also won the most in a row: five between 1955-56 and 1959-60.
Henri Richard of the Montreal Canadiens appears the most on the Stanley Cup, 11 times.
The Stanley Cup was not awarded in 2005: there was no NHL season because of a labour disagreement. It was not awarded in 1919, either, because of the influenza epidemic.

</doc>
<doc id="17037" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17037" title="Militarization">
Militarization

Militarization is the general movement of a country to focus its production on war. This includes production of war machines such as tanks and aircraft as well as arms for infantry. There is a focus of the population to produce these goods. An example of this is seen when females during the Second World War would work in factories to produce planes and tanks. Militarism is simply a country that is focusing on increasing their military might through production and concentration of capital resources. 
This movement can be started in either a country at war already or in a country that is newly entering a conflict. Example of this include the one stated earlier, since the United States entered the Second World War they shifted from supplying Britain to producing their own weapons. When Germany was about to begin their invasion of Europe they started militarization. They broke the Treaty and began to produce weapons. Their focus changed from economic progress to fascism and militarism.

</doc>
<doc id="17052" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17052" title="Tour de France">
Tour de France

The Tour de France () is a well known bicycle race. It began in 1903. It is held in France, every summer. In recent years it has ended with a race through the centre of Paris, past the Eiffel Tower. It is among the most famous, and has some of the highest prizes, of bike races in Europe. Recently, it was in the media, because some athletes were doping. The race goes around France, but can have some parts in other countries, including England, Belgium, or Spain as they race in the Pyrenees mountains.
The tour lasts about three weeks. At the end of each day's race the leader is given a yellow shirt, the best sprinter is given a green shirt, and the best rider in the mountain races is given a polka dot jersey. He is sometimes called the King of the Mountains. The best young rider, who must be under 25, gets a white jersey. The winner is the one who finishes the race to Paris in the fastest time. There is a lot of prize money for the teams of the winners of the Tour, but the winner of each day's race also gets prize money.

</doc>
<doc id="17056" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17056" title="Joseph Smith, Jr.">
Joseph Smith, Jr.

Joseph Smith, Jr. (December 23, 1805 – June 27, 1844) was an American religious leader. He started the Latter Day Saint movement (also called Mormonism). Latter Day Saints believe that Smith was a prophet.
According to Joseph Smith's own story, when he was 17 years old, he was visited by an angel named Moroni. Moroni told him about a really old book written upon Golden Plates. It was buried in a hill. A few years later, Joseph said that he received those plates and translated them into the book that today is call The Book of Mormon. He instructed a man named Martin Harris to write down the words that he said was a translation of the plates. He said Moroni gave him seer stones which would help him translate the golden plates. Harris took home the pages and told his wife all about what had happened, but she did not believe him. Those pages were lost, and Joseph told Martin that God was very angry with them. Eventually, Joseph was allowed to translate the rest of the book, with help from Oliver Cowdery instead of Martin Harris.
On April 6, 1830, he started The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It is often called the Mormon Church. Joseph Smith said that God wanted him to be a prophet and teach other people the things that he learned from God. This church still exists today, with millions of members around the world.
Joseph Smith taught some things that some people did not like. He said that other churches were only partly true. He also said that men could have more than one wife if God commanded them, just like was taught in the Old Testament of the Bible. The Mormons also did not always get along with their neighbors.
On June 7, 1844, some people who were upset with Smith created a newspaper in Nauvoo, Illinois called the "Nauvoo Expositor" This newspaper was filled with bad things about Smith, such as how Smith secretly had many wives. Some men even said that Smith tried to take their wives. Smith had the printing press that made the newspaper destroyed, and had the city declare martial law. Smith was arrested after being accused of trying to start a riot, and was put in jail in Carthage, Illinois as he waited for his trial to start. On June 27, a group of angry men entered the jail and killed Smith and his brother, Hyrum.

</doc>
<doc id="17057" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17057" title="Anastasia">
Anastasia

Anastasia or Anastacia is a woman's name that comes from the Koine Greek. It translates to "She who shall rise up again", but it is also used to mean "resurrection". The name, and its similar male name, Anastasius, were given to children born during Easter in the early years of Christianity.
The names "Stacey" (also spelled "Stacie", "Stacy" or "Stacee"), "Tasia", and "Stasia" are short forms for Anastasia.
It is also the name of several important women in history.
Anastasia is also the name of:

</doc>
<doc id="17058" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17058" title="Band">
Band

In music, a band is a group of people (usually musicians) that get together to sing songs, or perform music. There are different kinds of bands that use different groups of instruments. 

</doc>
<doc id="17060" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17060" title="Demographics of Nicaragua">
Demographics of Nicaragua

About 86 per cent of Nicaraguans are European (but not limited to Spanish) or mixed European and of native ancestry. Most Nicaraguans have Spanish ancestors, but the 19th century saw several waves of immigration from other European countries (mainly from Germany). Most of the Mestizo and European population live in the western and central regions of the country and especially in the cities of Managua, Leon and Granada.
About 9 per cent of Nicaragua's population is black or afro-nicaragüense and they are concentrated in the country's eastern coast, and were brought mostly from Jamaica and Haiti when the region was a British protectorate. There is also a smaller number of Garifuna, a people of mixed African, Caribbean, Angolan, Congoan and Arawak descent.
Just 5 per cent of the population are of pure native descent. Nicaragua's pre-Columbian population consisted of the Nahuatl-speaking Nicarao people of the west, and six ethnic groups including the Miskitos, Ramas and Sumos in the Caribbean region. While very few pure-blooded Nicarao people still exist, the Caribbean peoples have remained distinct. In the mid-1980s, the government divided the eastern half of the country - the former department of Zelaya - into two autonomous regions and granted the African and indigenous people of the region limited self-rule.
There is also a small Middle Eastern-Nicaraguan community of Syrian, Armenian, Palestinian and Lebanese people in Nicaragua with a total population of about 30,000, and an East Asian community of Japanese, Taiwanese and Chinese people of almost 8,000. The minorities speak Spanish and maintain their ancestral languages as well.
Spanish is spoken by about 90% of Nicaraguans; the Nicaraguan dialect has many similarities to Galician, and also has similarities to Argentinian Spanish which uses "vos" instead of "tu", along with the "vos" conjugation. The black population of the east coast region has English as its first language. Several indigenous peoples of the east still use their original languages.
Roman Catholicism is the major religion, but evangelical Protestant groups have grown recently, and there are strong Anglican and Moravian communities on the Caribbean coast. 0.1% of Nicaragua is Buddhist and the religion has been growing in recent years.
Ninety per cent of Nicaraguans live in the Pacific and central lowlands and the adjacent interior highlands. The population is 54% urban.

</doc>
<doc id="17071" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17071" title="Carlo Azeglio Ciampi">
Carlo Azeglio Ciampi

Carlo Azeglio Ciampi (9 December 1920 in Livorno, Italy – 16 September 2016 in Rome, Italy) was the 10th President of the Italian Republic. His work started in 1999 and ended in 2006. He was followed by Giorgio Napolitano
He is appreciated very much by the Italian people because of his equality and rightness.
Since 1979 he had been President of the Bank of Italy, but his task ended in 1993.
He was also Prime Minister of the Italian government, but his task lasted just a few months, because it was just a technical government,which purpose was to lead the country in a moment of difficulties.
Ciampi died at a hospital in Rome from complications of pneumonia, aged 95.

</doc>
<doc id="17073" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17073" title="Barry Sadler">
Barry Sadler

Barry Sadler (November 1, 1940 – November 5, 1989) was an American soldier, songwriter and author. In 1966, He recorded a song called "The Ballad of The Green Berets". It was the biggest selling song that year. He later helped write the "Casca" series of books. He died after being shot in the head by a robber.

</doc>
<doc id="17074" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17074" title="Nancy Sinatra">
Nancy Sinatra

Nancy Sinatra (born 8 June 1940) is an American singer and actress. She was born in Jersey City, New Jersey. She is the elder daughter of Frank Sinatra. She is best known for the song "These Boots Were Made for Walkin'".
She had a younger brother, Frank Sinatra, Jr. and has a younger sister, Tina Sinatra.

</doc>
<doc id="17075" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17075" title="The Rascals">
The Rascals

The Rascals (formerly known as The Young Rascals) were an American pop-soul group popular in the 1960s.

</doc>
<doc id="17077" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17077" title="Percy Sledge">
Percy Sledge

Percy Sledge (November 25, 1940 – April 14, 2015) was an American R&B singer. He was born in Leighton, Alabama. He was best known for his song "When a Man Loves a Woman".
Sledge died of liver cancer in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, aged 74.

</doc>
<doc id="17078" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17078" title="Tommy Roe">
Tommy Roe

Tommy Roe (born May 9, 1942) is an American singer and guitarist. He was popular in the 1960s. His best known songs were "Sweet Pea" and "Dizzy".

</doc>
<doc id="17079" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17079" title="The Box Tops">
The Box Tops

The Box Tops were a 1960s pop music group, from Memphis, Tennessee. Their best known songs are "The Letter" and "Cry Like A Baby".

</doc>
<doc id="17080" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17080" title="Lulu">
Lulu

Lulu can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="17081" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17081" title="James K. Polk">
James K. Polk

James Knox Polk (November 2, 1795 – June 15, 1849) was the eleventh President of the United States. His term was from March 4, 1845 to March 3, 1849. He died days after leaving office and has the shortest retirement of any president.
Polk was born in Mecklenburg County, North Carolina. He went to the University of North Carolina.
Polk was sworn in on March 4, 1845. He is the first president elected under the age of 50. 
Polk is respected by historians because he made four promises during his presidential campaign and accomplished all of them. 
He signed legislation which made the Smithsonian Institution.
He promised to lower tariffs (taxes on foreign trades) and he did that.
He promised to make the U.S. government its own bank so it did not have to put its money in other banks. He did that.
He intimidated England into allowing the United States to have the Oregon Territory (the north-western United States) just like he promised.
He promised he would make Texas part of the United States. He declared war on Mexico and led the country through the Mexican-American War.
During his presidency, the U.S. gained a lot of land.
He is the only President to have been Speaker of the United States House of Representatives. 
He promised to serve only a single term. He did not run for re-election as President and did not serve a second term.
On January 1, 1824, Sarah Childress Polk, aged 20, married James Polk, aged 28, at the plantation home of the bride's parents near Murfreesboro. They had no children, but raised a nephew as if it were their own child. 
Polk died on June 15, 1849 in Nashville, Tennessee. He died from cholera. Polk was only in retirement for three months. Polk was buried at Tennessee State Capitol in Nashville, Tennessee.

</doc>
<doc id="17083" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17083" title="Al Gore">
Al Gore

Albert Arnold "Al" Gore, Jr. (born March 31, 1948) is a former American politician, who served as the Vice President of the United States under Bill Clinton from 1993 to 2001. Before that, he was a Senator for Tennessee and a congressman. He is a Democrat.
He was chosen as the Democratic nominee of the 2000 United States Presidential election, but lost the electoral vote to Republican candidate George W. Bush because of Florida and the US Supreme Court ruling a 5-4 favor of Bush. Gore won the popular vote. When Gore lost the presidency, many people were against the Supreme Court argued that it was the only time in history that the Supreme Court chose the next President.
Gore won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2007.
Albert Gore, Jr. was born in Washington, D.C.. He is the second of two chidren. His father, Albert Gore, Sr. was a Senator for Tennessee and congressman. His mother, Pauline LaFon Gore is one of the first women to have graduated from Vanderbilt University Law School. Gore is descended from Scots-Irish immigrants who first settled in Virginia in the mid-17th-century, and moved to Tennessee after the Revolutionary War. Gore was brought up in both Washington and Tennessee. His older sister was Nancy LaFon Gore, who was born in 1938, died of lung cancer in 1984.
Gore was a Representative from 1977 to 1985 and a Senator from 1985 to 1993. In 1988 he ran for President for first time, but lost to Michael Dukakis in the Democratic primary. In 1993, he became Vice President to Bill Clinton. He ran for President in 2000, but lost to George W. Bush (many people still argue this). Even though he lost the race, Gore won in the popular vote by over 500,000 votes.
Gore is now a businessman, and runs and works for several companies, including Generation Investment Management, Google, Apple Computers, and TV channel Current. 
He is also a fighter for issues involving the environment. He released a movie in 2006 about global warming and climate change called "An Inconvenient Truth", which was based on a slide show he had given to millions of people. In 2007, Gore won the Nobel Peace Prize which he shared with the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.
Interest in having Gore run for the 2016 Presidential election arose in 2014 and again in 2015, though Gore has not declared an intention to run.
He currently lives in Nashville and was married to Tipper for 40 years. In June 2010, they filed for divorce. The Gores have 4 children and 2 grandchildren.

</doc>
<doc id="17085" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17085" title="Pumpkinhead II">
Pumpkinhead II

Pumpkinhead II: Blood Wings is a 1994 movie about a young boy named Tommy, a misfit and deformed teenager who had no friends.
One day, Tommy is killed by a gang of bad boys from his home town for no reason at all. Miss Ossie was an old lady who used to take care of Tommy from the very beginning. When the young boy is killed, she decides to bury him in her backyard as a way to keep him around anyway. Several years later in the 1990s, a bunch of teenagers go to Miss Ossie's house and they do something that brings Tommy back to life. Some kind of spelling that resurrect the deformed kid. For some reason, Tommy comes back as an angry and even more grotesque creature who wants to take revenge on the people who killed him in the past and innocent people as well.

</doc>
<doc id="17092" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17092" title="THX 1138">
THX 1138

THX 1138 is a 1971 movie and was the first feature movie directed by George Lucas and executive produced by Francis Ford Coppola and Coppola's production company American Zoetrope. 
It was based on a short film Lucas made in college in 1967 called "Electric Labyrinth THX 1138 4EB".

</doc>
<doc id="17099" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17099" title="Bat">
Bat

Bats are mammals in the order Chiroptera. They are the only mammals that can fly. Other mammals like flying squirrels, or flying possum, can glide but not fly. Bats are nocturnal – they are active during the night, dusk, or dawn. Most use echolocation to catch prey and to find their way about. As nighttime animals, bats avoid direct competition with birds, few of which are nocturnal.
Bats are a successful group. They are the second largest order of mammals: there are more than 1,100 species of bats. This means that 20% of all living mammal species – one in five – are bats. 
About seventy percent of bats are insectivores, which is the basal form of life for this group. The common pipistrelle is a successful example. Most of the rest are fruit-eaters (fruit bats). A few species suck blood, and a few large ones are carnivorous.
Bats live almost everywhere, except the Arctic, Antarctic and a few oceanic islands. They usually roost in caves, old buildings, or trees.
Traditionally, bats are divided into two groups. Microbats mostly use echo-location and catch insects, but just a few eat fish or drink blood. Megabats do not echolocate, but instead eat fruit or nectar.
The phylogenetic relationships of the different groups of bats have been the subject of much debate. The traditional subdivision between Megachiroptera and Microchiroptera reflects the view that these groups of bats have evolved independently of each other for a long time, from a common ancestor which was already capable of flight. 
The hypothesis was that flight only evolved once in mammals. Most molecular biological evidence supports the view that bats form a single or monophyletic group.
There are few fossilized remains of bats, as they are terrestrial and light-boned. An Eocene bat, "Onychonycteris", was found in the 52-million-year-old Green River Formation in Wyoming, United States, in 2003. It could fly, but the well-preserved skeleton showed the cochlea of the inner ear could not achieve the great hearing ability of modern bats. This was evidence that flight in bats developed before echolocation. The team said it lacked ear and throat features not only of echolocating bats today, but also in other known fossil species. Fossil remains of other Eocene bats, "Icaronycteris", "Archaeonycteris", "Palaeochiropteryx", "Hassianycteris" and "Australonycteris" all show a similar mixture of basal and derived traits, as expected by mosaic evolution.
All Eocene bats had long tails. This feature is also found in early flying insects in the Carboniferous, in early pterosaurs and in "Archaeopteryx" and other dinobirds. The tail helped to keep their flight stable, which means it kept on course, and did not dart about much. To dart about quickly requires special advanced brains and reflexes, which later bats, birds and pterosaurs had, but early ones did not. It requires more brains to control unstable flight than it does for stable flight. That early bats had long tails was predicted by John Maynard Smith before any fossil early bats were found.
"Onychonycteris" had longer hind legs and shorter forearms, similar to climbing mammals that hang under branches such as sloths and gibbons. This palm-sized bat had broad, short wings, suggesting it could not fly as fast or as far as later bat species. Instead of flapping its wings continuously while flying, "Onychonycteris" likely alternated between flaps and glides while in the air. Such physical characteristics suggest this bat did not fly as much as modern bats do, rather flying from tree to tree and spending most of its waking day climbing or hanging on the branches of trees.
An interesting thing about bats is that even though they can see with their eyes, they also use their ears to help them 'see' in the dark. Because of this, they can fly into very dark places where no eye could see. This way of sensing is called echolocation. Echolocation means they use echoes to find where things are.
Echolocation is like sonar, which submarines and ships use to find things underwater. This is how it works: when a bat flies, it makes lots of sounds. "We" cannot hear these sounds (they are too high-pitched), but bats can hear them. Biologists have instruments to record them, and then play them back at a lower frequency so humans can hear them.
When a bat makes its noises, the sound waves move away from the bat. If they hit something, they bounce back to the bat (this bounce is called an "echo".) If nothing bounces back, the bat knows there is nothing in front. They use this echolocation to catch their food, like butterflies or dragonflies. When a bat begins its nightly exploration, it usually sends out about 10 calls per second. From the echo they know what is in front. When they get an echo from something good to eat, the calls increase up to 200 calls per second. This increase of sounds is called a "feeding buzz". The bat makes a feeding buzz to sense all the quick moves of the insect it is trying to catch.
Hearing and understanding the echoes that go back to the bat takes special structures in the bat's brain. Because of this, many scientists, doctors, and even the U.S. army study bats carefully. The U.S. army spends hundreds of thousands of dollars every year to study echolocation in bats.
Bats also have reasonably good eyesight, and can see their prey and where they are flying if it's not too dark. There are lots of stories about bats flying right into people, but this is not true. They can see in the light very well, and in the dark, they can see much better than us. So the expression "blind as a bat" is not very scientific. 
Bats fly with their hands. In fact, the name of the order of bats, "Chiropetera", means 'hand-wings' in Greek.
Bat and bird wings are different. Birds do not have long finger-like bones in their wings like bats. Birds can not move each of their fingers, but bats can. Because of this, bats can change their direction while flying or fly in any pattern they want: this makes it easier to catch their food. A bat flies as if they are "swimming" through the air – pushing both wings down and backward.
A bird's wing has lots of feathers, while a bat's wing is mostly a stretchy, thin skin called a patagium. This thin membrane of skin stretches between each finger bone, connects to the bat's ankle, and connects to the bat's tail (if it has one). A bat folds its wings next to its body when not flying.
Bats have one claw (sometimes called a "bat thumb") that sticks out of the top of the wing. They use their "thumb" to climb and crawl. Interestingly, bats also use their thumbs to clean their ears.
Bats' wings have a lot of maneuverability (they can change direction well) – more than a bird, in fact – but they do not have a lot of lift. Because of this, bats usually have to climb up onto a tree or jump up into the air for the boost before they start flapping their wings.
Megabats eat fruit, nectar or pollen. They pollinate flowers and sometimes spread their seeds. Many tropical plants completely depend on bats.
Most microbats (7 out of 10 bat species) are insectivorous, that is, they eat insects. Some microbats eat small vertebrate animals (small mammals or fish), blood, or even other bats. There are only a few species of vampire bats, which eat blood from cattle.
Bats usually live in caves or trees. In North America and in Europe they sometimes live in people's houses or barns. They are protected animals in the U.K.
Most bats rest, sleep and hibernate in an upside-down position. They hang on to branches or rocks with their feet. To do this they have a locking mechanism on the tendons in their feet which stops them from slipping. The advantage of this is that the energy they spend hanging on is greatly reduced. Once the tendons are locked, the muscles in their legs and feet can relax. Even dead bats stay hanging.
In the United Kingdom all bats are protected by law, and even disturbing a bat or its roost can be punished with a heavy fine.
Austin, Texas is the summer home to North America's largest urban bat colony (under the Congress Avenue bridge), an estimated 1,500,000 Mexican free-tailed bats, who eat an estimated 10 to 30 tons of insects each night, and attract 100,000 tourists each year.
In Sarawak, Malaysia bats are protected species, but the large naked bat and greater nectar bat are eaten by the local communities.
In the West, bats are associated with vampires, who are said to be able to change into bats. Bats are also a symbol of ghosts, death and disease. However bats are said to be lucky in some European countries, such as Poland.
The bat is used in fiction by both villains like Dracula and heroes like Batman. Kenneth Oppel wrote a series of novels, beginning with "Silverwing", which feature bats as good characters.
An old wives' tale says that bats will entangle themselves in people's hair. This is untrue as bats can detect even a single hair, and fly around it.

</doc>
<doc id="17105" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17105" title="Miguel de Cervantes">
Miguel de Cervantes

Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra (29 September 1547 – 23 April 1616) was a Spanish writer. His most famous book was "Don Quijote de la Mancha". It is considered the first modern novel, and therefore Cervantes was the first novelist. The book has been published in 65 countries. The work is considered among the most important in all of literature. He is sometimes called "The Prince of Satire".
Nobody knows for sure the reasons that forced Cervantes to leave Castile. Whether he was a "student" of the same name, a "sword-wielding fugitive from justice", or fleeing from a royal warrant of arrest, for having wounded a certain Antonio de Sigura in a duel, is another mystery. 
In any event, in going to Italy, Cervantes was doing what many young Spaniards of the time did to further their careers. Rome would reveal to the young artist its ecclesiastic pomp, ritual, and majesty. In a city teeming with ruins Cervantes could focus his attention on Renaissance art, architecture, and poetry (knowledge of Italian literature is readily discernible in his own productions) and on rediscovering antiquity. He could find in the ancients "a powerful impetus to revive the contemporary world in light of its accomplishments". Thus, Cervantes' continuing desire for Italy, as revealed in his later works, was in part a desire for a return to an earlier period of the Renaissance.
By 1570, Cervantes had enlisted as a soldier in a regiment of the Spanish naval elite corps, Infantería de Marina, stationed in Naples, then a possession of the Spanish crown. He was there for about a year before he saw active service. In September 1571 Cervantes sailed on board the "Marquesa", part of the galley fleet of the Holy League, Spain, the Republic of Venice, the Republic of Genoa, the Duchy of Savoy, the Knights Hospitaller based in Malta, and others, under the command of King Philip II's illegitimate half brother, John of Austria, that defeated the Ottoman fleet on October 7 in the Gulf of Lepanto near Corinth, at great cost to both sides. Though taken down with fever, Cervantes refused to stay below, and begged to be allowed to take part in the battle, saying that he would rather die for his God and his king than keep under cover. He fought bravely on board a vessel, and received three gunshot wounds – two in the chest, and one which rendered his left arm useless. In "Journey to Parnassus" he was to say that he "had lost the movement of the left hand for the glory of the right" (he was thinking of the success of the first part of "Don Quixote"). Cervantes always looked back on his conduct in the battle with pride; he believed that he had taken part in an event that would shape the course of European history.

</doc>
<doc id="17133" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17133" title="Game Boy line">
Game Boy line

The Game Boys are a group of handheld video game consoles made by Nintendo.
The first Game Boy was released in 1989. It had a small screen, a D-pad, and an A and B button. To play games, there were small objects called cartridges that you put into the Game Boy to play the game in the cartridge. The game that made it popular was Tetris. The Game Boy had a link cable and a link port which let it connect with other Game Boys.
After the Game Boy, Nintendo released the Game Boy Pocket. It only needed two batteries instead of four. The link port was smaller than the Game Boy's, so the Game Boy and Game Boy Pocket could not connect.
The Game Boy Light was only released in Japan and had a front-light so people could see better. It is very rare - only about 12,000 of them were manufactured. Because it is rare, it sells for more money than other Game Boys.
The Game Boy Color was the first Game Boy in color. It was also able to play Game Boy cartridges, which helped it sell better. This also helped other Game Boy models after the Game Boy Color. It is sometimes called GBC.
The Game Boy Advance is a handheld that had better color and smaller cartridges. It is sometimes called GBA. It came out in 2001.
The Game Boy Advance SP was an improved version of the GBA. It has a clamshell design, which means you can fold it to make it smaller. It has a better light. It can play Game Boy and Game Boy Color games, along with the new cartridges introduced with the GBA.
The Game Boy Micro is a smaller GBA. It has a smaller link port than the Game Boy Advance. It has the very best screen out of all the Game Boys.
When Nintendo released the Nintendo DS handheld in 2004, they said it was a "third pillar" (the other two pillars were the Game Boy and the home console). It has two screens, one of them is a touch screen. DS games use cards in Slot 1. In Slot 2, it can accept Game Boy Advance games, but not the older Game Boy or Game Boy Color ones.

</doc>
<doc id="17138" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17138" title="Pope Paul VI">
Pope Paul VI

Pope Paul VI (; ), born Giovanni Battista Enrico Antonio Maria Montini, was an Italian priest of the Roman Catholic Church and the 263rd Pope from from 1963 until his death in 1978. Paul was a spiritual leader and the head of the church bureaucracy.
Montini was born in Concesio. That is near Brescia in northern Italy. His father was editor of a Roman Catholic newspaper. He received degrees in civil and canon law, theology and philosophy.
Montini was ordained and celebrated his first mass in 1920. He worked in the Vatican diplomatic corps. During World War II, he was in charge of the Vatican's work for refugees and prisoners of war. He was made Archbishop of Milan in 1954. Pope John XXIII made Montini a cardinal in 1958.
Cardinal Montini was elected Pope in 1963. Pope Paul continued the Second Vatican Council which was begun by Pope John XXIII. His first encyclical is the only one in the Vatican archives which is in the handwriting of the pope who delivered it. Paul VI was known as the "pilgrim" pope for his numerous travels. He was the first pope to fly in an airplane. 
In 1964, Paul was the first pope to travel from Rome to the Holy Land. He flew first to Amman in Jordan. Then he traveled by car to Jerusalem. In 1970, the pope visited Australia, the Phillipines, and Indonesia. In 1975, Paul declared 1975 to be a "jubilee" year with themes of renewal and reconciliation.
In 1978, Prime Minister Aldo Moro was kidnapped in Rome. Pope Paul VI made an offer to exchange his life for Moro's. The offer was not accepted. Moro was killed 55 days later.
At the age of 80, Pope Paul VI died at Castel Gandolfo, Italy, from a heart attack.
The Pope Paul VI Hall is the modern building in which mass papal audiences are held.
Serafian, Michael. (1964). "The Pilgrim." New York: Farrar, Straus. OCLC 386084?

</doc>
<doc id="17171" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17171" title="Macau">
Macau

The Macao Special Administrative Region (Macau or Macao, ) is one of China's two Special Administrative Regions. (The other one is Hong Kong). Macau is a small city in the southern coast in China. It consists of Macau Peninsula (Aomen Bandao), Taipa Island (Dangzai Dao), Coloane Island (Luhuan Dao) and Cotai (Ludangcheng), the new reclaimed land between Taipa and Coloane. It is very densely populated, with over half a million people.
Macao used to be a colony of Portugal. Today, Macao mostly lives off of offshore gambling. In fact, Macau makes 7 times as much money as Las Vegas per year. They make some money from exporting clothing.

</doc>
<doc id="17173" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17173" title="Taipei">
Taipei

Taipei City () is the capital city of the Republic of China, known by most people simply as Taiwan. It is the fourth largest city in Taiwan. It has a humid subtropical climate ("Cfa" in the Köppen climate classification). Its population in 2014 was about 2.7 million people. Its mayor is Ko Wen-je.
Taipei City is divided into 12 districts.

</doc>
<doc id="17183" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17183" title="Bob Chiarelli">
Bob Chiarelli

Robert (Bob) Chiarelli (born September 24, 1941) is the current mayor of Ottawa, Canada. He grew up in Ottawa, and was married to the late Carol Chiarelli.
He was first made mayor of the new Ottawa on November 13, 2000.

</doc>
<doc id="17184" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17184" title="Skeleton">
Skeleton

A skeleton is the hard structure that supports the body of a living thing. Skeletons can be inside the body or outside the body. In mammals, which include humans, the skeleton is made of bones. All the bones, when they are joined together, make the "skeletal system" of a body. The skeletal system or "skeleton" is under the skin, the muscle and the tissue of the body. The skeleton supports the skin, muscle and tissue, and all the organs that are inside the body. The skeleton protects important internal organs like the brain, heart and lungs. If humans did not have a skeleton then the body would be flat as the skeleton gives the body its frame.
The important parts of a human body are the head, the spine, the chest, the abdomen, the arms and hands, and the legs and feet. 
The head bones all together are called the skull. 
The spine supports the head, the chest and the structure that carries the arms. It is made of small bones called vertebrae. The spine, all together, is called the spinal column. It is not straight, but has curves that help to support the body, and help the person to move and bend. One bone is a "vertebra". More than one are "vertebrae".
The "vertebrae" have different names, depending on the part of the body they are joined to. 
This part of the body is made of the sacrum and the two pelvic bones which are joined to it on either side. The pelvic bones are carried by the leg bones, and they support the "spinal column". Each pelvic bone has a strong structure for the leg bone to fit into, so that a person can stand, walk, run and jump. Each pelvic bone spreads into a large flat plate which supports the person's "internal organs". The pelvis of a woman spreads into a wider shape than a man's, so that when the woman is pregnant, the baby is supported by the pelvis, until it is ready to be born. At the bottom of the pelvis is a large opening, big enough for a baby to pass through. 
The chest is called the thorax, and the vertebrae that are part of it are the thoracic vertebrae. The thorax is made up of long flat curved bones called ribs. At the back, the ribs are joined to the vertebrae. At the front, most of the ribs are joined to the sternum, which is often called the "breast bone". All together, the "thorax" protects the heart, lungs and stomach. 
At the top of the "thorax" is the shoulder girdle. This is made of two thin horizontal bones at the front, joined to the "sternum". These two bones are called the clavicles or "collar bones". At the back of the "thorax" are two flat triangular-shaped bones called the scapulae, or "shoulder blades". The "clavicles" and "scapulae" come together on each side to make "shoulders". The bones of the arms fit into sockets (cup-like holes) in the "scapulae". 
Arms and legs both have a thicker bone at the top and two thinner bones at the bottom. They both have a rotating joint at the top, and a hinge joint in the middle. The hands and feet have lots of bones and are joined to the arms and legs by small bones with sliding parts. 
A skeleton, or just a skull, has often been used as a symbol for Death. 
Skeletons, particularly living skeletons, have often been used in horror stories and comedies.
Skeletons appear in the popular game: Minecraft. In Minecraft, skeletons have bows that try to shoot the player.

</doc>
<doc id="17186" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17186" title="Catalan">
Catalan

Catalan might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="17193" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17193" title="GP2X">
GP2X

The GP2X is a handheld gaming console. It uses the Linux operating system. An operating system goes inside another system. It helps the other system do what it needs to. The GP2X can have music, videos, games, and pictures. There are updates to the GP2X so it will get more things. The GP2X can have DivX, XviD, MP3, and Ogg Vorbis. DivX and XviD are ways to keep videos and MP3 and Ogg Vorbis can keep music. It can also be able to emulate video games. Emulating means you copy a system. It can emulate systems like the Nintendo Entertainment System, Sega Master System, Turbo Grafx 16, Game Boy, Super Nintendo Entertainment System, and Genesis.

</doc>
<doc id="17207" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17207" title="Community">
Community

A community is a group of living things sharing the same environment. They usually have shared interests. In human communities, people have some of the same beliefs and needs, and this affects the identity of the group and the people in it.

</doc>
<doc id="17223" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17223" title="Upton Sinclair">
Upton Sinclair

Upton Beall Sinclair (September 20, 1878 – November 25, 1968) was a writer of many works from the United States. His most famous book, "The Jungle" from 1906, was about the American meat-packing industry.
Upton Sinclair had socialist political opinions. Most of Sinclair's books, including "The Jungle", dealt with social injustice. He also wrote a book called "Mental Radio" where he claimed to have conducted telepathic experiments with his wife. 
He wrote many other books. His book "The Flivver King" was about the Ford Motor Company. "The Flivver King" was written at the time when workers at Ford factories were trying to start a labor union. He wrote a series (many books in a row) with Lanny Budd as the main character. There were eleven (11) Lanny Budd books. The Lanny Budd books were about current events in the World at the time.
He later joined the Democratic Party and ran for governor of the state of California in 1934. He wanted California to start new businesses which would be run by the state government. This was to help people who were unemployed (did not have jobs) because of the Great Depression. He lost the election. 
He retired in the town of Buckeye, Arizona.

</doc>
<doc id="17224" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17224" title="Gizmondo">
Gizmondo

Gizmondo is a handheld video game system. It is made by Tiger Telematics. It has GPRS and GPS. GPRS is used to go on the Internet, and GPS is where you can see where you are. Some games use the Gizmondo's GPS. It has a camera. It can also send text (words) and multimedia (pictures and videos and music) messages, play MP3/WAV/MIDI music and WMA/MP4 video, and play games. MP3, WAV, and MIDI are ways to keep music, and WMA and MP4 are ways to keep videos.
The Gizmondo came out in the United Kingdom in March 2005 for £229. It came out in the USA in October 22, 2005. Games include "Agaju: the Sacred Path", "Colors", and "Chicane". 
In February 2006, the company was forced into bankruptcy and stopped making the Gizmondo.

</doc>
<doc id="17228" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17228" title="Antarctic Treaty System">
Antarctic Treaty System

The Antarctic Treaty System is a set of agreements about the continent of Antarctica. It was signed in 1959 and took effect in 1961. So far, it has been signed by 46-48 countries.
The ATS is used for governing the continent. The main idea of the Antarctic Treaty System (ATS) is to make sure that Antarctica is:

</doc>
<doc id="17237" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17237" title="Kansas City, Missouri">
Kansas City, Missouri

Kansas City is the biggest city in the U.S. state of Missouri. The Kansas River and Missouri River meet one another in Kansas City. The city has about 448,000 people, and the entire metropolitan area has about 2,000,000 people, some of whom live in the state of Kansas. Its mayor is Sly James. Some sports teams there are the Royals (baseball), the Chiefs (American football), and the Wizards (soccer). Kansas City is well known for some of its barbecue restaurants, and is also an important place for business.

</doc>
<doc id="17262" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17262" title="Cascading Style Sheets">
Cascading Style Sheets

Cascading Style Sheets, or CSS, are a way to change the look of HTML and XHTML web pages. CSS was designed by the W3C, and is supported well by most modern web browsers. The current version of CSS is CSS 2. CSS version 3 is currently being worked on. It will introduce new properties like codice_1. 
One advantage to using CSS is a web page can still be displayed and understood, even if the CSS is not working or removed.
CSS code is saved in files with the .css file extension.
To make all paragraphs on a page blue and sized 20% bigger than normal text, we would apply this CSS rule to a page:

</doc>
<doc id="17263" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17263" title="Allah">
Allah

The word Allah () is the Arabic term for God. It usually refers to the Islamic God, but in the Middle East, other religions sometimes use the same term for their God.
In Islam, Allah is the main word for "God." Muslims use 99 Names of God to describe God, but "Allah" is the most common of these and means all of them. This is because in Arabic, "al" is an article (word for "the"), so al-Lah means ""the" God". This is monotheism. When a Muslim says "Allah," all of the other names of God are thought of as part of it. Muslims also believe that this word tells about God's being a single entity and as being without wrong or defect and of God having no partner.
In Arabic, the name "Allah" is composed of four letters, (or Alif Lam Lam Ha, from right to left), which when brought together make الله.
"Allah" is often used by Muslims when they are praying. Muslims have a faith in one God. They believe that God is the one who made everything, the one judge, and the only one who has power over all things. They also believe that Allah created the heavens and the Earth just by saying "Kun,' which means "Be".
Most Arab Christians, like other Christians, believe in the Trinity. Most Muslims believe that Allah cannot be three persons.

</doc>
<doc id="17282" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17282" title="IPod nano">
IPod nano

The iPod nano is a MP3 player made by Apple Inc. It is available in 8GB and 16GB memory, in nine colours: silver, grey, purple, blue, green, yellow, orange, red, and pink.
There is a built-in FM receiver inside the iPod nano, and with the radio app, radio from the FM channels can be listened to. There is also a feature called Live Pause which allows listeners to pause the radio stream, and resume it at the same place later.
The iPod nano can 'talk to you', using a feature called VoiceOver. When the button on the headphones or the Click Wheel is held down, VoiceOver will speak the song currently playing and its artist. This feature is available in 20 languages.
The iPod nano has a built-in pedometer. You can create a Daily Step goal, or use the 'Always On' setting so it counts all of your steps.
Using the Nike+iPod sport kit, the iPod nano can be used as a fitness aid. It can measure your run by fitting into the insole Nike+ shoe pocket, then it can sync it to nikeplus.com. Nike+ is also compatible with some exercise machines.
The iPod nano includes a video camera which can be used to capture video. You can add fifteen video effects, then upload it to YouTube, MobileMe, or Facebook with your computer.
The iPod Nano was first released on September 7, 2005. 1, 2, and 4 GB iPods were available.
The second generation iPod Nano was released on September 25, 2006. Like the second generation iPod Mini it was available in different colors. But unlike the Mini, the click wheel was grey for all colors except for the black iPod which had a black click wheel.
The 1GB iPod was only available in silver, the 4GB iPod was available in green, blue, silver, and pink and the 8GB was only available in black, but red was added later.
On October 13, 2006, a Product Red iPod Nano was released. For each red iPod Nano sold a $10 donation goes to the Product Red brand. On November 3, 2006 a red 8GB iPod Nano was released due to high demand.
The third generation iPod Nano was released on September 5, 2007. It had a new smaller and wider design, video playback ability and a new user interface.
A 4GB iPod was released in silver while an 8GB iPod was released in silver, turquoise, mint green, black, and Product Red. A pink 8GB iPod was also released on January 22, 2008.
On October 6, 2007 Apple released OS 1.0.2 which improved cover flow and made going throw the menu a lot quicker. On November 28, 2007 1.0.3 was released which fixed a couple of bugs. On January 15, 2008 1.1 came out which had support for iTunes movie hiring, music song lyrics and more bug fixes. 1.1.2 and 1.1.3 had bug fixes. They were both released in May and July 2008.
The iPod Nano fourth generation was released on September 9, 2008 and changed back to the body shape used in the first and second generation models.
The six old colors (silver, black, mint, turquoise, berry red and rose pink were replaced with silver, black, purple, light blue, green, yellow, orange, red and pink. But the Product Red iPod could only be bought on the Apple website and retail stores. An accelerometer was also added to the iPod Nano. Because of this, you could turn the shuffle songs feature on and off by shaking it, go through the cover flow when you put the iPod on it's side and look at pictures portrait or landscape. But videos could only be watched in landscape. Because of the accelerometer feature, the Quiz game was removed and a new Maze game was added.
The iPod Nano fifth generation was released on September 9, 2009 and had a smaller price than the last generation. At the time the 8GB Nano was $149 and the 16GB Nano $179. The screen was also bigger and some new colors were introduced: Silver, Black, Purple, Blue, Yellow, Orange, Product Red, Green and Pink though the yellow and Product Red iPods were only available at the Apple Website and retailers. 
The fifth generation introduced a number of new things including a microphone, a pedometer, a video camera and an FM radio that had station frequencies coming from North and South America, Europe, Australia and New Zealand and Asia.
The dock connector and the head jack also swapped sides so that the head jack was left of the dock connector.
The sixth generation iPod Nano was released on September 1, 2010. It was a combination of the iPod Shuffle by the size and shape and the iPod Touch by the touch screen, a sleep/wake button and the user interface and icons. This iPod Nano however didn't have a video camera, the ability to play back videos, the voice-recorder, (though plugging in the headphones with a microphone would show a voice memos app) built in speaker and games. But it did still have a pedometer and an FM radio. The price for this iPod Nano was also the same GB models for the same prices as the previous generation Nano.
On February 28, 2011, OS 1.1 was released with featured the ability to change song or pause by double clicking the sleep/wake button and on October 4, 2011 OS 1.2 added several new wallpapers and the ability to change the size of icons.
The seventh generation iPod Nano was released on October 12, 2012. The shape was again similar to the fifth generation shape but it was still the same size as the sixth generation and still had a touch screen but only a single 16GB iPod Nano was released but video playback was also restored.

</doc>
<doc id="17283" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17283" title="Proton decay">
Proton decay

Proton decay is a theory where some physicists believe that radioactive decay could also be that a proton decays into two particles smaller than an atom, a pion and a positron. So far, this has not been observed though. Most current theories say that protons do not decay.

</doc>
<doc id="17286" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17286" title="Names of God in Islam">
Names of God in Islam

The 99 Names of God (, translit: ) also known as The 99 attributes of Allah, according to Islamic tradition, are the names of God revealed by the Creator(God) in the Qur'an.
The 99 Names of God (Allah) according to the tradition of Islam are:
Allah is the personal name of God and Muslims worship God mostly by this name. The names refer to "characteristics" and "attributes" of God (Allah).
The English translation of names may have a slightly different meaning than the original Arabic word due to the words available in each language.

</doc>
<doc id="17296" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17296" title="Single-player video game">
Single-player video game

A single player game, when talking about computer games or video games, means a game that is played by one player. It involves playing against or with computer-controlled (AI) characters.

</doc>
<doc id="17299" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17299" title="Fallopian tube">
Fallopian tube

The fallopian tubes (also known as oviducts and uterine tubes) connect the ovaries to the uterus, and let the ovum pass into the uterus where they are able to be fertilized by sperm during sexual intercourse or other ways, such as artificial insemination. There are two Fallopian tubes attached to either side of the uterus.
They are named after the 16th century Italian anatomist, Gabriele Falloppio. The Greek word salpinx (σαλπιγξ) means "trumpet".
There are two Fallopian tubes attached to either side of the end of the uterus. Each tube will end near one ovary. This place is called the fimbria. The Fallopian tubes are not attached to the ovaries, but open into the peritoneal cavity.
In humans, the Fallopian tubes are about 7 - 14 cm long. 
There are four parts of the fallopian tube from the ovary to the uterus:
The fallopian tube is made of three layers:
The Fallopian tubes can move around the pelvis.
When an ovum is ready to be released from the ovary, the ovary wall breaks open and the ovum goes into the fallopian tube. There, it starts moving towards to uterus with the help of liquids and cilia on the inside walls. This can take hours or days.
If the ovum is fertilized while in the fallopian tube, then it sticks to the endometrium, which is the beginning of pregnancy.

</doc>
<doc id="17301" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17301" title="1818">
1818

1818 is a common year in the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="17302" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17302" title="Carmen Miranda">
Carmen Miranda

Carmen Miranda (February 9, 1909 – August 5, 1955) was a Portuguese-Brazilian singer and actress. She was best known for her exotic costumes and hats made of fruit.

</doc>
<doc id="17303" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17303" title="Magnum, P.I.">
Magnum, P.I.

Magnum, P.I. was a television show starring Tom Selleck. It was on TV from 1980 to 1988. It told the story of Thomas Magnum III, a private detective working in Hawaii.

</doc>
<doc id="17304" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17304" title="Twin Peaks">
Twin Peaks

Twin Peaks was an American television series that ran from 1990 to 1991. It told the story of an FBI agent who comes to the strange small town of Twin Peaks, Washington, to investigate the murder of a teenage girl. It was made by David Lynch. The show was successful around the world. In 1992, a Twin Peaks movie was released.

</doc>
<doc id="17305" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17305" title="McDonald's">
McDonald's

McDonald's is the second largest chain of fast food restaurants in the world. They mainly serve hamburgers, cheeseburgers, chicken products, French fries, breakfast items, soft drinks, milkshakes and desserts. They also have options such as salads, apples, milk, and Snack Wraps on the menu.
McDonald's was founded by Richard and Maurice McDonald. It was later bought by Ray Kroc.
McDonald's has been around since 1955, when it was started by Ray Kroc in Des Plaines, Illinois. Kroc had bought the previous company from Dick and Maurice (Mac) McDonald, who opened their restaurant in 1940. The first restaurant was on Route 66 in San Bernardino, California.
McDonald's is the world's second largest fast food chain and a worldwide corporation. It is second only to Subway. McDonald's can be found in 119 countries and territories around the world. They serve almost 54 million people each day.
More McDonald's food is sold in the United States than in any other area, which means that it is McDonald's largest market. Europe is McDonald's second largest market..
The restaurants are either operated directly by McDonalds or more often by a franchisee, where the business is owned and operated by someone else to the standards set by McDonald's and with support from the McDonald's company. The company provides a central source of supply for food items and standardized menu.
In 2014, McDonald's in Europe used chicken meat which was produced by using genetically modified animal feed, which it had not done since 2001. Greenpeace critizises that McDonalds saves less than one Eurocent for each Chickenburger and goes down a path not desired by its customers.
The McDonald's mascot is Ronald McDonald.
McDonald's has restaurants in the following countries:

</doc>
<doc id="17307" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17307" title="English people">
English people

English people are British citizens born in England. Most English people speak the English language. Over the years, many English people have moved to other countries, such as the United States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, and South Africa.
English people sometimes live in England, which is one of the nations of the island of Great Britain, which they share with Scottish people and the Welsh. They are descended from immigrants from all over Europe.

</doc>
<doc id="17310" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17310" title="To Kill a Mockingbird">
To Kill a Mockingbird

To Kill a Mockingbird is an American novel written by Harper Lee. It was published in 1960. The book was a great success. It won the Pulitzer Prize. The book was adapted to a 1962 movie starring Gregory Peck. The movie won three Academy Awards.
Lee based the story and characters on her family and neighbors, and something that happened near her hometown in 1936. This was when she was 10 years old.
"To Kill a Mockingbird" is a Southern Gothic novel and a "bildungsroman" (a story where the main character develops and grows). Its main themes are racism and innocence. Lee also writes about bravery, compassion, and gender roles in the American Deep South. The book is taught in many schools in English-speaking countries with lessons about being patient and fair. 
It is set during the Great Depression of the 1930s. It was first published in 1960 and made into a movie in 1962. It tells the story of a young girl, Jean Louise Finch, (known as "Scout") and her brother Jeremy Atticus Finch (known as "Jem"). They live in the Southern United States with their father Atticus Finch, who is a lawyer. In the story Atticus defends a black man, Tom Robinson, who has been accused of raping a white woman.
Harper Lee was born in 1926 and grew up in the Southern town of Monroeville, Alabama. There, she became close friends with Truman Capote, who became a famous writer later. She went to Huntingdon College in Montgomery (1944–45), and then studied law at the University of Alabama (1945–49). When she went to college, she wrote for literary magazines, like "Huntress" and "Rammer Jammer". At both colleges, she wrote short stories and other works about racial unfairness, which was not usually written about in colleges at the time. In 1950, Lee moved to New York City, where she worked as a clerk for British Overseas Airways Corporation. While she was there, she began writing essays and short stories about people in Monroeville. In 1957, Lee showed her writing to a literary agent Capote told her about. An editor at J. B. Lippincott suggested to her that she should stop working at the airline and focus on writing instead. Her friends gave her money to help her continue writing for a year.
Lee spent two and a half years writing "To Kill a Mockingbird". The National Endowment for the Arts describes how Lee once became so unhappy that she threw her manuscript out the window into the snow. Her agent made her take her writing back again. The book was printed on July 11, 1960. It was first titled "Atticus", but Lee changed its name because the story was more than simply about one character. The editors at Lippincott told Lee that she would probably sell only several thousand copies. In 1964, Lee said, "I never expected any sort of success with 'Mockingbird.' ... I was hoping for a quick and merciful death at the hands of the reviewers but, at the same time, I sort of hoped someone would like it enough to give me encouragement. Public encouragement. I hoped for a little, as I said, but I got rather a whole lot, and in some ways this was just about as frightening as the quick, merciful death I'd expected." Instead of a "quick and merciful death", "Reader's Digest Condensed Books" chose part of the book to be printed again. This immediately made many more people read it. After it was first published, the book never stopped being printed.
The book follows Jem and Scout, two siblings living in the 1930’s in a small southern town. Their father, Atticus, is a lawyer who is hired to defend a black man who is accused of rape. The children watch the town and the trial change and grow. Atticus loses the trial and Tom Robinson, the man who is being accused of rape gets killed by prison guards. The whole town is in an uproar. Some people are furious, some are pleased, and others see it as no big deal. But for Jem and Scout it is a time for them to grow up and face the harsh realities of racism. The story happens during three years of the Great Depression in the fictional town of Maycomb, Alabama. The city is in a fictional county of the same name. It is told in the first person by Jean Louise "Scout" Finch. She is six years old; lives with her older brother Jeremy "Jem"; her father Atticus, a lawyer; her mother died when she was young. Jem and Scout become friends with a boy named Charles Baker Harris, nicknamed Dill, who visits Maycomb to stay with his aunt in the summer. The children are interested in their neighbors' (the Radleys) estate. Few people had seen the residents for many years. The children imagine how Boo Radley looks, why he hides in his house, and how to make him come out. After two summers, Scout and Jem find small presents in a tree outside the Radley place. Boo often shows signs of kindness to the children, then meets Scout while protecting her as Bob Ewell tries to kill her and Jem.

</doc>
<doc id="17311" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17311" title="Abigail and Brittany Hensel">
Abigail and Brittany Hensel

Abigail Loraine Hensel and Brittany Lee Hensel (born March 7, 1990 in Minnesota, United States) are conjoined twins with mostly one body and two heads. They are joined at the pelvis and each one controls one side of their body, which means they have to do things together. Brittany is on the left, and Abigail is on the right. They have two spines that join at the pelvis. They have two stomachs and four lungs, and at birth they had a third arm in between their heads. The third arm was not properly developed, so it was removed.
They currently star in their own reality series on TLC.

</doc>
<doc id="17312" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17312" title="52 BC">
52 BC

Year 52 BC was a year of the pre-Julian Roman calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Pompeius and Scipio (or, less frequently, year 702 "Ab urbe condita"). This year has been called 52 BC since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the most common method in Europe for naming years.

</doc>
<doc id="17329" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17329" title="Cape Town">
Cape Town

Cape Town is the legislative capital and the second biggest city of South Africa.
It is on the south-west coast. It has a warm-summer Mediterranean climate.
It was originally called the "Cape of Storms" by Bartolomeu Dias in 1486, a Portuguese explorer but was changed by King John II of Portugal to "Cape of Good Hope".
The city's most predominant feature is Table Mountain, a mountain with a flat top.

</doc>
<doc id="17330" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17330" title="Hard and soft drugs">
Hard and soft drugs

Certain kinds of drugs that act on the nervous system are sometimes loosely classified. Usually there are the following categories:
In the Netherlands, there are situations where the use of some "soft drugs" is tolerated.

</doc>
<doc id="17332" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17332" title="Tehran">
Tehran

Tehran (or Teheran, ), is the capital of Iran and the center of Tehran Province.
The origin of the name Tehran is unknown. The word Tehran means "warm mountain slope". Tehran is at the foot of the Alborz mountain range.
Tehran is the 32nd National Capital of Iran. It is the largest city in the Middle East & Western Asia. It is the 16th most populated city in the world. It has about 8 million people. Tehran has 4 counties: Tehran, Shemiranat, Rey & Islamshahr. Tehran has a large network of highways.
Tehran was well known as a village in the 9th century, but was less well-known than the city of Rhages (Ray). Tehran today, replaces Ray, the ancient capital of Iran destroyed by the Mongols in 1220 A.D., the ruins of which can be seen 6 km south of Tehran. In 1869/70 A.D., Tehran acquired considerable prestige and was enclosed in an 8 km rampart which had 12 gates.
During the Safavid period, Shah Safi created a military base in Tehran, and had two great towers erected therein, which became known as "Ghaleh Meydan" and "Ghaleh Hessa". "Karim Khan Zand" lived in Tehran. for 4 years. In the early 18th century, "Karim Khan Zand", ordered a palace, and a government office to be built in Tehran. Later he moved his government capital to Shiraz.
Tehran became the capital of Iran, in 1795, when Agha Mohammad Khan, became King. It is still the capital. During the reign of Agha Mohammad khan, the government headquarters were built north of "Emam_zade Zayd". Agha Mohammad Khan became King of Iran in "Khalvat Karimkhani Palace" in Tehran. During the reign of Fath Ali Shah, the soltani mosque, the Abbas_abad bazaar, and the Ilchi garden (the site of today`s Russian embassy) were added. Nasser_e_din_Shah changed the palace from center of Tehran to Sadabad. He changed the view of Tehran from a town to a modern capital.
In the Russia Embassy in Iran, the "Tehran Conference" was held. The Tehran Conference (codenamed "Eureka") was the meeting of Joseph Stalin, Franklin D. Roosevelt and Winston Churchill between November 28 and December 1, 1943. Most of it was held at the Soviet Embassy in Tehran, Iran. It was the first World War II conference amongst the Big Three (the Soviet Union, the United States, and the United Kingdom) where Stalin was present. The aim of the Tehran conference was to plan the final strategy for the war against Nazi Germany and its allies. The discussion was mostly about the opening of a second front in Western Europe.
During 1980–88, Tehran was attacked by scud missiles and air strikes. After the Islamic Revolution in Iran and during war between Iran and Iraq, many people left Tehran. In recent years, many professional people who lived in Tehran, left Iran for freedom and a better life in other countries. Traffic, crime, drugs and lack of freedom in Tehran, are most important reasons.
Tehran is the center of most Iranian industries and services. Modern industries of this city include the making of automobiles, electronics, weaponry, textiles, sugar, cement, and chemicals. Tehran is also a leading center for the sale of carpets and furniture.
Tehran has a semi-arid (steppe) climate (BSh in the Köppen climate classification). Summers are hot and dry; winters are cold with moderate precipitation, which also falls as snow. Spring and autumn are mild with moderate rainfall.
In this vast city, many historic sites can be admired, the most famous of which are the palaces of Sadabad, Niavaran, Sahebqaranyyeh and Golestan, the mosque of Seyyed Azizollah, the great Bazar of Tehran and many museums, such as Reza Abbasi museum, the carpet museum of Iran, Abguineh (glass and ceramics) museum, the Azadi museum, etc. Tehran has 740 parks.
Leisure and sport resorts around Tehran include Abali, Dizin, Gajereh and Shemshak ski stations, the dam water ski station and the slopes of Darband and Shemiran.

</doc>
<doc id="17333" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17333" title="Philadelphia">
Philadelphia

Philadelphia is a large city in the U.S. state of Pennsylvania. It is the biggest city in Pennsylvania, and the fifth biggest city in the United States of America. In spoken English, the city is sometimes called Philly. 
The population of the city was 1,517,550 people in 2000, in 2010 census it was up to 1,526.006 people. Philadelphia was the capital of the United States from 1790 to 1800. It was replaced by Washington, D.C. in 1800 after the White House was built.
Philadelphia is famous because it has many places tourists like to visit, like the Liberty Bell, Independence Hall, and Christ Church. 
Before Europeans came to the area, Philadelphia was home to the Lenape people. The first Europeans to come were the Dutch, who built towns and a fort in the area. The English took over the city in 1664. In 1781, Charles II of England gave a large piece of land to William Penn, to pay back some money he owed to Penn's father. William Penn had a dream of a land where people would be free to live and work no matter what religion they were. He built a city in the new land called Philadelphia. 
Soon Philadelphia was the largest city in North America. The first library and the first hospital in the country were built in Philadelphia. Many ships sailed in and out of the city's port, and people came to the city to buy and sell all sorts of things.
In 1774, for the first time, a group of men met in Philadelphia to talk about making a new government without a king. The English were not happy about this and soon there was a war between the Americans and the English, called the American Revolutionary War. In 1776, the Americans once again met in Philadelphia and signed the Declaration of Independence, which said that all men were equal and had the same rights. It said that if people had a bad government they had a right to change it. On July 4th, they rang the Liberty Bell to call all the people of Philadelphia to come and hear the Declaration, and they sent copies of it to all of the other cities in America. Later, when the Americans won the war, a group of them came to Philadelphia to write the United States Constitution which states the most important laws of the United States. 
One of the most famous people in Philadelphia at the time of the American Revolution was Benjamin Franklin. He started a newspaper and invented many things, such as bifocal glasses. He started a library that was free for everyone to use, and also a free hospital. He helped to write the Declaration of Independence and the United States Constitution. During the American Revolutionary War, he went to France to ask the French king to help the Americans win the war against the British. He was famous all over the world for his inventions and his ideas.
Philadelphia is in the state of Pennsylvania, named after William Penn. It is on the west bank of the Delaware River, across from New Jersey. Another big river, the Schuylkill, flows into the Delaware River at Philadelphia. The city has only a few small hills, and most of it is flat. The summers are usually hot in Philadelphia and the winters are cold. 
Philadelphia has a large art museum, the Philadelphia Museum of Art. It also has some smaller museums of art, such as the Academy of Fine Arts, and the Barnes Foundation. The Franklin Institute is a science museum named after Benjamin Franklin. The Philadelphia Orchestra is famous for its concerts. Some famous jazz musicians, such as John Coltrane, came from Philadelphia.
Independence National Historic Park is in the oldest part of Philadelphia. Most of the buildings from the time when American was fighting for its freedom are there. Independence Hall is where the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution of the United States were written. Nearby is a building where the Liberty Bell is kept. In the same neighborhood, there are many houses dating from the days of the American Revolution. Elfreth's Alley is one of the oldest streets in the United States. Christ Church is the church where many famous early Americans worshipped. 

</doc>
<doc id="17334" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17334" title="The Clash">
The Clash

The Clash were an English punk band. The band was formed in London in 1976. Their lead singer was Joe Strummer (1952-2002). The group was one of the most popular punk bands in England in the mid-1970s.
Although The Clash are known as an early punk rock band, they were willing to experiment with different styles, which they added to their music. Some of these styles were ska, reggae, and funk. Lyrics in their songs often dealt with political issues or stories in the news.
In 2003, the band entered the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. In 2004, "Rolling Stone" made a list of the Top 500 Rock Songs of All Time, and "London Calling", a song by The Clash, was listed as song #15 on the list. No song by a punk rock band was higher on the list.

</doc>
<doc id="17338" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17338" title="Red Hot Chili Peppers">
Red Hot Chili Peppers

Red Hot Chili Peppers is an American rock band. The band started in 1983 in Los Angeles, California. The state of California has been a theme in many of their songs. The members of the band are singer Anthony Kiedis, bass guitarist Flea, guitarist Josh Klinghoffer, and drummer Chad Smith.
The Red Hot Chili Peppers have released ten studio albums. Their early albums consisted of a mix of Rock and Funk, and were not very successful. The band's membership changed several times during this period, but Kiedis and Flea have been with the band since it started. When Frusciante and Smith joined in 1989, Red Hot Chili Peppers' next album, "Mother's Milk", was successful. It was the band's first album to appear on the "Billboard" music chart. While Red Hot Chili Peppers were on tour in 1992 after their fifth and most successful album, "Blood Sugar Sex Magik", Frusciante left the band because of a drug addiction.
Dave Navarro became the new guitarist after Frusciante. Navarro and the other members of Red Hot Chili Peppers did not work together very well. The other members asked Navarro to leave the band in 1998, after one album, called "One Hot Minute". At this time, Frusciante had been making albums by himself. He was also suffering from a heroin addiction. When he was feeling better, Flea asked him to join Red Hot Chili Peppers again and Frusciante said yes. The band's next album, "Californication" (1999), was one of their most popular so far. Red Hot Chili Peppers kept recording and released another album soon afterwards. In 2002, they released "By the Way", which was also successful. After this, the band went on a concert tour around the world. While they were doing so they released a best of album. After the tour, the band recorded and released the album "Stadium Arcadium" in 2006, which consisted of twenty eight songs. After the tour of this album, the band activity was paralyzed for some time, because Frusciante left the band to, again, focus on his career. The band went out to find a new guitarist, with Klinghoffer joining them. They have produced a new album, called "I'm With You".
Red Hot Chili Peppers were originally called Tony Flow and the Miraculously Majestic Masters of Mayhem. The band was started in 1983 for a single performance. They were so popular that they were asked to come back again the next week. The first members of the band were Anthony Kiedis (singer), Flea (bass), Hillel Slovak (guitar), and Jack Irons (drums). They all knew each other from Fairfax High School in Los Angeles.
After becoming popular in Los Angeles, Red Hot Chili Peppers got a recording contract with record label EMI. Irons and Slovak thought Red Hot Chili Peppers was a side project. They left just before the first album to work more on their original band, "What Is This?". Kiedis and Flea did not think their band was a side project, and decided to look for new members. They hired guitarist Jack Sherman and drummer Cliff Martinez. Andy Gill, usually a guitarist, was hired to be a producer for the band's first album.
Their first album was called "The Red Hot Chili Peppers". It did not sell many copies, but it got the band a small number of dedicated fans. Critics such as Robert Christgau liked the album, but the tour that came after it did not do well. Sherman was fired by the band after the tour, and Slovak came back to replace him.
Red Hot Chili Peppers hired George Clinton to produce their second album, "Freaky Styley". They released the album in 1985. It was only a little bit more successful than the one before it. After the album, Martinez was fired from the band. After firing him, Kiedis said he thought that Martinez had wanted to leave. Red Hot Chili Peppers hired another drummer, Chuck Biscuits, but Irons came back to replace him. The band began work with producer Michael Beinhorn on a new album.
The album "The Uplift Mofo Party Plan" was released in 1987. It was the band's most successful so far. The album entered the "Billboard" 200 chart, but only at number 148. During this time, Kiedis and Slovak had problems with drugs. Slovak died on June 25, 1988. Because of this, Irons left the band. He said that he did not want to be part of a band where his friends were dying. Kiedis and Flea agreed to keep going with the band.
After Slovak died and Irons left the band, D. H. Peligro (from the band Dead Kennedys) and DeWayne "Blackbyrd" McKnight joined Red Hot Chili Peppers. Neither of these two worked very well with the band, so they were replaced. Peligro told a friend of his, John Frusciante, to audition to join the band. His audition went well and he joined as guitarist. A friend of the band then told them about Chad Smith. Smith had a very good audition and joined. During the recording of their next album, Frusciante argued with Michael Beinhorn, the producer. Beinhorn wanted Frusciante to play his guitar very loud, like heavy metal music, but Frusciante did not like this style.
Red Hot Chili Peppers' next album, "Mother's Milk", became very successful. It sold well and songs from it appeared often on radio. It also appeared on MTV, because the band did a popular cover of Stevie Wonder's song "Higher Ground". The album reached number 52 on the "Billboard" 200 chart, and was certified "gold" by the RIAA.
After "Mother's Milk", Red Hot Chili Peppers changed their record label to Warner Music. The band chose to work with Rick Rubin as their next producer. Rubin thought they needed to work somewhere other than a studio, so they decided to record their next album in a mansion he owned. Smith did not stay in the mansion because he thought it was a haunted house. The rest of the band did not leave the house for a month.
The name of the new album, "Blood Sugar Sex Magik", was taken from the tenth song on the album. It was chosen by Rubin because the band could not agree on a title. He chose the name because he thought "Blood Sugar Sex Magik" was the best song on the album. The first single from the album, "Give It Away", won a Grammy Award for "Best Hard Rock Performance". It was the band's first Grammy Award. "Give It Away" did well on the music charts. It was the band's first song to go to number one on the "Billboard" Modern Rock Tracks chart. The second single, "Under the Bridge", was the band's most successful song; it charted on the "Billboard" Hot 100 chart at number two. The other singles from the album also did well.
The band's success made life difficult for Frusciante, who also had a drug addiction. He quit the band while they were on tour in May 1992. He was replaced by Arik Marshall. Marshal was later replaced by Jesse Tobias. The band played at the Lollapalooza festival in 1992. They also appeared on an episode of "The Simpsons". Neither of the band's new members stayed for long. Tobias was replaced in 1993 by Dave Navarro, from the band Jane's Addiction.
Dave Navarro first appeared with the band at the 1994 Woodstock Festival. They found it hard to work with him. Flea said it was because of "the fact that we grew up listening to different music". Red Hot Chili Peppers spent three months in Hawaii making a new album, and "One Hot Minute" was released in 1995. Its content was sadder than the band's earlier albums. It also sounded more like hard rock than the band's earlier work.
During this time, Kiedis had troubles with the drug heroin again. Navarro also took drugs. At one practice session with the band, he fell over his amplifier because he was in an over-excited condition because he had taken too many drugs—he was "high". Because of this, the band asked Navarro to leave. They told the media it was "mutual" because the band members disagreed on the music they liked to make.
After leaving Red Hot Chili Peppers, Frusciante made some albums by himself. He also had an addiction to heroin. He was so addicted that he was close to poverty and death at times. Frusciante went into a clinic for therapy. The quality of his life slowly improved. In April 1998, Flea asked Frusciante to join the band again. The rest of the band were happy to see him return. Kiedis called it the "defining moment" of the band's career so far.
The band were happy to have Frusciante rejoin, but it was a while before they began making songs again. This was because he had sold all of his guitars for money to buy drugs with. It also took him a while to get used to playing music as part of a band again. The band released their seventh album, "Californication", in 1999. It had fewer songs based on rap and funk than their previous albums. The album focused more on melodic guitar riffs. "Californication" was very popular. It sold over 15 million copies. Three of the singles on the album, "Scar Tissue", "Otherside", and "Californication", reached number one on the Modern Rock Tracks chart.
After touring in Spring 2001, Red Hot Chili Peppers began recording a new album. The band chose to work with Rubin again. They recorded in band members' homes. Frusciante did a lot more work on recording the new album, "By the Way", than he had done on "Californication". "By the Way" was released in 2002. It was the best seller of any album by the band so far. It sold over one million copies in the first week in which it could be bought. The album was rated very highly on charts. Some people thought that the music on "By the Way" was similar to the music on "Californication". A review by "Blender" magazine called it "Californication 2, a reprise of their last album". However, "Entertainment Weekly" said "By the Way" was a lot more serious than "Californication". A review from "Stylus Magazine" said that Red Hot Chili Peppers showed no passion in making the album and that it was "stunningly awful".
In 2003, Red Hot Chili Peppers released a "best of" compilation album called "Greatest Hits". It had songs from the last five albums they released. It also had two new songs. The album got to number 18 on the "Billboard" 200 chart. The band also released two live video albums in 2003 and 2004; "Live at Slane Castle" and "Live in Hyde Park". The Red Hot Chili Peppers concerts at Hyde Park were the most profitable in 2004.
After releasing "By the Way", Red Hot Chili Peppers played concerts around the world for two years. In 2004, the band began recording a new album with Rubin. They first wrote 38 songs for this album. They had planned to release three different albums; one every six months. They later changed their minds and decided to make one album with two discs, and 28 songs in total. The two-disc album was called "Stadium Arcadium". The discs were called "Jupiter" and "Mars".
Red Hot Chili Peppers released "Stadium Arcadium" in 2006. It was their first album to be number one in the United States. It was also number one on two other "Billboard" charts and in 12 other countries. The album won the Grammy Award for "Best Rock Album" in 2006. "Dani California", the first single, won the award for "Best Rock Performance By A Duo Or Group With Vocal". The music on "Stadium Arcadium" was more mature than on previous albums, according to Tim Chester from "NME". He said this was because most of the band members had families. He also said, and Brian Hiatt from "Rolling Stone" agreed, that the songs on "Stadium Arcadium" were similar to the band's other work, and were not very original. However, both reviewers said the music was very good. In an Allmusic review, Stephen Thomas Erlewine said Flea and Frusciante did excellent work on the album. He also said that "the string instruments are the reason to listen to "Stadium Arcadium"". Erlewine agreed that the band had not done a lot of new things on the album, but instead did what they were good at.
After the tour of "Stadium Arcadium", the band took a break. During this break, Frusciante decided to leave the band to work in his solo work. The band selected Josh Klinghoffer as their new guitarist in 2009 and began working on their new album, called "I'm With You". According to their producer, the band wrote a lot of songs that could do a double album, like the previous one, but the band decided not to. Released in 2011, the album received good reviews from the critics, that commented that the content of the album has changed very much. The members of the band stated that the album was a revolutionary album, as it consisted on elements as samba and funk. The critics also praised the new member of the band, saying that it was adequate and that he played a lot of new elements in his guitar that led to a whole new sound of the album.
A dash (—) means it did not appear on the chart.

</doc>
<doc id="17339" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17339" title="Oasis (band)">
Oasis (band)

Oasis were an English rock band. They formed in Manchester, England in 1991. Before the band split in August 2009 people in the band were Noel Gallagher (lead guitar / vocals), Liam Gallagher (vocals), Colin 'Gem' Archer (rhythm guitar), Andy Bell (bass) and Chris Sharrock (drummer). Because the band is quite an old band they have had quite a few people play with them in the past. 
Liam Gallagher formed a new band called Beady Eye with Gem Archer, Andy Bell and Chris Sharrock. Noel Gallagher started a solo career. He released his first solo album in 2011.

</doc>
<doc id="17341" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17341" title="Rush (band)">
Rush (band)

Rush is a Canadian progressive rock band. They formed in the late 1960s in Toronto. The members of the group are Geddy Lee, the singer, who also plays the bass guitar and synthesizers, Alex Lifeson, who plays the guitar, and Neil Peart, who plays the drums.

</doc>
<doc id="17359" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17359" title="Roy Hodgson">
Roy Hodgson

Roy Hodgson (born 9 August 1947) is an English football manager.
English Football Manager

</doc>
<doc id="17361" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17361" title="Guinness World Records">
Guinness World Records

Guinness World Records is a reference book published each year. It has a collection of world records, both human achievements and the extremes of the natural world. The book itself holds a world record, as the best-selling copyrighted book series of all time. It is also one of the most often stolen books from public libraries in the United States.
It was known until 2000 as The Guinness Book of Records and in previous U.S. editions as The Guinness Book of World Records. 
On 4 May 1951, Sir Hugh Beaver, who then worked for Guinness Breweries, went on a shooting party by the River Slaney in County Wexford, Ireland. He became involved in an argument over which game bird in Europe was the fastest, the koshin golden plover or the grouse. That evening at Castlebridge House, he realised that it was impossible to confirm in reference books whether or not the golden plover was Europe's fastest game bird. Beaver knew that there must be many other questions debated nightly in pubs throughout Ireland, but there was no book in the world to settle arguments about records. He realised then that a book with the answers to this sort of question might prove popular.
Norris and Ross McWhirter were asked to put the book together. They ran a fact-finding agency in London. In August 1954 the first book was made. One thousand copies were printed and given away. The first 197-page edition was bound on 27 August 1955. It went to the top of the British bestseller lists by Christmas. The following year it went to the U.S., and it sold 70,000 copies. The book was very popular and the company decided to make one updated edition each year. They published in October to go with Christmas sales.
Recent editions have focused on record feats by human competitors. Competitions go from obvious ones such as weightlifting to the longest egg tossing distance, or for longest time spent playing "Grand Theft Auto IV" or the number of hot dogs that can be eaten in ten minutes. Eating contests and beer and alcohol consumption entries are no longer accepted, possibly for fear of litigation. Besides records about competitions, it has such facts as the heaviest tumor, the most poisonous plant, the shortest river (Roe River), the longest-running drama ("Guiding Light") in the USA, the longest-serving members of a drama series (William Roache for "Coronation Street" in the UK, Ray Meagher for "Home and Away" in Australia), and the world's most successful salesman (Joe Girard), among others. 
Each edition has a selection of the large set of records in the Guinness database. The ways used to make that choice have changed over the years. The newest records are added, and the records that have been updated are added too.
In 2005, Guinness chose 9 November as "International Guinness World Records Day". This is to encourage breaking of world records. In 2006 about 100,000 people participated in over 10 countries. 
In February 2008, NBC aired "The Top 100 Guinness World Records of All Time". Guinness World Records made the complete list available on their website.

</doc>
<doc id="17363" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17363" title="Mime">
Mime

Mime is a type of acting that does not use words or speech. Mime is all about physical movement and exaggerating your expressions. Mimes (people who practice mime) must use their actions to send a or tell a story. They are not allowed to speak directly to the audience.
Probably the most well-known mime was Marcel Marceau. Mime originates from Rome and Greece. Some people also believe that cavemen used mime to communicate as they could not talk.

</doc>
<doc id="17365" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17365" title="Kangaroo">
Kangaroo

A kangaroo is an Australian marsupial. It belongs to the genus "Macropus". The name Kangaroo is used for the four large species, but there are another 50 species of smaller macropods. It is common in Australia and can also be found in New Guinea.
Kangaroos hop to move around quickly, and walk on four legs while moving slowly. They can jump backwards, but only a very small distance. They can hop or jump as far as about three times their own height. They can also swim if necessary. The kangaroo is a herbivore, eating mainly grass, but some species also eat shrubs. A female Kangaroo has three vaginas.
Kangaroos are marsupials because they carry their young in a special pouch on their bodies. Baby kangaroos are called joeys. Kangaroos live in large groups, called mobs Each group is made up of breeding females, their young and several adult males. One of the males is the dominant male, he is the only one that breeds with the other females in the mob.
Because it is mostly found in Australia, Australians see it as a national symbol. The kangaroo is featured holding the Australian coat of arms. The Australian airline, Qantas, uses the kangaroo as its emblem. The Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) also a has a kangaroo emblem.
Kangaroos can be dangerous because of their powerful legs. They can lean back on their tails to deliver powerful kicks. In 2009, a man went to save his dog which had chased a kangaroo into a farm dam. The kangaroo was able to hold the dog underwater nearly drowning it. The kangaroo gave the man several big kicks before he was able to grab his dog and escape from the dam. He needed hospital treatment for his injuries.
The word "kangaroo" is an Australian Aboriginal word from the Guugu Yimidhirr people of north Queensland. The word was recorded by Captain James Cook in August 1770. It was the name for the grey kangaroo, Macropus robustus. Cook's ship, the "HMS Endeavour", had been damaged on coral on the Great Barrier Reef. It took seven weeks for the ship to be repaired on the banks of a river, now the Endeavour River, at the site of the town of Cooktown. This gave Cook, Joseph Banks and other crew members time to explore the area and the plants and animals. The skin and skull of a kangaroo was taken back to England to be put on show. In James Boswell's book "Life of Johnson" he describes Dr. Samuel Johnson in 1793 hopping around the room to explain to people how a kangaroo moved. When Arthur Phillip and the First Fleet arrived in Sydney in 1788, they were surprised that the Aborigines did not know the word "kangaroo." It took them a while to realize that Aborigines at Sydney spoke a different language to those from Cooktown.
There are four living species of kangaroos:
There are also about 50 other smaller macropods in the macropodidae family.
There was a now-extinct family of giant kangaroos, the Sthenurinae. They were adapted for browsing in woodland areas, rather than open grassland. The largest ("Procoptodon goliah") had an estimated body mass of 240 kg., which is almost three times the weight of the largest living kangaroos. Probably they moved at slower speeds, since hopping was not possible. They would have moved by striding (walking). The family went extinct about 30,000 years ago.

</doc>
<doc id="17366" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17366" title="Harriet Tubman">
Harriet Tubman

Harriet Tubman (born Araaminta Ross; c. 1820 or 1821 – March 10, 1913) was an African-American anti-slavery worker, and humanitarian. She was also a Union spy during the American Civil War. She was born into slavery but she escaped. During her life, she made nineteen trips. She helped more than 300 slaves escape. She used the Underground Railroad.
When Tubman was a child in Dorchester County, Maryland, she was whipped and beaten by many different masters. When she was very young, an angry overseer threw a heavy metal weight at another slave. The weight accidentally hit Tubman's head. That caused seizures, narcoleptic attacks, headaches, powerful visionary and dream experiences. She had those problems all her life. Tubman believed the visions and vivid dreams came from God.
In 1849, Tubman escaped to Philadelphia. Slaves were free there. She later returned to Maryland to rescue her family. She eventually guided dozens of other slaves to freedom. Slave owners offered large rewards for the return of their slaves. Tubman was never caught because nobody knew she was freeing the slaves.
When the American Civil War began, Tubman worked for the Union Army. She worked first as a cook and nurse. Later she was an armed scout and spy. She was the first woman to lead an armed group in the war. She guided the Combehee River Raid, which freed more than 700 slaves in South Carolina. After the war, she moved to her family home in Auburn, New York. There she cared for her aging parents. She became active in the women's suffrage movement in New York until she became ill. Near the end of her life, she lived in a home for elderly African Americans. Years earlier, she had helped create that home.
Tubman's mother Rit (whose father might have been a white man) was a cook. Her father Ben was a woodsman. He did the timber work on a plantation. They married around 1808. According to court records, they had nine children together. Linah was born in 1808, Mariah Ritty in 1811, Soph in 1813, Robert in 1816, Minty (Harriet) in 1822, Ben in 1823, Rachel in 1825, Henry in 1830, and Moses in 1832.
Tubman's mother was assigned to "the big house" and had very little time for her family. Tubman took care of a younger brother and a baby. This was typical in large families. When she was five or six years old, Brodess hired her out as a nursemaid to a woman named "Miss Susan". Tubman was ordered to watch the baby. Tubman was whipped. She later talked about a day when she was whipped five times before breakfast. She had the scars for the rest of her life. She found ways to resist such as running away for five days, wearing layers of clothing as protection against beatings, and fighting back.
As a child, Tubman also worked at the home of a planter named James Cook. She had to check muskrat traps in nearby marshes. She did that work even after she got measles. She became so ill that Cook sent her back to Brodess. Her mother nursed her back to health. Brodess then hired her out again. Tubman spoke later of her acute childhood homesickness. She compared herself to "the boy on the Swanee River" (referring to Stephen Foster's song "Old Folks at Home"). When she was older and stronger, she did field and forest work, driving oxen, plowing, and hauling logs.
One day, the adolescent Tubman was sent to a dry-goods store for supplies. There she met a slave owned by another family. That slave had left the fields without permission. His overseer was angry. He demanded that Tubman help restrain the young man. Tubman refused. As the slave ran away, the overseer threw a two-pound weight at him. The weight hit Tubman instead. Tubman said the weight "broke my skull". She later explained her belief that her hair – which "had never been combed and ... stood out like a bushel basket" – might have saved her life. Bleeding and unconscious, Tubman was returned to her owner's house and laid on the seat of a loom. She had no medical care for two days. She was sent back into the fields, "with blood and sweat rolling down my face until I couldn't see." Her boss returned her to Brodess, who tried unsuccessfully to sell her. She began having seizures and seemed to fall unconscious. She later said she was aware of her surroundings while appearing to be asleep. These episodes were alarming to her family. They couldn't wake her when she fell asleep suddenly and without warning. This condition remained with Tubman for the rest of her life. Larson suggests she may have suffered from temporal lobe epilepsy because of the injury.
Around 1844, Tubman married a free black man named John Tubman. Little is known about him or their time together. Their marriage was complicated because she was a slave. Since children would have the status of the mother, any children born to Harriet and John would become slaves. By this time, half the black population on the Eastern Shore of Maryland was free. Marriages between free people and enslaved people were not uncommon. Most African-American families had both free and enslaved members. Larson suggests that they might have planned to buy Tubman's freedom. Tubman changed her name from Araminta to Harriet soon after her marriage. It's not known exactly when she did that. 

</doc>
<doc id="17368" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17368" title="Device driver">
Device driver

A driver is a program that lets the operating system communicate with specific computer hardware. 
Computer parts need a driver because they do not use standard commands. (Ex.: ATI and Nvidia graphic cards do the same jobs, but each requires its own driver as each driver sends different commands to the hardware). Different operating systems also need different drivers, a driver written for Linux can not be used by Microsoft Windows (there are some exceptions to this, for example, Linux can use Windows Wi-Fi (NDIS) drivers using Ndiswrapper).
Many parts of a computer need drivers, and common examples are:
Some other computer parts do not need drivers (or the driver is built-in to the operating system) because they use a kind of standard; the operating system recognizes those parts and knows how to use those parts.
Such parts include items on the following list:
Using the wrong device driver can prevent hardware from working correctly. For example, a HP printer will not work with a computer that only has a Canon driver. Keeping drivers up-to-date avoids problems when using new programs (such as Windows Vista) with the piece of hardware.

</doc>
<doc id="17376" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17376" title="Central processing unit">
Central processing unit

A central processing unit (CPU) is an important part of almost every computer. The CPU sends signals to control the other parts of the computer, almost like how a brain controls a body.
The CPU is an electronic machine that works on a list of things to do, called "instructions". It reads the list of instructions and does ("executes") each one in order. A list of instructions that a CPU can run is a computer program.
The speed that a CPU works at is measured in hertz (Hz). Modern processors often run so fast that gigahertz (GHz) is used instead. One gigahertz is one billion cycles per second.
Most CPUs used in desktop (home) computers are made by either Intel or Advanced Micro Devices (usually shortened to AMD). Some other companies that make CPUs are ARM, IBM, and Sun Microsystems. Their CPUs are usually used for more specialized things, like in mobile phones, cars, game consoles, or in the military.
In the 20th century engineers invented many different computer architectures. Nowadays most desktop computers use either 32-bit CPUs or 64-bit CPUs. The instructions in a 32-bit CPU are good at handling data that is 32 bits in size (most instructions "think" in 32 bits in a 32-bit CPU). Likewise, a 64-bit CPU is good at handling data that is 64 bits in size (and often good at handling 32-bit data too). The size of data that a CPU handles best is often called the "word size" of the CPU. Many old CPUs from the 70s, 80s and early 90s (and some modern small CPUs) have an 8-bit or 16-bit word size. When CPUs were invented in the middle 20th century they had many different word sizes. Some had different word sizes for instructions and data. The less popular word sizes later stopped being used. 
Most CPUs are microprocessors. This means that the CPU is just a single chip. Some chips with microprocessors inside them also contain other components, and are complete single-chip "computers". This is called a microcontroller.
When the CPU runs a computer program, it needs somewhere to store the data that the instructions operate on (the data that they read and write). This storage is called a "register." A CPU usually has many registers. Registers must be very fast to access (to read and write). Therefore, they are part of the CPU chip itself.
Storing all data in registers would make most CPUs too complicated (and very expensive). Therefore, registers usually only store the data that the CPU is working on "right now". The rest of the data used by the program is stored in RAM (memory). Except in microcontrollers, RAM is usually stored outside the CPU in separate chips.
When the CPU wants to read or write data in RAM, it outputs an "address" to that data. Each byte in RAM has a memory address. The size of addresses is often the same as the word size: A 32-bit CPU uses 32-bit addresses, etc. However, smaller CPUs, like 8-bit CPUs, often use addresses that are larger than the word size. Otherwise the maximum program length would be too short.
Because the size of addresses is limited, the maximum amount of memory is also limited. 32-bit processors can usually only handle up to 4 GB of RAM. This is the number of different bytes that can be selected using a 32-bit address (each bit can have two values—0 and 1—and 2 bytes is 4 GB). A 64-bit processor might be able to handle up to 16 EB of RAM (16 exabytes, around 16 billion GB, or 16 billion billion bytes). The operating system may limit it to using smaller amounts.
The information that is stored in RAM is usually volatile. This means that it will disappear if the computer is turned off.
On modern computers, RAM is much slower than registers, so accessing RAM slows down programs. To speed up memory accesses, a faster type of memory called a "cache" is often put between the RAM and the main parts of the CPU. The cache is usually a part of the CPU chip itself, and is much more expensive per byte than RAM. The cache stores the same data as RAM, but is usually much smaller. Therefore, all the data used by the program might not fit in the cache. The cache tries to store data that is likely to be used a lot. Examples include recently used data and data close in memory to recently used data.
Often it makes sense to have a "cache for the cache", just as it makes sense to have a cache for RAM. In "multi-level caching", there are many caches, called the L1 cache, the L2 cache, and so on. The L1 cache is the fastest (and most expensive per byte) cache and is "closest" to the CPU. The L2 cache is one step away and is slower than the L1 cache, etc. The L1 cache can often be viewed as a cache for the L2 cache, etc.
Computer buses are the wires used by the CPU to communicate with RAM and other components in the computer. Almost all CPUs have at least a "data bus" - used to read and write data - and an "address bus" - used to output addresses. Other buses inside the CPU carry data to different parts of the CPU.
An instruction set (also called an ISA - Instruction Set Architecture) is a language understood directly by a particular CPU. These languages are also called machine code or binary. They say how you tell the CPU to do different things, like loading data from memory into a register, or adding the values from two registers. Each instruction in an instruction set has an encoding, which is how the instruction is written as a sequence of bits.
Programs written in programming languages like C and C++ can't be run directly by the CPU. They must be translated into machine code before the CPU can run them. A compiler is a computer program that does this translation.
Machine code is just a sequence of 0s and 1s, which makes it difficult for humans to read it. To make it more readable, machine code programs are usually written in "assembly language". Assembly language uses text instead of 0s and 1s: You might write "LD A,0" to load the value 0 into register A for example. A program that translates assembly language into machine code is called an "assembler".
Here are some of the basic things a CPU can do:
Even very complicated programs can be made by combining many simple instructions like these. This is possible because each instruction takes a very short time to happen. Many CPUs today can do more than 1 billion (1,000,000,000) instructions in a single second. In general, the more a CPU can do in a given time, the faster it is. One way to measure a processor's speed is MIPS (Million Instructions Per Second). Flops (Floating-point operations per second) and CPU clock speed (usually measured in gigahertz) are also ways to measure how much work a processor can do in a certain time.
A CPU is built out of logic gates; it has no moving parts. The CPU of a computer is connected electronically to other parts of the computer, like the video card, or the BIOS. A computer program can control these peripherals by reading or writing numbers to special places in the computer's memory.
Each instruction executed by a CPU is usually done in many steps. For example, the steps to run an instruction "INC A" (increase the value stored in register A by one) on a simple CPU could be this:
To run these steps, the CPU could have a separate module (separate electronics inside the CPU) that runs each step. The output from one module (for example, the bits of the instruction) would be the input to the next module (for example, the instruction decoder). A set of modules connected like this is called a "pipeline". Pipelines can be found in many other places in electronics too, not just in CPUs.
Often it is possible to run some steps from different instructions at the same time, which makes the CPU faster. For example, we can read an instruction from memory at the same time that we decode another instruction, since those steps use different modules. This can be thought of as having many instructions "inside the pipeline" at once. In the best case, all of the modules are working on different instructions at once, but this is not always possible.
Modern CPUs often use a memory management unit (MMU). An MMU is a component that translates addresses from the CPU to (usually) different RAM addresses. When using an MMU, the addresses used in a program are (usually) not the "real" addresses where the data is stored. This is called "virtual" (the opposite of "real") memory. A few of the reasons why it is good to have an MMU are listed below:
Some newer processors have multiple cores. This means that they have many processors built on to the same chip so that they can run many instructions at once.
While the individual cores might be slower than a single core processor, all the cores can work together to go faster. This means that the GHz might be lower, however the overall speed of the processor will be higher.
To make an analogy, think of traffic lanes;
In today's modern computers, some processors may have up to eighteen cores and are available to all consumers, like the Intel Xeon E5-2699.
The following companies make computer CPUs:

</doc>
<doc id="17378" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17378" title="Running of the Bulls">
Running of the Bulls

The Running of the Bulls (in Spanish el encierro, meaning "the enclosing") is an activity that involves running in front of bulls on a course of a sectioned-off area of a town's streets. It is done all around Spain, but the most famous running of the bulls is in Pamplona. In most bull runs the bulls are not killed, and they live for a whole season. This is a dangerous activity but very exciting. Safety varies in some places like Xabia the area is surrounded by cages that people can slip in and out of but the bulls can not.

</doc>
<doc id="17384" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17384" title="Red shift">
Red shift

Red shift is a way astronomers use to tell the distance of any object that is very far away in the Universe. It is one example of the Doppler effect. 
The easiest way to experience the Doppler effect is to listen to a moving train, which, as it moves "towards" a person, it sounds like it has a higher tone, since the frequency of the sound is squeezed together a little bit. As the train speeds "away", the sound gets stretched out, and is lower in tone. The same happens when a light-emitting object moves very fast. An object, like a star or a galaxy, that is far away and moving toward us, will look more blue than it normally does. This is called blue shift. A star or galaxy moving away from us will look more red than it would if the source were not moving in our frame of reference. This is where red shift got its name, since the colors are shifted towards the red end of the spectrum.
The reason astronomers can tell how far the light gets shifted is because certain chemical elements, like the calcium in bones or the oxygen people breathe, have a unique "fingerprint" of light that no other chemical elements have. They can see what colors of light are coming from a star, and see what it is made of. Once they know that, they check to see the difference between where the fingerprint, called spectral lines, are actually at, and then look at where they are supposed to be. When they see that, they can tell how far away the star is, whether it is moving toward us or away from us, and also how fast it is going, since the faster it goes, the farther the distance the spectral lines are from where they should be.

</doc>
<doc id="17385" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17385" title="Spectral line">
Spectral line

Spectral lines are how scientists tell one element from another by looking at color.
In order to understand spectral lines, color has to be understood. In a rainbow, the colors of light go from purple to red. Several hundred years ago, the famous scientist Issac Newton did an experiment where he showed that even white light from the Sun was made up of all the colors of the rainbow. When other scientists following him looked at this rainbow very closely, they noticed that there were dark lines breaking up the rainbow, where certain shades of colors should be. These lines were very small, and could only be seen when the rainbow got streched out very far. They investigated this further, and discovered that certain chemical elements, like the hydrogen and helium that make up the Sun, absorbed certain frequencies of light where those colors should be, like a sponge absorbs water, but does not absorb chalk.
Soon, scientists discovered that when they heated up other chemical elements, like calcium and oxygen, so hot that they shined with a white light, they found similar lines, but in different places. No two chemical elements had these lines in exactly the same places along the rainbow, and they also soon discovered that could be used to be able to tell what stars were made up of in the Universe.
The reason the chemical elements can do this is because of the number and places of electrons orbiting around the center of each atom of each chemical element. These electrons, when light hits them, absorb a specific wavelength, or color of light, and what color they absorb depend on their position around the atom. Since each chemical element has a certain number of electrons, each chemical element has this unique set of spectral lines.
Since each set of spectral lines was unique, scientists could also be able to use this in a technique called red shift. Red shift is a method astronomers use, after they know what a star is made of, to tell how fast an object far away in the Universe is moving. It also tells them how far away it is, .

</doc>
<doc id="17387" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17387" title="Godzilla">
Godzilla

Godzilla is a giant dinosaur-like fictional monster who first appeared in movies from Japan, in the year 1954. Since then has been featured in twenty-nine movies. During his movie career, this large reptile fought against many other mythical monsters, including the giant moth-like Mothra, the three-headed King Ghidorah, his own robotic mirror image Mechagodzilla, and several more enemies. The original Japanese name, "Gojira", is a combination of the words "gorilla" and "kujira" (means "whale"). In countries where the primary language is English, the name has been changed to "Godzilla".

</doc>
<doc id="17389" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17389" title="1090s">
1090s


</doc>
<doc id="17390" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17390" title="1101">
1101


</doc>
<doc id="17391" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17391" title="1137">
1137


</doc>
<doc id="17392" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17392" title="1194">
1194


</doc>
<doc id="17393" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17393" title="1207">
1207

1207 is a year in the 13th century.

</doc>
<doc id="17394" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17394" title="The Pentagon">
The Pentagon

The Pentagon is the headquarters of the United States Department of Defense. It is in Arlington, Virginia (near Washington, D.C.). It has limestone walls. It is in the shape of a pentagon. It has seven floors. There are 23,000 people working in it.
The Pentagon is the biggest office building in the world, but any place in the building can be reached within 7 minutes.
They began building it on September 11, 1941. Exactly sixty years later, on September 11, 2001, it was hit with an airplane by terrorists. One hundred eighty-four people in the building were killed.
The Pentagon has the most floor area of any building in the world. It has a total floor area of 6,500,000 sq ft (604,000 m). Offices are 3,700,000 sq ft (344,000 m). Approximately 23,000 military and civilian employees and about 3,000 non-defense support personnel work in the Pentagon. It has five sides, five floors above ground, two basement levels, and five ring corridors per floor with a total of of corridors. The Pentagon includes a five-acre (20,000 m) central plaza, which is shaped like a pentagon.
The concentric rings are named (from the center out) as "A" through "E" (with in addition "F" and "G" in the basement). "E" Ring offices are the only ones with outside views and are generally occupied by senior officials. Office numbers go clockwise around each of the rings, and have two parts: a nearest-corridor number (1 to 10) followed by a bay number (00 to 99), so office numbers range from 100 to 1099. These corridors radiate out from the central courtyard, with corridor 1 beginning with the Concourse's south end. Each numbered radial corridor intersects with the corresponding numbered group of offices (for example, corridor 5 divides the 500 series office block). There are a number of historical displays in the building, particularly in the "A" and "E" rings.
Floors in the Pentagon are lettered "B" for Basement and "M" for Mezzanine, both of which are below ground level. The concourse is located on the second floor at the metro entrance. Above ground floors are numbered 1 to 5. Room numbers are given as the floor, concentric ring, and office number (which is in turn the nearest corridor number followed by the bay number). So, office 2B315 is on the second floor, B ring, and nearest to corridor 3 (between corridors 2 and 3). One way to get to this office would be to go to the second floor, get to the A (innermost) ring, go to and take corridor 3, and then turn left on ring B to get to bay 15.
A person can walk between any two points in less than seven minutes.
Just south of the Pentagon are Pentagon City and Crystal City, extensive shopping and high-density residential districts in Arlington. Arlington National Cemetery is to the north. The Washington Metro Pentagon station is also located at the Pentagon, on the Blue and Yellow Lines. The Pentagon is surrounded by the complex Pentagon road network. Every day, thousands of commuters traveling between Arlington, Virginia and Washington, DC drive on the roads of the Pentagon Reservation.
The Pentagon Athletic Center (PAC) is a fitness center for military and civilian staff. It opened in a separate building on the north side of the Pentagon in 2004. Each year, the Pentagon grounds hold the Marine Corps Marathon and the Army Ten-Miler running events.
The public may take a 60 minute long tour of the building. Tourists also visit the Pentagon Memorial that is on the building's west side.
The Pentagon has:

</doc>
<doc id="17395" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17395" title="The Beach Boys">
The Beach Boys

The Beach Boys are an American pop/surf rock group from Hawthorne, California. They formed in 1961, and the original members were Brian Wilson (keyboards, bass guitar), his brothers Dennis Wilson (drums) and Carl Wilson (lead guitar), their cousin Mike Love (lead vocals), and close friend Al Jardine (rhythm guitar). David Marks replaced Jardine when he went away to school; after Jardine's return, Marks left the band. Bruce Johnston (keyboards) later became a regular band member, first replacing Brian Wilson on tour, then joining in on recording sessions. Many of the band's songs were about life in southern California, the beach, girls, cars, and surfing (though Dennis Wilson and Bruce Johnston were actually the only members in the group who surfed).
Reunions with some of the original band members still occur from time to time.

</doc>
<doc id="17397" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17397" title="Modem">
Modem

A modem (comes from: modulator demodulator) is a piece of computer hardware. It is used to communicate between distant computers. Two modems, one on each computer, are required to make a connection, and each modem can send and receive data to and from the other modem. 
Modems are classified by the amount of data they can send in a given time, normally measured in bits per second (bit/s, or bps). They are also classified by their connection method. Dial-up modems were the usual kind in the 20th century, and DSL modems and Cable TV modems are now more used. 
Modems that connect to the computer by a cable are called external modems. Modems that go inside the computer are internal modems. Some internal modems are part of the motherboard; others are inserted into the computer on a PC card. Most DSL and cable modems are external.
Many modems are used to connect to the Internet through telephone service or cable television service. Slow telephone service is called dial-up (maximum 56,000 bits per second). Faster telephone service is called DSL and is usually more than ten times faster. Cable modems connect through cable television, and are similarly fast. 
A CEA study in 2006 found that dial-up Internet access is on a decline in the United States. In 2000, dial-up Internet connections accounted for 74% of all U.S. residential Internet connections. This decline has been more or less mirrored in Canada and Australia.
Dial-up modem use in the US dropped to 60% by 2003, and in 2006 stood at 36%. Voiceband modems were once the most popular means of Internet access in the U.S. But as more homes adopted faster ways of accessing the Internet, the traditional 56K modem is losing popularity.

</doc>
<doc id="17398" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17398" title="3DO">
3DO

3DO is the name of the video game consoles made by the 3DO company. They were released in 1993 and 1994. Its features were very ahead of its time. The 3DO was one of the worst-selling consoles in history because it was very expensive (The launch price was $700) and other companies had cheaper systems . By 1994,the price was reduced to $400 and eventually $300. It was also not advertised very well, so no one knew about it. Some of the best games for it are "Alone in the Dark" and "Myst". The 3DO company also wanted to make another console called the M2, but it was never released.

</doc>
<doc id="17399" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17399" title="APF-M1000">
APF-M1000

The APF-M1000 was a video game console made by APF in 1978. The controllers had numbers (1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,0 called a numeric keypad) and a joystick. With a joystick, the player moves the joystick and uses it to control the action in the game. It could only be used on a color TV. It came built-in with the game "Rocket Patrol".

</doc>
<doc id="17401" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17401" title="Windsor, Ontario">
Windsor, Ontario

Windsor is a city in southern Ontario, Canada, which is across the Detroit River from the U.S. city of Detroit, Michigan. Windsor was founded in 1749 by the French. It has a population of 208,000 (counted in 2001).

</doc>
<doc id="17410" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17410" title="QWERTY">
QWERTY

QWERTY refers to a certain typewriter or computer keyboard layout that is commonly used in some English-speaking countries. The term comes from the fact the first 6 letters of the top row of keys are Q, W, E, R, T, and Y. The QWERTY design was patented by Christopher Sholes in 1874 and sold to E. Remington and Sons during the same year.
The QWERTY layout was invented by Christopher Sholes, the inventor of the first modern typewriter. At first the letters on the typewriter were placed alphabetically. However, when the user of the typewriter learned to type quickly, the bars attached to letters became caught in one another, making the typist unstick the typebars with his hands. A business associate of Christopher named James Densmore gave the idea of splitting up the keys to speed up typing by preventing the typebars from striking the typewriter roller at the same time and sticking together. Some people say the QWERTY layout was created to slow down typing speed, while others say it worked by separating series of English letters.
The QWERTY layout was made to type in English, therefore it has no accent marks as they are not used in native English words. People from other countries whose own languages used accent marks (such as French, which has letters like "é", "î", and "ç") had problems. Depending on the operating system and the application being used, one can type accents marks by holding down the Alt key while pressing several number keys in a row. As an example, holding the Alt key, pressing the number keys 1, 5, and 6, then releasing the Alt key will generate a character numbered 156 in some character set. The Control or Alt key can be also used together with a letter. In some word processors, like Microsoft Word, characters with accent marks could be found under a category named "Special Characters" or something similar. Windows also has a program called "Character Map" that can be used to find and copy characters that could be pasted into other applications later on.
Depending on where the QWERTY keyboard was made, the keyboard may look different.
The keyboards made in Belgium and France switch the letters Q and W with the letters A and Z. They also move the letter M to the right of L. These types of keyboards are called AZERTY keyboards.
Some of the keyboards in the Czech language use QWERTZ keyboards. They switch the Z and Y like the German version, but it uses "ů" to the right of L and ú next to P. The row that normally has numbers has the accents ě, š, č, ř, ž, ý, á, í, é. Instead, the person who uses the keyboard has to use the shift key to make numbers.
Danish and Norwegian layouts switched Æ, Ø, and Å where Swedish and Finnish the letters Ä and Ö.
Faroese keyboards add Æ and Ø next to L, and Å and Ð next to P.
German keyboards add an Ü to the right of P - and Ö, Ä to the right of L - and switch the Z and Y keys both because Z is a much more common letter than Y in German.
Hungarian keyboard add an É and Á after L, Ö above O, Ü above P, Ő after P, Ú after Ő, Ó above Ú, Í under A, and switch Z and Y, like in German.
Icelandic layouts add Ð to the right of P, Æ to the right of L, Ö to the right of 0 in the top row and Þ to the rightmost place in the bottom row.
Italian typewriter keyboards use a QZERTY layout where Z is swapped with W and M is at the right of "L". Computers use a QWERTY keyboard with è to the right of P and ò to the right of L.
Lithuanian keyboards use a layout known as ĄŽERTY, where Ą appears in place of Q above A, Ž in place of W above S, with Q and W being available either on the far right side or by use of the Alt Gr key. Depending on the software used. Sometimes, Lithuanian symbols replace the numbers.
Portuguese keyboards maintain the QWERTY layout but add the key Ç. after the L key.The Spanish version has the letter Ñ, the Ç.
Romanian keyboards have a QWERTZ layout, swapping Y with Z. ă and î are added to the right of the letter P, while ş and ţ are added to the right of the letter L. â replaces the backslash character. Changes are also made to the upper number keys, the numbers remain the same, but some of the symbols are shuffled. The most notable change is that hyphen (-) is swapped with slash (/).
Spanish keyboards add ñ and Ñ characters to the right of the L instead of the semicolon and colon.
Turkish layouts add Ğ and Ü to the right of P, Ş and İ to the right of L, Ö and Ç to the right of M.

</doc>
<doc id="17414" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17414" title="List">
List

A list is a part of a text, which has many words separated by commas (,) or a group of words going down the page that may use bullet points, letters, or numbers. Semi-colons (;) are also used sometimes to separate items in a list.
These are lists:
I have invited Peter, Mary, and Henry to my birthday.
People who I have invited to my birthday are:
People I invited to my birthday: Peter; Mary; Henry.

</doc>
<doc id="17422" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17422" title="Antimatter">
Antimatter

Antimatter is a term in particle physics. Antimatter is a material composed of antiparticles. These have the same mass as particles of ordinary matter but have opposite charge and properties, such as lepton and baryon number. 
Encounters between particles and antiparticles lead to the destruction of both. This gives rise to high-energy photons (gamma rays), neutrinos, and lower-mass particle–antiparticle pairs.
In physics, all the elementary particles, or the basic building blocks of the things we can touch, come in pairs. Each particle has what is called an antiparticle. This may look and act just like the regular particle, except for one major difference. An example is the electron and the positron. They both weigh the same, and act the same, but the electron has a negative electrical charge, while the positron has a positive electrical charge, which is where the positron (positive + electron) gets its name.
Other antimatter particles are the same way, where they have the same weight, and look and act the same as regular particles, but their electrical charge is the opposite of regular particles. Antihydrogen, for example, has the positron, which is positively charged, orbiting around an antiproton, which is negatively charged, which is the opposite way regular hydrogen looks, which has the electron (negative charge), orbiting around a proton (positive charge).
Albert Einstein found a formula that can show how much energy a certain amount of something has, whether it is matter or antimatter. This formula is formula_1, and is one of the most well known equations. In simple terms, if you take the mass of something and then multiply it by the speed of light, and then multiply it by the speed of light again, you will get how much pure energy a given piece of something has. Since the speed of light is such a big number, this means that even a small amount of matter can have a lot of energy (it has been projected to be 4 times more effective per mass than nuclear fission).
Antimatter was predicted from the expanded form of formula_1, which is formula_3. You can take the square root of each side of the equation, since it is equal. However, any real square root has two answers. You can think of the negative root as being antimatter.
The reason this is important to understand antimatter is because scientists found that when matter and antimatter touch each other, the amount of energy that is released comes very close to the amount of energy formula_1 says should be all together in those two pieces. The reason is that each particle of matter, when it touches its antiparticle in the antimatter world, both change over into pure energy, or annihilate each other. This release of such a high amount of energy is why a lot of science fiction writers use antimatter for fuel in their stories. For example, author Dan Brown uses antimatter in "Angels and Demons" as a very powerful weapon. It is also being looked at as a fuel source for real-life missions to outer space in the future.
Many scientists think that in the first few moments after the Big Bang, which created the universe a very long time ago, both matter and antimatter were mixing together. Since there was just a little bit more matter than antimatter (scientists still have not figured out why this happened yet), whatever was left over after most of the matter and antimatter annihilated into energy became the Universe we see today. Physicists do not yet know for sure that equal amounts of matter and antimatter were created, and because of this, they are also wondering where the antimatter went, and if any was left over from the beginning of the universe. Another theory is that there is lots of antimatter on the other side of the universe, hidden far beyond our vision. They could have formed their own galaxies and solar systems too.
Because antimatter can make so much energy, it can be used for a lot of things, such as fuel for going into outer space, or in our cars. The problem is that antimatter is very expensive to make, and is almost as expensive to store, since it cannot touch regular matter. It takes several hundred million dollars to make less than one-millionth of a gram of antimatter. In fact, it is the most expensive and the rarest substance on Earth. Since it is so expensive, this means that antimatter is not practical to use as a weapon or as an energy source, because so little of it is obtainable.
Recently, however, scientists have trapped antimatter for over 16 minutes (1000 sec. total).
It does have a use in medicine, because a special kind of scanner called the PET, which stands for positron emission tomography, uses positrons to go into the human body. Doctors can look at the way the positron changes into energy inside a person's body, and be able to tell if something is wrong inside a person. This kind of machine works differently than an X-ray machine or a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) machine, and can help doctors see things that those other machines cannot see.

</doc>
<doc id="17425" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17425" title="Minsk">
Minsk

Minsk or Miensk (Мінск (official spelling in Belarus), Менск; Минск ; Mińsk) is the capital and a major city of Belarus. 1.8 million people live in the city. Minsk is also a headquarters of the Commonwealth of Independent States. As a capital, Minsk has a special administrative status in Belarus and is also the capital of Minsk voblast (province) and Minsk raion. Minsk is situated by the Svislach and Niamiha rivers. The timezone in Minsk is GMT +2.
The oldest mentions of Minsk date back to the 11th century (1067). In 1326 Minsk became a part of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania and received its town privileges in 1499. From 1569 it was a capital of the Minsk Voivodship in the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. It was annexed by Russia in 1793 as a consequence of the Second Partition of Poland. During 1919–1991 Minsk was the capital of the Byelorussian SSR.

</doc>
<doc id="17427" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17427" title="Mercedes">
Mercedes

Mercedes:

</doc>
<doc id="17432" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17432" title="1310s">
1310s


</doc>
<doc id="17433" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17433" title="1326">
1326


</doc>
<doc id="17436" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17436" title="Chancellor of Germany">
Chancellor of Germany

The Chancellor of Germany (German: "Bundeskanzler", literally: "federal chancellor") is the leader of the government of the Federal Republic of Germany. The Chancellor of Germany elected by the majority of the members of the Bundestag, the German parliament. The Chancellor is the German people's version of a Prime Minister or Premier.
The current chancellor is Angela Merkel (CDU), the first woman to be elected in this position.

</doc>
<doc id="17438" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17438" title="Filipino American">
Filipino American

Filipino Americans are people with Filipino ethnicity who are citizens/nationals of the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="17439" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17439" title="Mysore">
Mysore

Mysore is a city in Karnataka, India. Mysore is south-west of Bangalore. Travel time from Bangalore to Mysore is 2-3 hours by road or rail.
Mysore Palace, Jaganmohan Palace, Chamundi Hills, Brindavan Gardens, and Mysore Zoo are the places to see in Mysore. Some people go to Mysore to see the Dasara procession. 
People also go to Mysore to learn yoga.

</doc>
<doc id="17440" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17440" title="Kannada">
Kannada

Kannada () is a language, and it is a script used for writing the language. Most people in the southern Indian state of Karnataka speak Kannada, and there are speakers in Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Kerala and Goa. There are some differences in the way Kannada is spoken in these places. All told, there are about 44 million people who speak the language.
Kannada is a Dravidian language, which is a different language family from the Indo-European or Aryan languages of the north, such as Hindi. It has about 1500 years of written history. The first version is known as the Old Kannada script. By about 1500 it had morphed into the Kannada and Telugu scripts. Printing presses introduced by Christian missionaries at the beginning of the 19th century standardized the Kannada and Telugu scripts.
The Kannada script is a type of writing system called an alphasyllabary. All consonants have a built-in vowel. Other vowels are indicated with diacritics, which appear next to the consonants. When they appear at the beginning of a syllable, vowels are written as separate letters. When consonants appear together without intervening vowels, the second consonant is written as a special joint symbol, usually below the first. The direction of writing: left to right in horizontal lines.
It has highest number of Janapeeta literary awards compared to any Indian language. Kannada had a huge boost during the Vijayanagar period. Shri Vinoba Bhave called "Kannada" script the "Queen of World Scripts" "Vishwa Lipigala Raani".

</doc>
<doc id="17444" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17444" title="1458">
1458


</doc>
<doc id="17445" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17445" title="1461">
1461


</doc>
<doc id="17446" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17446" title="1467">
1467


</doc>
<doc id="17447" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17447" title="Arab League">
Arab League

The Arab League is an organization made up of countries in the Arab world in Northern Africa and Southwest Asia. Most, though not all of these countries use Arabic as their official language. The purpose is to find ways for the countries to have unity and to work together to solve their problems.
The organization has the Arabic Language as the language used in its summits, and all official papers, though it has never been stated by the Organization that Arabic is the Official Language. The Arab League was founded following the Protocol of Alexandria signed in the Year 1945, by seven Arab States, Egypt, Lebanon, Saudi Arabia, Syria, Iraq, Yemen, Trans-Jordan (Jordan). Today the Organization has 22 members, All countries adopting Arabic as an official language are members of the Organizations, except, Israel, Eritrea and Chad.
The countries in the Arab League are:

</doc>
<doc id="17448" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17448" title="1478">
1478


</doc>
<doc id="17451" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17451" title="1613">
1613

Year 1613 (MDCXIII) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Gregorian calendar and a common year starting on Friday of the 10-day slower Julian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="17452" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17452" title="1608">
1608


</doc>
<doc id="17453" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17453" title="1577">
1577


</doc>
<doc id="17454" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17454" title="1870s">
1870s


</doc>
<doc id="17455" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17455" title="1501">
1501


</doc>
<doc id="17456" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17456" title="Jon Voight">
Jon Voight

Jon Voight (born December 29, 1938) is an American actor. 
His mother was of German ancestry; his father was of Slovak ancestry. Voight is the middle of three brothers: volcanologist Barry Voight was born in 1937; musician Chip Taylor was born in 1940.
Voight's son James Haven and daughter Angelina Jolie are actors.

</doc>
<doc id="17465" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17465" title="Eugene McCarthy">
Eugene McCarthy

Eugene Joseph "Gene" McCarthy (March 29, 1916 – December 10, 2005) was a United States senator from Minnesota. He ran for President of the United States five times. He died from Parkinson's disease.

</doc>
<doc id="17466" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17466" title="Arnold Schwarzenegger">
Arnold Schwarzenegger

Arnold Alois Schwarzenegger (born July 30, 1947, in Thal, Austria) is an Austrian-American bodybuilder and actor. He was the governor of the American state of California from 2003-2011. He currently lives in Los Angeles, California.
After serving in the army, Schwarzenegger moved to Munich, where he often slept in a gym because he did not have anywhere else to live.
Schwarzenegger moved to the United States in 1968 and eventually became an actor. He has been in several big budget Hollywood movies including "The Terminator" series. He stopped acting to run for governor of California in 2003. In 2003, Governor Gray Davis was removed as governor and Schwarzenegger was elected. His term ended in early January 2011, and he was replaced by Jerry Brown.
Before becoming an actor, Schwarzenegger was a bodybuilder and had won both the Mr. Olympia and Mr. Universe titles over seven consecutive times. Schwarzenegger has also set up his own official competition, Arnold Classic.
In 1971, Schwarzenegger's younger maternal half-brother Meinhard died in a car accident due to driving while drunk.
In 1986, Schwarzenegger married Maria Shriver, but they separated in 2011. They have two daughters, Katherine and Christina, and two sons, Patrick and Christopher. Schwarzenegger also has a son with another woman.
In 2013, Schwarzenegger returned to acting with a role in the movie "Escape Plan".
On March 28, 2015, he was inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame by Triple H.

</doc>
<doc id="17470" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17470" title="Holy Spirit">
Holy Spirit

The Holy Spirit, or Holy Ghost, is a part of the triune godhead (three in one God) of Christianity. 
The Holy Spirit was there from the beginning. Genesis 1:2 says that the Holy Spirit helped create the Earth.
It was by the Holy Spirit that Jesus was conceived in Mary (Matthew 1:18,19).
When Jesus had finished his ministry on Earth, he told his followers that he would provide "another Comforter" (helper), who would lead them, into truth (John 14:16), and would be their teacher to tell them things that Jesus had not told them, but that they needed to know to continue to live for God. 
The second chapter of the book of Acts tells how on the 50th day after Passover (called Pentecost), and 10 days after Jesus ascended to Heaven, Jesus' followers were gathered at the feast. While they were praying, the Holy Spirit came upon them. They began to speak in other languages (tongues).
While most Christians believe that the Holy Spirit is in them from the time they become born again, in Pentecostal denominations, such as the Assemblies of God, it is believed that speaking in unknown languages can still be an expression of the Holy Spirit, and that it is proof that a person has received the baptism of the Holy Spirit. 

</doc>
<doc id="17473" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17473" title="Internet Protocol">
Internet Protocol

The Internet Protocol (IP) is the main protocol that computers use to talk to each other. When two computers talk to each other, data passes from computer to computer. IP is in charge of figuring out the path that data will take (called routing), and is the backbone of the Internet.
The first version of the Internet Protocol is IP Version 4 ("IPv4"). The latest version, meant to replace IPv4 is IP Version 6 ("IPv6").
The Internet Protocol gets information from a source computer to a destination computer. It sends this information in the form of packets. IP also gives those computers an IP address to identify each other.
An IP packet or datagram has two parts. The first part is the header, which is like a label on an envelope. The second part is the payload, which is like the letter inside an envelope. The header contains the source and destination IP addresses, and some extra information. This information is called metadata, and is about the packet itself. Putting data in a packet with a header is encapsulation.
Every computer on a network does some kind of routing. Dedicated computers talk with each other to figure out where to send packets. These computers are called routers, and talk using routing protocols.
Along every hop in a packet's journey, a computer reads the header. The computer sees the destination IP address and figures out where to send the packet.
ARPANET, the early ancestor of the internet, was designed to survive a nuclear war. If one computer was destroyed, communication between all the other computers would still work. Computer networks still follow this same design.
Computers talking to each other handle the "smart" functions to simplify computer networks. The end nodes will check for errors instead of a central authority. Keeping the "smart" things on the end computers or nodes follows the end-to-end principle.
The Internet Protocol sends packets out without ensuring they arrive safely. This is "best-effort delivery", and is unreliable. Packets could get messed up, lost, duplicated, or received out of order. Higher level protocols like the Transmission Control Protocol ("TCP") ensure packets are delivered correctly. IP is also "connectionless", so it does not keep track of communications.
Internet Protocol Version 4 (IPv4) uses a checksum to check for errors in an IP header. Every checksum is unique to a source/destination combination. A routing node generates a new checksum when it gets a packet. If the new checksum is different from the old one, the routing node knows the packet is bad and throws it out. IPv6 assumes another protocol will check for errors and leaves out the checksum. This is to improve performance.
In 1974, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers published a paper called "A Protocol for Packet Network Intercommunication". The paper described a way for computers to talk to each other using Packet Switching. A big part of this idea was the "Transmission Control Program". The Transmission Control Program was too big, so it split into TCP and IP. This model is now called the "DoD" "Internet Model" and "Internet Protocol Suite", or the TCP/IP Model.
Versions 0 to 3 of IP were experimental, and used between 1977 and 1979.
IPv4 addresses will run out, because the number of possible addresses is finite. To fix this, the IEEE tried to make IPv5, which could have more addresses, but they would still run out soon. IPv5 was never used, and the IEEE made IPv6 which had even more addresses. While IPv4 has 4.3 Billion addresses, IPv6 has 340 undecillion of them. This means we will never run out of IPv6 addresses.

</doc>
<doc id="17474" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17474" title="1850s">
1850s


</doc>
<doc id="17476" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17476" title="1479">
1479


</doc>
<doc id="17477" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17477" title="1505">
1505


</doc>
<doc id="17478" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17478" title="Akihito">
Akihito

Akihito became emperor after the death of his father in 1989, who was Emperor Shōwa. The current emperor's official reign name is "Heisei" (establishing peace).
The emperor has many duties and responsibilities. For example, he regularly
As a personal interest, Akihito studies fish.
Akihito directly addressed his subjects in a television broadcast after the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami. This was the first time any emperor used television in this way.

</doc>
<doc id="17480" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17480" title="1133">
1133


</doc>
<doc id="17481" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17481" title="1265">
1265


</doc>
<doc id="17483" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17483" title="Aero Space Museum">
Aero Space Museum

The Aero Space Museum is an airplane museum in Calgary in Canada. The museum, founded in 1975, is near the Calgary Airport.
Some things at the museum are war-time airplanes: a Sopwith Triplane from World War I and an Avro Lancaster from World War II.
There are also peace-time airplanes made by Cessna and de Havilland, and a helicopter made by Sikorsky. The museum also has a large library of flying information available for people to read and look at.

</doc>
<doc id="17487" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17487" title="Canadian Museum of Flight">
Canadian Museum of Flight

The Canadian Museum of Flight is an aircraft museum at the Langley Airport in Langley, British Columbia, Canada. The museum has about 20 peace-time and war-time motor airplanes, gliders, and helicopters to see, six of which can still fly.

</doc>
<doc id="17489" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17489" title="Olympic Flight Museum">
Olympic Flight Museum

The Olympic Flight Museum is an aircraft museum at the Olympia Airport in Olympia, Washington, USA. The museum has more than 20 airplanes and helicopters to see, most of which can still fly.

</doc>
<doc id="17490" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17490" title="San Diego Aerospace Museum">
San Diego Aerospace Museum

San Diego Aerospace Museum is an aircraft and space exploration museum in San Diego, California, USA. It contains many original and copies of old aircraft and spacecraft, including:

</doc>
<doc id="17493" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17493" title="Pearson Air Museum">
Pearson Air Museum

The Pearson Air Museum is an airplane museum at Pearson Field Airport in Vancouver, Washington, USA. The museum and Pearson Field, and the Fort Vancouver National Historic Site, are all part of the Vancouver National Historic Reserve.
The Pearson Air Museum shows different kinds of unusual, special, and historic airplanes. For example, an experimental and one-of-a-kind aircraft known as the "flying pickle" originally based at Watts Airport (or Bernard's Airport), is shown at the Pearson. Alley reports on this special airplane based at Watts Airport in 1929, that was an experimental one-of-a-kind model. In this aircraft the pilot sits in an open air compartment, behind a roomy enclosed passenger cabin.

</doc>
<doc id="17494" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17494" title="Newfoundland and Labrador">
Newfoundland and Labrador

Newfoundland and Labrador () is a province on the East Coast of Canada, and is the farthest east of all Canadian provinces and territories. The capital of Newfoundland and Labrador is St. John's. In 2001, 533,800 people lived in Newfoundland and Labrador.
Newfoundland is an island, while Labrador is within the mainland of Canada and on a border with Quebec.
The province of Newfoundland and Labrador was originally called Newfoundland and joined Canada in 1949, becoming the newest province of Canada, after being a colony of the United Kingdom. Until an agreement was reached in 1927, Quebec also claimed Labrador. 
In 2001, the name of Newfoundland changed to its new official name, Newfoundland and Labrador, while the postal code abbreviation changed from NF to NL. The island of Newfoundland, and part of Labrador, are in a time zone that is a half hour off from any other part of North America.

</doc>
<doc id="17495" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17495" title="Greenfinch">
Greenfinch

The Greenfinch, "Carduelis", is a small passerine bird in the finch family Fringillidae. The genus "Carduelis" might be split up and in this case, the greenfinches would be separated in their old genus "Chloris" again.
This bird is widespread throughout Europe, north Africa and south west Asia. It is mainly resident, but some northernmost populations migrate further south. The Greenfinch has also been introduced into both Australia and New Zealand.
Woodland edges, farmland hedges and gardens with relatively thick vegetation are favoured for breeding. It nests in trees or bushes, laying 38 eggs. This species can form large flocks outside the breeding season, sometimes mixing with other finches and buntings. They feed largely on seeds, but also take berries.

</doc>
<doc id="17496" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17496" title="St. John's, Newfoundland and Labrador">
St. John's, Newfoundland and Labrador

St. John's is the capital of the Canadian province of Newfoundland and Labrador. It is also the largest city in the province, with 100,646 people living there since 2006.
There is a large university in St. John's, so the city is home to many students.
Close to St. John's is Cape Spear, the easternmost point in North America.
St. John's is home to the IceCaps which is a professional ice hockey team that plays in the American Hockey League.

</doc>
<doc id="17497" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17497" title="Nest">
Nest

A nest is place animals build to hold their eggs and/or provide a place to raise their babies. They are most typical of birds, but many other vertebrates do make nests.
Nests may be composed of organic material such as twigs, grass, and leaves. They may be a simple depression in the ground, or a hole in a rock, tree, or building. Nests can be found in all types of habitat.

</doc>
<doc id="17498" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17498" title="Egg (biology)">
Egg (biology)

An egg results from fertilization of an ovum. The egg is a container for the zygote. It protects the zygote, and feeds the embryo. 
The animal embryo develops until it can survive on its own, at which point the egg hatches. Most vertebrates, arthropods and molluscs lay eggs outside the mother's body. They are always in some kind of container, a shell or covering. 
Reptiles, birds and monotremes lay cleidoic eggs: bird eggs are an example. These are a special kind of egg with a good supply of food and water. They have an outside covering which lets through gases so that carbon dioxide can get out, and oxygen can get in.
Fish, amphibia, insects and arachnids lay simpler eggs in greater numbers, but with much less protection and nourishment.
Some animals, mostly mammals, keep the zygote inside their body where the embryo grows until it is ready to be born. These are also cleidoic eggs, but all the development is done inside the mother's body, as with humans. 
Most mammals, and a number of marine reptiles, give live birth. Also, there are some invertebrates, such as scorpions, where the eggs develops inside the mother. They also give birth to live young.
The ostrich has the largest eggs of all living animals. Eggs, mostly bird eggs, are often eaten as food. The shell of an egg is a hard calcareous (CaCO) material. The shell of an ostrich egg can support the weight of a fully grown human.

</doc>
<doc id="17499" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17499" title="Javan tiger">
Javan tiger

The Javan tiger ("Panthera tigris sondaica") is 1 of 3 extinct types of tigers. It lived on the island of Java in Indonesia. It became extinct in the 1970s-1990s. The last known sighting of one was in 1972.

</doc>
<doc id="17505" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17505" title="1518">
1518


</doc>
<doc id="17506" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17506" title="1528">
1528


</doc>
<doc id="17507" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17507" title="1529">
1529


</doc>
<doc id="17508" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17508" title="Abacus">
Abacus

An abacus is a very old tool used for math. It is still used in some parts of the world. Sometimes blind people will use an abacus, because they can feel the numbers easily. The most common abacuses work by moving beads on rods.
Abacuses can do addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, and people can use them to find the square root of whole numbers. Expert, or very good, abacus users can sometimes do math quicker than basic calculators. There is a common Chinese abacus. This abacus is split into two kinds of basic rows, the top is for the "5"s, and the bottom is for the "ones". There are one or two beads in the top rows, and four or five beads in the bottom ones. For example, 8 is one bead on top and 3 below, because 5 + 3 = 8. Every column represents a different digit. The Abacus is really useful for math and is really fun to mess around with and just have fun with. Good to get for young children as toys or to help them learn. 

</doc>
<doc id="17509" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17509" title="1573">
1573


</doc>
<doc id="17510" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17510" title="1606">
1606


</doc>
<doc id="17511" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17511" title="1547">
1547

1547 was a common year starting on a Saturday in the Julian calendar. It was the 547th year of the 2nd millennium, the 47th year of the 16th century and the 8th year of the 1540s decade.
1547 was a year that marked the deaths of two powerful European Kings - Henry VIII of England and Francis I of France. In England, Henry's nine-year-old son took over as Edward VI of England, while in France, Henry II became the next King. Also, during this year, Ivan IV of Russia was crowned Tsar. He later became better known as Ivan the Terrible.

</doc>
<doc id="17512" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17512" title="Accordion">
Accordion

An accordion is a musical instrument that has keys similar to a piano, but is small enough for a person to hold. It makes sounds using air pushed and pulled through reeds using a bellows. The accordion can also have buttons instead of keys. The 6-plus-6-system with three rows has the same fingering in all twelve scales.
The accordion was invented in 1822 in Germany by Friedrich Buschmann.

</doc>
<doc id="17513" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17513" title="499 BC">
499 BC


</doc>
<doc id="17514" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17514" title="1781">
1781


</doc>
<doc id="17515" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17515" title="1566">
1566


</doc>
<doc id="17516" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17516" title="1714">
1714


</doc>
<doc id="17517" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17517" title="1841">
1841


</doc>
<doc id="17518" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17518" title="Georg Agricola">
Georg Agricola

Georg or Georgius Agricola (1494-1555) was a German scholar and scientist. He was one of the first people to study mining and minerals (stones and gems).

</doc>
<doc id="17519" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17519" title="1440">
1440


</doc>
<doc id="17520" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17520" title="1457">
1457


</doc>
<doc id="17521" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17521" title="1428">
1428


</doc>
<doc id="17522" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17522" title="1525">
1525


</doc>
<doc id="17523" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17523" title="1489">
1489


</doc>
<doc id="17524" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17524" title="1494">
1494


</doc>
<doc id="17528" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17528" title="Amiga CD32">
Amiga CD32

The Amiga CD32 was a game console made by Commodore International. It was based on the A1200 computer. It was basically a computer without the computer's main parts. It could support other things that could make it into a computer. It had CD-rom drive and could play CD32 games. They did not make many CD32 games.
It did not do very well.

</doc>
<doc id="17530" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17530" title="GX4000">
GX4000

The GX4000 was a console made by Amstrad in 1990. At first, it was successful. But it did not continue its early success. The GX4000 games could be used with other Amstrad computers. Only 40 games were made for it. Soon it disappeared into the mist of history. These days it is very rare to see one that is still in working condition.

</doc>
<doc id="17535" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17535" title="ApeXtreme">
ApeXtreme

ApeXtreme is a console created by Apex Digital Inc. It was released January 9, 2004.
It can do many things, like play computer games, DVDs, CDs, VCDs and use the Internet.
What it can do:

</doc>
<doc id="17573" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17573" title="1617">
1617

Year 1617 (MDCXVII) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Gregorian calendar and a common year starting on Wednesday of the 10-day slower Julian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="17575" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17575" title="1623">
1623


</doc>
<doc id="17576" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17576" title="1556">
1556


</doc>
<doc id="17577" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17577" title="1625">
1625


</doc>
<doc id="17578" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17578" title="1561">
1561


</doc>
<doc id="17588" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17588" title="New Year's Day">
New Year's Day

New Year's Day is a holiday in many countries. It was created to welcome the new year. In the United States and most of the other countries in the world, New Year Day is celebrated on January 1.
The new year is an event that happens when a culture celebrates the end of one year and the beginning of the next. Cultures that measure yearly calendars all have new year celebrations.
In Christmas Style dating, the new year started on 25 December. This was used in Germany and England until the thirteenth century, and in Spain from the fourteenth to the sixteenth century. 
In Annunciation Style dating the new year started on 25 March, the feast of the Annunciation. This was used in many parts of Europe in the Middle Ages. The style was started by Dionysius Exiguus in AD 525. Annunciation Style was used in the Kingdom of Great Britain until January 1, 1752, except Scotland which changed to Circumcision Style dating on 1 January 1600. The rest of Great Britain changed to Circumcision Style on the 1 January after the change in Great Britain from the Julian calendar to the Gregorian calendar on 3/14 September 1752.

</doc>
<doc id="17597" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17597" title="Wlazł kotek na płotek">
Wlazł kotek na płotek

Wlazł kotek na płotek (in English: "a kitten climbed a fence") is a popular Polish children's song. 
Original [Polish]
Wlazł kotek na płotek i mruga,
ładna to piosenka niedługa.
Nie długa, nie krótka, lecz w sam raz.
Zaśpiewaj koteczku jeszcze raz.
[English]
A kitten sits on the fence and it blinks.
It’s a very pretty song, and it’s not a long one.
Not a long one, not a short one, but just right.
Come on, little kitten, sing again.

</doc>
<doc id="17600" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17600" title="Asthma">
Asthma

Asthma (or Asthma bronchiale) is a disease that hurts the airways inside the lungs. It causes the tissue inside the airways to swell. Asthma also causes the bands of muscle around the airways to become narrow. This makes it hard for enough air to pass through and for the person to breathe normally. Asthma also causes mucus-making cells inside the airways to make more mucous than normal. This blocks the airways, which are already very narrow during an asthma attack, and makes it even more difficult to breathe.
A person having an asthma attack often makes wheezing sounds when trying to breathe. This is the sound of air trying to pass through the very narrow airway. They also have shortness of breath, which means they cannot take a full deep breath. Chest tightness may happen which feels like their chest is being squeezed. They may also cough a lot.
Asthma attacks can be a medical emergency because they can be "fatal" (cause a person to die). There is no cure for asthma. There are treatments such as different kinds of medicines to help people with asthma. There are also things that people with asthma can do to help themselves to keep their asthma from getting worse.
There are a lot of risk factors for getting asthma. The exact reasons for each is not yet clearly understood. Some of the factors are believed to come from genetics. A person inherits genetic mutations from one or both of their parents that may increase the chances of developing asthma. "Epigenetics", which are changes in the way a gene acts, may also increase their chances of getting asthma. These epigenetic changes may also be inherited. They may happen when a baby is still growing inside its mother, or during childhood.
"Socioeconomic status" (SES) is also believed to play a part in developing asthma. A person's socioeconomic status is based on such things as how much money their family makes, where they live, and their education level. Race and ethnicity also may play a part. It also is related to access to medical care, personal beliefs, and dietary habits. People of lower socioeconomic status suffer higher rates of asthma, have worse outcomes, and also have higher asthma-related death rates than people of higher economic status.
The exact cause of asthma is not yet known. It is believed that it may be because of a of many different reasons:
"Genetics": When changes happen in a person's genes (called "mutations") these changes are passed on to their children. One or both parents may have these changes or "mutations" in their genes, and some or all of their children may be born with them, which means they "inherited" them. These mutations, once they happen, run in families from one generation to the next and are permanent mutations, they change the gene in the "DNA". These changes can make a person more likely to get certain diseases like asthma. In some diseases it may be only one change in one gene that may make a person get that disease, in asthma it may be changes in many different genes that may make a person more likely to get asthma.
"Epigenetics changes" or "modifications" cause different kind of changes that affect how a person's genes work or 'express themselves' in three different ways (called "epigenetic mechanisms"), but do not change the gene in the DNA. These epigenetic changes may be inherited, or they may happen "in utero" which is when a baby is still inside its mother. They may also happen in childhood, because of different reasons, like a respiratory infection, being exposed to chemicals or drugs, diet etc. These changes can be passed from one generation to the next but are not permanent and might only be passed down one or two generations. Even though epigenetic changes affect how a person's genes work they do not permanently change a person's genes. It is believed epigenetic changes may also make a person more likely to get certain diseases like asthma.
"Environmental factors" are things that affect a person; which can be either healthy or unhealthy. Unhealthy environmental factors are things like living in an area where there is a lot of air pollution, or living somewhere where there are lots of bugs in the house, or being around cigarette smoke.
If a person who has genetic or epigentic changes in their genes that makes them have a bigger chance of getting asthma ("genetic predisposition"), also has unhealthy environmental factors in their life, like living in a home that has a lot of "dust mites", then it is more likely that they will get asthma.
Atopy
"Atopy" is when there are changes in some of the genes a person is born with ("genetic inheritance"). These genetic changes make their body produce more Immunoglobulin E (IgE), a type of "antibody". They are also more sensitive to things things like chemicals, smoke and dust ("environmental antigens"). This "hypersensitivity" means they are more sensitive or "allergic" to things in the environment than people who do not have these changes in their genes and are not hypersensitive or "allergic".
This "hypersensitivity" causes their body to react in certain ways. Usually a person who is atopic develops "allergic rhinitis" which affects the "nasal passages" which are behind the nose and they are also more likely to get "atopic dermatitis" which causes skin rashes and "atopic asthma". Up to 40% of people with allergic rhinitis also have asthma. These three medical problems, "allergic rhinitis", "atopic dermatitis" and "atopic asthma" are called the "Atopic Triad" (a "triad" is when there is three of something). People who are atopic may also have other medical problems including food and drug allergies, stinging-insect hypersensitivity, hives ("urticaria"), Quincke's edema ("angioedema"), and contact dermatitis.
If a person has one parent who is atopic they have a chance of being atopic too. If they have two parents who are atopic they have an even bigger chance of being atopic.
There have been studies that show a link between acetaminophen (Tylenol) and asthma. For instance a 2008 analysis of information collected from a very large study called the International Study of Asthma and Allergies in Childhood, or the "Isaac study" for short, showed that children who had taken acetaminophen for a fever during the first year of their life had a 50% higher risk of getting asthma later on. The more acetaminophen children took the higher their risk of getting asthma. Children who took it once a month had threefold increase in their risk of getting asthma. An increase in asthma rates in multiple countries corresponded with increased sales of drugs which contained acetaminophen. Previously the American College of Physicians reported a link between non-atopic asthma and acetaminophen use based on results of The Third National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey. Not all doctors are convinced of the link between acetaminophen and asthma.
"Children with asthma or at risk for asthma should avoid the use of acetaminophen." (McBride JT, 2011).
Atopic asthma
"Atopic" asthma is the most common form of asthma.
Cough-variant asthma
Cough-variant asthma is a type of asthma in which a cough is the main, and sometimes only sign. Cough-variant asthma usually does not cause wheezing or breathlessness and causes a dry, scratchy, mostly nonproductive cough (this means little or no phlegm is coughed up). About 30% of people who have cough-variant asthma will develop typical asthma.
Work-related asthma
Work related asthma are types of asthma that are caused or made worse by irritants in the environment at a person's place of work. The kind of jobs that may cause work related asthma are usually those in which there is a lot of smoke or chemicals are used. There are different types of work-related asthma (WRA):
1. Occupational asthma with latency: this asthma type is when the signs and symptoms of asthma occur after a period of time ("latency") after being exposed to the environmental irritants. e.g.: John starts working at a factory where chemicals are used the first week of January. At the end of March he starts developing the signs and symptoms of asthma. The period of time from when he started the job in January to when the signs and symptoms of asthma started in March is the "latency period".
2. Irritant-Induced Asthma (IIA) is occupational asthma without latency: this is an asthma type is when the signs and symptoms of asthma can occur immediately ("without latency") after being exposed to the environmental irritants. e.g. Frank starts a new job working as a janitor where he uses ammonia to clean. After opening the bottle of ammonia and breathing the fumes Frank starts finding it difficult to breath, his chest tightens up and he develops other signs and symptoms of asthma.
4. Work-aggravated asthma: this is when a person already has asthma and environmental triggers at their place of work makes it worse.
Exercise induced asthma
Exercise induced asthma (EIA) - also called exercise induced bronchospasm - is the term used to describe asthma cases in which exercise is the main, and many times the only trigger for an asthma attack. If a person already has a form of asthma or they are "atopic" there is more of a chance of getting EIA.
Nocturnal asthma
Nocturnal asthma: is the term used to describe asthma cases that get worse at night ("nocturnal").
Premenstrual asthma (PMA): is when asthma symptoms get worse during the premenstrual period. This condition may affect up to 40% of female asthma sufferers. For a diagnosis of PMA to be made it is necessary to have a detailed history of the timing of menstrual cycles along with asthma symptoms experienced, and the peak expiratory flow rate (PMA may cause the PEF to be lowered in the premenstrual period). It is helpful in making a diagnosis to keep a diary of symptoms and peak expiratory flow (PEF) rates.
Status asthmaticus
Status asthmaticus is a severe form of asthma in which an asthma attack gets worse as it goes along and the medicines that are usually used to treat asthma do not work. Status asthmaticus can be fatal.
Signs and symptoms in medicine are the way a medical condition affects a person's body. Sometimes the signs and symptoms of asthma may be "mild" which does not bother the person too much. At other times they may be "severe" which may make the person feel very sick.
Not every person with asthma has all the signs and symptoms of asthma all the time. A person may have some signs and symptoms during one asthma attack and have different symptoms during another asthma attack. Some people with asthma may have long periods of time between asthma attacks where they show no signs and experience no symptoms of asthma, while others may have some or all of the signs and symptoms everyday which become more severe during an attack. It also depends on what type of asthma a person has and whether they have a mild, moderate or severe case.
There are also some people with asthma who might only have signs and symptoms during certain times, such as those with exercise induced asthma, where the exercise triggers the symptoms. For some the signs and symptoms of asthma may be triggered or made worse ("exacerbated") when they have viral respiratory tract infections, often the type casued by human "rhinoviruses".
Early warning signs of an asthma attack are physical changes in health that a person with asthma has before they have the attack. By knowing the early warning signs a person may be able to take steps to keep from having an asthma attack or if they do have one, to keep it from getting worse.
Early warning signs
The early warning signs of asthma may include:
A "trigger factor" or "trigger" for short, is something that causes the signs and symptoms of a medical condition to begin in a person who already has that medical condition. Common triggers for asthma are: 
The best way to deal with asthma triggers is to learn what they are and avoid them if possible, and if not totally avoidable then adjust one's behavior to deal with them. Example: running on a cold winter day right up to the doorstep of a warm house and going immediately inside; the sudden temperature change can cause an attack and could have been avoided. In general but especially with a medical condition such as asthma it is necessary to be aware of one's environment and what's in it, both indoors and outdoors.
An asthma attack is when, after a period of time when aperson has had only a few or no symptoms of asthma, the asthma gets worse all of a sudden, usually because of being exposed to one or more triggers. When the asthma attack happens, the tissue inside the airways swell because of "inflammation" - which is how the body tries to protect itself from harmful things, like germs and irritants. When the tissues swell the opening (called the "lumen") in the airway gets very narrow.
The "smooth muscles" (which are the kind of muscles in the body that do not "contract" voluntarily, like the ones in the arm) around the bronchi and bronchioles begin to "spasm" or contract which makes the opening in the airway even narrower. This is called a "bronchospasm".
Inside the lining of the airways are glands called, "submucosal glands", and above them, closer to the opening in the airway are cells called "goblet cells" - because they are shaped kind of like a goblet, which is a type of cup. The submucosal glands and the goblet cells make mucous which helps protect the inside of the airways. The mucous in the airways of healthy lungs is a thin film which traps irritants such as dust particles and pollen so they do not damage the airways and keep them from entering the air sacs (alveoli).
There are tiny hairs lining the airway called "cilia". The cilia wave back and forth like a liitle whips, and help push the mucous and the trapped particles up the airways to the "pharynx". From there the mucous, the trapped particles from the lower airways can be coughed up (this is called "sputum").
During an asthma attack the submucosal glands and the goblet cells start making much more mucous than normal, and the mucous is also thicker than normal. This makes it very hard for the cilia to do their job, and bring the mucous up out of the airways. So now there is too much mucous being made, and not enough being brought up by the cilia. The airways are already to narrow to breathe properly because of the tissue swelling caused by inflammation and the constriction caused by the bronchospasms, so the extra mucous blocks the airway even more. This makes breathing very difficult. In fatal asthma attacks the airways can become so constricted and/or plugged with mucous that no air can get through at all.
There are other signs of breathing difficulty as in an asthma attack, which are important to learn, and knowing them can help tell if someone who cannot talk is having breathing problems. People who may not be able to let somebody know they are having breathing problems include babies and young children. 
Some of the other signs of asthma include:
A diagnosis of asthma is based on a person's:
Diagnostic Tests
There is no specific test that can tell if a person has asthma, however there are tests that can help in the diagnosis when the results are considered along with the medical and family history and physical exam
"Differential diagnoses" are different medical disorders which may cause the same symptoms. Before a doctor makes a "final diagnosis", which means they are sure of what medical disorder is causing the problem, they think of what other medical conditions have the same or almost the same symptoms, and make sure it's not one of them.
The differential diagnoses of asthma include:
Airway remodeling is when there are permanent physical changes to the airways that also affects how they work. This may happen after chronic long-term asthma. After cycles of inflammation, damage and repair to the airways. permanent remodeling of the airways may occur. This is when the physical structure of the airway changes. This will cause permanent airway narrowing (they are always more narrow than normal and get narrower during an asthma attack), bronchospasms are more easily triggered (bronchial hyperresponsivenes), airway edema (fluid in the airway), and mucus hypersecretion (too much mucous is made) as well as the build-up of collagen around the airway which is called fibrosis. Airway remodeling has been observed in chldren as young as six.
Not managing asthma properly can lead to airway remodeling and this can increase the risk of dying from an asthma attack. One of the main problems which cause poor asthma management is not using the asthma inhaler correctly. One of the main reasons for improper inhaler use is the asthma patient not having the proper knowledge in using the inhaler due to not receiving proper instruction.
Goblet cell and submucosal gland hyperplasia: Among the physical changes that may happen in airway remodeling is "goblet cell hyperplasia" and "submucosla gland hyperplasia". Submucosal glands and goblet cells make mucous which helps to protect the airways by trapping harmful particles like dust and pollen. The mucous is normally a thin film which lines the airways. The mucous and whatever particles they trap are brought up to the "pharynx" by tiny (microscopic) hairs on the inside of the airway that move back and forth called "cilia".
During an asthma attack the submucosal glands and goblet cells make too much mucous, and it is thicker than normal which makes it harder for the cilia to bring the mucous up. When airway remodeling happens the body may make many more submucosal glands and goblet cells than normal, which means even more mucous is made. There may be too much mucous for the cilia to bring up and the airway may become blocked. This is one of the reasons that people with airway remodeling often have more severe asthma. In fatal cases the airway may have become totally plugged causing "asphyxia".
Asthma can be controlled most often by avoiding contact with triggers and by using certain drugs. Most asthma sufferers carry special medicines around with them. These are called inhalers. The medicine inside the inhaler opens the tubes that go to the lungs. The inhaler is usually used to prevent an asthma attack, or to stop an attack that is already happening.
Rescue medicine — A rescue medicine is an inhaler ("puffer") that is used if a person thinks they are having an asthma attack.
Controller medicine — A controller medicine is a medicine in either a pill or an inhaler taken every day to prevent asthma attacks.
Common treatment in a hospital
Hospitals have other options they can use in an emergency when the regular treatments don't work:
Drugs that may worsen an asthma attack
There are certain types of drugs that make asthma worse or that can trigger such an attack. Certain types of drugs should only be used in very specific situations. Some of these drugs are: 
Often, having one medical problem makes it more likely a person will also have one or more other medical or psychiatric problems. These other disorders are the "comorbid problems" or "comorbidities". There are various comorbid medical and psychiatric conditions associated with asthma.
Respiratory disorders
Gastrointestinal disorders
Psychiatric disorders
Sleep disorders
Skin disorders
In medicine "epidemiology" is the study of what causes diseases and medical conditions, how often they happen, where they happen and who they happen to.
It is more common in developed countries than developing countries. The United States and Canada have some of the highest asthma rates in the world even though they are not poor countries. In Africa the country of South Africa has the highest asthma rate on the whole continent even though it is one of the richest countries.
More than 80% of the people who die from asthma are usually from low and middle income countries, but not always, as South Africa has the fourth highest death rate in the world even though it is one of the richer countries in the world. In the United States the death rates are higher for females, adults and people of African descent.
As of 2011, 235–300 million people worldwide are affected by asthma, and approximately 250,000 people die per year from the disease. Rates vary between countries with prevalences between 1 and 18%.
The amount of asthma cases reported each year has gotten much higher between the 1960s and 2008 Rates of asthma have plateaued in the developed world since the mid-1990s with recent increases primarily in the developing world. Asthma affects approximately 7% of the population of the United States and 5% of people in the United Kingdom. Canada, Australia and New Zealand have rates of about 14–15%.

</doc>
<doc id="17605" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17605" title="Turkish">
Turkish

Turkish might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="17609" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17609" title="1690">
1690


</doc>
<doc id="17610" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17610" title="890">
890


</doc>
<doc id="17611" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17611" title="Bochum">
Bochum

Bochum is a city in the Ruhr area of the state of North Rhine-Westphalia in Germany. It is part of the Arnsberg Government Region
Bochum has about 380,000 inhabitants.
The city is formed by the traditional industry of coal mining in the Ruhr area, but today there is no mining in Bochum anymore.
Today the most important institution in Bochum is the Ruhr-University Bochum, one of the biggest German universities.
It has an extremely wide spectrum of subjects, beginning with mathematics and science, social sciences, economy, engineering, laws, philosophy, historical subjects, theology, medicine, and languages even including Chinese and Polish.
Bochum has a rich cultural life and its theatre is one of the most prominent in Germany. Next to Bochum are the cities Essen and Hattingen

</doc>
<doc id="17614" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17614" title="Progressive rock">
Progressive rock

Progressive rock is a type of rock music with complicated musical technique and composition. This means that the tempo, time signature, and style can change many times in a single song. 
Most normal rock songs follow a very simple pattern in the way they are arranged. This pattern is a verse followed by a chorus, then a different verse, and then the same chorus. Progressive rock is more complicated than this, and can require more skill to play.
Progressive rock was first made in the late 1960's, but became most popular in the 1970's. It continues to be popular today, too. Progressive rock began in England and spread throughout Europe. It remains most popular in Europe, but there are several notable American and Canadian progressive rock bands. This genre was influenced by classical music and jazz fusion. Over the years, different sub-genres of progressive rock have been created, such as symphonic rock, art rock, math rock, and progressive metal. 
Progressive rock artists wished to create music that was not limited to the structures of common popular rock and pop music. They wanted to make rock music that "progressed" to the complexity of jazz and classical music by creating a more serious, complex and sophisticated type of rock music. Progressive rock bands may have influences from psychedelic rock, folk music, traditional music, world music, and jazz or jazz fusion. It is also referred to as "prog rock" as an abbreviation, or as "Hobbit rock" because of frequent medieval or fantasy themes in the lyrics.
Progressive rock bands write and play songs that have many changes during each song. Regular rock songs have verses and a chorus, but progressive songs can have many different sections. For example, instead of having verses and choruses, progressive rock songs may have many different musical themes, solos, and musical moods. A typical progressive song might have a form such as: Introduction-Verse-Chorus-instrumental section-New verse-New chorus-Instrumental section-Ending.
Because of their depth and complexity, progressive rock songs are not played on pop music radio very often.
Some of the important progressive rock bands from the late 1960s and early 1970s include The Moody Blues, Jethro Tull; Yes, Genesis; Pink Floyd; Emerson; Lake & Palmer; Rush; Goblin; Gentle Giant; Van der Graaf Generator, and King Crimson.
Progressive rock is difficult to define, because progressive rock bands often play different types of progressive rock music which sound different. There are some common elements that are in most progressive rock band music, such as long, complex songs, unusual time signatures, unusual instruments or ways of using them, and use of improvisation, which means making up or inventing music while playing on stage.
Albums by progressive rock groups are often concept albums. In a concept album, the songs have a common theme, are arranged in a certain order and often tell a story or represent a larger concept.

</doc>
<doc id="17619" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17619" title="San Juan, Puerto Rico">
San Juan, Puerto Rico

San Juan is the capital and largest city of Puerto Rico. The city's population is 433,733. It is the 42nd-largest city and the oldest European settlement in United States territory. Today, San Juan is Puerto Rico's most important seaport.
San Juan was founded in 1521. It was named after San Juan Bautista, or St. John the Baptist (name given by Christopher Columbus). San Juan is also known as "La Ciudad Amurallada". This means the "walled city". San Juan has many old buildings still standing today. Many Spanish explorers came during the Age of Discovery and built forts, churches, and other historical buildings. An example of a very old fort is "La Fortaleza". It is also known as "Palacio de Santa Catalina". In the sixteenth century, it was a Spanish fortress against Caribs. These were the people native to the Caribbean islands and Central America. Another old building is the oldest residence in Old San Juan, Casas de los Contrasfuertes (House of Buttresses).

</doc>
<doc id="17620" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17620" title="Kashmir">
Kashmir

Kashmir (, ), previously spelled Cashmere, is a region in South-central Asia. Historically, the name Kashmir referred to the valley just to the south of the western end of the Himalayan mountain range. Today, Kashmir refers to a much larger area that includes the Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir (which includes the Kashmir Valley, Jammu region and Ladakh), Azad Kashmir and Gilgit–Baltistan (part of Pakistan), and Aksai Chin and the Trans-Karakoram Tract (part of China). The main "Valley of Kashmir" is a low fertile area surrounded by mountains and fed by many rivers. People like it for its natural beauty and simple lifestyle. The region is part of a border dispute between India and Pakistan.
In total it has an area of 230,166.1 square kilometres or (89,106 square miles). The population of the region is more than the individual populations of 127 UN member nations and its area is larger than that of 97 nations.
The Nilamata Purana describes the Valley's origin from the waters, a fact corroborated by prominent geologists, and shows how the name of the land was derived from the process of desiccation–Ka means "water" and Shimir means "to desiccate". Hence, Kashmir stands for "a land desiccated from water". There is also a theory which takes Kashmir to be a contraction of Kashyap-mira or Kashyapmir or Kashyapmeru, the ""Sea or Mountain of Kashyapa"", the sage who is credited with having drained the waters of the primordial Lake Satisar, that Kashmir was before it was reclaimed. The Nilamata Purana gives the name Kashmira to the (Kashmir Valley includes the Wular Lake) Mira" which means the sea lake or the mountain of Sage Kashyapa. Mira in Sanskrit means Ocean or boundary, considering it to be an embodiment of Uma and it is the Kashmir that the world knows today. The Kashmiris, however, call it "Kashir", which has been derived phonetically from Kashmir. The Ancient Greeks called it as "Kasperia". Kashyapa-pura, which has been identified with Kaspapyros of Hecataeus (apud Stephanus of Byzantium) and Kaspatyros of Herodotus (3.102, 4.44). Kashmir is also believed to be the country meant by Ptolemy's Kaspeiria. "Cashmere" is an archaic spelling of present-Kashmir, and in some countries it is still spelled this way. A tribe of Semitic origin, named Kash (which means a deep slash in the native dialect), is believed to have founded the cities of Kashan and Kashgar, not to be confused with the Kashyapi tribe from Caspian. The land and the people were known as 'Kashir' from which 'Kashmir' was also derived from therein.
The Kashmir conflict has existed since India and Pakistan became independent states. At first, the Maharaja of Jammu and Kashmir, Hari Singh, wanted his state to remain independent of both India and Pakistan. On 20 October 1947, tribesmen supported by Pakistan invaded Kashmir. Singh fought back at first, but on 27 October, he asked the Governor-General of India, Louis Mountbatten, for help. He agreed, but made Singh turn over Jammu and Kashmir to India. Once the papers of accession to India were signed, Indian soldiers entered Kashmir with orders to stop any further occupation, but they were not allowed to expel anyone from the state. Pakistan claimed that it was illegal for Singh to give Kashmir to Pakistan, and the First Kashmir War was started. India took the matter to the United Nations. The UN resolution asked Pakistan to vacate the areas it had occupied and asked India to assist the U.N. Plebiscite Commission to organize a plebiscite to determine the will of the people. Pakistan refused to vacate the occupied areas and the plebiscite was never held.
India and Pakistan have fought several wars over Kashmir. In 1949 and 1972 they agreed on a border for most of the Territories (except for the Siachen Glacier). This demarcation line which marks the border between India and Pakistan is known as the Line of Control. It is guarded by Indian and Pakistani troops.
The border between Aksai Chin (held by China) and Jammu and Kashmir (held by India) is known as Line of Actual Control.
The Kashmir border between the Punjab (Pakistan) and Indian-administered Kashmir is called the working boundary, but is not recognised by Pakistan. India has built a fence along part of this border.
The Siachen Glacier and the bordering Saltoro Range first saw military action in 1984 when the Indian Army occupied the glacier and the Saltoro range to prevent Pakistan from occupying the area. This operation was codenamed Operation Meghdoot. There have been several minor changes to the held positions. However, the Indian Armed forces have held onto the heights on the plateau, preventing the Pakistani soldiers from climbing up the Saltoro range.
The Actual Ground Position Line (AGPL) refers to the current position that divides Indian and Pakistani troops in the Siachen Glacier region. The line extends from the northernmost point of the LOC (Line of Control) to Indira Col. This line runs across the edge of the Saltoro Range, which is a mountainous plateau with peaks that are over 8,000 meters tall. The current position of the AGPL follows the general line:
Indira Col - Sia La pass - Saltoro Kangri 1 - Bilafond La pass - K12 - Gyong La pass - NJ9842
Today Kashmir is split, as follows:
The Disputed territory of Kashmir is divided into five administrative Divisions, namely:
A group of Districts forms a Division, which is administered by a 'Divisional Commissioner'. Kashmir is now divided in twenty-one districts, grouped under five divisions jointly controlled by Pakistan and India respectively:
Kashmir's economy is centred around Agriculture, like that of Pakistan. Traditionally the staple crop of the valley was Rice, which formed the chief food of the people. In addition, corn, wheat, barley and oats were also grown. Given its temperate climate, it is suited for crops like Asparagus, Artichoke, seakale, broad beans, scarletrunners, beetroot, cauliflower and cabbage. Fruit trees are common in the valley, and the cultivated orchards yield pears, apples, peaches, and cherries. The chief trees are deodar (National tree of Pakistan), firs and Pines, chenar (State tree) or plane, Maple, birch and Walnut, apple, cherry.
Historically, Kashmir became known worldwide when Cashmere wool was exported to other regions and nations (exports have ceased due to decreased abundance of the cashmere goat and increased competition from Western China). Kashmiris are well adept at Knitting and making Pashmina Shawls, silk carpets, rugs, Kurtas, and Pottery. Saffron, too, is grown in Kashmir. Efforts are on to export the naturally grown fruits and vegetables as Organic foods mainly to the Greater Middle East region which it forms an integral part. Srinagar is known for its silver-work, Papier mache, wood-carving, and the weaving of silk.
The economy was badly damaged by the 2005 Pakistan earthquake which, as of 8 October 2005, resulted in over 70,000 deaths in the Pakistan-controlled part of Kashmir and around 1,500 deaths in Indian controlled kashmir.
The Indian-held portion of Kashmir is believed to have potentially rich rocks containing hydrocarbon reserves.
The economy of the region is focused on agriculture. People grow rice there. In the Indian part they also grow corn, such as wheat and barley. Its climate is different from that of most of the Indian subcontinent: It is milder. Therefore, crops like artichoke, cauliflower, cabbage and certain kinds of beans are also grown.
Cashmere wool is well-known almost anywhere in the world. Cashmere wool is wool from Cashmere goats. Because of conflicts over the territory, however, most Cashmere wool no longer comes from Kashmir.
Kashmir is home to the finest saffron in the world.
Tourism has been important in Kashmir for many years. Many people call the region "Paradise on Earth". Tourists from all over the world visit Kashmir. In the last ten years, less people have visited Kashmir because of terrorism, but it still remains one of the most sought after tourist destinations.
78% of the people in Kashmir are Muslims and Islam is the majority religion of the territory.

</doc>
<doc id="17634" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17634" title="Rural area">
Rural area

Rural areas are areas which are not towns or cities. They are often farming or agricultural areas. These areas are sometimes called "the country" or "countryside". People who live "in the country" often live in small villages, but they might also live somewhere where there are no other houses nearby.
Rural is the opposite of urban, which means places such as cities where buildings and places where people work and live are all close together.
Many people who live in cities like to go to the country to relax. They go there for recreation, often for their holidays, or to read
In the U.S. and Angola the term "rural areas" technically describes a place that has less than 500 inhabitants per square mile.

</doc>
<doc id="17636" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17636" title="Stephen Crane">
Stephen Crane

Stephen Townley Crane (November 1, 1871 - June 5, 1900) was an American writer. He was born on November 1, 1871 in Newark, New Jersey to Jonathan Townley Crane, a clergyman, and Mary Helen Peck Crane. He attended Syracuse University in Syracuse, New York, but did not graduate. He moved to New York City in 1892 to write about the slum life of Manhattan. His major works include the novella "Maggie: A Girl of the Streets" (1893), the war novel "The Red Badge of Courage" (1895), and the short story "The Open Boat" (1897). After the success of "Badge", his literary reputation declined. His health was poor. In May 1899, he entered a sanitarium in Badenweiler, Germany. On June 5, 1900, he died of tuberculosis. He is buried in the Evergreen Cemetery in Hillside, New Jersey. 

</doc>
<doc id="17637" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17637" title="Lawrence's Goldfinch">
Lawrence's Goldfinch

The Lawrence's Goldfinch, "Carduelis lawrencei", is a small songbird of North America. Bigger than the Lesser Goldfinch, and smaller than the American Goldfinch, with less yellow markings than either.
It lives from central California and its southern coast in the United States, to Baja California in Mexico. Females have less yellow and do not have the black cap and chin of the males.
This bird is named after the American "ornithologist" (bird expert), George Newbold Lawrence.

</doc>
<doc id="17639" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17639" title="George Newbold Lawrence">
George Newbold Lawrence

George Newbold Lawrence (October 20, 1806 - January 17, 1895) was an American businessperson and amateur ornithologist (bird expert).
Lawrence counted birds for Spencer Fullerton Baird and John Cassin, and the three men wrote "Birds of North America" in 1858.
Lawrence left his 8,000 bird skins to the American Museum of Natural History. The Lawrence's Goldfinch "Carduelis lawrencei" was named for him by Cassin.

</doc>
<doc id="17641" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17641" title="Santa Claus">
Santa Claus

Commonly associated with Christmas, the fictional character of Santa Claus is mostly shown as a big and cheerful white-bearded man wearing a red suit with white trim. According to the American version of the legend, Santa, as he is often known, lives in the North Pole with his wife, Mrs. Claus, some elves who build his toys, and reindeer who pull his sled through the sky. Father Christmas, the Nordic version of the myth, is said to live in Lapland, Finland. He is also associated with bringing gifts to small children on Christmas by sliding down fireplace chimneys and reindeer pulling his sled. 
Santa Claus is most likely created from the Dutch Sinterklaas, who was also known as St. Nick. There are many popular culture items about Santa. Santa Claus is known as Saint Nicholas, Saint Nick, Father Christmas, Santa, Santy, Kris Kringle, Kristingle, Christingle and many other names.
Santa Claus is said to live in a small hill called Korvatunturi in Lapland, Finland in the Nordic myth. There is a theme park in Rovaniemi, which is near Korvatunturi, called Santa Claus Village. 
The saint who inspired the legend of Sinterklaas, (and thus Santa Claus) is Saint Nicholas, who lived in the 4th Century AD and had a reputation for secret gift-giving, such as putting coins in the shoes of those who left them out for him.
He is also said to live at the top of the world at the North Pole.

</doc>
<doc id="17642" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17642" title="Cinnamon">
Cinnamon

Cinnamon is a spice got from the inner bark of "Cinnamomum verum". 
The spice is used in both sweet and savoury foods. It is very aromatic. People usually put cinnamon in sweet baked goods (such as cinnamon rolls), hot wine or liquors. 
Cinnamon was used to make the spiced wine, claret, in the Middle Ages. In India, cinnamon is commonly used in making flavoured tea. It is either directly added as small pieces or put in powdered form during the preparation of tea. It is known as "Daal-Cheeni" in Hindi.
The Sinhalese name is "kurundu". Cinnamon is grown as an export crop in Sri Lanka.
There is a literature which suggests that cinnamon spice may have positive effects on diabetes type II. This is not the view of the U.S, National Institutes of Health.

</doc>
<doc id="17643" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17643" title="1186">
1186

Year 1186 (MCLXXXVI) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="17644" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17644" title="1187">
1187


</doc>
<doc id="17645" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17645" title="1188">
1188


</doc>
<doc id="17649" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17649" title="Egg">
Egg

Egg can mean different things:

</doc>
<doc id="17651" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17651" title="Science fiction">
Science fiction

Science fiction (often shortened to sci-fi or SF) is a kind of writing. Science fiction stories can be novels, movies, TV shows, comic books and other literature.
SF is often about the future. It can be about imaginary new science and inventions such as spaceships, time machines, and robots. Science fiction stories are often in a world that is very different from the real world. They can have science and tools that do not exist in reality. Science fiction stories often take place on other worlds. There are often alien creatures.
Science fiction is different from fantasy. Fantasy stories often have magic and other things that do not exist and are not science. Isaac Asimov was a famous science fiction writer. He once said that science fiction is possible, but fantasy is not.
Writers often use SF to explain everyday questions or problems by putting them in the future. Usually they invent a very different world to help people notice important ideas.
Science fiction changes over time. Some authors wrote SF books before this type of writing had a name. These writers and books were not called science fiction when they were published. But, they are often called science fiction today.
Two broad genres of science fiction are Hard SF and Soft SF. Although not everyone agrees on the exact definitions of these two types, the way they use science or the type of science used in the stories is different.
Hard science fiction, or "hard SF", is special because it uses true facts and theories from sciences. These sciences are very important in Hard SF: physics, astrophysics, and chemistry. Also, Hard SF can show worlds that more advanced technology may make possible. Many correct predictions of the future come from the hard science fiction subgenre. However, there have been many incorrect ideas about the future, too. Some hard SF writers have also worked as professional scientists. A few of these scientist/writers are Gregory Benford and Geoffrey A. Landis, while mathematician authors include Rudy Rucker and Vernor Vinge. Other noteworthy hard SF authors include Arthur C. Clarke, Hal Clement, Isaac Asimov, Greg Bear, Stanislav Lem, Larry Niven, Robert J. Sawyer, Stephen Baxter, Alastair Reynolds, Charles Sheffield, and Greg Egan.
Soft science fiction stories take ideas from social sciences such as psychology, economics, political science, sociology, and anthropology. Some important writers in this category include Ursula K. Le Guin and Philip K. Dick. Soft SF can be mostly about character and emotion. Ray Bradbury won a prize called the SFWA Grand Master and writes in this style. The Soviet Union produced social science fiction too. Some examples are Strugatsky brothers, Kir Bulychov and Ivan Yefremov.
Some Social SF and Soft SF can be types of speculative fiction, for example utopian or dystopian stories. George Orwell's "Nineteen Eighty-Four", Aldous Huxley's "Brave New World" and Margaret Atwood's "The Handmaid's Tale", are examples. Some people think that satirical novels in fantastic settings (places) such as "Gulliver's Travels" by Jonathan Swift are speculative fiction.
Within Hard or Soft SF, there are different types, or subgenres, of science fiction. Each subgenre is a group of stories that uses similar ideas or styles of writing. Publishing companies and critics put works of SF into different subgenres to help describe the work to help readers choose which books to read ro movies to watch. Assigning genres is not simple. Some stories can be in two or more genres at the same time. Other stories may not fit any genre.
In Alternate (or alternative) history stories, writers imagine how the past might have been different. These stories may use time travel to change the past. Some set a story in a universe with a different history from our own. These are some important alternate history books:
The Sidewise Award is for the best works in this subgenre. The name Sidewise is taken from Murray Leinster's 1934 story "Sidewise in Time." Harry Turtledove is one of the most famous writers in the subgenre. He is often called the "master of alternate history".
Apocalyptic fiction is about the end of civilization. There are several types: through war ("On The Beach"), pandemic ("The Last Man"), astronomic impact ("When Worlds Collide"), ecological disaster ("The Wind From Nowhere"), or mankind's self-destruction ("Oryx and Crake"), or some other general disaster. Apocalyptic SF may also be about world or civilization after a disaster.
Cyberpunk began in the early 1980s. Bruce Bethke used this word as the title for a short story in 1980 by putting together two words: "cybernetics" and "punk". Soon, people used this word to describe William Gibson's book, "Neuromancer". Cyberpunk authors can put their stories in different settings. Stories usually take place in the near-future and the settings are often dystopian (characterized by misery). These are often societies with very advanced technology. A few huge corporations usually control the society. Another early cyberpunk novel that has become a classic is "Snow Crash" by Neal Stephenson.
Military science fiction stories happen during wars. These wars can be between different countries, different planets, or between different species. The stories are told by characters who are soldiers. They include detail about military technology, rules, and history. Some Military SF may be similar to real historical conflicts. Heinlein's "Starship Troopers" is an early example. Another is the Dorsai novels of Gordon Dickson. Joe Haldeman's "The Forever War" is a response to the World War II–style stories of earlier military SF authors. Haldeman was a soldier in the Vietnam War. Important military SF authors include John Ringo, David Drake, David Weber, and S. M. Stirling. Baen Books is known for cultivating military science fiction authors.
Superhuman stories are about humans who get special abilities that are not normal. Maybe the new powers come from nature. Two examples of this type are Olaf Stapledon's novel "Odd John" and Theodore Sturgeon's "More Than Human". Sometimes scientists give people special powers on purpose. one example is A.E. van Vogt's novel "Slan". Frederik Pohl's novel "Man Plus" is another good example from this category. In that book, government scientists make a man into a powerful cyborg (part human, part machine).
These stories usually have two main points. One is the feeling of loneliness and separation that these superhuman people feel. The other is society's reaction to them.
Space opera is adventure science fiction in outer space or on distant planets. Action is more important than the science or characters. There is usually a strong hero and a very big conflict. The action often moves to many different places. Edward E. (Doc) Smith was an early Space opera writer. Flash Gordon and Star Wars are also popular examples.
Some people may think that Space Western is a kind of Space opera. It takes ideas from books and movies about exploring the American Old West and moves them to space in the future. These stories are often on "frontier" colony worlds (colonies that have only recently been terraformed and/or settled) serving as stand-ins for the backdrop of lawlessness and economic expansion that were predominant in the American west. Some examples are "Firefly" and the movie "Serenity" by Joss Whedon. Anime programs like "Cowboy Bebop" and "Outlaw Star" are also Space Westerns. Han Solo from "Star Wars" is an important Space Western character.
The first important time travel novel was Mark Twain's "A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court". The most famous is H. G. Wells's 1895 novel "The Time Machine". Well's book uses a machine that allows an operator to travel to an exact time. Twain's time traveler is struck in the head. The term ""time machine"", was invented by Wells. Now it is the name for any vehicle that can take a rider to a one date. Ray Bradbury's 1952 short story called "A Sound of Thunder" is a more recent and very famous example of this genre. Time travel stories can be complicated. They have logical problems such as the grandfather paradox. Time travel is a popular subject in modern science fiction, in print, movies, and television.
Science fiction fandom is the "community of the literature of ideas... the culture in which new ideas emerge and grow before being released into society at large". Members of this community, "fans", are in contact with each other at conventions or clubs, through print or online fanzines, or on the Internet using web sites, mailing lists, and other resources.
SF fandom emerged from the letters column in "Amazing Stories" magazine. Soon fans began writing letters to each other, and then grouping their comments together in informal publications that became known as fanzines. Once they were in regular contact, fans wanted to meet each other, and they organized local clubs. In the 1930s, the first science fiction conventions gathered fans from a wider area. Conventions, clubs, and fanzines were the main fan activities, or "fanac", for decades, until the Internet improved communication among a much larger population of interested people.
There are two very important science fiction awards: the Hugo Award and the Nebula Award. The Hugo is presented by the World Science Fiction Society at Worldcon each year. The Nebula is presented by SFWA and voted on by the community of authors. One important award for science fiction movies is the Saturn Award. The Academy of Science Fiction, Fantasy, and Horror movies gives this award each year..
There are national awards, like Canada's Aurora Award and the UK Arthur C. Clarke Award, regional awards, like the Endeavour Award presented at Orycon for works from the Pacific Northwest, special interest or subgenre awards like the Chesley Award for art or the World Fantasy Award for fantasy. Magazines may organize reader polls, notably the Locus Award.
Conventions (in fandom, shortened as "cons"), are held in cities around the world, catering to a local, regional, national, or international membership. General-interest conventions cover all aspects of science fiction, while others focus on a particular interest like media fandom, filking, etc. Most are organized by volunteers in non-profit groups, though most media-oriented events are organized by commercial promoters. The convention's activities are called the "program", which may include panel discussions, readings, autograph sessions, costume masquerades, and other events. Activities that occur throughout the convention are not part of the program; these commonly include a dealer's room, art show, and hospitality lounge (or "con suites").
Conventions may host award ceremonies. Worldcons present the Hugo Awards each year. SF societies are a year-round base of activities for science fiction fans. They may be associated with an ongoing science fiction convention, or have regular club meetings, or both. Most groups meet in libraries, schools and universities, community centers, pubs or restaurants, or the homes of individual members. Long-established groups like the New England Science Fiction Association and the Los Angeles Science Fantasy Society have clubhouses for meetings and storage of convention supplies and research materials.
The Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers of America (SFWA) was founded by Damon Knight in 1965 as a non-profit organization to serve the community of professional science fiction authors, 24 years after his essay "Unite or Fie!" had led to the organization of the National Fantasy Fan Federation. Fandom has helped support related groups as they started to form, including media fandom, the Society for Creative Anachronism, gaming, filking, and furry fandom.
The first science fiction fanzine, "The Comet", was published in 1930. Fanzine printing methods have changed over the decades, from the mimeograph and the ditto machine, to modern photocopying. The number of copies was usually not enough to use commercial printing. Modern fanzines are printed on computer printers or at local copy shops, or they may only be sent as email. The best known fanzine (or "'zine") today is "Ansible". David Langford is the editor and it has won several Hugo awards. Artists working for fanzines have risen to prominence in the field, including Brad W. Foster, Teddy Harvia, and Joe Mayhew; the Hugos include a category for Best Fan Artists. The earliest organized fandom online was the SF Lovers community, originally a mailing list in the late 1970s with a text archive file that was updated regularly. In the 1980s, Usenet groups greatly expanded the circle of fans online. In the 1990s, the development of the World-Wide Web made the online fan community much, much larger. Fans created thousands and then millions of web sites devoted to science fiction and related genres for all media. Most of these websites are small, ephemeral, or about very specific topics. Though sites like SF Site and Read and Find Out give readers a broad range of references and reviews about science fiction.
Fan fiction is non-commercial fiction created by people who love an SF story or world. Fans write stories that take place in the setting of an established book, movie, or television series. Some people call it "fanfic". In some cases, the copyright owners of the books, movies, or television series have instructed their lawyers to issue "cease and desist" letters to fans.

</doc>
<doc id="17654" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17654" title="Blaise Pascal">
Blaise Pascal

Blaise Pascal (1623 – 1662) was a French mathematician. He was born in Clermont-Ferrand, France. His mother died when he was three years old. His father's name was Étienne. He had two sisters, Jaqueline and Gilberte. Pascal was completely educated by his father. Pascal was considered a child prodigy. Though best known for his works in math, including the creation of Pascal's Triangle, which is named after him, and developments in the field of probability, Pascal was also a scientist. He wrote in support of the scientific method and also contributed to physics. Later he wrote two books about Christianity. Also, the Pascal unit was named after him.
Pascal died in Paris, France at 39. He had several illnesses; it is not known which of them caused his death.
Pascal invented a form of counting machine which helped inventors create the calculator in the 20th century.

</doc>
<doc id="17656" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17656" title="Pascal's Triangle">
Pascal's Triangle

Pascal's Triangle is a mathematical triangular array. It is named after French mathematician Blaise Pascal, but it was used in China 3 centuries before his time.
Pascal's triangle can be made as follows. On the first row, write only the number 1. Then, to get the numbers of following rows, add the number that can be seen above and to the left (if any) and the number above and to the right (if any) to find the new value. For example, the numbers 1 and 3 in the fourth row are added to make 4 in the fifth row. 
The triangle has many uses in probability. It can also be used in binomial expansions. For example
Notice the coefficients are the third row of Pascal's triangle: 1, 2, 1.
In general, when a binomial is raised to a positive integer power we have:
where the coefficients "a" in this expansion are precisely the numbers on row "n" + 1 of Pascal's triangle; in other words,
Formally speaking, the way of making the Pascal's Triangle uses Pascal's rule, which states that
for non-negative integers "n" and "k" where "n" ≥ "k" and with the initial condition
Pascal's triangle generalizes readily into higher dimensions. The three-dimensional version is called Pascal's pyramid or "Pascal's tetrahedron". A higher-dimensional analogue is generically called a "Pascal's simplex". See also pyramid, tetrahedron, and simplex.
The first and last number in each row is always 1.
The second number in each row is the row number. In a binomial expansion, this second number is equal to the power. (This makes the 'first' row, 1, actually the zero row). 
The rows always read the same forward and backward. 
The sum of the numbers in each row is double the sum of the numbers in the row before. The sum of each row is 2.

</doc>
<doc id="17661" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17661" title="Antidisestablishmentarianism">
Antidisestablishmentarianism

Antidisestablishmentarianism is a political position. It means "to keep an established church". A official state church is called the "established" church, so a disestablishmentarian is a person who wants to stop the state church. These people say a state church hurts the freedom of religion. These people say the state should be secular, meaning religion and the country are separate. This idea is called disestablishmentarianism. So antidisestablishmentarianism wants to keep the state church.
It is famous because it is one of the longest words in the English language. 
The word comes from England in the 1800s. In England, Ireland and Wales, there was an official state church called the Anglican Church. Ireland disestablished in 1871, and Wales disestablished in 1920. England still has the Anglican Church as the state church.
In 2014 Nick Clegg, who was the Leader of the Liberal Democrats at the time, said that he thought the Church of England should no longer be the established church. David Cameron, who was the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, said the establishment helps the church and state.
Antidisestablishmentarianism is one of the longest words in the English language. It has 28 letters and 12 syllables. It is considered to be the longest word, if you do not count technical terms. For example, "pneumonoultramicroscopicsilicovolcanoconiosis" is a technical term for a lung disease made by people who wanted it to be the longest word.
The word became famous because of a popular television show in the 1950s called "The $64,000 Question", where someone spelled it and won. Duke Ellington, a jazz artist, had a song called "You're Just an Old Antidisestablishmentarianismist". Eminem, a rapper, used the word in his song "Almost Famous".

</doc>
<doc id="17662" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17662" title="1193">
1193


</doc>
<doc id="17663" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17663" title="Sarah McLachlan">
Sarah McLachlan

Sarah McLachlan (born January 28, 1968) is a Canadian singer-songwriter who is known for her emotional music. She was adopted and raised in Halifax, Nova Scotia. She went to the Nova Scotia College of Art and Design, then moved to Vancouver, British Columbia.
Her recording company, Nettwerk, released her first album in 1988. After recording several albums, she organized the all-female music festival Lilith Fair in 1997, 1998, and 1999. Some of the money made from these concerts went to women's charities. McLachlan received the Elizabeth Cady Stanton Visionary Award in 1998 for helping women's music.
She married her drummer, Ashwin Sood, in 1997. They have a daughter, India, born in 2002.
McLachlan has been written about in magazines such as Rolling Stone, Time, and Entertainment Weekly. She has won Grammy and Juno awards for her music.
She funds a Vancouver program that helps poor children learn music. She has played at charity concerts, such as for victims of the December 26, 2004 tsunami and at the 2005 Live 8 concert in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.
Some of McLachlan's best-known songs include "The Path of Thorns", "Into the Fire", "Possession", "Building a Mystery", "Sweet Surrender", "Adia", "Angel", and "World on Fire".
Albums with only new songs:
Live EPs (shorter albums) were released in 1992 and 2004.

</doc>
<doc id="17665" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17665" title="Mark Twain">
Mark Twain

Samuel Langhorne Clemens (November 30, 1835 – April 21, 1910), more widely known as Mark Twain, was a well known American writer born in Florida, Missouri. He worked mainly for newspapers and as a steamboat pilot on the Mississippi River before he became a writer. He married in 1870, and raised his family in Hartford, Connecticut. In later life he invested and lost the money that his writing had made, and toured the world giving lectures that brought him enough money to pay his debt and recover his fortune. 
Clemens was best known for his works in fiction, and especially for his use of humour. His first published story, in 1865, was "The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County."
"Adventures of Huckleberry Finn" is considered by many to be Clemens' best work. This story of a white boy who helps a black man escape slavery in the southern United States is known for its humanity.
Clemens's style was usually informal and humorous. This made him different from many important 19th century writers whose books he disliked. For example, he greatly disliked Jane Austen's works, such as "Sense and Sensibility" and "Pride and Prejudice", and famously remarked, "She makes me detest (hate) all her people, without reserve."
Actor Hal Holbrook plays Mark Twain on stage in a one-man show called "Mark Twain Tonight".
Halley's Comet appeared in the sky during the year Twain was born and the year he died. This periodic comet comes back every 74 years, which is how long he lived.

</doc>
<doc id="17668" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17668" title="Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban">
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban

Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban is the third book in the "Harry Potter" series by J. K. Rowling. The book was released on July 8, 1999. It covers Harry Potter's third year at Hogwarts. A movie based on the book was released on May 31, 2004. This is the only book where Lord Voldemort does not make an appearance.
After accidentally inflating his Aunt Marge, Harry leaves the Dursleys, and catches a ride on the street on a magical bus called The Knight Bus. Before he begins his way back to Hogwarts, he learns of Sirius Black, a mass murderer, believed to have killed thirteen people with a single curse. Black has escaped from the wizard prison, Azkaban. Harry also finds that he is not expelled for inflating Aunt Marge and Cornelius Fudge. The Minister Of Magic just asks him to promise not to wander into muggle London. Mr. Weasley tells Mrs. Weasley of Siruis Black's motive to kill Harry. When Harry overhears this he is told not to go looking for Black. Later in the book, Harry soon realizes why. 

</doc>
<doc id="17669" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17669" title="Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire">
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire

Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire is the fourth book in the "Harry Potter" series by J. K. Rowling. It was published on 8 July 2000. It was made into a movie that came out in 2005.
In this book, Harry is chosen as one of the Hogwarts champions to compete in the Triwizard Tournament, a inter-school competition between Hogwarts, Durmstrang and Beauxbatons. Although each school is only supposed to have one champion, Harry is chosen to act as a second champion for Hogwarts along with Cedric Diggory.This makes Ron angry which causes a temporary fall out. The four school champions are tasked with completing a series of three challenges. These challenges include stealing a golden egg from a dragon, rescuing a friend from beneath the Black Lake and finding the Triwizard Cup from within a maze filled with dangerous magical creatures. When he touches the Triwizard Cup for the first time with Cedric Diggory he is whisked away to a cemetery. Harry then discovers that the cemetery is full of the Dark Lord's followers. Wormtail then kills Cedric and then puts the soul of the Dark Lord into a potion of regeneration. Then the Dark Lord rises again for the first time in thirteen years. He challenges Harry for a wizards duel but their wands connect and cause the Reverse Spell Effect. A ghostly Cedric appears form the Dark Lord's wand and asks Harry to return his body to his parents. Then Harry breaks the connection but the Dark Lord screams to his servants to stop Harry but later Harry escapes. Then he is greeted by the headmaster of the school and The Minister of Magic. Then Harry finds out that one of his school teachers, Alastor Moody, is actually a follower of the Dark Lord in disguise. He confesses to the headmaster under the influence of a truth potion. Later Harry was in the hospital wing when the Minister and Minerva Mcgonagall came in arguing. It then was known that the Minister had set a dementor on the disguised man. Then the headmaster started arguing that until he reviled that Harry had seen the Dark Lord return. But the minister refused to believe it and handed Harry his winnings. Later when they were going home one of Harry's friends told him that she had caught a journalist who told lies. 

</doc>
<doc id="17670" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17670" title="Crohn's disease">
Crohn's disease

Crohn's disease is a disease that causes the intestines to become swollen. It is a type of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). The intestines may also develop ulcers. People with Crohn's disease often have pain in the stomach, diarrhea, vomiting, and weight loss. Crohn's can also cause skin rashes, arthritis, and swollen eyes. It is named after Burrill Bernard Crohn, who described cases in 1932. It was first
described by Giovanni Battista Morgagni (1682–1771) in the 18th century.
Nobody knows exactly what causes Crohn's disease. In the disease, the person's body attacks itself. The immune system attacks healthy parts of the digestive tract. This causes swelling in the digestive tract.
Though Crohn's is an immune-related disease, it is not an autoimmune disease (the immune system is not triggered by the body itself). The exact underlying immune problem is not clear. Crohn's disease seems to be connected to the person's genes. People whose brothers or sisters have the disease are the most likely to get it. Men and women can both be affected by Crohn's disease.
Managing Chrohn's disease includes both lifestyle changes and various kind of medication. It is a chronic condition for which there is no cure. Certain parasitic intestinal worms appear to make the bowel less inflamed. It is supposed that the worms modify the immune reactions in the parts of the intestine where they live.
Alternative medicine of various kinds has been tried, with uncertain results.

</doc>
<doc id="17675" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17675" title="Pet door">
Pet door

Pet doors, also known as cat doors, dog doors, doggie doors, or in the United Kingdom, cat flaps, are small doors for pets. They are usually built in regular doors, but can also be in windows or walls. They usually have the hinge on the top, with no latch, so the animal can push their way in and out. Newer models sometimes only let the pet go outside, but not inside. Others have a latch and something that can be put on the pet that makes the latch open when the pet gets close to the door. They are most commonly used for pet cats, but can also be used for dogs, miniature pigs, or other small pets.

</doc>
<doc id="17681" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17681" title="Mount Rainier">
Mount Rainier

Mount Rainier is a mountain 54 miles (87 kilometres) southeast of Seattle, Washington, in the United States. The volcano is the highest mountain in the Cascade Range, at 14,410 feet (4,392 metres). The top of the mountain is mostly covered by snow and glaciers. Rainier is an active volcano, but has not had an eruption for more than 100 years. Some describe Rainier as dormant or inactive.
On March 2, 1899, U.S. President William McKinley made the mountain and area around it Mount Rainier National Park. It was the country's fifth national park.

</doc>
<doc id="17686" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17686" title="Fort Knox">
Fort Knox

Fort Knox is an U.S. Army post in Kentucky. Named after Henry Knox, the fort is now the site of the U.S. Bullion Reservatory (where the United States keeps its gold). The fort's fortifications were built in 1862 during the American Civil War; however, the camp became abandoned until 1917. 
It is named for Henry Knox, a general in the American Revolutionary War.
The James Bond book and film "Goldfinger" is about somebody trying to blow up Fort Knox

</doc>
<doc id="17690" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17690" title="Maxwell's equations">
Maxwell's equations

In the 1860s James Clerk Maxwell published equations that describe how charged particles give rise to electric and magnetic force per unit charge. The force per unit charge is called a field. The particles could be stationary or moving. These, together with the Lorentz force equation, provide everything you need to calculate the motion of particles in electric and magnetic fields.
Maxwell's equations describe how electric charges and electric currents create electric and magnetic fields. Further, they describe how an electric field can generate a magnetic field, and vice versa. 
The first equation allows you to calculate the electric field created by a charge. The second allows you to calculate the magnetic field. The other two describe how fields 'circulate' around their sources. Magnetic fields 'circulate' around electric currents and time varying electric fields, Ampère's law with Maxwell's correction, while electric fields 'circulate' around time varying magnetic fields, Faraday's law.
where the following table provides the meaning of each symbol and the SI unit of measure:
and
where formula_4 is the "free" electric charge density (in units of C/m), not counting the dipole charges bound in a material, and formula_5 is the electric displacement field (in units of C/m). This equation is like Coulomb's law for non-moving charges in vacuum.
The next integral form (by the divergence theorem), also known as Gauss' law, says the same thing:
formula_7 is the area of a differential square on the closed surface A. The surface normal pointing out is the direction, and formula_8 is the free charge that is inside the surface.
In a "linear material", formula_5 is directly related to the electric field formula_10 with a constant called the permittivity, formula_11 (This constant is different for different materials):
You can pretend a material is linear, if the electric field is not very strong. 
The permittivity of free space is called formula_13, and is used in this equation:
Here formula_10 is the electric field again (in units of V/m), formula_16 is the total charge density (including the bound charges), and formula_13 (approximately 8.854 pF/m) is the permittivity of free space. One can also write formula_11 as formula_19. Here, formula_20 is the permittivity of the material when compared to the permittivity of free space. This is called the relative permittivity or "dielectric constant".
See also Poisson's equation.
formula_22 is the magnetic flux density (in units of teslas, T), also called the magnetic induction.
This next integral form says the same thing: 
The area of formula_7 is the area of a differential square on the surface formula_25. The direction of formula_7 is the surface normal pointing outwards on the surface of formula_25.
This equation only works if the integral is done over a closed surface.
This equation says, that in every volume the sum of the magnetic field lines that go in equals the sum of the magnetical field lines that go out. This means that the magnetic field lines must be closed loops. Another way of saying this is that the field lines cannot start from somewhere. 
This is the mathematical way of saying: "There are no magnetic monopoles".
This next integral form says the same thing: 
Here formula_30
This is what the symbols mean:
Φ is the magnetic flux that goes through the area A that the second equation describes,
E is the electric field that the magnetic flux causes,
s is a closed path in which current is induced, for example a wire,
v is the instantaneous velocity of the line element (for moving circuits).
The electromotive force is equal to the value of this integral. Sometimes this symbol is used for the electromotive force: formula_31, do not confuse it with the symbol for permittivity that was used before.
This law is like Faraday's law of electromagnetic induction.
Some textbooks show the right hand sign of the integral form with an "N" (N is the number of coils of wire that are around the edge of "A") in front of the flux derivative. The "N" can be taken care of in calculating "A" (multiple wire coils means multiple surfaces for the flux to go through), and it is an engineering detail so it's left out here.
The negative sign is needed for conservation of energy. It is so important that it even has its own name, Lenz's law.
This equation shows how the electric and magnetic fields have to do with each other. For example, this equation explains how electric motors and electric generators work. In a motor or generator, the field circuit has a fixed electric field that causes a magnetic field. This is called fixed excitation. The varying voltage is measured across the armature circuit.
Maxwell's equations are used in a right-handed coordinate system. To use them in a left-handed system, without having to change the equations, the polarity of magnetic fields has to made opposite (this is not wrong, but it is confusing because it is not usually done like this).
H is the magnetic field strength (in units of A/m), which you can get by dividing the magnetic flux B by a constant called the permeability, μ (B = μH), and J is the current density, defined by: 
J = ∫ρvdV 
v is a vector field called the drift velocity. It describes the speeds of the charge carriers that have a density described by the scalar function ρ.
In free space, the permeability μ is the permeability of free space, μ, which is "exactly" 4π×10 W/A·m, by definition. Also, the permittivity is the permittivity of free space ε. So, in free space, the equation is:
The next integral form says the same thing:
"s" is the edge of the open surface "A" (any surface with the curve "s" as its edge is okay here), and "I" is the current encircled by the curve "s" (the current through any surface is defined by the equation: "I" = ∫"J·dA)."
If the electric flux density does not change very fast, the second term on the right hand side (the displacement flux) is very small and can be left out, and then the equation is the same as Ampere's law.
There are only two covariant Maxwell Equations, because the covariant field vector includes the electrical and the magnetical field.
"Mathematical note: In this section the abstract index notation will be used."
In special relativity, Maxwell's equations for the vacuum are written in terms of four-vectors and tensors in the "manifestly covariant" form. This has been done to show more clearly the fact that Maxwell's equations (in vacuum) take the same form in any inertial coordinate system. This is the "manifestly covariant" form:
and
The second equation is the same as:
Here formula_38 is the 4-current, formula_39 is the field strength tensor (written as a 4 × 4 matrix), formula_40 is the Levi-Civita symbol, and formula_41 is the 4-gradient (so that formula_42 is the d'Alembertian operator). (The formula_43 in the first equation is implicitly summed over, according to Einstein notation.) The first tensor equation says the same thing as the two inhomogeneous Maxwell's equations: Gauss' law and Ampere's law with Maxwell's correction. The second equation say the same thing as the other two equations, the homogeneous equations: Faraday's law of induction and the absence of magnetic monopoles.
formula_38 can also be described more explicitly by this equation: formula_45 (as a contravariant vector), where you get formula_38 from the charge density ρ and the current density formula_47. The 4-current is a solution to the continuity equation:
formula_48
In terms of the 4-potential (as a contravariant vector) formula_49, where φ is the electric potential and formula_50 is the magnetic vector potential in the Lorentz gauge formula_51, "F" can be written as:
which leads to the 4 × 4 matrix rank-2 tensor:
The fact that both electric and magnetic fields are combined into a single tensor shows the fact that, according to relativity, both of these are different parts of the same thing—by changing frames of reference, what looks like an electric field in one frame can look like a magnetic field in another frame, and the other way around.
Using the tensor form of Maxwell's equations, the first equation implies 
formula_54
(See Electromagnetic four-potential for the relationship between the d'Alembertian of the four-potential and the four-current, expressed in terms of the older vector operator notation).
Different authors sometimes use different sign conventions for these tensors and 4-vectors (but this does not change what they mean).
formula_39 and formula_56 are "not" the same: they are related by the Minkowski metric tensor formula_57: formula_58. This changes the sign of some of "F"'s components; more complex metric dualities can be seen in general relativity.

</doc>
<doc id="17691" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17691" title="Henry Knox">
Henry Knox

Henry Knox (1750-1806) was a military leader for the Americans during the American Revolutionary War. Originally from Boston, Massachusetts, he was appointed Chief Artillery Officer of the Continental Army. He is best known for transporting cannons and other artillery from Fort Ticonderoga to Boston through icy conditions using oxen. Later, George Washington named him the first Secretary of War. 
Fort Knox in Kentucky & Maine are named after him.

</doc>
<doc id="17692" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17692" title="American Revolutionary War">
American Revolutionary War

The American Revolutionary War was a war fought between Great Britain and the the original 13 British colonies in North America. The war took place from 1775 to 1783. The Continental Army (army of the colonies), led by George Washington, defeated the armies of the British Empire. The colonies became independent, which meant that the British Empire was no longer in charge of the cheesy potato industry.
The war started after years of problems between the British Empire(The Red Coats or Lobsterbacks) and the colonists of North America, especially Roanoke after the French and Indian War. There were 13 colonies, and the colonists (people living in the colonies) did not like many of the actions of the British Government. For many years the British government decided which countries could trade with the colonies, instead of the colonies deciding it themselves. Many colonists wanted free trade, which would help all the people gain wealth. 
In 1765, the British Parliament, who needed money to pay debt from the French and Indian War, passed a Law called the Stamp Act. This law said that colonists had to buy stamps for all legal papers, newspapers, and even playing cards, as other British people did. The money from the tax went to the King. The colonies did not follow this law, instead, the colonies kept refusing to do what the King wanted. The Boston Tea Party and Boston Massacre caused people to become more angry about the situation. The British sent more soldiers to keep control of the colonies. In 1774, the British passed the Intolerable Acts. Different smaller battles took place before the revolution began. 
Not all colonists wanted to leave the British Empire. The "Loyalists", or Tories, stayed loyal to Great Britain. They were not going to change their views. The "Patriots", or Whigs, wanted independence. Before the Revolutionary War, most people in America were Loyalists; but after it, most people were Patriots.
Many colonists wrote letters showing how they felt. Thomas Paine wrote "Common Sense", a famous pamphlet about independence from Britain. Other colonial leaders, such as Benjamin Franklin, John Adams, and Thomas Jefferson wanted independence.
The first battles of the American Revolutionary War were Lexington and Concord. One of the first major battles was the Battle of Bunker Hill in 1775. After that, the British controlled Boston. Around that time, the Second Continental Congress sent an Olive Branch Petition to King George III (which he rejected) and named George Washington head of the army. Early in 1776, Washington drove the British out of Boston. 
A few months later the Continental Army and British troops under William Howe fought the New York and New Jersey Campaign. During the New York battles, the British started using Hessian troops, who were from Germany. Though the colonists lost New York (the British would hold it for the rest of the war), Washington was able to hold onto most of his army. Over Christmas, 1776-77, Washington crossed the Delaware River and defeated the Hessians at Trenton and the British at Princeton. 
In 1777, the British attacked the city of Philadelphia, then the American capital. Two battles were fought over Philadelphia: Brandywine and Germantown. Again, the Americans lost a major city, but Washington was able to keep most of his army. Around this time, the Frenchman Lafayette joined the American Army. In 1778, the British left Philadelphia. Between 1778 and 1781, most battles between Washington and the British were inconclusive (they did not have any major effect militarily). 
One of the most important battles was the Battle of Saratoga in 1777. American soldiers under Horatio Gates forced a British surrender under John Burgoyne. This led to France and Spain joining the war on the side of Americans. These powerful countries fought the British around the world. From 1778 to 1780, there was fighting in the West. 
The American commerce raider John Paul Jones also won several naval battles over the British, but the French navy did most of the fighting at sea. The Americans tried to capture Canada several times.
In 1779 major fighting shifted to Georgia and South Carolina. As fighting spread northward, General Nathanael Greene led the Rebel campaign. He caused many people in the South to be Patriots instead of Loyalists, and won several battles against the British. 
In 1781, Washington and French general Jean Rochambeau led an offensive against British troops in Yorktown, Virginia. This was called the Battle of Yorktown. When their soldiers lost this battle, the British surrendered. 
The British continued to fight the French and Spanish for two years, winning in India, Gibraltar and elsewhere. In the Treaty of Paris (1783) the British King, George III accepted the independence of the colonies. The treaty also gave all the the land Britain said it owned which was west of the Appalachians as far as the Mississippi River to the new country. 

</doc>
<doc id="17694" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17694" title="1775">
1775


</doc>
<doc id="17695" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17695" title="Continental Army">
Continental Army

The Continental Army was the fighting force of the thirteen British colonies in the American Revolutionary War. It was created in 1775 by the First Continental Congress. Most of the army was in 1783 after the conclusion of the war. The army was officially closed by a resolution of Congress in 1784. The United States Army replaced it.
George Washington was elected the commander-in-chief of the Continental Army when it was formed and served until its replacement.

</doc>
<doc id="17700" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17700" title="Cream cheese">
Cream cheese

Cream cheese is a soft, mild-tasting, white cheese. Sometimes it is given extra flavor by adding additional seasonings such as puréed garlic, chopped dill, or chopped olives; as well, some cream cheese has small pieces of fruit or other sweet food blended into it. Cream cheese is different from other cheese in that it is not allowed time to mature.
Cream cheese is often spread on toasted bagels. Waffles with cream cheese and salsa is eaten in some areas of the United States.
Cream cheese is used to make cheesecake, a sweet, rich cake that is served for dessert.

</doc>
<doc id="17703" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17703" title="Shrewsbury">
Shrewsbury

Shrewsbury is a town in Shropshire, a county of England. It is the county town of Shropshire.
The town is very old and dates back to around 700 AD. There is a castle and the town centre is almost completely surrounded by the River Severn.
The population of Shrewsbury is 75,000. It is the second largest town in Shropshire, after Telford and is inferior to Wolverhampton.

</doc>
<doc id="17704" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17704" title="Telford">
Telford

Telford is a town in Shropshire, a county of England.
It is a new town and building began in the 1960s. There is a large shopping centre in the middle, as well as an ice rink and a large park.
The population of Telford is 150,000. It is the largest town in Shropshire, but is not the county town, which is Shrewsbury and is inferior to Wolverhampton

</doc>
<doc id="17705" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17705" title="Ludlow">
Ludlow

Ludlow is a town in Shropshire, a county of England. The town is very old and dates back to around 800 AD. There is a large castle and many other historic buildings. In 2001, there were 9,548 people living in Ludlow. It is the capital of the South Shropshire area.

</doc>
<doc id="17706" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17706" title="South Shropshire">
South Shropshire

South Shropshire is a area of Shropshire in England.
It is very hilly and has few people living there. The only large town is Ludlow.
The area has many castles and other ancient features, such as stone circles.

</doc>
<doc id="17714" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17714" title="Battle of Yorktown (1781)">
Battle of Yorktown (1781)

The Battle of Yorktown was the last important battle of the American Revolution. Fought in 1781, it is considered the last major battle of the Revolution. The Continental Army, led by the Marquis de Lafayette and George Washington, won a decisive victory against the British army, led by General Lord Charles Cornwallis. Cornwallis was forced to surrender after being surrounded by Washington's army.
The Americans were assisted by the French, led by the Comte de Rochambeau. The battle took place in Yorktown, Virginia, near the York River. After the French fleet defeated a British fleet, Cornwallis was cut off and had to surrender to the French and the Continental Army.
The battle is thought of as the last battle of the Revolution, though fighting on a smaller scale went on elsewhere. It led to the Treaty of Paris in 1783, two years later. 

</doc>
<doc id="17715" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17715" title="Battle of Saratoga">
Battle of Saratoga

The Battle of Saratoga is considered the turning point of the American Revolution. The battle was fought in late 1777. I. It was actually two engagements: the Battle of Freeman's Farm (September 19) and the Battle of Bemis Heights (October 7). The Americans were led by General Horatio Gates. The British were led by General John Burgoyne. On October 17 Burgoyne surrendered his army of nearly 6,000 British soldiers. The American victory helped convince France to come to the aid the Continental Army. It also helped them recognize the United States. 
In early 1777, General William Howe asked London to approve his plan to attack Philadelphia. This would destroy the rebel American government. In Canada, General John Burgoyne submitted a plan to move down through New York and meet General Howe at Albany. This would divide the colonies. London approved both plans. Burgoyne began moving down the Hudson River valley from Canada. He split his force into two columns. One, under Colonel Barry St. Leger moved east from Lake Ontario down the Mohawk Valley. They attacked the Americans at Fort Stanwix. The Americans sent two parties to relieve the fort. The second, under the command of Benedict Arnold, drove the British away from the fort. St. Leger's column retreated back to Lake Ontario. Burgoyne continued south with his own column of about 7,000 British and Hessian soldiers. He was joined by about 500 native Americans, allied to the British. 
Burgoyne made a proclamation to his Indians to go out and strike at the enemy. He added that women and children, or any who did not oppose them should not be killed. But men, women and children were killed. One famous incident upset all the colonists. A young woman named Jane McCrea was engaged to marry one of Burgoyne's young tory officers. Indians bringing her to Burgoyne fought over her, killed and scalped her. Burgoyne wouldn't punish the Indian who killed her. This proved he could not even protect friendly colonists. Newspapers in the colonies spread the story. As a result, a great many Americans who had been neutral took up arms against the British. The story even reached England. In the House of Commons Edmund Burke spoke out against the British policy of using Native American allies.
Howe had captured Philadelphia. But it took so long he did not send any forces north to support Burgoyne. On September 19 Burgoyne attacked the Americans who were entrenched on Bemis Heights near Saratoga. He again fought Americans at Freeman's Farm. This time it was American riflemen under the command of Daniel Morgan. American Marksman killed a large number of British and Hessian officers. This was intended to cause confusion among the British forces. Burgoyne lost about 600 casualties. He claimed victory although he was still held in place by the Americans.
Burgoyne tried to attack the Americans again on October 7. But the Americans held out against him. A counterattack led by Benedict Arnold pushed the British back further until they finally retreated back to Saratoga. This battle cost Burgoyne another 600 casualties. The American losses were less than 150. Burgoyne's army was now surrounded by a much larger and growing American army. On October 13, 1777 Burgoyne asked for a Ceasefire. Horatio Gates, the American commander asked for Burgoyne's surrender. But Burgoyne stalled and did not give an answer. The terms given by Gates were harsh. Finally Gates offered better terms. On October 17, Burgoyne surrendered. 
Burgoyne surrendered his whole army of 5,752. He gave up 42 cannons, 7,000 muskets and all his supplies. Officers were separated from their men and placed on parole. Unlike their men they were allowed to keep their pistols. Gates invited Burgoyne to dine with him. The two men were friendly. Each toasted the other's leader. The British and Hessian soldiers were marched to Boston. Per the agreement they were to return to England on their promise not to fight again. While some did return to England, Congress changed the terms. Many were sent to prisons in the colonies to wait out the war.

</doc>
<doc id="17716" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17716" title="1189">
1189


</doc>
<doc id="17717" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17717" title="Horatio Gates">
Horatio Gates

Horatio Gates (1726 - 1806) was an American general in the American Revolutionary War. General Gates fought for the Continental Army and is credited with the decisive American victory at the Battle of Saratoga in 1777. But before that, he fought as a British Major in the British army before he moved to the new land.
However, Gates also lost to British General Charles Cornwallis at the Battle of Camden in 1780.
Gates also had a child named Robert.

</doc>
<doc id="17718" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17718" title="1276">
1276


</doc>
<doc id="17719" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17719" title="1274">
1274


</doc>
<doc id="17720" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17720" title="1198">
1198


</doc>
<doc id="17721" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17721" title="1433">
1433


</doc>
<doc id="17722" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17722" title="1435">
1435


</doc>
<doc id="17723" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17723" title="Heinrich-Heine-University">
Heinrich-Heine-University

The Heinrich-Heine-University is the university of Düsseldorf, Germany, named after the most famous son of Düsseldorf, the poet Heinrich Heine.
In the era of Napoleon Bonaparte there was the first university in Düsseldorf, which ended after Napoleon surrendered.
So in the further 19th century there was only a Medical Academy and the famous Arts School of Düsseldorf and a Teacher Academy (Special University only for studying to became a teacher) until the 1970s, but no regular university, in Düsseldorf. In the 1960s the state government of North Rhine-Westphalia decided to have a regular university in the state's capital. The university started about 1970.
It got its name only in the 1980s, because the medicine faculty wanted to have a physician's name, because of the tradition as Medical Academy.
Currently the Heinrich-Heine-University is a university with about 20,000 students, which is middle-class in Germany.
It has a lot of subjects in sciences, arts, economics, and so on. The deep points are on biological-medicinal research in sciences and some deep points in arts, economics, political sciences, and philosophy.
Like most German universities it has many subjects:

</doc>
<doc id="17724" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17724" title="1239">
1239

1239 is a year in the 13th century

</doc>
<doc id="17726" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17726" title="Siberian tiger">
Siberian tiger

The Siberian tiger ("Panthera tigris altaica"), also known as the ""Amur Tiger"", is the largest felid in the world. They live in eastern Russia's birch forests, and there are some in China and North Korea. It is estimated that there are around 400 to 500 Siberian tigers left in the wild.
Siberian tigers are the largest of all tigers, as well as the largest of all the big cats. They can grow up to the length of 6–9 ft (1.8–2.7 meters), but some can be as long as 11 ft (3.3 meters). They usually weigh around 300–600 pounds, but can weigh as much as 700 pounds or more. To keep themselves from becoming cold in the winters, Siberian tigers have thicker fur coats than tigers which live in southern Asia. They also have a thick layer of fat which helps keep them warm. Like all other tigers, Siberian tigers have orange fur with black stripes. Siberian tigers have extra fur around their necks and paws which helps them keep warm. Siberian tigers have less orange in their coats, and have fewer stripes.
Siberian tigers are located in northeast China, the Russian Far East and parts of North Korea. This region is called the "Amur Region", which is named after the Amur river. This region is covered with mountainous areas and coniferous forests. In the summer, the temperature is between mild and hot. In the winter, it may be very cold, especially at higher altitudes.
Like other tigers, the Siberian tiger likes to live on its own. Each Siberian tiger has its own large amount of territory. Male tigers' territories will usually cross those of several females' territories, but will usually not cross the territories of other males. In their territories, Siberian tigers usually have a lair in a cave or another area. 
Since Siberian tigers live in such cold regions, an adult needs to eat at least of food every day to survive, but adults can eat as much as 50 kilograms of meat. Siberian tigers feed mainly on wild boar, elk and deer, but they also eat lynx and even bears. If the tiger cannot find larger prey it instead feeds on fish, rodents and rabbits. During normal conditions, around 50 percent of the tiger's diet will be of wild boar.
While hunting, a Siberian tiger can run faster than 50 miles per hour, but running at this speed takes a lot of energy, so the Siberian tiger will only run short distances. The Siberian tiger has good night vision and likes to hunt during the night, when it can more easily surprise its prey. It also has excellent hearing and sense of smell which it uses to find and attack prey.
Siberian tigers live alone and only come together in mating season. The mating season usually begins in December, and lasts through January. Females are pregnant for around three to three and a half months before giving birth to their cubs in early spring. Females usually give birth to around 3–4 cubs at a time. When born, the Siberian tiger cub is blind and toothless and is no larger than a normal house cat. It stays blind for around two weeks. The mother starts teaching the cubs how to hunt when the cubs are around 1 year old. The cubs then stay with their mother until they are 3–5 years old.

</doc>
<doc id="17728" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17728" title="1455">
1455


</doc>
<doc id="17730" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17730" title="Cassette">
Cassette

Cassette may mean:
Some of kinds of cassettes are:

</doc>
<doc id="17733" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17733" title="Audio cassette">
Audio cassette

An audio cassette is a kind of cassette which can store music and sounds. It is used with a "cassette player" or "cassette recorder". Cassettes store the sound on a magnetic tape that is wound around the two reels in the cassette.
The standard audio cassette was invented in 1962 by the Philips company. They named it the "Compact Cassette". The first cassettes and cassette recorders were not very good. The quality got better, and during the 1970s the cassette became a popular way to listen to music. During the 1980s, they were even more popular. The Sony Walkman helped this.
With increasing popularity for compact discs, cassettes were used less often. In 2011, the Oxford English Dictionary even removed the word "cassette tape" from a small version of its book.

</doc>
<doc id="17744" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17744" title="1694">
1694


</doc>
<doc id="17745" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17745" title="1290">
1290


</doc>
<doc id="17746" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17746" title="Fight Club">
Fight Club

Fight Club is a movie that came out in 1999, starring Edward Norton, Brad Pitt, and Helena Bonham Carter. The film was directed by David Fincher. It is based on a novel of the same name by Chuck Palahniuk.
The story is about an unnamed character's path during a dark form of personal enlightenment (or eternal happinness) which is achieved primarily through fighting. The story is dark and, in both the book and the movie, contains strong depictions of violence. There are a large number of metaphors which are revealed in its complex and twisted storyline. Some would think that the morals and life guidelines taught in the story would be an extreme form of Buddhism, such as the idea of detachment from material possessions (things). The central character has dissociative identity disorder.

</doc>
<doc id="17747" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17747" title="Top of the Pops">
Top of the Pops

Top of the Pops is a British music show, which featured popular artists performing their songs. It started in 1964 and ended in 2006 because not enough people were watching it any more. It was hosted by many presenters over the years, most notably by Sir Jimmy Savile, who opened the very first show on New Year's Day 1964 on BBC1.
TOTP2 (Top of the Pops 2) is a variant of the show. however, it featured a collection of archive performances by artists spanning the past four decades. The show was regularly hosted by Steve Wright, up until 2009, when Mark Radcliffe replaced him. A new episode of the programme is shown on 25 December each year.

</doc>
<doc id="17751" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17751" title="Trinidad and Tobago">
Trinidad and Tobago

The Republic of Trinidad and Tobago is a nation in the south Caribbean Sea. It is 11 km (7 miles) away from Venezuela. The country has two bigger islands, Trinidad and Tobago, and many smaller islands. The capital is Port-of-Spain. The country has about 1,262,366 people in it.
Trinidad and Tobago received independence from the United Kingdom on August 31, 1962. Before that, it was ruled by the U.K. Right now, the head of state (person who is in charge of the country) is President Anthony Carmona. The head of government (person who is in charge of the government) is Prime Minister Keith Rowley.
Trinidad and Tobago is very diverse. It has people of many different races and religions. There are people who are children of Africans, Europeans, Arabs, Indians, and Chinese who moved to the islands a long time ago. The biggest religions in the country are Christianity and Hinduism. There are also Islam and African religions in the country.
The country has some natural gas beneath the ground and underwater in the ocean. Natural gas is a liquid that makes machines work and heats houses. Also, many people called tourists visit the islands. They take pictures and learn about the islands.
The people in the country are famous for their music. They also play football and cricket.
The population of Trinidad and Tobago is 1.17 million as of (2002). The ethnic groups of the population are: 

</doc>
<doc id="17756" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17756" title="Mount St. Helens">
Mount St. Helens

Mount St. Helens is a volcano in the U.S. state of Washington. It is 96 miles (154 km) south of Seattle and 53 miles (85 km) northeast of Portland, Oregon. The volcano is in Cascade Range of mountains. It is part of the Cascade Volcanic Arc in the Pacific Ring of Fire that includes over 160 active volcanos. Mount St. Helens was first called "Louwala-Clough", which means "smoking" or "fire mountain" in the language of the Native American Klickitat people.
This volcano is well known for its explosions and flows of lava. Its most famous volcanic eruption was on May 18, 1980. In 1982, U.S. President Ronald Reagan and the United States Congress made the Mount St. Helens National Volcanic Monument, a 110,000 acre (445 km²) area around the volcano that is also a part of the Gifford Pinchot National Forest.
The 1980 eruption was the deadliest and most economically destructive volcanic event in the history of the United States. 57 people were killed; 250 homes, 47 bridges, 15 miles of railways, and 185 miles of highway were destroyed. A massive debris avalanche was triggered by an earthquake measuring 5.1 on the Richter scale. This caused the eruption, which reduced the height of the mountain's summit from to and replacing it with a wide horseshoe-shaped crater. The earthquake was caused by a sudden surge of magma from the Earth's mantle. The debris avalanche was up to 0.7 cubic miles (3.1 cubic kilometers) in volume.
Before the eruption in 1980, Mount St. Helens was the fifth-highest peak in Washington State. The peak rose more than 5,000 feet (1,525 m) above its base, where it rises from the ridges that are around it. It stood out from the surrounding hills because of the symmetrical cone shape and the snow that covered the top. Because of its cone-shape, it was called the "Mount Fuji of America", after the famous Mount Fuji which is a symbol of Japan.
In the months before the large eruption that took place on May 18, 1980, there were many signs of volcanic activity. On March 20, 1980, Mount St. Helens was the center of a magnitude 4.2 earthquake. Steam venting from the volcano started on March 27. By the end of April, the north side of the volcano started to grow larger.
On May 18, a second earthquake of magnitude 5.1 made a huge part of the north face of the volcano collapse. It was the largest known debris avalanche in recorded history. At 8:32 a.m. Pacific Daylight Time, the magma inside of St. Helens exploded. On the Volcanic Explosivity Index scale, the eruption was rated a five, which is the same rating of the famous Vesuvius eruption in 79 AD.
For more than nine hours, ash erupted from the volcano, rising into the air for 12 to 16 miles (20 to 27 km) above sea level in the air. This cloud rising from a volcano is called a "plume". The pyroclastic flow of heated rocks and gas that poured out of the Volcano spread over an area of over 230 square miles (600 km²), destroying plants and buildings. The ash spread east at about 60 miles per hour (95 km/h), with some ash reaching Idaho by about 12:00 pm, almost 3.5 hours after the eruption. By about 5:30 pm the plume of ash became smaller. Through the night and for several days after, there were smaller eruptions.
As well as the effect of the fast-moving hot gasses and stones from the explosion, the collapse of the northern side of Mount St. Helens caused "lahars", or volcanic mudflows. These were mixtures of volcanic ash with melted ice and snow. The lahars went many miles down the Toutle and Cowlitz rivers, destroying bridges and killing many trees. A total of 3.9 million cubic yards (3.0 million m³) of material was carried 17 miles (27 km) south into the Columbia River by the lahars.
The St. Helens May 18 eruption released 24 megatons of thermal energy. It released more than 0.67 cubic miles (2.8 cubic km) of ash and other material. The collapse of the north side of the volcano shortened St. Helens' height by about 1,300 feet (400 m) and left a volcanic crater one to two miles (1.6 to 3.2 km) wide and half of a mile (800 m) deep. The eruption 
killed 57 people, nearly 7,000 game animals (deer, elk, and bear), and about 12 million fish from a fish farm. It destroyed or damaged over 200 homes, 185 miles (300 km) of highway and of railways.
Between 1980 and 1986, more volcanic activity continued at Mount Saint Helens, with a new lava dome made in the crater. Several small explosions and eruptions took place, making more lava domes. From December 7, 1989 to January 6, 1990, and from November 5, 1990 to February 14, 1991, the volcano erupted with sometimes huge clouds of ash.
The ash reached a number of states, as far east as Montana and as south as Colorado.
Magma bubbles came to the top of the volcano on about October 11, 2004, and a new lava dome was made on the first dome's south side. This new dome grew throughout 2005 and into 2006. Several new features were seen, such as the "whaleback," which is solid magma being pushed to the top of the volcano by magma under it. These features do not last long and break down soon after they are formed. On July 2, 2005, the tip of the whaleback broke off, and a rockfall sent ash several hundred meters into the air.
Mount St. Helens showed important new activity on March 8, 2005, when a 36,000-foot (11,000 m) plume of steam and ash came from the volcano. The plume was seen from as far away as Seattle, a city that is 96 miles away. This fairly small eruption took place because of a new lava dome being formed and a 2.5 magnitude earthquake.
Another feature that grew from the dome is a "fin" or "slab." About half the size of a football field, the large volcanic rock was being moved up as fast as 6 feet (2 m) per day. In mid-June 2006, the slab had rockfalls very often, but was still being pushed up from inside the volcano.
On October 22, 2006, at 3:13 p.m. PST, a magnitude 3.5 earthquake broke the lava dome. The resulting collapse and avalanche sent an ash plume 2,000 feet (610 m) over the crater, although it quickly disappeared.
On December 19, 2006, a large white plume of steam was seen, and some journalists from the media thought there had been a small eruption. However, the Cascades Volcano Observatory of the United States Geological Survey says that there was no large ash plume, so it could not have been an eruption. The volcano has been erupting on occasion since October 2004.

</doc>
<doc id="17758" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17758" title="1795">
1795


</doc>
<doc id="17760" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17760" title="Oder-Neisse line">
Oder-Neisse line

The Oder-Neisse line (named after the Oder and Neisse rivers) is the border between Germany and Poland since the end of the Second World War. As a result of the defeat Germany lost another huge part of its territory to Poland after it already had to cede the former Prussian provinces of Posen and Westpreußen as well as parts of upper Silesia to the newly founded Polish state after the First World War in 1919.
The population of the eastern German provinces as well as the German minority population in what was Poland before the Second World War (12 million) either fled before the Russian army to central and western Germany or were later driven out of their homeland by force of the Polish militia who entered immediately after the Russian army.
As Poland annexed the German provinces and deported the native population, Polish people occupied those provinces and took over land and property of the expatriated Germans. About 1.5 million of the new inhabitants had been driven out of their own homeland in eastern Poland/Western Ukraine, Belarus, as the U.S.S.R. was not willing to give back that part of 1922-1939 Poland which it had annexed in 1939.

</doc>
<doc id="17768" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17768" title="Jimmy Wales">
Jimmy Wales

Jimmy Donal "Jimbo" Wales (; born August 7, 1966) is an American Internet entrepreneur, best known as a co-founder of Wikipedia and Wikia. Wales was born in Huntsville, Alabama, United States. There, he went to Randolph School. He then earned bachelor’s and master’s degrees in finance. In 1996, he and two partners founded Bomis. Bomis was an Internet portal with entertainment and adult content. The company gave money for Nupedia (2000–2003) and, after that, Wikipedia.
On January 15, 2001, with Larry Sanger and others, Wales launched Wikipedia. Wikipedia was and still is a free, open content encyclopedia. It grew and became popular very quickly. As Wikipedia became known to the public, he became the project’s promoter and spokesperson. He is often called a co-founder of Wikipedia, though he has argued the "co-" part. He said he was the only founder. Wales is on the Board of Trustees of the Wikimedia Foundation. In 2004, he co-founded Wikia, a wiki-hosting service which tries to make money. In 2015, Wales started the Jimmy Wales Foundation for freedom of expression, to try to help bloggers or internet activists who are in prison. 
Wales has been married three times. He also has two children. When he was 20, Wales married Pam. Pam was a worker at a store in Alabama. He met his second wife, Christine Rohan, through a friend in Chicago. They had a daughter before their marriage ended. Wales moved to San Diego in 1998. In 2002, he moved again to Florida. In 2007, he still lives there. As of 2012 he lives in London, England. In 2012, Wales married Kate Garvey, a government worker for Tony Blair. They have a child together. 
Wales says that he follows the ideas of Objectivism. He also says that he is a libertarian to some extent, meaning that he thinks people should be allowed to do whatever they want so long as they do not harm others.

</doc>
<doc id="17772" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17772" title="Exeter">
Exeter

Exeter is a city in South West England on the River Exe, from which it takes its name. It is the county town of Devon. Its population is just over 100,000. In the city are a ruined castle, much of the old Roman city wall, and Exeter Cathedral.
Exeter was built by the Romans, who called it "Isca Dumnoniorum" (Isca of the Dumnonii, the local British tribe). After the Romans left and the Anglo-Saxons moved into the area in the seventh century, the name changed to Exeter. In the 1060s, Exeter was a centre of resistance to the Norman conquest. In 1050, the Bishop of Crediton moved to Exeter; from then until 1876 the bishops were the heads of the church in the whole of Devon and Cornwall. Now, only Devon is within the Exeter diocese.
Today it is home to the Meteorological Office, which forecasts the country's weather.

</doc>
<doc id="17795" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17795" title="United States Congress">
United States Congress

The United States Congress is the legislative, or law making, branch of the United States government. It meets in the United States Capitol.
It has two houses (parts): The United States House of Representatives and the United States Senate. This two house system is known as a bicameral ("bi" is the Latin word for "two", and "camera" is Latin for "chamber" or "room") legislature. There are 435 Representatives in Congress, split between the states based on how many people live in the state. There are 100 Senators in Congress, with two coming from each state.
The primary duty of Congress is to write, debate, and pass bills (laws they want). For Congress to pass a bill, both houses must pass exactly the same bill. For each house to pass a bill, more than half of its members must vote in favor of passing the bill. After both houses pass the same bill, this bill is then sent to the President. If the President agrees the bill should be a law he or she signs the bill within 10 days. If the president does not agree, then he or she can veto the bill and send it back to Congress. If the bill is neither signed nor vetoed by the president within 10 days, the bill becomes law anyway if Congress does not adjourn (end its session) within that time. If Congress adjourns within that time, the bill does not become a law. Congress may override a president's veto of a bill by having more than two thirds of its members passing the bill. In that case, the bill becomes law even though the president vetoed it. 
Article 1 of the United States Constitution lists what subjects Congress can pass laws on. 
Members of Congress cannot be arrested, except for certain crimes, during a session of Congress or going to or returning from a session. 
Each house of Congress can decide to expel (throw out) one of its members if more than two thirds of them vote to expel him or her. 
The political party with the most members in a house of Congress usually decides which bills are voted on in their house.

</doc>
<doc id="17800" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17800" title="Charles Cornwallis">
Charles Cornwallis

Lord Charles Cornwallis (31 December 1738 5 October 1805) was a British general and colonial governor. He is best known for leading the British forces in the American Revolution.
His parents were Elizabeth, and 1st Charles Cornwallis
Cornwallis moved to the 13 colonies in North America in 1776 to try to control the rebelling colonies. He fought at the Battle of Princeton. George Washington led the Americans in that battle. Later, Cornwallis led British forces through North Carolina and South Carolina, where he fought against American forces under Nathanael Greene. In October 1781, Cornwallis's forces surrendered to George Washington at the Battle of Yorktown, ending the American Revolution.
In 1786 Cornwallis was appointed Governor-General of the British colony of India.
From 1798 to 1801 Cornwallis was Lord Lieutenant and Commander in Chief of Ireland.
He died in 1805

</doc>
<doc id="17804" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17804" title="1738">
1738


</doc>
<doc id="17805" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17805" title="Battle of Princeton">
Battle of Princeton

The Battle of Princeton was a battle during the American Revolution. It was fought in January of 1777 near Princeton, New Jersey. The battle came a week after the Battle of Trenton, where General George Washington had led the Continental Army to a surprise victory over the British.
The Continental Army, led by Washington, advanced to Princeton after their victory at Trenton. The army defeated a small British force. A larger British force, led by Charles Cornwallis, was alerted and gave chase. However, the Continental Army burned the bridges behind them and sniped at the British army before escaping.
The battle resulted in about 200 casualties (deaths) for the British along with another 300 injured or captured, while the Americans suffered minimal losses. The battle boosted American morale.

</doc>
<doc id="17808" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17808" title="Fork">
Fork

A fork is a tool for eating. It has points called "tines". Most forks have three or four tines. Some cooking-forks have two tines. The tines help you pick up your food. Forks are useful only for eating solid food. For example, a fork would be useless for eating soup because all the soup would fall through the tines and into your lap. Most forks are made of metal. Some are made of plastic or wood.
The word "fork" is also used to describe a two choices of course. A fork in the road would be a split in the road leading in two (or more) directions. A forked tongue would have two parts or tips.
Forks are very common in Western Culture. Many countries do not use forks, but instead have their own ways to eat food, such as chopsticks.

</doc>
<doc id="17809" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17809" title="Backgammon">
Backgammon

Backgammon is a game played by two players. Each player moves pieces around a board. Players roll two dice to find out how far their pieces can move in one turn. The winner of one game is the first to get all pieces all the way around, and off, the board.
The game is laid-out asymmetrically. White's direction of travel is counter-clockwise, whereas black's direction of travel is clockwise. (There is no advantage whatsoever to either side due to this asymmetry.)
White moves from white's far right to white's home area on white's close right, in the shape of a right-hand "C" from white's point of view. Black moves along the same "C", beginning from black's far left and ending at black's home area on black's close left. (The "C" is the same for both sides - the "C" points to the right for white and points to the left for black.)
As shown in the image, some pieces (for each side) begin already in the home quadrant, and some pieces must make their way all the way around. Pieces can be sent backwards to their starting position during play.
The roll of two dice introduces a random component in the game, but Backgammon is basically a game of strategy. 
Usual playing time is around 15– 30 minutes, for a single game (which could be thought of as something like one particular long "hand" of a card game). An overall championship or round of backgammon involves a number of ongoing single games, with the involvement of points, a "doubling cube," and other complications.
The game has a long history. Games that resemble it have been played for thousands of years. Archaeologists doing excavations at a place called "Burnt City" in modern-day Iran have found parts of a game that resembled backgammon. They have found 60 pieces to play with, and two dice. They could show that the game utensils date from around 3000 BC. These pieces around 100–200 years older than another set, found in Ur, in Mesopotamia. 

</doc>
<doc id="17810" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17810" title="Cell wall">
Cell wall

A cell wall is the wall of a cell in plants, bacteria, fungi, algae, and some archaea. Animal cells do not have cell walls, nor do protozoa. Cell walls protect the cells from damage. It is also there to make the cell strong, to keep its shape, and to control the growing of the cell and plant.
The cell wall is the tough, usually flexible but sometimes fairly rigid layer that surrounds some types of cells. It is outside the cell membrane and gives these cells support and protection, as well as acting as a filter. The cell wall also acts as a pressure vessel, preventing over-expansion when water enters the cell by osmosis. 
The material in the cell wall varies. In plants and algae, the cell wall is made of long molecules of cellulose, pectin, and hemicellulose. The cell wall has channels which let some proteins in and keeps others out. Water and small molecules can go through the cell wall and the cell membrane.
The cell wall has mechanical strength, and supports cell shape. This mechanical strength is its main function:
Although the plant cell wall is strong, it is not rigid or stiff. The flexibility of the cell walls is seen when plants wilt, so that the stems and leaves begin to droop.
Some plants add stiffening material to some of their cell walls. A "secondary" cell wall is an additional layer of cellulose which increases wall rigidity. More layers may be added containing lignin in xylem cell walls, or containing suberin in cork cell walls. These compounds are rigid and waterproof. They make the secondary wall stiff. Both wood and bark cells of trees have secondary walls. Other parts of plants such as the leaf stalk may get reinforcement to resist the strain of physical forces.
Small molecules, including small proteins, can easily get through the primary plant cell wall. Water and carbon dioxide are distributed throughout the plant. The pH is an important factor in the transport of molecules through cell walls.
Around the outside of the cell membrane is the bacterial cell wall. Bacterial cell walls are made of peptidoglycan, which is made from polysaccharide chains cross-linked by unusual peptides containing D-amino acids. Bacterial cell walls are different from the cell walls of plants and fungi which are made of cellulose and chitin, respectively.
The cell wall of bacteria is also distinct from that of Archaea, which do not contain peptidoglycan. The cell wall is essential to the survival of many bacteria. The antibiotic penicillin is able to kill bacteria by preventing the cross-linking of peptidoglycan and this causes the cell wall to weaken and lyse. The lysozyme enzyme can also damage bacterial cell walls.
The middle lamella gives the cell shape, support, and strength. It is made of calcium and magnesium. Even though it is called "middle" lanella, it is the outer part of the cell. The middle lamella is the first wall of the cell to give protection.
Animal cells do not have cell walls. They have microfilaments (the thinnest filaments of the cytoskeleton).

</doc>
<doc id="17811" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17811" title="Friction">
Friction

Friction is a force that acts to stop the movement of two touching things. The energy lost to friction is turned into sound and heat. Two kinds of friction are static and kinetic. Static friction is when the friction is strong enough to stop movement between two objects. Kinetic friction is when the frictional force is not strong enough to stop all motion.
Some facts about friction are:

</doc>
<doc id="17813" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17813" title="Lima">
Lima

Lima is the capital city (where the government works), and is considered the most important and largest city of Peru. 75% of the Peruvian economy is handled in Lima. 
Lima is the industrial and financial center of Peru, and one of the most important financial centers in Latin America.
It is an important city of South America and the entrance to Peru. Lima is city in constant urban growth. It has a large population. Over 8 million people live in the metropolitan area, which includes Callao Seaport. Lima is the fifth largest city in Latin America, behind Mexico City, São Paulo, Buenos Aires and Rio de Janeiro. 
The city was founded by the Spanish conquistador (conqueror) Francisco Pizarro on January 18, 1535. He called it 'La Ciudad de los Reyes' (the City of the Kings). It became the capital and most important city in the Spanish Viceroyalty of Peru. And after the Peruvian War of Independence, it became the capital of the Republic of Peru.
In the 1940s, Lima started a period of rapid growth, with the migration from the Andean regions of Peru, as rural people. They wanted to find better opportunities for work and education. The population, estimated at 0.6 million in 1940, reached 1.9M by 1960 and 4.8M by 1980. 
Lima has developed an important tourism industry, characterized by its historic center, archeological sites, nightlife, museums, art galleries, festivals, popular traditions, and gastronomy. Lima is considered Americas's gastronomical capital. 
Lima is made up of mainly Spanish speaking inhabitants with over 90% of the population speaking the language and it is made up of 43 districts, which are:
1 - Cercado de Lima
3 - Ate
4 - Barranco
5 - Brena
7 - Comas
9 - Chorrillos
10 - El Agustino
11 - Jesus Maria
12 - La Molina
13 - La Victoria
14 - Lince
17 - Magdalena del Mar
18 - Miraflores
21 - Pueblo Libre
22 - Puente Piedra
25 - Rimac
27 - San Isidro
28 - Independence
29 - San Juan de Miraflores
30 - San Luis
31 - San Martin de Porres
32 - San Miguel
33 - Santiago de Surco
34 - Surquillo
35 - Villa María del Triunfo
36 - San Juan de Lurigancho
38 - Santa Rosa
39 - Los Olivos
41 - San Borja
42 - Villa El Savador
43 - Santa Anita

</doc>
<doc id="17816" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17816" title="Janitor">
Janitor

A janitor (or cleaner) is someone who takes away garbage and cleans surfaces. Janitors often repair things,and maintain their equipment in good working order, as well as dusting, washing, waxing and polishing.
Heavy duty janitors often move furniture, large containers of recycled materials and waste, and other objects, and operate large buffers and other weighty equipment. "Light" duty janitors clean chalk boards, windows, shelves, desks, light fixtures, and ledges. Some duties, like using a vacuum cleaner, can be done by either "light" or "heavy" duty janitors. Janitors can clean offices, staircases, kitchens, washrooms, hallways, sidewalks, elevators, escalators, and other areas. Janitors can specialize by washing windows, or by cleaning carpets, hospitals, food processing plants, or construction sites. Janitors who discover seriously damaged surfaces and equipment on their sites can notify specialists, like plumbers and carpenters, about the need for professional repairs.
Cleaners are also alert for security problems, like vandalism, signs of theft (forced windows or doors, missing computers or stock), blocked fire escape routes, malfunctioning lights or fire alarms, or trespassers. When these occur, the cleaners promptly notify their sites' Security Officers and Site Supervisors. Janitors know how to keep themselves and their sites safe, by immediately removing hazards like broken class, spilled fluids, and waste from kitchens and washrooms, and by checking hand rails, floor mats, stairs, automated doors, escalators, elevators, intercoms, and plumbing.

</doc>
<doc id="17836" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17836" title="Bovinae">
Bovinae

Bovinae is a subfamily of the even-toed ungulate family Bovidae. About 26 species of bovines belong to this subfamily.
Bovines are herbivores, and they mostly eat grass.
The four genera "Tetracerus", "Boselaphus", "Tragelaphus" and "Taurotragus" are sometimes put into their own subfamily "Tragelaphinae", and sometimes with the bovines.

</doc>
<doc id="17840" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17840" title="Mongolia">
Mongolia

Mongolia is a country between China and Russia, in Asia.
Mongolia is a landlocked country in East Asia and Central Asia. It borders Russia to the north and the People's Republic of China to the south, east and west. Mongolia's political system is a parliamentary republic.
Until recently, most of the people there were Buddhists. Many of them are nomads (people who always move and do not stay in one home), but this is changing. The largest city, and capital city is Ulaanbaatar. It is where about 38% of the population live. This has been spelled "Ulan Bator/ Ulaan Battor" and other ways in the past. The north and east parts of the country have many mountains. Part of the south part is the Gobi Desert. There are 2,791,272 people living in Mongolia. The country is the 18th biggest country in the world, with an area of 1,564,116 square kilometres. The crime rate is very low. Their language is Mongolian, but some know English, Chinese and Russian.
Mongolia has the lowest population density of all independent countries in the world.
The area which is Mongolia has been ruled by various nomadic empires. This was until the great 'Mongol Empire' was founded by Genghis Khan in 1206. After the Yuan Dynasty collapsed, the Mongols became nomads again. After the 16th century, Mongolia were influenced by Tibetan Buddhism. By the end of the 17th century, most of Mongolia was part of an area ruled by the Qing Dynasty. When the Qing Dynasty collapsed in 1911, Mongolia declared independence. But they had to fight against the Chinese. They were helped by the Soviet Union. In 1921, the world accepted its independence. Shortly after the death of Bogd Khaan, the last monarch of Mongolia the monarchy was replaced by a communist government in 1924, and the country was renamed the Mongolian People's Republic. Up until the fall of the Soviet Union, Mongolia was a satellite state for the Soviets. Mongolia is still mainly rural. The Mongolian Red Cross Society was set up in 1939. It has its headquarters in Ulan Bator.
Following the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991, Russia's interest in Mongolia has declined. China and South Korea are currently Mongolia's main trade and political partners.
Mongolia is a parliamentary republic. People vote for their government. The President of Mongolia is elected to a four-year term, and cannot stand in a Presidential Election more than twice. The current President is Tsakhiagiin Elbegdorj. He is a two-time former prime minister and he was first elected as President on May 24, 2009. Elbegdorj was re-elected on 26 June 2013 for his second term as President.
 Mongolia has a steppe climate. It has very cold winters and mild summers. Recently, winters have become very cold. This has killed many people and cattle. On June 2nd, 2008, 52 people and 200,000 head of cattle died in heavy blizzards in Mongolia.
On March 1st to 2nd, a heavy dust storm hit northeast China and parts of Mongolia. and ended over North Korea and South Korea on the 4th 
21 people died in a rural Mongolian blizzard on May 8th 2008. parts of the Chinese province of Inner Mongolia were also affected on the 8th of May 2008.
On June 2 2009, it was said that 15 people and 10,000 head of cattle had died by this date in Mongolia.
April 1st and 2nd, 2010 had temperatures plummet to -50 degrees in Mongolia’s Tuul valley, A nomad named Urna said she bought 400 bundles of grass to feed the animals in preparation for more bad weather. The Mongolian Red Cross have said that about 4,500,000 livestock died as a result of the bad weather this year. Tume, who lives in Ulan Bator, said that he had noticed that there were several really harsh winters in a row too. He blamed climate change, but experts said that overgrazing by cattle had also killed of most of the country’s grassland.
Mongolia known as the "Land of the Eternal Blue Sky" or "Country of Blue Sky" () because it has over 250 sunny days a year.
Mongolia is the world's 19th-largest country (after Iran). It is significantly larger than the next-largest country, Peru. Mongolia does not share a border with Kazakhstan but its westernmost point is only 38 kilometers (24 mi) away from Kazakhstan.
The geography of Mongolia is varied, with the Gobi Desert to the south and with cold and mountainous regions to the north and west. Most of Mongolia consists of steppes, with forested areas comprising 11.2% of the total land area.  The highest point in Mongolia is the Khüiten Peak in the Tavan bogd massif. It's height is 4,374 m (14,350 ft).
Mongolia is divided into 21 provinces called 'aimags'. The provinces are divided into 329 districts called 'sums'.
The official language of Mongolia is Mongolian, and is spoken by 95% of the population. A variety of dialects of Oirat and Buryatare spoken across the country. Turkic languages, such as Kazakh and Tuvan, are also spoken in the west of the country.  
Today, Mongolian is written using the Cyrillic alphabet, although in the past it was written using the Mongolian script. The traditional alphabet is being slowly reintroduced through schools recently.
Russian is the most frequently spoken foreign language in Mongolia due to their diplomatic ties as former communist states. However English has been gradually replacing Russian as the second language in order to become part of the world economy. Korean has gained popularity as tens of thousands of Mongolians work and study in South Korea. Interest in Chinese has been growing because of the neighboring power.
Mongolia is currently free of bird and swine flu, but 103 air travelers who were suspected victims, and the plane crew of 6, were quarantined for 7 days in Ulaan Bator(Ulaanbaatar) in May 2009.
It may have come over the border from the Chinese province of Inner Mongolia.

</doc>
<doc id="17845" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17845" title="Fourier transform">
Fourier transform

The Fourier transform is a mathematical function that can be used to show the different parts of a continuous signal. It is most used to convert from time domain to frequency domain. Fourier transforms are often used to calculate the frequency spectrum of a signal that changes over time. This kind of signal processing has many uses such as cryptography, oceanography, speech recognition, or handwriting recognition. Fourier transforms can also be used to solve differential equations.
The Fourier transform of a function formula_1 is given by
formula_2
The inverse Fourier transform is given by
formula_3
A Fourier transform shows what frequencies are in a signal. For example, consider a sound wave which contains three different musical notes: A, B, and C. Making a graph of the Fourier transform of this sound wave (with the frequency on the x-axis and the intensity on the y-axis) will show a peak at each frequency which corresponds with one of the musical notes.
Many signals can be created by adding together cosines and sines with varying amplitudes and frequencies. The Fourier transform plots the amplitudes and phases of these cosines and sines against their respective frequencies.
Fourier transforms are important because many signals make more sense when their frequencies are separated. In the audio example above, looking at the signal with respect to time does not make it obvious that the notes A, B, and C are in the signal. Many systems do different things to different frequencies, so these kinds of systems can be described by what they do to each frequency. An example of this is a filter which blocks high frequencies.
Calculating a Fourier transform requires understanding of integration and imaginary numbers. Computers are usually used to calculate Fourier transforms of anything but the simplest signals. The Fast Fourier Transform is a method computers use to quickly calculate a Fourier transform.

</doc>
<doc id="17851" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17851" title="1671">
1671


</doc>
<doc id="17852" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17852" title="1679">
1679


</doc>
<doc id="17853" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17853" title="1691">
1691


</doc>
<doc id="17855" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17855" title="1719">
1719


</doc>
<doc id="17856" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17856" title="1753">
1753


</doc>
<doc id="17865" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17865" title="The Divine Comedy">
The Divine Comedy

The Divine Comedy is an epic poem (a poem that is very long, like a story) written by Dante Alighieri. It is about a trip through the afterlife. The poem has three parts: "Inferno" (Hell), "Purgatorio" (Purgatory), and "Paradiso" (Paradise, or Heaven). "The Divine Comedy" is a piece of world literature.
"Inferno" is the most famous section of the poem. The poem is about the travels of a man through Christian hell, purgatory, and heaven. Note that "comedy" does not mean funny here, but rather that it has a positive ending.
The narrator, Dante Alighieri, is lost in a forest in front of a giant mountain which symbolizes sin, and is harassed by a lion, leopard and she-wolf. He finds the Roman poet Virgil, who has to lead him through the nine circles of hell so Dante can be saved.
Souls that did not accept Christ are here. This includes atheists, pagans, and the unbaptized. They did not actively sin, but they could not enter Heaven because of their lack of faith and even Hell would not allow them to enter very far.
The punishment for the souls is not physical, but that they have no hope of seeing Christ, so they are mentally punished.
Beyond the first circle, souls are assigned their place by Minos, who wraps his tail around his legs a corresponding number of times,and forces them to descend to their appropriate circle.
In this circle souls who succumb to lust. They are the first ones to be truly punished in Hell. These souls are blown around in a giant storm which will last forever. This symbolizes the power of lust to blow one about aimlessly.
This circle is guarded by Cerberus. The gluttons are punished here, lying in cold mud. While in life they were provided with warmth and comfort from their food, in Hell the souls are punished with cold and heavy rain. Cerberus claws at the spirits, rips at their skin, and bites holes.
In life the sinners miserly hoarded their money greedily, while the prodigal spent their money foolishly. Both groups are pushing and pulling great bags of gold as they did in life. The greedy are guarded by Plutus, god of riches and wealth.
In the river Styx the wrathful fight each other on the surface. The river surrounds the city of Dis, where active sinners are located. When Virgil tries to enter, the angels of Hell slam the door in his face. He and Dante proceed to the gate where Christ entered Hell during his three-day trip to release a select few people. During Christ's Harrowing of Hell he broke the door so it could never close again.
The heretics are trapped in red-hot iron tombs.
This circle holds those who were violent in their lives. The people who were violent to people and property are in a river of fire. The depth of their placement in the river corresponds to how much you damaged in life. For example, Alexander the Great is immersed up to his eyebrows. The violent against self are turned into plants. The violent to God and the violent to nature are also here. They have to walk on flaming sand for eternity.
Pimps, seducers, flatterers, simonists, sorcerers, fortune-tellers, false prophets, corrupt politicians, hypocrites, thieves, schismatics, alchemists, and counterfeiters are in this circle. Each punishment is the opposite of what they did in life. Fortune-tellers, who tried to see things ahead of time, are forced to walk backwards.
The traitors to family are immersed in ice up to their faces. Traitors to political entities are also here. Traitors to guests lie in the ice, which covers them completely except for their faces. Traitors to their lords and benefactors are completely buried in ice in various positions.
In the very center of Hell, because he sinned the ultimate sin (treachery against God), lies Satan. Satan is described as a beast with three faces, six wings, and is eternally weeping from his six eyes. Each of Satan's mouths chews on a famous traitor from history. Brutus and Cassius are being chewed feet-first. The center mouth is chewing on Judas Iscariot. His head is being chewed on by Satan, and his back is being skinned by Satan's claws. 
Dante and Virgil escape by climbing down Satan's fur through the center of the earth and out the other hemisphere, where they will climb Mount Purgatory.

</doc>
<doc id="17867" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17867" title="Artist">
Artist

An artist is a person who creates art. This word is used most often for persons and activities of 'high culture'. That is for example drawing, painting, sculpture, acting, dancing, writing, filmmaking, photography, and music. Sometimes a person who is very good at their job is called an artist, even if it is not considered as art. A scientist or mathematician can be called an artist. 
Wiktionary defines the noun 'artist' (one artist, two artists) as follows:
In ancient Greece there was the word "Techne" which is often translated as art. From this word comes "technical" and America is now the root of words such as technical, technology, etc. The seven muses were the gods of artists in the seven fields of human excellence: • Epic and lyric • History • Choral singing and poetry of love • Music • Tragedy • Religious Hymns • Gay poetry, poetry and rustic comedy • Dance • Astronomy and Geometry.
The word comes from Latin art "ars", that literally means skill method or technique, combined with the beauty of the objects produced. In the Middle Ages already existed the word artist, although its meaning is closer to what we now call the craftsman.
Concept art expresses a series of creations, called classical arts (painting, sculpture, literature, dance, music, architecture and cinema). However, considering someone as an artist is not limited to a series of works or concrete creations.
An artist is a person exercising the arts and produce artistic works. The artist is someone who has a special sensitivity to create a work or activity. There is no specific classification of what are an artist's own activities .In any case, the concept artist implies knowledge of art and at the same time, is a craft that can be professional but not necessarily. The artist seeks to create an object or activity that has a component of beauty. Very beautiful is one aspect cherished by the creators, but not only that. It also seeks to communicate feelings and ideas and form their own world.
An artist is a person able to put their point of view, their way of seeing the world and feel things on a canvas, a sheet or paper. An artist is a dreamer, is a poet, he is a speaker, is someone provided with sensibility sufficient or necessary to make us see things through their eyes.

</doc>
<doc id="17870" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17870" title="Jacksonville, Florida">
Jacksonville, Florida

Jacksonville is a city in northeast Florida, USA. It is home to the University of North Florida. It is the county seat of Duval County.
It is the largest city in the Continental United States in terms of area. It covers nearly all of Duval County in North Florida. It is also the largest city in Florida and one of the 15 largest cities in the United States. A football team called the Jacksonville Jaguars plays there.

</doc>
<doc id="17874" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17874" title="Fetishism">
Fetishism

Fetishism can be one of the following:

</doc>
<doc id="17878" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17878" title="Heinrich Heine">
Heinrich Heine

Christian Johann Heinrich Heine (born as "Harry Heine" 13 December 1797–17 February 1856) was one of the most significant German poets of the 19th century.
Heine was born into an assimilated Jewish family in Düsseldorf, Germany. His father was a tradesman.
After his father's business failed, Heine was sent to Hamburg. His uncle in Hamburg was a very successful banker, so Heine started learning his business, but he droped it later on. Then Heine started to study law at the universities of Göttingen, Bonn and Berlin, but he was more interested in literature than in law. He took a degree in law in 1825. At the same time he had decided to convert from Judaism to Protestantism. This was necessary because of the severe restrictions on Jews in the German states. Only Christians were allowed to have certain businesses or to be clerks of the state. Jews were also forbidden to become university professors, which was a particular ambition for Heine. Heine himself said, his conversion was "the ticket of admission into European culture".
Heine is best known for his lyric poetry, much of which was set to music by lieder composers, esp. Franz Schubert and Robert Schumann.
His start as poet Heine made with "Gedichte" ("Poems") in 1821. Heine's one-sided infatuation with his cousins Amalie and Therese later inspired him to write some of his loveliest lyrics; "Buch der Lieder" ("Book of Songs", 1827) was Heine's first comprehensive collection of verse.
Heine left Germany for Paris, France in 1831. There he associated with utopian socialists. He met people who fellowed Count Saint-Simon, who preached an egalitarian classless society.
He remained in Paris for the rest of his life. His only visit to Germany was in 1843. German authorities banned his works and those of others who were considered to be associated with the Young Germany movement in 1835.
Heine continued to comment on German politics and society from a distance. Heine wrote "Deutschland. Ein Wintermärchen" ("Germany. A Winter's Tale"). In 1844; his friend, Karl Marx, published it in his newspaper "Vorwärts" ("Forward") in 1844.
One of the books was burned by the Nazis. One of Heine's most famous lines is now: "Where they burn books, they will, in the end, burn human beings too" ("Almansor", 1821).

</doc>
<doc id="17880" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17880" title="Cabbage">
Cabbage

Cabbage ("Brassica oleracea" Capitata Group) is an edible plant. It is a lot like broccoli, cauliflower or Brussels sprouts. Cabbage is eaten in many ways around the world. Coleslaw and sauerkraut are popular foods that use cabbage. It is also used to make kimchi and borscht, and can also be used in salads. Red cabbage juice can be used as a pH indicator. Cabbages are usually green, but they can also be red.
Cabbages can come in many different types, such as the previously mentioned red and green cabbages, but they can also be in other types. These include white cabbage, also known as Dutch cabbage, and Savoy cabbage.

</doc>
<doc id="17881" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17881" title="Pool">
Pool

The word pool refers to many different things:

</doc>
<doc id="17883" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17883" title="Rupee">
Rupee

The Rupee is the name of several kinds of money used in several countries: the Republic of India, Pakistan; it was also used in the former East Pakistan until 1971, Sri Lanka, Nepal, Mauritius, and the Seychelles. In past times, rupees were also the name of the money used in Burma and in the German and British colonies in East Africa. The name comes from a Sanskrit word meaning silver. The rupiah of Indonesia and the rufiyah of the Maldives are kinds of money that also got their name from this word. All of them were originally Spanish dollars. 

</doc>
<doc id="17899" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17899" title="500">
500

500 (Roman numerals: D) is a common year of the Gregorian calendar. It started on a Friday.
It is one of only seven years to use just one Roman numeral. The seven are 1 AD (I), 5 AD (V), 10 AD (X), 50 AD (L), 100 AD (C), 500 AD (D), and 1000 AD (M).

</doc>
<doc id="17900" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17900" title="1555">
1555


</doc>
<doc id="17901" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17901" title="Diesel fuel">
Diesel fuel

Diesel oil or diesel fuel is a type of fuel for cars. It is also an oil used for an energy source. It is made from petroleum and from various other sources.
It is named after Rudolf Diesel who in 1892 invented the diesel engine.

</doc>
<doc id="17907" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17907" title="Düsseldorf International Airport">
Düsseldorf International Airport

Düsseldorf International Airport (; is an airport in Germany. It is eight kilometres from Düsseldorf. The airport has the IATA Airport Code DUS. There is one other airport named "Düsseldorf Express Airport, Mönchengladbach", but that is only a continental airport and has only a few lines, mostly private jets.
The international airport supports flights to 180 destinations on four continents and hosts 70 airlines. The airport has 800 takeoffs and landings per day.
The airport was opened on April 19, 1927, after two years of construction. However, the first aircraft to land in northern Düsseldorf was the Zeppelin LZ-III in 1909.
On April 11, 1996 there was a fire in the airport, probably caused by welding work on the roof. 17 people were killed, mostly due to smoke inhalation. The terminal building was badly damaged, and was closed for five years. By July 1, 2001 it had been nearly completely re-built and was re-opened.
A suspended monorail connects the terminal building with the InterCity and ICE train station (High speed and extremely high speed trains). The so-called "SkyTrain" travels the 2.5 kilometers between the terminal and station at a maximum speed of 50 km/h. It started operation in 2002, replacing a shuttle bus service, and is not free of charge to use.
Currently, the following airlines operate routes to and from Düsseldorf International Airport:
Before September 11 Düsseldorf International Airport had many flights from the United States. After direct flights to the United States are only from Privatair and LTU. Privatair has flights going to Chicago O'Hare and New York Newark airports, which are codeshared with Lufthansa. LTU flies to Fort Myers, Los Angeles, Miami, Orlando, and New York (JFK).2005 announced that it would begin service between Düsseldorf and Atlanta in March 2006.

</doc>
<doc id="17908" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17908" title="Sauna">
Sauna

A sauna is a small room or building that is made hot. The heat of a sauna is calming and makes the person using it sweat. This is believed to help people be more healthy though it causes stress on the body by overheating. Today many countries and groups of people have different ways of heating and using a sauna. The temperature is often 80°C in Finnish saunas. The heat can be more than 100°C. Finnish and Swedish saunas have lower humidity (the air is less wet) to make this high heat comfortable.
The Turkish hammam has a high humidity (the air is more wet) and a lower temperature.
Today saunas can often be found at hotels and places for sports and exercise. In Finland, they are more common and are also often in private apartments and office 
buildings.
In almost every house in Finland they have a sauna.
In some cultures, swimsuits must be worn in a sauna. In other cultures swimsuits are not be worn. Swimsuits are more often worn when men and women use a sauna together. Some saunas are only for men, or only for women. Some places have fixed times when each gender can use a sauna. Private saunas may have their own rules.

</doc>
<doc id="17909" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17909" title="Joseph Beuys">
Joseph Beuys

Joseph Beuys (pronounced "boyce") (12 May 1921 – 23 January 1986) was a German artist who made arts in many forms including sculpture, performance art (happening, fluxus), video art, and installations. He was an important artist in the second half of the 20th century.
Beuys was born in Krefeld on 12 May 1921, but grew up in the nearby city of Kleve. His family was profoundly catholic. As a young child he began his interest in art by often engaging in making watercolours. He first saw modern art when visiting the studio of Achilles Moortgat. At the age of seventeen in 1938, he joined Hitler Youth, like many young German men at that time. He studied many disciplines before engaging in his art practice, and was particularly interested in natural sciences and history, including alchemy, and focussed on medicine with the intention of becoming a doctor. During his studies, however, World War II began, and he became a soldier in the German air force. There, he was a rear gunner (gunner in the back) in a military airplane. In 1943 one of his close friends died in a concentration camp.
One fascinating aspect of Joseph Beuys's personal history is the reason he consistently used felt and fat in his works. He is quoted as saying: "For me, fat was a great discovery, because it was the very material that could seem the most chaotic and indeterminate. I could use it with heat or cold, I could transform it with means that are not the traditional ones for sculpture- with temperature, for example. So I could turn the character of this fat from a chaotic and fluctuating condition to that of a rigid form... So I took an extreme position in sculpture and a material that was absolutely fundamental for life and not associated with art.”
Many people believe that this use of felt and fat recalled a plane crash experienced while flying for the "Luftwaffe" in the Crimea in the winter of 1942-43. Beuys claimed that he had been saved by a nomadic tribe of Tartars who, sympathetic to the Germans after persecution by the Soviets, ‘covered my body in fat to help it regenerate warmth, and wrapped it in felt as an insulator to keep warmth in’. In fact this episode was fabricated, partly on the basis of a dream, but he consistently referred to this episode and it can be seen as a private mythology of his.
After the war Beuys studied at the academy in Düsseldorf from 1946 to 1951. For most of the 1950s he was mostly drawing.
In 1961 he became professor of sculpture there, but was fired in 1972 because he said that his classes must be open to anybody who wanted to take them. He thought that classes should be free and he worked in his classes with everybody who wanted. His students protested when he was fired, so he was allowed to hold his studio there, but he still lost his job.
In 1962 Beuys was member of the "Fluxus movement". They made art together by drawing, sculpting, making music, and literature.
Beuys believed that arts has an important rule in society.
His first problems with politicians were when he lost his job as professor.
In the 1980s he was part of the Peace Movement and protested against nuclear missiles in Germany. He was one of the first members of the Green Party in the 1980s.
Famous works are for example:
In 1979, a large retrospective of Beuys' work at the Guggenheim Museum in New York City confirmed his reputation as one of the most important artists of his time. He died in 1986 in Düsseldorf.
The web comic Cat And Girl makes frequent reference to Joseph Beuys, including his art (reference 1 reference 2) and cultural references.

</doc>
<doc id="17912" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17912" title="Kunstakademie Düsseldorf">
Kunstakademie Düsseldorf

The Staatliche Kunstakademie Düsseldorf is the Arts Academy of the city of Düsseldorf. It is well-known all over the world by its most famous members like Joseph Beuys.
The arts school started 1762 as school of drawing by Lambert Krahe (1710 - 1790), in 1773 it became Academy of drawing, painting and sculpturing of the Earls of Palatine.
In time of the Napoleonic Wars it moved to Munich. So the government of Prussia, who annexed the region of Düsseldorf after Napoleon surrendered, to open a new Royal Arts Academy in Düsseldorf. It started in 1822.
In the 1850s the Kunstakademie Düsseldorf became an international well-known arts school. The "Düsseldorfer Malerschule" was internationally known as a special kind of drawing countryside. Many students came from Scandinavia, Russia, and the United States of America to Düsseldorf.

</doc>
<doc id="17913" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17913" title="Poet">
Poet

A poet is someone who writes poetry. Famous English poets are Alexander Pope, William Wordsworth, William Blake and Tennyson. A famous Spanish poet is also José de Espronceda.

</doc>
<doc id="17915" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17915" title="Ruhr-Universität Bochum">
Ruhr-Universität Bochum

The is one of the biggest universities in Germany. It is in the Ruhr-Area, in the city of Bochum.
The Ruhr-Universität was the first public university that was founded in West Germany after World War II (in 1962). Later in the 1960s education expanded in West Germany and more universities were founded, but Bochum has a bright selection of subjects because it was the beginning of education expanding.
The Ruhr-University was one of the fourth largest university in Germany in the late 1980s and early 1990s with more than 40,000 students. But after the state of North Rhine-Westfalia decided to earn study fees, many students left the university and school examiners do not start studying anymore. Actually the fees are 1,000 Euro in the year (about 1,100 US$), but the Ruhr-Area is traditionally a working class region. Sommer Semester 2011 was the last semester with tuition fees http://www.ruhr-uni-bochum.de/studienbeitrag/. The number or students now is more than 34 000 http://www.ruhr-uni-bochum.de/universitaet/fakten/menschlich/index.html
The university of Bochum was one of the first to have Bachelor and Master degrees instead of the traditional German Diplom and Magister degree.
The Ruhr-University has about 34,000 students.http://www.ruhr-uni-bochum.de/universitaet/fakten/menschlich/index.html Academically it is an upper middle-class university with a lot of international affairs, especially with Eastern Europe and Asia. The Ruhr-University Bochum lost some subjects by when the state reduced its budget.
The main focuses in research are neurosciences, engineering, European law, plasma physics, solidstate physics, biochemistry, economics, Middle Ages and modern history, philosophy and languages.

</doc>
<doc id="17920" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17920" title="Aachen">
Aachen

Aachen is a German city in the state of North Rhine-Westphalia. It has about 260,000 inhabitants and a well-known university, the Rheinisch-Westfälische Technische Hochschule (RWTH).
The Romans built a spa over hot water springs here in ancient times. 
In the Middle Ages, it was the capital city of the Frankish emperor, Charlemagne. The city was called Aix-la-Chapelle by the French. 
Charlemagne ordered the building of a cathedral in 786 AD. He was buried in a tomb in this cathedral. German emperors were crowned in the cathedral in Aachen until 1531.
European countries made two important peace agreements in Aachen. In 1668, the first treaty (agreement) ended the War of Devolution between France and the alliance of England, Holland and Sweden. The treaty allowed France to keep most of the towns it had captured in Flanders the year before. In 1748, the second treaty ended the War of the Austrian Succession. In this war, France, Prussia, and other nations tried to take territory from the Austrian Empire. The treaty said that Maria Theresa of Austria was the ruler of these territories. It also gave Prussia the territory of Silesia. 
Since 1972, Aachen has been part of the Cologne Government Region.

</doc>
<doc id="17921" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17921" title="Marburg">
Marburg

Marburg is a city in Hesse, Germany, on the Lahn river. It is the main town of the Marburg-Biedenkopf Rural District. It has about 80,000 inhabitants and a small, but well-known university.

</doc>
<doc id="17922" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17922" title="Akron, Ohio">
Akron, Ohio

Akron is a large city in the U.S. state of Ohio. It is found near the Ohio & Lake Erie canal. It is home to the U.S. rubber industry, including Goodyear tires.

</doc>
<doc id="17923" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17923" title="Philipps University of Marburg">
Philipps University of Marburg

The Philipps-University Marburg is the oldest Protestant university of the world, and was founded by Martin Luther's friend Philipp of Hesse in the time of the reformation.
Major areas of research are medicine, nano-science, materials science, and near eastern studies. 

</doc>
<doc id="17924" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17924" title="Youngstown, Ohio">
Youngstown, Ohio

Youngstown is a city in Ohio, United States. It is the county seat of Mahoning County. Part of Youngstown is also in Trumbull County. The town is on the Mahoning River. It is about southeast of Cleveland and northwest of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Youngstown has its own metropolitan area; it is often thought of as part of the Pittsburgh Tri-State area and Greater Cleveland. Youngstown is west of the Pennsylvania state line. It is midway between New York City and Chicago via Interstate 80.
The city was named for John Young. He was an early settler from Whitestown, New York, who started the town's first sawmill and gristmill. Youngstown is in an area of the United States that is often called the Rust Belt. The town was known as a center of steel making. Youngstown was forced to change itself when the U.S. steel industry fell into decline in the 1970s. Towns in the area did not have a lot of business after that. Youngstown also falls within the Appalachian Ohio region, among the foothills of the Appalachian Mountains. The 2010 census showed that Youngstown had a total population of 66,982, making it Ohio's ninth largest city. The city has had a decline of over 60% of its population since 1960.
According to the 2010 Census, the Youngstown-Warren-Boardman Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA) contains 565,773 people and includes Mahoning and Trumbull counties in Ohio, and Mercer County in Pennsylvania. The Steel Valley area as a whole has 763,207 residents.
Youngstown was named for New York native John Young. He surveyed the area in 1796. He moved there soon after. On February 9, 1797, Young bought the town of from the Western Reserve Land Company for $16,085. The 1797 start of Youngstown was officially recorded on August 19, 1802.
The area of today's Youngstown was part of the Connecticut Western Reserve. This was a part of the Northwest Territory for settlers from the state of Connecticut. While many of the area's early settlers came from Connecticut, Youngstown also had a large number of Scots-Irish settlers from neighboring Pennsylvania. The first European Americans to settle in the area were Pittsburgh native James Hillman and his wife, Catherine Dougherty. By 1798, Youngstown was the home of several families who were lived near the point where Mill Creek meets the Mahoning River. Boardman Township was started in 1798 by Elijah Boardman. He was a member of the Connecticut Land Company. Also started in 1798 was Austintown by John McCollum. He was a settler from New Jersey.
In 1800, governor Arthur St. Clair made Trumbull County (named for Connecticut Governor Jonathan Trumbull). He named the smaller town of Warren as its "county seat". In 1813, Trumbull County was divided into townships, with Youngstown Township being a big part of what became Mahoning County. The village of Youngstown was incorporated in 1848, and in 1867 Youngstown was chartered as a city. It became the county seat in 1876.
The discovery of coal by the community in the early 19th century helped Youngstown become part of the Erie Canal. The Pennsylvania and Ohio Canal Company was organized in 1835. The canal was completed in 1840. David Tod, who was later Ohio governor during the Civil War, persuaded Lake Erie steamboat owners that coal from the Mahoning Valley could fuel their vessels if canal transportation were available between Youngstown and Cleveland. The arrival of the railroad in 1856 made it easier for more economic growth.
Youngstown's industrial development made the Mahoning Valley different. The community's coal industry made hundreds of immigrants from Wales, Germany, and Ireland come to the area. With the start of steel mills in the late 19th century, Youngstown became a popular destination for immigrants from Eastern Europe, Italy, and Greece. In the early 20th century, the community saw more immigrants from non-European countries including what is today's Lebanon, Israel, and Syria. By the 1920s, this change in the town's population made people who were there earlier upset. Because of their anger, the Mahoning Valley became a center of Ku Klux Klan activity. The situation reached a climax in 1924, when street clashes between Klan members and Italian and Irish Americans in neighboring Niles led Ohio Governor A. Victor Donahey to declare martial law. By 1928 the Klan was in steep decline; and three years later, the group sold its Canfield, Ohio, meeting area, Kountry Klub Field.
The growth of industry made more people from the United States and Latin America come to Youngstown. By the late 19th century, African Americans were well represented in Youngstown. The first local African Methodist Episcopal Church was started in 1871. In the 1880s, local attorney William R. Stewart was the second African American elected to the Ohio House of Representatives. A large increase of African Americans in the early 20th century was because of changes in the industrial area. During the national Steel Strike of 1919, local industrialists recruited thousands of workers from the South, many of whom were Black. This move upset local Whites, and for decades, African-American steelworkers experienced discrimination in the workplace. Migration from the South rose dramatically in the 1940s, when the mechanization of southern agriculture brought an end to the exploitative sharecropping system, leading onetime farm laborers to seek industrial jobs.
The city's population became more diverse since the end of World War II, when a seemingly robust steel industry attracted thousands of workers. In the 1950s, the Latino population grew significantly; and by the 1970s, St. Rose of Lima Roman Catholic Church and the First Spanish Baptist Church of Ohio were among the largest religious institutions for Spanish-speaking residents in the Youngstown metropolitan area. While diversity is among the community's enduring characteristics, the industrial economy that drew various groups to the area collapsed in the late 1970s. In response to subsequent challenges, the city has taken well-publicized steps to diversify economically, while building on some traditional strengths.
The United States Census Bureau says the city has a total area of . Land is of that area, and water is .
Youngstown is in the Mahoning Valley on the Glaciated Allegheny Plateau. The glaciers left behind a plain with valleys at the end of the last Ice Age. The valleys were caused by the Mahoning River crossing the plain. Lakes made by glaciers that dammed small streams were eventually drained. This left behind fertile land.

</doc>
<doc id="17925" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17925" title="Dortmund">
Dortmund

Dortmund is a German city in the state of North Rhine-Westphalia. It is part of the Arnsberg Government Region
Dortmund has about 590,000 inhabitants and is in the Ruhr Area. There is a university in Dortmund. The biggest soccer club is Borussia Dortmund.

</doc>
<doc id="17932" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17932" title="Netherlands Antilles">
Netherlands Antilles

The Netherlands Antilles was a country within the Kingdom of the Netherlands. The country was originally a group of six islands in the Caribbean Sea. Some were discovered in 1493 by Christopher Columbus, and some were discovered in 1499 by Alonso de Ojeda.
Aruba, Bonaire and Curaçao are part of the Leeward Islands. They are near Venezuela. Saint Martin, Sint Eustatius, and Saba are part of the Windward Islands. They are near Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. Of these, the island Sint Maarten is in fact part of two countries: the northern part belongs to France (as Saint Martin), but the southern part is Dutch (as Sint Maarten). 
Aruba left the Netherlands Antilles in 1986. When Curaçao and Sint Maarten did the same thing on 10 October 2010, the country no longer existed. The remaining BES Islands of Bonaire, Sint Eustatius and Saba now belong to the Netherlands and are called the Dutch Caribbean islands.
Because the Netherlands Antilles was a part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, Queen Beatrix of the Netherlands proper was also the Queen of the Netherlands Antilles, but the islands' residents had a government of their own. Aruba, Curaçao and Sint Maarten are now separate countries within the Kingdom. All of these places still have King Willem-Alexander as their monarch today. 
The last Prime Minister of the Netherlands Antilles was Emily de Jongh-Elhage. The last Governor was Frits Goedgedrag, who is since the 10 October 2010 the first Governor of Curaçao.

</doc>
<doc id="17933" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17933" title="Alfred Nobel">
Alfred Nobel

Alfred Nobel () (October 21, 1833 – December 10, 1896) was a Swedish scientist, engineer, and weapons manufacturer. He is well known for the invention of dynamite and for creating the Nobel Prize. He left instructions in his will that his money should create the Nobel Prize after reading an article in a French newspaper that called him the "merchant of death" and said that he would be remembered for his invention of dynamite and its ability to kill more people than ever before. Nobel left 31 million kronor (the Swedish currency) to the awards after his death on December 10, 1896.
Nobel was born on October 21, 1833. His father, Immanuel Nobel, was an engineer and inventor. His mother was Andriette Ahlsell Nobel. In 1833, Immanuel Nobel was forced into bankruptcy due to losses in his construction company. 

</doc>
<doc id="17936" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17936" title="Pharmacy">
Pharmacy

A pharmacy is a shop where therapeutic drugs are sold. Sometimes a pharmacy is also called a "drug store". The people working in a pharmacy are called pharmacists or chemists (British English). These people can recognise simple diseases and give drugs for some of them.
Certain drugs are special, because they can be addictive, or they change the way other drugs act, or they need to be taken in a special way. These drugs cannot simply be bought at a pharmacy. A prescription is necessary to get them. Medical doctors give out prescriptions, which can then be used to get the drug.
Many pharmacies do not sell drugs only. They also sell beauty products and hygiene-related products, like tampons for women and contraceptives.
Pharmacy is also a branch of chemistry that studies the molecular structure of drugs to find better drugs.

</doc>
<doc id="17937" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17937" title="Kiss">
Kiss

People kiss each other, usually by using their lips and mouth to touch each other. However, there are many different types of kiss, with different meanings. Also, the meaning of kissing may be different in different cultures. Most often, people kiss to show love or affection for each other. Sometimes people kiss as a sign of friendship, sometimes it is a ritual performed to greet someone. 
There are different ways of kissing. People might kiss on the cheeks to greet someone, or to bid them farewell. Depending on the culture it usually does not mean that the kisser loves the person he or she kissed. Kissing when female friends meet is usual in many countries, with some interesting variations. Parisian females often do a rapid double 'air kiss' or 'cheek kiss': a kiss on each side twice, but without lips touching flesh.
French kissing is an erotic gesture. It involves touching tongues while kissing. It is more intimate than other forms of kissing
It is possible to spread diseases through kissing, but it is also possible to exaggerate the danger. Exotic diseases like herpes and mononucleosis can be spread, but that is rare, and spreading HIV this way is almost unknown. Colds and 'flu are much more likely to be spread. Mononucleosis is well known for being spread through kissing. Many diseases that can be spread by sharing drinks can be spread by kissing.

</doc>
<doc id="17938" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17938" title="Brothel">
Brothel

A brothel is a bar, nightclub or hotel where prostitutes work. People go there to buy sex for money.
In some countries operating brothels is legal, in other countries it is illegal. Examples of countries where brothels are illegal are Canada and most of the United States. Brothels are legal in some countries from Europe, for example. A country which has permissive laws regarding prostitution is the Netherlands.
Most of the time, where legal, brothels need to be registered like other businesses. However even if it is legal to run a brothel, there may still be conflicts with the law. Examples of problem cases are:
Brothels have been known for most of recorded history. At first there was temple prostitution in many Mediterranean and Middle Eastern countries. 
In Ancient Greece and Roman civilizations, brothels were established. Sometimes they were licensed institutions. This was first recorded in Athens in 594 BC. Public sources of the time said it was good that Solon installed the brothel. People said this would reduce the problems caused by sexually unfulfilled sailors and workers. It would also fill money into the public purse. This first official brothel was soon followed by many others, and also influenced the creation of special schools in which various classes of prostitutes (from slavegirls to future courtesans) were trained for their profession.
Brothels use a variety of business models:
The third option (the brothel owner renting space and facilities to prostitutes) gives some way for the brothel owner to say he did not know what is going on. This is especially the case where prostitution is forbidden or restricted. Brothel owners often disguise their actions as running a massage parlor, a bar or a similar venue. 
Allowing such places (while forbidding prostitution) can also give politicians a way to save face when they do not want to put the laws against prostitution into practice.

</doc>
<doc id="17940" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17940" title="Latitude">
Latitude

The latitude of the Earth gives the distance north and south of the equator. It is measured in degrees. Latitude is represented by the Greek letter phi, formula_1. It is usually used along with a measurement of longitude in order to pinpoint a location on Earth.
The equator is numbered 0 degrees. Everything north or south of the equator is designated either as north latitude or south latitude. The Antarctic Circle, Tropic of Capricorn, Tropic of Cancer, and Arctic Circle are all circles of latitude.

</doc>
<doc id="17943" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17943" title="Jaleel White">
Jaleel White

Jaleel White (born November 27, 1976) is an American actor. He is best known for playing the character of Steve Urkel in the television series "Family Matters", popular in the 1990s. He was also the first English voice of Sonic the Hedgehog.

</doc>
<doc id="17948" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17948" title="Chemical substance">
Chemical substance

A chemical substance is any material with a known chemical composition. For example, water has the same properties and the same ratio of hydrogen to oxygen whether it came from a river or was made in a laboratory. Typical chemical substances found in the home include water, salt (sodium chloride) and bleach. Generally, substances exist as a solid, a liquid, or a gas, and may change between these "phases of matter" when there are changes in temperature or pressure.

</doc>
<doc id="17956" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17956" title="South China tiger">
South China tiger

The South China tiger ("Panthera tigris amoyensis") is an almost extinct subspecies of the Tiger. There are now 20-30 of them left in the wild and 60 left in captivity. It is one of the world's ten most endangered animals and the most endangered of the six surviving tiger subspecies. The South Chinae tiger is also known as the "Chinese", "Amoy", or "Xiamen" tiger.
It can be distinguished from other tiger subspecies by its narrow face, it's longer nose, more intense orange colour, short fur, longer legs, and shorter stripes which are spaced far apart from each other compared to other tiger subspecies. The South China tiger has the least amount of stripes out of all the tiger subspecies, and is the second smallest tiger.
A male South China tiger is around 2.3 to 2.65 m (91 to 104 in) long, and weighs 130 to 175 kg (290 to 390 lb). Females are smaller and are around 2.2 to 2.4 m (87 to 94 in) long, and weigh 110 to 115 kg (240 to 250 lb). The greatest length of the skull in males is 318 to 343 mm (12.5 to 13.5 in), and in females 273 to 301 mm (10.7 to 11.9 in).
The South China tiger is a carnivorous predator, hunting its prey by stalking it until the South China tiger has the opportunity to catch it off guard. South China tigers usually hunt large mammals like deer, wild boar, cattle and goats.
The South China tiger is found on mountains, and in temperate, upland forests of southern-China.
Females are pregnant for around 3 to 4 months before giving birth to around 5 cubs. Newborn South China tiger cubs weigh about 1 kg (2 lb) and are blind and helpless. The mother feeds them milk for about 2 months and then the South China tiger cubs are introduced to meat. South China tiger cubs depend on their mother for the first 18 months and then they start hunting on their own.

</doc>
<doc id="17961" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17961" title="Windows XP">
Windows XP

Windows XP is a version of the Microsoft Windows operating system. It is for personal computers. Microsoft released Windows XP on October 25, 2001. XP came after Windows 2000 and Windows Me. It was replaced by Windows Vista. The letters "XP" stand for "eXPerience".
Windows XP was the second most used computer operating system in the world as of April 2012. Microsoft stopped supporting Windows XP on April 8, 2014.
Windows XP Home Edition is an edition that was made for home users. Windows XP Professional was made for business users. It had advanced management features. Windows XP Media Center Edition was for people who edit videos and pictures a lot. Another special edition of XP is called the Tablet PC Edition, for pen-based laptops.
An edition of Windows XP for 64-bit computers was released as Windows XP x64 Edition. It had all the features of Windows XP Professional, but was made to work on 64-bit computers instead of the older 32-bit computers. There was also a separate edition for 64-bit Itanium computers: Windows XP 64-bit Edition Version 2002. On the feature level, it is different from Windows XP Professional. There is no activation needed in this edition. It was later succeeded by Windows XP 64-bit Edition Version 2003 on March 2003. 
There is a Windows XP Starter Edition. That was sold mostly in developing countries. The price was low, because Microsoft wanted to fight the high software piracy rate in those countries. It could only be bought with a new computer.
The system requirements for Windows XP Home and Professional editions are:

</doc>
<doc id="17965" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17965" title="Crotram">
Crotram

CROTRAM is a group of Croatian companies that make trams. They make a tram called TMK 2200.
Crotram is a consortium (a group of companies that cooperate) made of three companies: Elektroindustrija Koncar(cro. Končar) and Gredelj, both from city of Zagreb, and Duro Dakovic (cro.Đuro Đaković), from Slavonski Brod.
Crotram sells their trams to ZET, the company that is in charge of all the public transport for the city of Zagreb. So far Crotram has only sold TMK 2200s to Zagreb, but they are trying to sell them in other cities.
The TMK 2200 is 32 meters long, and it can go as fast as 70km/h. 202 people can ride at one time.

</doc>
<doc id="18018" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18018" title="Star Wars Episode IV: A New Hope">
Star Wars Episode IV: A New Hope

Star Wars Episode IV: A New Hope is the first film in the "Star Wars saga". The movie was released in 1977 and is a mix of science fiction, fantasy, action and drama.
Princess Leia Organa is a prisoner of the evil Empire. She was captured by Darth Vader, who is helping the Empire stop a rebellion, by using the Death Star. Luke Skywalker, Obi-Wan Kenobi and Han Solo work together to rescue her. They are helped by the droids (or robots) R2-D2 and C-3PO. With the princess, they try to stop the Empire and bring peace and happiness to the galaxy.

</doc>
<doc id="18021" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18021" title="Saint Kitts and Nevis">
Saint Kitts and Nevis

The Federation of Saint Kitts and Nevis (, also known as the Federation of Saint Christopher and Nevis), is a federal nation made up of two small islands in the Caribbean Sea. It is the smallest independent country in the Western Hemisphere.
The capital city is Basseterre. It is on the main island of St Kitts. The island of Nevis has some rights of self-government and two seats in the federal parliament.
St Kitts and Nevis is about one-third of the way from Puerto Rico to Trinidad and Tobago.
The headquarters of the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank is in St Kitts. That bank controls the East Caribbean dollar.
The two islands were part of the Leeward Islands Colony from 1871 to 1956, and of the West Indies Federation from 1958 to 1962.
The Islands, plus Anguilla, got limited self-government in 1967. Anguilla objected and the Metropolitan Police were sent there in 1968 to stop rioting. Until 19 December 1980 the official name of St Kitts and Nevis was Saint Christopher, Nevis and Anguilla.
St Kitts and Nevis became an independent Commonwealth realm in 1983, Anguilla has stayed a British overseas territory.
In 1970 a movement to make Nevis separate from St Kitts started.
In 1983 the constitution set up a 15 member National Assembly. The Assembly is unicameral, that is, it only has one chamber. 3 members of the Assembly are appointed by the Governor General, on the advice of the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition. The other members are elected. If the Speaker decides to stand for re-election he is automatically elected, without a contest.
Nevis is responsible for its own internal affairs.
There is an eight member Nevis Island Assembly, plus and Island administration, of at least two members, headed by the premier.
The country has two main islands, Saint Kitts and Nevis. The highest peak, at 1,156 metres, is Mount Liamuiga. There is also a smaller island named Booby Island. No one lives on Booby Island.
The islands are of volcanic origin. There are large central peaks covered in tropical rainforest. People do not live on the steeper slopes leading to these peaks. Most of the people on both islands live closer to the sea. There are many rivers coming from the mountains of both islands. These give fresh water to the people. St. Kitts also has one small lake.
The federation of Saint Kitts and Nevis is divided into fourteen parishes. There are nine divisions on Saint Kitts and five on Nevis.
These are some of the more important cities and towns in Saint Kitts and Nevis.
Cricket is common in Saint Kitts and Nevis. Top players go to the West Indies cricket team. The late Runako Morton was from Nevis. Saint Kitts and Nevis is the smallest country on Earth to ever host a World Cup event. It was one of the host venues of the 2007 Cricket World Cup.
The St. Kitts and Nevis national football team, also known as the "Sugar Boyz", has had some international success. They went to the semifinal round of qualification for the 2006 FIFA World Cup in the CONCACAF region. Led by Glence Glasgow they defeated U.S. Virgin Islands and Barbados. They then lost to Mexico, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago.
The St. Kitts and Nevis Billiard Federation, SKNBF, is the governing body for cue sports across the two islands. 
Kim Collins is the country's best known track and field athlete. He has won gold medals in the 100 metres at both the World Championships in Athletics and Commonwealth Games. At the 2000 Sydney Olympics he was the country's first athlete to reach an Olympic final. He and three other athletes represented St. Kitts and Nevis at the 2008 Summer Olympics. The four by one hundred metre relay team won a bronze medal in the 2011 world championships.
American writer and former figure skater and triathlete Kathryn Bertine was given dual citizenship. She tried to qualify for the 2008 Summer Olympics representing St. Kitts and Nevis in women's cycling. She did not make enough points to go the Olympics.
St. Kitts and Nevis had two athletes ride in the time trial at the 2010 UCI Road World Championships. Athletes included Reginald Douglas and James Weekes.

</doc>
<doc id="18022" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18022" title="Danish language">
Danish language

Danish is the Germanic language spoken in Denmark, the Faroe Islands, and parts of Greenland and Germany (Southern Schleswig). Around 5.5 million people speak Danish. It is used as a second language in Greenland and the Faroe Islands. The Danish people, or "Danes", call their language "dansk".
Here are some simple words in Danish:
 

</doc>
<doc id="18023" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18023" title="Niger">
Niger

Niger is a country in western Africa. The capital is Niamey, and the official language is French. It is surrounded by Algeria and Libya to the north, Chad to the east, Nigeria and Benin to the south, and Burkina Faso and Mali to the west. Niger is landlocked, meaning it has no coastline. Niger gets its name from the Niger River.
The Mali Empire and the Songhai Empire both had land in what is now Niger. Later France controlled the land that is now Niger. Niger has a population, or the number of people living in an area, of 15,306,252 and an area of 1,267,000 square kilometres. Much of Niger is desert.
After a military coup in 2010, Niger is now a democratic, multi-party state. Most of the people live in rural areas, and have little access to advanced education.
Niger is on the border between the Sahara and Sub-Saharan regions. Niger's area is of which is water. It is the world's twenty-second largest country. Niger borders seven countries. The longest border is with Nigeria to the south.
The lowest point is the Niger River, with an elevation of . The highest point is Mont Idoukal-n-Taghès in the Aïr Mountains at .
This table shows cities with a population over 10,000, according to 2001 census.
Niger's subtropical climate is mainly very hot and dry. Much of it is covered by desert. In the extreme south there is a tropical climate on the edges of the Niger River basin. The land is mostly desert plains and sand dunes. There is flat to rolling savanna in the south and hills in the north.
The literacy rate (the amount of the adult population who can read or write) of Niger is among the lowest in the world. In 2005 it was estimated to be only 28.7% (42.9% male and 15.1% female). Primary education in Niger is required for six years. The primary school enrollment and attendance rates are low, particularly for girls. Children are often made to work rather than attend school. This is particularly true during planting or harvest periods.

</doc>
<doc id="18026" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18026" title="Zealand">
Zealand

Zealand is an island of Denmark. It is the biggest island. Over two million people live on it. Copenhagen, the capital city of Denmark, is on the island.

</doc>
<doc id="18029" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18029" title="Brunei">
Brunei

Brunei (officially called State of Brunei, Abode of Peace) is a country in Southeast Asia. It is north of Malaysia (Borneo). The country is rather landlocked by Malaysia. To the north is the South China Sea and the Philippines to the northeast. The capital of Brunei is Bandar Seri Begawan. The country has a small area and not many people live there. The leader of the country is the Sultan of Brunei. He is one of the richest people in the world, because he owns a lot of oil. The main religion in Brunei is Islam there are also many people who follow Buddhism or Animism. The native languages of Brunei is Malay and English as second language.
From the 14th to the 16th centuries Brunei Darussalam was the seat of a powerful sultanate extending over Sabah, Sarawak and the southern Philippines. Thus, the current Sultan represents one of the oldest continuously ruling dynasties in the world. By the 19th century, the Brunei Darussalam Empire had been whittled away by wars, piracy and the colonial expansion of European powers.
In 1847, the sultan ended a treaty with Great Britain and in 1888 Brunei Darussalam officially became a British protectorate. In 1906, the Residential System was established in Brunei Darussalam. A British Resident was nominated as a representative of the British government to advise the sultan in all matters except Malay customs, traditions and Islamic religion.
The 1959 Agreement established a written constitution which gave Brunei Darussalam internal self-government. In 1971, the agreement was amended and revised to assert full internal independence except defence and external affairs.
In 1967 His Highness Sultan Haji Sir Muda Omar Ali Saifuddien abdicated in favour of his son Pengiran Muda Mahkota Hassanal Bolkiah. On January 1, 1984 Brunei Darussalam resumed full independence and the Sultan took office as Prime Minister, Finance Minister and Home Affairs Minister, presiding over a cabinet of six. In October 1986, the cabinet was expanded to 11 members, with His Majesty relinquishing the portfolios of Finance and Home Affairs and taking over the Defence portfolio which his late father had held since 1984. In 1988 another reshuffle brought about the elevation of the deputy minister to a full minister and the creation of the Ministry of Industry and Primary Resources designed to boost the country's development.
In spite of the sizable non-Muslim population (about 1/3 of the population) and criticism by the international community, the Sultan still announced Brunei's adoption of Sharia law in 2013 to fully enforce on the Muslim majority and partially enforce on non-Muslims. Is is expected to take full effect in 2016 after 3 phases, and had begun partial enforcement in its first phase in 2014. It is the first country in East and Southeast Asia to practice Sharia law.
Officially, there are no places in Brunei that have "city" status. Some of the important places are:
Given that Brunei is an oil-rich country, Brunei gets most of its income from selling natural resources.
Brunei uses the Brunei Ringgit to trade. However, the Singapore dollar can be used here as both currencies are of the same value.

</doc>
<doc id="18031" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18031" title="Taka">
Taka

The Taka is the currency of Bangladesh. The most commonly used symbol for the Taka is Tk and ৳. This is used on receipts while purchasing goods and services. One taka is divided into 100 poisha.
In Bengali, the word "taka" is also used to mean any money, currency, or notes. 
Bangladesh Bank, the central bank of the country, prints the currency, except for one taka and two taka notes, which are made by the Ministry of Finance. 

</doc>
<doc id="18032" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18032" title="Bogotá">
Bogotá

Bogota is the capital (city) of Colombia. In 2009 more than 7 million people live in Bogota which is the largest city in Colombia. It is about 2,640 meters above sea level, on top a plateau (a mountain with a flat top). This makes it the third highest capital in the world. With many universities and libraries, Bogotá has become known as "The Athens of South America".The weather is usually nice during the day and cool at night. It has a series of bike paths (trails that are made for bikes) that wind through the city. It has many recreational and amusement parks open to the public. The current mayor is Enrique Penalosa.
Originally, Native Americans called Muisca lived in the area. Then, in 1538, Gonzalo Jimenes de Quezada, a Spanish conqueror, founded Bogota. Bogota became a center of trade, art, and education. Some of the oldest universities in the Americas are in Bogota. After Independence from Spain, Bogota became the capital of Gran Colombia in 1819. 
Bogota has had extremely awful moments. In 1948, a presidential candidate, Jorge Eliécer Gaitán, was murdered while doing a speech in front of hundreds of persons. This tragic moment brought with it terrible consequences: one of the most remembered one is the "Bogotazo". The "Bogotazo" started as a political party war, the blue party, self named the "conservatives", began to hunt and kill every single member of the red party, the "liberals". Such a sadistic event had not been seen in the history of Colombia since the independence war of this very country. Seeing this terrible unfair situation, the remaining blue party members decided to create the "Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia" (FARC); however, this group was ironically created to protect the oppressed people from their oppressors. Nowadays, this group is known as terrorists and murderers;nevertheless, Colombia's capital city, Bogota, has not being attacked in the last few years.

</doc>
<doc id="18033" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18033" title="Aymara people">
Aymara people

The Aymara are members of a tribe of Native Americans that live in Bolivia and Peru. They are native to the area around Lake Titicaca. They speak the Aymara language. They call themselves Aymaras. 
The president of Bolivia, Evo Morales, is Aymara.
The many-colored flag of the tribe is called the Wiphala.

</doc>
<doc id="18034" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18034" title="Perihelion">
Perihelion

The perihelion is the point in the orbit of a planet, asteroid or comet where[& when] it is nearest to the sun. It is the opposite of aphelion, which is where [& when] the orbit of the object is farthest from the sun.
The word perihelion stems from the Greek words "peri," meaning near, and "Helios," meaning the Greek god of the sun. (The similar word, perigee, refers to the nearest point in some object's orbit of earth.)
All planets, comets and asteroids in our solar system have approximately elliptical (a kind of non-circular) orbits (any single revolution of a body around the sun is only approximately elliptical, because the phenomenon known as precession of the perihelion prevents the orbit from being a simple closed curve such as an ellipse). Thus, they all have a closest and a farthest point from the sun: a perihelion and an aphelion. Orbital eccentricity measures the flatness of the orbit.
Earth comes closest to the sun every year around January 3. It is farthest from the sun every year around July 4. The difference in distance between Earth's nearest point to the sun in January and farthest point from the sun in July is 3.1 million miles (5 million kilometers). Earth is about 91.4 million miles (147.1 million kilometers) from the sun in early January, in contrast to about 94.5 million miles (152 million kilometers) in early July.
When Earth is closest to the sun, it is winter in the northern hemisphere and summer in the southern hemisphere. Thus it is possible to see that Earth's distance from the sun does not noticeably cause the seasons to change; the relatively minor effects of differences in distance is somewhat masked by the mainly oceanic southern hemisphere vs the half- continental northern hemisphere. Therefore, the Earth's seasons come and go mainly because Earth does not rotate with its axis exactly upright with respect to the plane of our world’s orbit around the sun. Earth's axial tilt is 23.5 degrees. This puts the Sun farther south in December and January, so the north has winter and the south has summer. Thus winter falls on that part of the globe where sunlight strikes least directly. Summer falls on that part of the globe where sunlight strikes most directly.

</doc>
<doc id="18035" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18035" title="Johnston Atoll">
Johnston Atoll

The island is named after Captain James Johnston, who discovered it in 1807. The island was mined for guano until 1890. After that, it was used as an army base.

</doc>
<doc id="18036" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18036" title="Llama">
Llama

A Llama ("Lama glama") is a mammal of the "Camelidae" family. It is from South America, the Andes Mountains of Peru and Ecuador.
Sometimes the name "llama" is used for all four South American camelids.
The llama was domesticated about 5000 years ago. It was and is used for carrying things, and for wool. The llama was very important for the Incan people. Even today, llamas are used for similar reasons, but will more commonly be used as domesticated pets. The llama's close relative is the alpaca, who is a more demure, petite animal in comparison to the llama. Llamas have three related cousins - the alpaca, the guanaco, and the vicuña. The llama is the national symbol of Bolivia.
Llamas spit, and travel together. Llamas also have a high content of hemoglobin which causes there blood cells to be oval and not circular.

</doc>
<doc id="18039" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18039" title="1840s">
1840s


</doc>
<doc id="18041" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18041" title="Mexican–American War">
Mexican–American War

The Mexican–American War took place between 1846 and 1848 between the United States of America and Mexico.
When Mexico got independence from Spain in 1821, Texas was part of Mexico. Americans and other settlers came into Texas when Mexico allowed non-Spanish settlers to settle there. After many settlers came to Texas, disputes led to the Texas Revolution in which in 1836 Texas became independent. Mexico refused to recognize the Republic of Texas as an independent country. Texas soon asked to become a state of the United States. Years later, in 1845, the US annexed Texas. But Mexico still did not recognize its independence or recognize the annexation by the U.S. The United States offered to buy from Mexico the land extending from Texas to the Pacific Ocean, but Mexico wanted to keep that vast area. In 1846, a dispute over the border between Texas and Mexico resulted in armed conflict, and the Mexican–American War began.
But the United States moved quickly to annex Texas after the 1844 election of James K. Polk. In his campaign, Polk had called for the "re-annexation" of Texas and the "re-occupation" of the Oregon Territory. Polk also wanted California and the rest of what is now the Southwestern United States. After offering to buy the territory, he moved U.S. troops into a place that Mexico said was not in Texas, but rather part of the Mexican state of Coahuila. The Mexican army attacked them.
The main causes of the war then was the westward expansion of the United States]]. All through the 19th century Americans believed it was their right to expand westward. At the time they believed they could conquer the people already living on the land and take it for the United States. Southerners wanted to see more slave states.
Antonio López de Santa Anna became President again, and many Mexicans hated him and did not want to follow him into war. Many Americans, including young Abraham Lincoln, also disliked the war.
In addition to small units sent to California and New Mexico, the United States sent two major armies into Mexico under the commands of General Winfield Scott and future President of the United States General Zachary Taylor.
After the U.S. had entered Mexico, the Mexican general Antonio López de Santa Anna took command of the Mexican soldiers in early 1847. The U.S. forces fought Santa Anna near Monterrey and Buena Vista. After Buena Vista, the Mexican army had many problems, including starvation, disease, and desertion. The Mexican government was unstable. In March 1847, Scott landed at Veracruz. His force included future Civil War generals Robert E. Lee, Ulysses S. Grant, Stonewall Jackson and George G. Meade, as well as Commodore Perry. Scott took Puebla in May, and took Mexico City in September after the battle of Battle of Chapultepec.
When American soldiers came to California, the Bear Flag Revolt was happening. Some Californians were attempting to leave Mexico and form their own country, as Texas had done. In July and August 1846, American soldiers captured Monterey, Yerba Buena and Los Angeles. After a counterattack by the "Californios", the Americans had taken much of California by 1847. The Mexican governor of California, Pio Pico, left the state.
The United States won the war and Mexico signed the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo in 1848. The treaty gave the U.S. lands that would become the states of Arizona, California, New Mexico, Nevada, Utah, southwestern Colorado, and southwestern Wyoming. Mexico received 15 million dollars and gave up its claims to Texas.
The slavery debate in the United States became more intense with the addition of the new territory and the question of whether slavery would be legal in these new territories. Also, many of the officers who would lead troops in the American Civil War fought in the war and would use their experiences in the coming Civil War.

</doc>
<doc id="18042" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18042" title="European Revolutions of 1848">
European Revolutions of 1848

The European Revolutions of 1848 were a series of revolts in Europe. In some places they are called Spring of Nations or the Year of Revolution.
These revolutions started in January with a Palermo republican uprising. The larger French Revolution of 1848 in February was followed in March by several other revolutions amongst them the Hungarian Revolution of 1848 and the Revolutions of 1848 in the German states. In Ireland, the rebellions began because of famine conditions in their country.
People in the various countries tried to take over their governments.

</doc>
<doc id="18043" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18043" title="Edvard Grieg">
Edvard Grieg

Edvard Grieg (born 15 June 1843 Bergen, Norway; died 4 September 1907) was a Norwegian composer and pianist who composed in the Romantic period. He is Norway’s most famous composer. He is best known for his Piano Concerto in A minor and for his incidental music to Henrik Ibsen's play "Peer Gynt", which includes movements called "Aubade" and "In the Hall of the Mountain King". He wrote many pieces for piano, including a collection of 66 pieces called "Lyric Pieces". He also wrote songs to Norwegian and to German words.
Grieg was born in Bergen on 15 June 1843. His ancestors were Scottish people who had moved to Norway around 1770. The original family name was spelt "Greig".
Grieg came from a musical home. His mother was his first piano teacher. He went to several schools, and started composing when he was young. He used to take his compositions to school, but the teacher did not show much interest in them.
In the summer of 1858 Grieg met the great Norwegian violinist Ole Bull, who was a friend of the family, and whose brother was married to Grieg's aunt. Bull noticed the 15-year-old boy's talent and persuaded his parents to let him go to Leipzig in Germany to study music.
Grieg enrolled in the conservatory, concentrating on the piano, and enjoyed all the concerts and recitals given in Leipzig. He did not like the discipline of the conservatory course of study, but he still got very good grades. The first piano recital he gave was in Sweden. In 1862 he finished his studies in Leipzig and went back to Bergen where he gave another recital.
In 1863 Grieg went to Copenhagen, Denmark, and stayed there for three years. He met the Danish composers J. P. E. Hartman, and Niels Gade. Gade told him to go and write a symphony. Grieg did not feel happy writing a long symphony although he did try. He also met the Norwegian composer Rikard Nordraak who had composed the Norwegian national anthem. Nordraak showed Grieg how wonderful Norwegian folk music was. Grieg had hardly heard any Norwegian folk music until then. When Nordraak died, Grieg composed a funeral march in his honour.
On 11 June 1867, Grieg married his first cousin Nina. The next year their only child, Alexandra, was born. The following summer, Grieg wrote his Piano Concerto in A minor while on holiday in Denmark. Edmund Neupert gave the concerto its first performance on 3 April 1869 in the Casino Theater in Copenhagen. Grieg himself was unable to be there because he was conducting in Christiana (now called “Oslo”).
In the summer of 1869, Grieg's daughter Alexandra became ill and died, at the age of 13 months.
In 1870, he met Franz Liszt in Rome. Liszt had made it possible for Grieg to get a travel grant. They played Grieg's Violin Sonata No. 1 together, which Liszt liked very much. On a second visit, in April, Grieg brought with him the manuscript of his Piano Concerto which Liszt played by sight. Liszt gave him some advice about the orchestration.
Grieg spent most of his time conducting and playing the piano in concerts. He often travelled, and in 1876 he went to Bayreuth to hear the first performance of Wagner’s Ring cycle. He wrote a review of the operas for a Norwegian newspaper.
In 1876, Ibsen asked Grieg to write some incidental music for the first performance of the play he had written about the Norwegian hero Peer Gynt. Many of the pieces from this work became very popular. They are played by orchestras as well as in arrangements for piano or for piano duet.
In 1883 he and wife parted for a while, although friends managed to persuade the couple to come together again and they spent four months in Rome. They built a house called Troldhaugen in Bergen, with a view of the fjord. They moved into the house in 1885 and Grieg lived there for the rest of his life. They continued to travel and give concerts. Nina had a good voice and sang her husband’s songs. Grieg only performed his own works at concerts. During his last years he received many honours.
In his later life Grieg became famous, although never rich. The Norwegian government gave him a pension. Grieg made some recordings of his piano pieces. These are some of the very first gramophone recordings that were made. The sound is not very good, but they show that Grieg was an excellent pianist. He also recorded music rolls on a pianola.
Edvard Grieg died in the autumn of 1907, aged 64, after a long illness. He had suffered from respiratory problems ever since he was very ill in 1860 as a student in Leipzig. At his funeral thousands of people went out on the streets of his home town to honour him. Following his wish, his own funeral march for Rikard Nordraak was played, as well as the funeral march by Frederic Chopin. His and his wife's ashes are buried in a mountain crypt near his house, Troldhaugen.
Grieg was often inspired by Norwegian folk music. This can be heard in his songs and some of his instrumental music. His chamber music includes 3 violin sonatas and a cello sonata as well as a piano sonata and many shorter piano pieces. However, he has become very well known all over the world through his Piano Concerto and his music for "Peer Gynt". Another popular work is his "Holberg Suite" which was originally written for the piano but later arranged for string orchestra.
The famous opening of Grieg’s Piano Concerto featured in a comedy sketch by Morecambe and Wise in the 1970s. The conductor André Previn was their special guest in the sketch which has become a classic.

</doc>
<doc id="18044" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18044" title="Palmyra Atoll">
Palmyra Atoll

Palmyra Atoll is an island in the North Pacific Ocean. No one lives there.but 4 to 20 people used this island. It is managed as a nature reserve by the United States. It is known as the "Palmyra Atoll National Wildlife Refuge". 
In 2005, a team of scientists from all over the world started to build a research station on the island. They wanted to study the environment of the island.

</doc>
<doc id="18045" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18045" title="Kingman Reef">
Kingman Reef

Kingman Reef is a coral reef in the North Pacific Ocean, owned by the United States. 
It is the farthest north of the Northern Line Islands. It is only sometimes above water. 
Palmyra Atoll is the other U.S. territory in the Northern Line Islands.

</doc>
<doc id="18046" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18046" title="Jarvis Island">
Jarvis Island

Jarvis Island (; formerly known as Bunker Island) is an uninhabited island owned by the United States. The small island is a part of the United States Minor Outlying Islands, a group of mostly uninhabited islands.
Jarvis Island was officially made part of the United States in 1858. People used to mine guano there, but they then abandoned it. The United States treats it as a nature reserve. 
Located 25 miles south of the equator, Jarvis Island, is an uninhabited coral island located in the South Pacific Ocean. Jarvis has no known natural freshwater sources, and very little rain. This creates a very bleak, flat landscape with plants no larger than shrubs. Jarvis Island has no ports or docks, other than a reef the guano miners blew up in order for the cargo boats to be able to drop anchor. Its grass, vines and low-growing bushes are primarily a nesting, roosting, and foraging habitat for wildlife. The island has a tropical desert climate, with high temperatures in the day, constant wind, and a very hot sun. There is no evidence that the island has ever supported a native human population, but on August 30, 1913, the Amaranth was carrying a cargo of coal from Newcastle, New South Wales, to San Francisco when it crashed on Jarvis' southern shore. Ruins of ten wooden buildings, and a two-story house among them, could still be seen by the "Amaranth" crew, who left Jarvis aboard two lifeboats. Also, Settlers were moved to Jarvis Island in 1935 to maintain a weather station and plan a landing field. A settlement called Millersville was established on the west coast of the island because of it was the highest elevation. The Japanese shelled the island in 1942 and the men living on Jarvis were evacuated soon afterward. The United States claimed possession of Jarvis under the Guano Islands Act of 1856. The Act gave American citizens the right to claim any unclaimed, uninhabited islands for the purpose of mining guano. Because at the time guano was a very valuable asset used for fertilizer.

</doc>
<doc id="18047" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18047" title="Robert E. Lee">
Robert E. Lee

Robert Edward Lee (January 19, 1807 – October 12, 1870) was the General-in-chief of the Confederate States Army during the American Civil War. He led the Army of Northern Virginia in the Eastern Theater of the American Civil War. Lee is considered one of America's greatest generals. He started out as an engineer but then moved up the ranks. Before the Civil War, Lee was an officer in the Mexican-American War. He was also head of West Point. As a colonel in the United States Army he led a battalion of marines to put down the rebellion at Harpers Ferry Armory and captured their leader, John Brown.
Lee was born at Stratford Hall in Westmoreland County, Virginia, on January 19, 1807. His parents were American Revolutionary War General and Governor of Virginia, Henry "Light Horse Harry" Lee, and his wife, Anne Carter Lee. In 1818, Lee's father died in the West Indies without ever seeing his son again. Robert was raised by his mother in Alexandria, Virginia.
Lee and George Washington were both descendants of Augustine Warner, Sr. and his wife, Mary Towneley Warner. Lee was descended through their daughter, Sarah. Washington was descended through their son, Augustine, Jr. Lee and Washington were third cousins, twice removed.
Lee attended Eastern View, a school in Fauquier County, Virginia. He may have attended schools in Shirley, Virginia, and in Alexandria, Virginia. His mother instructed him in the Episcopalian faith. Lee attended the United States Military Academy at West Point, and graduated second in the class of 1829.
On June 30, 1831, Lee married Mary Custis at Arlington House. She was the granddaughter of George Washington's stepson, John Parke Custis. They made their home at Arlington House. They had seven children.
Lee fought in the Mexican–American War under General Winfield Scott as a captain. Later, Scott wrote about Lee calling him "the very best soldier I ever saw in the field." After the war, Lee helped the army build forts. In 1855, Lee became a lieutenant colonel, and joined a cavalry regiment. As a Colonel, Lee was called on to stop the "slave rebellion", otherwise known as John Brown's raid on Harpers Ferry. Brown's raid was ended in less than an hour by Lee.
Lee inherited a number of slaves with Arlington House. He proved not to be a very good slave master. He tried kindness and refused to use torture. But the slaves knew their freedom had been granted them in the will and refused to work. Lee wanted to grant them their freedom but needed them to help him see out the work at Arlington House. Personally, Lee hated slavery calling it an "evil" to both blacks and whites. But he knew it had to be ended gradually or the economy of the South would wikt:collapse. But Lee did agree with other Southerners thinking that blacks were inferior. He believed God would work out the problem in his own time. Lee, like Thomas Jefferson had mixed feelings about slavery. 
The election of Abraham Lincoln in 1868 caused several states to secede in protest. This put Lee in a difficult position. The newly formed Confederate States of America offered Lee the rank of brigadier general. Lee did not respond to the offer. Winfield Scott offered him command of the army of U.S. volunteers. Between April 12–14, 1861, U.S. troops were bombarded at Fort Sumter at Charleston, South Carolina. The same day Virginia seceded from the Union. Lee did not support secession but he could not fight against his own state of Virginia. Lee resigned his U.S. Army commission on April 22, 1861, at Arlington House. He told his friends that he would not be a part of an invasion of the South. Several days later he accepted command of all Virginia forces.
At first, Lee did not command any soldiers in battle. Instead, he helped Confederate president Jefferson Davis make military decisions. In 1862, he became the commander of the Army of Northern Virginia. He would lead the army for the rest of the war. He would win many battles, even though the Union army in the battles had more men. At the Battle of Gettysburg, he tried to invade the Union in order to end the war. But his army was defeated and he had to retreat back into Virginia.
During 1864 and 1865, Lee fought Union general Ulysses S. Grant in Virginia. During the end of 1864 and the beginning of 1865, Lee and Grant fought near Richmond, Virginia in a series of battles called the Siege of Petersburg. In April 1865, Grant forced Lee to retreat from Richmond. After a series of battles, Grant surrounded Lee near Appomattox Courthouse and forced Lee to surrender. Before he surrendered, he said "I would rather die a thousand deaths than surrender".
President Andrew Johnson issued a proclamation granting amnesty and pardon to those Confederates who were a part of the rebellion against the United States. It contained 14 exempted classes and members of these groups had to make an application to the President of the United States asking for a pardon. Lee sent an application to General Grant. On June 13, 1865, Lee wrote to President Johnson: 
On October 2, 1865, Lee became president of Washington College in Virginia. That same day Lee signed his Amnisty Oath as required by President Johnson. But Lee was not pardoned and his citizenship was not restored.
His amnesty oath was found over a hundred years later in the National Archives. It appears United States Secretary of State William H. Seward had given the application to a friend to keep as a souvenir. The State Department had simply ignored Lee's application and it was never granted. In a 1975 Joint resolution by the United States Congress, Lee's rights as a citizen were restored with the effective date of June 13, 1865. The act was signed into law by President Gerald R. Ford on August 5, 1975.
Lee had a stroke on September 28, 1870 and died on October 12, 1870. Washington College changed its name to Washington and Lee University in Lee's honor. Lee's birthday is celebrated in several southern states as a holiday.

</doc>
<doc id="18048" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18048" title="1830s">
1830s


</doc>
<doc id="18049" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18049" title="1820s">
1820s


</doc>
<doc id="18050" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18050" title="1819">
1819


</doc>
<doc id="18052" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18052" title="Isaiah">
Isaiah

Isaiah was a prophet of God in Islam, Christianity and Bahá'í. He lived from about 740 to 681 BC. The name "Isaiah" means "the Lord is salvation" in the Hebrew language. 
Isaiah is also the name of a book in the Old Testament of the Bible, which tells the story of the Israelites in Isaiah's time. According to Christianity, Isaiah predicted in this book, the birth and then death of Jesus, hundreds of years before it actually happened. Judaism does not agree with that interpretation.
Isaiah was known to be the Shakespeare of the Bible due to his good education and the quality of the passages he wrote. He was cut in half by King Manasseh which led to his gruesome death. Most of Isaiah's Bible passages begin with 'God's message to'.

</doc>
<doc id="18056" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18056" title="Leopold Poetsch">
Leopold Poetsch

Leopold Poetsch was a German anrtisemitic professor and a high school teacher of Adolf Hitler who influenced the future leader's later views. 
Poetsch came from the southern German border area. There, political fights between Slavs and ethnic Germans angered him and made him one who was for the Pan-German movement. He started to teach in Maribor, Slovenia and later moved to Linz, Austria to teach history.
Hitler was very interested in what Poetsch said. Poetsch hated the Habsburgs and argued that all ethnic Germans should be united by a single government. He said that the Aryan race was stronger, in better health, and more fit to rule than all other people. Poetsch said that Jews and Slavs were what he called "inferior races". (This view was held a lot in Germany after World War I.)
Hitler began reading an anti-Semitic newspaper in his area. In his later years, Hitler spoke of Poetsch as a "great man." As dictator of Germany, Hitler tried to get all German-speaking people together and persecuted Slavs, Jews, Gypsies, and others. Hitler later tried to kill them all in the "Final Solution."

</doc>
<doc id="18059" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18059" title="Armenian Genocide">
Armenian Genocide

The Armenian Genocide was the forcible deportation and massacring of Armenians during the government of the Young Turks from 1915 to 1917 in the Ottoman Empire.
In November 1914, the Ottoman Empire went into the World War I on the side of the Central Powers. İsmail Enver, who was then the Minister of War, launched a disastrous military campaign against Russian forces in the Caucasus in hopes of capturing the city of Baku. His forces were routed at the Battle of Sarikamis, and many more of his men froze to death.
Returning to Istanbul, Enver largely blamed the Armenians living in the region for actively siding with the Russians. In 1914, the Ottoman Empire's "War Office" had already begun a propaganda drive to present Armenians living in the Ottoman Empire as a liability and threat to the country's security. An Ottoman naval officer in the War Office described the planning:
The Ottoman government, moving quickly, arrested an estimated 250 Armenian intellectuals on the night of 24 April 1915.
The Turkish massacres of Armenians in 1894, 1895, 1896, and 1909 were still fresh in their minds.
Guenter Lewy claims in his book,"The Armenian Massacres in Ottoman Turkey: A Disputed Genocide", that there is not enough evidence of the Young Turk regime organizing the killings of Armenians in the Ottoman Empire. 
According to Lewy, even though their fate in World War I proved tragic, it was not a ‘‘real’’ genocide, because ‘‘there were no centrally organized and state-sponsored premeditation and genocidal intention‘‘.

</doc>
<doc id="18060" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18060" title="Prime Minister of the United Kingdom">
Prime Minister of the United Kingdom

The Prime Minister of the United Kingdom is the highest elected office in the United Kingdom. The current Prime Minister is Theresa May, who succeeded David Cameron on 13 Jul 2016. 
The Prime Minister is the leader of the political party which wins most seats- spaces on the chairs in the house of Commons, after they are elected to tell other politicians about problems in their local area- in the House of Commons. Voters vote for their own local MP, not for the Prime Minister.
The first Prime Minister was Robert Walpole in the eighteenth century, but he was known as the First Lord of the Treasury. The first person to be officially called "Prime Minister" was Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman in 1905.
Other well-known prime ministers include Neville Chamberlain, Winston Churchill, Margaret Thatcher and Tony Blair. The Prime ministers live in No.10 Downing Street while in office.

</doc>
<doc id="18061" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18061" title="River Forth">
River Forth

The River Forth is a river in Scotland. It flows through the city of Edinburgh, and it flows into the sea.

</doc>
<doc id="18062" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18062" title="Alejandro Toledo">
Alejandro Toledo

Alejandro Toledo is a former president of Peru. He won the 2001 election for President.
He is from the town of Chimbote in Ancash Region, Peru. He is married to Eliane Karp of Belgium.

</doc>
<doc id="18063" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18063" title="Inuktitut">
Inuktitut

Inuktitut is a language of the Arctic, spoken by Inuits in Canada and in Greenland. Inuktitut is a very complex language. It is an official language in Nunavut and the Northwest Territories.
The Inuit write Inuktitut in two ways. One way to write Inuktitut is by using the Roman alphabet. The other way to write Inuktitut is by using an abugida, which is a kind of alphabet which has letters based on syllables.
The uses a small part of the Unified Canadian Aboriginal Syllabics, a set of letters made up for writing down many of the languages of the First Nations people in Canada.
Some words in English come from Inuktitut or another Inuit language. Among them are the words anorak, igloo, and kayak.

</doc>
<doc id="18064" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18064" title="Fall Out Boy">
Fall Out Boy

Fall Out Boy (often shortened to FOB) is an alternative rock band, that make music, from Chicago, Illinois, USA. The members are Pete Wentz (bassist), Patrick Stump (vocals), Andy Hurley (drums), and Joe Trohman (guitar). They have written successful songs, including "Thnks fr the Mmrs", "Sugar, We're Goin' Down" and "Dance, Dance". Their music is mostly like the pop-punk style, or genre, of music. The band got the name "Fall Out Boy" from a character who appeared in one episode of The Simpsons. "Sugar, We're Goin' Down" was the first single from their album "From Under the Cork Tree". It has peaked at number eight on the "Billboard" charts. The second single was "Dance, Dance" which picked up major airplay in the U.S. The third single was "A Little Less Sixteen Candles, a Little More Touch Me." Their third album is "Infinity on High" and it had lots of success around the world. Two songs from the album were very popular across the world. They are "This Ain't a Scene, It's an Arms Race" and "Thnks fr th Mmrs". The second song's title is "Thanks for the Memories" without the vowel letters, which is meant to look as if it were from a text message. The third single from "Infinity on High" is called "The Take Over, The Breaks Over". The fourth is "I'm Like a Lawyer With the Way I'm Always Trying to Get You Off (Me & You)". Their fourth album "Folie à Deux", was released on December 16, 2008. "I Don't Care" was the first song released from the album. In late 2009 the band took a rest. Patrick Stump went solo and released his debut album "Soul Punk" on October 18, 2011. His EP "Truant Wave" was released on February 22, 2011. Bassist Pete Wentz formed the electro-pop band Black Cards. Guitarist Joe Trohman and Andy Hurley formed a rock band The Damned Things with people from Anthrax and Every Time I Die.
Fall Out Boy came off hiatus in 2013, releasing a new single "My Songs Know What You Did in the Dark (Light 'Em Up)" and an album "Save Rock and Roll", along with a supporting tour. They went on the Save Rock and Roll Arena Fall Tour September of 2013 with fellow rock band Panic! at the Disco in support of the album as well. In September 2014, they released a new single, called "Centuries".

</doc>
<doc id="18065" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18065" title="Greek alphabet">
Greek alphabet

The modern Greek alphabet has 24 letters. It is used to write the Greek language.
The Greek alphabet is thought to be where all important European alphabets came from. Although the alphabet was borrowed from the Phoenician alphabet around the 10th century BC, there were many changes made to make it fit the Greek language. The main change was that some of the Phoenician letters that were for sounds not used in Greek were turned into vowels. The Phoenicians had written their alphabet without any vowels, so this change made writing a lot easier to read. This change was also better fit for Indo-European languages, which did not use consonant-based roots (meaning the word's central meaning is based on the consonant string) like those in Semitic languages such as Phoenician, Arabic, Hebrew, and Aramaic. Another change is that some new letters were invented for sounds that were in Greek but not in the Phoenician language. At first, Greek was written from right to left, the same as Phoenician, but after the 6th century BC, it was written from left to right. 
There were some differences in the early Greek alphabet depending on what part of the Greek world it was used in. The two main kinds were the eastern and western ones. But over time all Greeks started to use the same alphabet, especially after the Ionic alphabet of Miletus was officially adopted in Athens in 403 BC. A little later, the rest of Greece did the same, and by 350 BC, during the rule of Alexander the Great, almost all Greeks were using the same twenty-four letter Greek alphabet. 
Later, Aristophanes of Byzantium (c. 257185 BC), a Greek scholar and grammarian, invented the three diacritics (accent marks): acute, grave, and circumflex, to mark the tone or pitch of Greek words.
Although the Greek letters accurately represented all the main sounds of the Greek language early on, the sounds of the Greek language changed over time. Some of the vowel sounds began to sound similar to one another, aspirated voiceless stops became voiceless fricatives, and voiced stops became voiced fricatives. One can get an idea of how older Greek pronunciations sounded by looking at the Latin and English spellings of Greek loanwords like "philosopher", "Chimera", "Cyprus", and "Thessalonica" .
Another diacritic is a comma, usually above initial vowels. This signaled whether or not the sound of the letter 'H' was present. It is not available in our standard character-set. The diacritic is a comma placed above the vowel. If reversed it indicates the presence of an /h/ sound before a vowel, diphthong, or rho. Thus the Greek name "Ἕκτωρ" is pronounced Hektōr, not Ektor. Another example is ἥρως, pronounced hḗrōs ("hero").
In 1982, a new, simplified orthography, known as "monotonic", was adopted for official use in Modern Greek by the Greek state. It uses only a single accent mark, the acute accent. This marks the stressed syllable of polysyllabic words, that is, words with more than one syllable.

</doc>
<doc id="18068" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18068" title="Good Charlotte">
Good Charlotte

Good Charlotte is an American punk music band. They are from Waldorf, Maryland. They have many popular songs, including "The Anthem", "Girls and Boys", and "Lifestyles of the Rich and Famous". 
Their third album is unique. "The Chronicles of Life and Death" came in two different versions: the Life version, and the Death version. The only difference between them is the last song on the CD. The Life version has "Falling Away", and the Death version has "Meet My Maker".
The lead singer of the band is Joel Madden. His twin brother, Benji, is also in the band. But besides them, there is Billy (guitarist), Paul (bassist) and Dean (drums).

</doc>
<doc id="18069" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18069" title="Battle Creek, Michigan">
Battle Creek, Michigan

Battle Creek is a city in western Michigan, USA. The headquarters of the Kellogg's cereal company is located in this city.

</doc>
<doc id="18072" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18072" title="Grand Rapids, Michigan">
Grand Rapids, Michigan

Grand Rapids is a large city in western Michigan, United States. Former American president Gerald Ford grew up in Grand Rapids. Grand Rapids is also the birthplace of Amway and the Meijer store chain.
Grand Rapids is the county seat of Kent County. It is the second largest city in the state, after Detroit. The third largest is Warren.
The city has many attractions, including the Frederik Meijer Gardens and Sculpture Park and John Ball Park, which is a zoo. Grand Valley State University has a campus in downtown Grand Rapids.

</doc>
<doc id="18073" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18073" title="Evo Morales">
Evo Morales

Juan Evo Morales Aima (born October 26, 1959) is the President of Bolivia. He is an Aymara Native American, and is politically a leftist. He is the founder and leader of the Movement toward Socialism (or MAS) political party. "Movimiento al Socialismo" is its Spanish name. On January 22, 2006, he became President of Bolivia. His party has declared that he is the first indigenous person to be president of Bolivia. Not everyone believes this to be true because of his mestizo heritage and similar backgrounds of several past Bolivian presidents. Nonetheless, he is likely the first "culturally" indigenous president of Bolivia.
Born in Oruro, Morales was a leader in a union of coca growers. Morales has said he does not like United States policy toward Latin America, criticizing the country's past failures to stand up for democracy, trade agreements which he feels have not helped Bolivia, and especially for the US's anti-drug policies. Coca is a component in cocaine, but is also an important part of Bolivian culture. Morales became well known for this, and he was elected to Congress.
Even though he was forced out of Congress in 2002, he became a very popular person in Bolivia, and won the country's presidential election in 2005. As president, he focused on economic changes that moved the country toward a more socialist economy, instead of a capitalist one. He also worked with other leaders in South America like Rafael Correa and Nestor Kirchner. Morales has been a popular president, and has been reelected in 2009 and 2014. During this time he has criticized both George W. Bush and Barack Obama and has had arguments with the United States.
In 2016, Morales wanted to pass a Constitutional amendment that would allow him to run for another term in 2019. Many people in Bolivia saw this as a power grab, and the amendment lost the election.

</doc>
<doc id="18076" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18076" title="Lake Titicaca">
Lake Titicaca

Lake Titicaca is between Peru and Bolivia. It is the highest navigable lake in the world. It is the second largest in South America (after Maracaibo). It is at 3,809 meters above sea level. it covers around 8,300 km around the city of Macchu Picchu. 

</doc>
<doc id="18078" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18078" title="Howland Island">
Howland Island

Howland Island is a small island in the north Pacific Ocean, just north of the Equator. It is owned by the United States.
Howland island is a very hot and sunny island with wind blowing almost all the time. It only rains every once in a while.
Howland Island is located at 0 48 N, 176 38 W.

</doc>
<doc id="18088" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18088" title="2005 Atlantic hurricane season">
2005 Atlantic hurricane season

The 2005 Atlantic hurricane season was the time from June 1 to November 30, 2005 when hurricanes officially formed in the Atlantic Ocean. Storms sometimes form before and after these dates but most storms form during the season. Tropical Storm Zeta began on December 30 and ended on January 6 which is after the November 30 end of the season. 
2005 broke many records set. There were 28 storms that were tropical storms and 15 that were hurricanes. For the first time ever storms were named by the Greek alphabet as the normal name list had been used up. The storm which caused the most damage was Hurricane Katrina, which hit New Orleans, USA, and killed over 1000 people. The strongest storm of the season was not Katrina, it was Hurricane Wilma. Wilma was the strongest hurricane ever in the Atlantic Ocean.
The storm formed near Honduras on June 8 and moved north. It came close to western Cuba on June 10 before entering the Gulf of Mexico. Arlene strengthened just below hurricane strength before making landfall on western Florida. The storm quickly weakened while moving inland, and later became an extratropical remnant on June 13.
Tropical Storm Bret was a weak tropical storm that formed as Tropical Depression Two in the western Gulf of Mexico, then quickly became Tropical Storm Bret. The storm made landfall in Tuxpan, Veracruz, Mexico the next morning. It dissipated on June 30. The storm cause 2 deaths and $9 million in damage.
Hurricane Cindy was a tropical cyclone that reached minimal hurricane strength for a very short time in the Gulf of Mexico during July and made landfall in Louisiana. It was the third named storm and first hurricane of the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season. Hurricane Cindy left 3 deaths and $320 million in damage.
Hurricane Dennis was very powerful hurricane that reached a peak of 150 mph. Hurricane Dennis moved mostly northwestward in its track. It made landfall in Grenada, and almost made landfall in Jamaica, and also made landfall in Cuba, and Florida (United States).
Hurricane Emily was the strongest and only known category 5 hurricane in July. It beat a record in strength set by Hurricane Dennis only 6 day before. Hurricane Emily was one of four category 5 hurricanes in 2005. Hurricane Emily caused about 6 deaths and $988 million in damage.
Tropical Storm Franklin formed north of the Bahamas on July 21 and moved steadily across the western Atlantic while coming close to Bermuda on July 26. Later, Franklin became an extratropical cyclone near Newfoundland, before being absorbed by another non-tropical system. Franklin caused no damages and killed no people while it stayed in the ocean during most of its life.
Tropical Storm Gert was a weak and short lived storm. Tropical Storm Gert formed in the Bay of Campeche on July 23. The storm made landfall in Mexico and dissipated on July 25.
Tropical Storm Harvey was a strong tropical storm that moved across the Atlantic Ocean from August 2 to August 8. Harvey caused no damages or deaths and was the eighth named storm of the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season. Tropical Storm Harvey only affected Bermuda.
Hurricane Irene was a rather long lived storm (about 2 weeks). It took it a while to become a hurricane. The only affect from Irene was large waves. Irene caused no damage or deaths.
Tropical Storm Jose was a strong but very short lived storm. It quickly formed in the Bay of Campeche and made landfall in Mexico. Tropical Storm Jose dissipated the next day. Tropical Storm Jose caused 8 deaths and $45 million in damages.
Hurricane Katrina was a powerful category 5 hurricane. Katrina was the costliest hurricane in U.S. history. Katrina devastated the U.S. Gulf Coast, it especially devastated New Orleans, a city in Louisiana. It beat the old record from Hurricane Andrew. Katrina left $81.2 billion in damage and 1,836 deaths.
Tropical Storm Lee formed east of the Lesser Antilles as a tropical depression on August 28. On the next day, the depression weakened into a tropical low. The low then moved north and became stronger. It became a tropical storm for a short time on August 31. Lee quickly weakened again into a remnant low and was absorbed by a cold front on September 2.
Hurricane Maria was a major hurricane in September 2005. This storm was rare because it affected New Jersey, Iceland, Scotland, and Norway. Hurricane Maria caused 3 deaths and $3.1 million in damage.
Nate was a category 1 hurricane. Hurricane Nate also helped Hurricane Maria kill one person in Bermuda, and another in New Jersey. 
Hurricane Ophelia was a category 1 hurricane in September of 2005. It moved strangely just offshore of the United States. In all, Ophelia killed 3 people and caused $70 million in damage, mostly to North Carolina.
Hurricane Philippe was a category 1 hurricane that moved near land, but did not affect land. This was the third of five uses of a "P" name. The other were Pablo, Peter, Paloma, and Paula
Hurricane Rita was a powerful category 5 hurricane that started east of the Bahamas on September 26. It moved south of Florida and into the Gulf of Mexico. Rita became a category 5 hurricane very fast, then made landfall. Hurricane Rita made landfall as a category 3 hurricane in Louisiana, on September 24. By September 26, Rita had died over the U.S. The hurricane killed about 120 people and caused $10 billion in damage. This was only the second time that an "R" name was used in the Atlantic, the other was Roxanne.
Hurricane Stan was the sixth of the seven storms in 2005 to make landfall in Mexico. The storm caused $1 billion in Mexico and the Central American region. The exact number of people killed is unknown, but the guess is around 1,660, though it could be up to 2,000. 
Tammy was a tropical storm that only existed for a total of two days and brought minor damages to the southeastern United States. It peaked with 50 mph (85 km/h) just before making landfall on the northern Florida coast. Tammy formed from a strong non-tropical low on October 5 just off the Floridan coast. It moved north, peaking with 50 mph (85 km/h) winds just before making landfall on Atlantic Beach, Florida on October 6. Tammy died shortly later. Most of the damages were losses from FEMA that totaled up to $30 million. Tammy also killed 10 people. This was only the second time that a name starting with the letter "T" in the Atlantic Ocean. The other use was from Hurricane Tanya in 1995.
Hurricane Vince was a very rare hurricane. Hurricane Vince formed in the Atlantic where the water was too cold for a storm to form. It was only a hurricane for about 6 hours. The storm did something else rare, the storm made landfall in Spain. This was the first time that a "V" name had been used in the Atlantic.
Hurricane Wilma was the strongest hurricane ever recorded in the Atlantic Ocean. Hurricane Wilma lasted as a storm from mid to later October in 2005. Wilma left $28.8 billion in damage, mostly to Florida and the Yucatán Peninsula.
Tropical Storm Alpha was the first tropical storm to get a Greek alphabet name. It caused 43 people to die over Haiti, Dominican Republic, and the Bahamas. All of this happened before Hurricane Wilma caused it to die on October 24. 
Hurricane Beta was a category 3 hurricane in late October, 2005. It strengthened fast and made landfall in Nicaragua, before it died on October 31. Beta caused about 4 deaths and $3 million in damage.
Gamma was a tropical storm that started in the middle of November. It crossed the Caribeann Sea and died during this time. Tropical Storm Gamma reformed north of Honduras, before it again died. The tropical storm killed about 41 people in Honduras. 
Tropical Storm Delta was a strong tropical storm. It killed at least 7 people in the Canary Islands and caused about $360 million in damage. The remains were last seen over Morocco.
Epsilon was a rare December hurricane, the first since Hurricane Lili in 1984. Forecasters incorrectly guessed on how much time it would take for Epsilon to dissipate. Epsilon did not come any where near land.
Tropical Storm Zeta was the last storm of 2005. The storm formed on December 30 in cold waters of the Atlantic. Tropical Storm Zeta dissipated on January 6, 2006. It was only one of two storms to live in two different years (the other was Hurricane Alice which was in 1954 and 1955). The storm did not affect land or cause any deaths or damage.
There were also four storms in and around the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season that were not given any names: Tropical Depression Ten(10), Tropical Depression Nineteen(19), Subtropical Depression Twenty-two(22), and a subtropical storm that was not found until after it had happened. A subtropical cyclone is a storm that is not quite a tropical cyclone, but is more tropical than an extratropical cyclone.
In the spring of 2006, Hurricane Dennis, Hurricane Katrina, Hurricane Rita, Hurricane Stan, and Hurricane Wilma were retired and replaced by Don, Katia, Rina, Sean and Whitney in 2011.

</doc>
<doc id="18089" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18089" title="Christian calendar">
Christian calendar

A Christian calendar can be any calendar used by various Christian Churches for the Church year, called "liturgical year". For example, it can be used to find out what day Easter will be on, even though it is not the same in every Church.
The church year is divided into seasons like Lent, Easter, Pentecost, Advent and Christmas, with other weeks being seen as ordinary time.
The Gregorian calendar, named after Pope Gregory XIII, is now a civil calendar that is used in many countries around the world.
Catholic, Anglican and Orthodox Christians also celebrate Saint's days - here is a Catholic list

</doc>
<doc id="18090" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18090" title="Puberty">
Puberty

Puberty is what happens in children's bodies that changes them into adults. After puberty, people are able to make children. A girl who has gone through puberty can become pregnant and have a baby. At puberty, a boy's body begins making sperm and he starts to be able to ejaculate, which is semen coming out from his penis when he is sexually excited. If he has sexual intercourse (sex) with a girl, he can make her pregnant. 
Puberty is started by hormones, which are chemicals that tell parts of the body to do things. Today, on average, girls start puberty at age 10 or 11, and boys at age 11 or 12. However, people all over the world start puberty at different ages. Changes that happen to young men and women during puberty include the sex organs growing bigger, hair appearing on the body, and growing taller and stronger. These changes are called secondary sex characteristics. People often notice young men's voices getting deeper, and young women growing breasts and starting to menstruate (have periods).
Because puberty is the time in a child's life when he or she becomes able to make children, this is seen as very important. Therefore, people in many countries around the world have different ways of marking this event.
Puberty is started and carried on by different hormones. Hormones are chemicals that tell parts of the body to do things. Hormones are made by glands in the body. Glands are organs (special parts) of the body that make hormones.
This is what happens during puberty:
On average, girls begin puberty at ages 10–11; boys at ages 11–12. Girls usually complete puberty by ages 15–17, while boys usually complete puberty by ages 16–17. The major landmark of puberty for females is menarche, the onset of menstruation, which occurs on average between ages 12–13; for males, it is the first ejaculation, which occurs on average at age 13. 
In rich countries in the 21st century, the average age at which children, especially girls, reach puberty is lower compared to the 19th century, when it was 15 for girls and 16 for boys. This can be due to improved nutrition resulting in rapid body growth, increased weight and fat deposition, or eating meat from animals which have been dosed up with oestrogen.
This is the general picture, but people round the world may start puberty at different ages. This is because their environment (things around them) may differ quite a bit. Here are some of the things that make puberty happen at different ages in people:
Girls usually reach their adult height and become sexually mature (able to have babies) about four years after puberty starts. Boys keep growing for about six years after puberty starts. Puberty in boys starts off more slowly than in girls, but then speeds up later on. Although boys are usually about shorter than girls before puberty begins, men on average end up about taller than women.
For most boys, puberty takes about six years and ends when they are about 17 or 18 years old. At the end of puberty, a teenager is usually about 10 to 30 centimetres (cm) (4 to 12 inches (in)) taller, 7 to 29 kilograms (kg) (15 to 65 pounds (lb)) heavier, and stronger. He is also able to make a woman pregnant (have a baby).
The first sign of puberty in boys is that their testicles (also called the testes) and scrotum (the "bag" that the testicles are in) grow bigger. Before puberty, each testicle is about 1.5 to 2 cm (0.6 to 0.8 in) long and has a volume of about 2 to 3 cubic centimetres (cc) (0.1 to 0.2 cubic inches (cu in)). About six years after puberty starts, the testicles reach their adult size. The volume of an average adult man's testicle is about 18 to 20 cc (1.1 to 1.2 cu in). However, it is normal for some men to have testicles smaller than this size, and for other men to have larger testicles.
The penis also grows bigger during puberty. At the start of puberty, the average length of the penis is 6 cm (2.4 in). The penis reaches adult size about five years later. A study done in 1996 found the mean length of an adult man's penis is 3.5 in (8.9 cm) when it is flaccid (, ) (not erect or hard). The average length of an erect penis is about 12.9 to 15 cm (5.1 to 5.9 in).
The testicles have two main jobs: to make hormones and sperm. The testicles make the hormone testosterone, which spreads around the body. This causes the changes in the body that make a boy grow into a man. Testosterone also makes a man feel like having sex. One year after puberty begins, when boys urinate (pee) after waking up in the morning, some sperm can be found in the urine. When a boy is about 13 years old his testicles will have grown to the stage that he may be fertile (able to make a woman pregnant). However, it will be still be difficult for him to do so. Boys usually only become fully fertile when they reach about 14 to 16 years of age. The sperm in the testicles mixes with other liquids in the body to form a whitish or yellowish and sticky fluid called semen. During puberty, two glands in the body called the seminal vesicles and prostate also grow bigger. These glands make a lot of the liquid that is in semen.
When a man is sexually excited, he gets an erection – his penis becomes bigger, longer and harder. A male can become sexually excited if thinks about sex or sees a good-looking person, or if his penis rubs against something. During puberty, some boys also have spontaneous erections. These are erections that happen by themselves without any reason. This can be embarrassing when it happens in a public place.
When a man's penis is sexually stimulated for some time, he has an orgasm and semen shoots out from the penis. This is called ejaculation. Boys who have not begun puberty cannot ejaculate. A boy's first ejaculation usually happens about one year after he begins puberty. For some boys, the first ejaculation takes place when they are sleeping. This is called a nocturnal emission or a wet dream. It happens without the boy's control, often when he is having a dream about sex. Scientists believe that wet dreams are the body's way of removing too much semen. A study done of 5,300 white men in the United States in 1948 found that 13% of them had their first ejaculation through a wet dream, This seems to tell us that most boys have their first ejaculation after masturbating. A male masturbates when he rubs his penis to make himself feel good sexually. The study also found that most boys who have their first ejaculation by masturbating do this a year or more earlier than boys who have their first ejaculation through a wet dream. A 2004 survey by a magazine in Canada found that most males (43%) started masturbating when they were about 12 to 13 years old. When a boy begins masturbating, wet dreams often stop happening because semen is taken out from his body regularly.
When a boy starts to ejaculate, he usually produces only a small amount of semen. The semen is different from what an adult man produces. It is usually clear and stays sticky. It either has no sperm in it, or sperm that do not move properly or do not move at all. A boy's semen only becomes like an adult man's semen about two years after his first ejaculation.
Not long after a boy's testicles and penis start to grow, pubic hair (, ) begins to appear. Pubic hair is hair that grows in the pubic region, which is the part of the body where the penis is. Pubic hair is shorter, curlier and rougher than hair on the head. It usually starts growing on the abdomen above the penis at the place where it joins the body. (The abdomen is the part of the torso where the navel or bellybutton is.) There may also be some hair on the scrotum. After about six months to a year, there will be a large triangle of hair in the pubic region. Within three to four years after puberty begins, there is a lot of pubic hair in the area above the penis. Later on, pubic hair also grows on the abdomen upwards towards the navel and on the insides of the thighs.
About two years after pubic hair starts to appear, hair also grows on other parts of the body:
The hair on the arms, legs, chest, abdomen and back may also become thicker. Different men have different amounts of body hair. Many boys begin shaving when hair starts growing on their faces.
A larger amount of male hormones in the body cause changes to perspiration (sweat). This gives it a more "adult" body odor or smell. The hormones also cause sebaceous glands in the skin to make more sebum, a type of oil that keeps the skin from getting too dry. Sebum and dead skin cells can mix with a type of germ called bacteria and block pores (tiny openings) in the skin. This causes a skin problem called acne. Most people get acne during puberty. When a person has acne, he gets swellings on his skin called blackheads, whiteheads and pimples. Blackheads and whiteheads are painless, but pimples can be red and painful. They usually form on the face but can also appear on the neck, shoulders, upper back and chest. Oil glands on scalp – the part of the head on which hair grows – also make a lot of sebum. This can cause dandruff, in which small white bits of skin fall from the scalp.
During puberty, a boy's larynx or voicebox also grows larger. This makes the laryngeal prominence or Adam's apple – the lump that sticks out of the front of his neck – larger too. As the larynx grows the vocal cords become longer and thicker, so they vibrate (move back and forth) more slowly. This causes the voice to lower in pitch or tone and become deeper. When this happens, it is sometimes said that the boy's voice has "broken". However, it actually does not happen overnight but over some time. During this time, the voice may sound scratchy. On average, a boy's voice normally reaches its adult sound when he is around 15 years old.
Towards the end of puberty, boys go through a "growth spurt" which lasts for about two to three years. During this time, their body grows taller very quickly. When the growth spurt is at its fastest point, some people grow or more a year. This happens about two years after puberty starts, usually between the ages of 13 and 15. When a boy reaches the end of his growth spurt when he is about 18 years old, he will be at his adult height. His body will not grow much taller after that. Because of their growth spurt, boys' muscles can feel sore. These "growing pains" can feel worse if boys are active and do a lot of exercise. They go away after a while. 
Boys grow more slowly than girls, but for a longer time. That is why most men are taller than women. By the end of puberty, adult males have heavier bones and more muscle than females. In an average adult man, muscle makes up 50% and fat 15% of his weight. On the other hand, 40% of an average adult woman's weight is made up of muscle while 27% is made up of fat. Because men have less body fat than women, their hips do not grow bigger. Some bones like those in the jaw and shoulders grow more in males than in females. That is why males have wider faces and shoulders but narrower hips.
The changes in a girl's body during puberty usually take place between the ages of eight and 18 years. Most girls will have finished puberty around the age of 15. They will have breasts and pubic hair, will menstruate (have a period) every month, and will be able to get pregnant. They will usually also have reached their full adult height.
When the breasts start to grow, this is normally the first sign of puberty that can be seen on the outside of a girl's body. This usually happens when girls are about the age of 10.5 years. A lump that is a bit hard appears in each breast under the areola, which is the dark ring around the nipple. The lump in one breast may grow before the other one. This is called breast budding. Within six to 12 months, both breasts will have started growing. The swelling can be felt and seen outside the edges of the areolae. About one and a half to two years after the breasts first start growing, they are close to the shape and size of an adult woman's breasts. The nipple and areola may be on a smaller mound on each breast. This small mound usually goes away when each breast is fully grown. Whether the breasts are small or large depends on how much fat there is in the body.
Between the ages of about eight and 14 (on average, at 11 or 12 years), pubic hair begins to grow along the labia (the "lips" of the vulva), usually a few months after the breasts start growing. At first the hair is thin and straight instead of curly, and there is not much of it. Within a year, the pubic hair becomes rough, dark and curly and grows in a triangle shape in the pubic region. About one year after pubic hair begins appearing, underarm hair also grows. The hair on the arms and legs also gets thicker, and some girls may have hair appearing on their upper lip and in front of their ears.
Like boys, higher amounts of hormones in the body cause girls' perspiration (sweat) to change. This gives them a more adult body odor or smell. The hormones also cause the skin to produce more sebum (oil), which usually leads to acne.
When girls are between eight and 11 years old, the two ovaries in their body begin to grow bigger. Each ovary is egg-shaped, and is attached to the side wall of the pelvis. The pelvis is a large set of bones in the hips. The ovaries are organs that make female hormones. These hormones cause a girl to grow into a woman, and make her feel like a woman. The hormones also make it possible for females to become pregnant and have babies. Inside the ovaries are about 200,000 ova (egg cells). For a baby to be formed, a woman's ovum and a man's sperm must come together. During puberty, the ova also grow bigger.
Between the ages of nine and 15 years (on average, at 12 to 13 years), the vagina and uterus (womb) become bigger. The uterus is the organ in which a baby grows. The vagina is a tube leading from the uterus to the outside of the body. The opening of the vagina is inside the vulva, in between the legs. A clear or whitish fluid may start to flow out of the vagina to keep it clean. Then, about two years after the breasts start to grow, when a girl is between ten and 16 years old (on average, at 13 to 14 years), hormones made by her ovaries cause the ovaries to release an ovum, which moves into the uterus. Usually, only one ovum is released at a time. The hormones also tell the uterus to get ready for a baby, in case the ovum meets a sperm and gets fertilized. The walls of the uterus become thicker with extra tissue. Inside the thick part of the uterus are blood vessels and other nutrients that a baby will need to grow. If an ovum in the uterus gets fertilized, it sticks to the wall of the uterus and starts to grow. However, if the ovum is not fertilized, it does not stick. The uterus then gets rid of the ovum and the extra tissue by releasing it from the body. The tissue and blood flows out of the uterus through the vagina. This is called menstruation or having a period. The bleeding normally lasts for about three to five days, though some girls may bleed for longer or have a bit of bleeding between periods. The uterus then starts preparing for another ovum. For most girls, the time between their periods is about one month. For about two years after menstruation starts, the time between periods is not always the same. Some girls may skip a month, or have two periods close to each other. It is also normal to have cramps (rather painful squeezing feelings) or to feel bloated (swollen up) in the abdomen during periods. When many girls start having periods, they begin using sanitary napkins (also called sanitary pads) or tampons to soak up the blood and tissue. A sanitary napkin is a piece of material that is absorbent (able to take in liquids) which is worn between the vulva and underpants. A tampon is a stick of absorbent material that is placed inside the vagina.
In 2004, a survey by a Canadian magazine found that most females (25%) started masturbating when they were about 12 to 13 years old.
Because of more hormones in the body, girls start to have more fat in their breasts, abdomen, hips and thighs. At the age of ten years, the average girl has 6% more body fat than the average boy, but by the end of puberty the difference is nearly 50%. The fat makes sure that a baby growing inside a pregnant woman will have enough nutrients. Also, the bones in the pelvis move further apart to make room for a larger uterus and ovaries, and so there is space for a baby to grow in the uterus and to pass out of the body when it is born. The extra fat and wider hip bones that girls have give them a curvier shape.
Girls also experience a growth spurt during puberty. In the first year after puberty begins, they grow about . They grow even faster the next year or so, then the growth slows down and almost stops when they start menstruating. After a girl's periods begin, she usually does not grow more than taller.
The large amounts of hormones in the bodies of boys and girls during puberty can also affect their emotions. Young people begin to be attracted by (drawn to) each other and thinking about what it is like to have sex. They are often worried about what other people think about them. They can also feel an urge to do things that are dangerous, such as taking drugs or too many alcoholic drinks, or smoking. They sometimes want more independence – more power to decide things for themselves – and can get angry when their parents do not allow them to do things. The brains of teenagers are still growing, and it may take a while before they are mature enough to know how to make good choices about their lives. Therefore, it may be helpful for them to follow the advice of adults they trust, even if it does not make much sense to them at the time.
Because puberty is the time in a child's life when he or she becomes able to make children, this is seen as very important. Therefore, people in many countries around the world have different ways of marking this event.

</doc>
<doc id="18091" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18091" title="Stamford Bridge">
Stamford Bridge

Stamford Bridge could be

</doc>
<doc id="18094" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18094" title="Bali tiger">
Bali tiger

The Bali tiger, or Balinese tiger ("Panthera tigris balica") is one of the three extinct sub-species of the tiger. They became extinct in 1937. They lived on Bali. This was the first sub-species of tiger to become extinct.
The Bali was also the smallest tiger sub-species. There is no record of a Balinese tiger ever being held in a zoo collection. The Balinese tiger's close sub-species were the Javan tiger and the Caspian tiger, which are now also extinct. The Balinese and Javan tigers were once the same, but during the Ice Age, Bali became isolated from Java by the Bali Strait. This split the tigers into two groups which then went onto develop alone. 
The killing of the very last wild Balinese tiger is usually thought to have been at Sumbar Kima, West Bali on 27 September, 1937. It was an adult tigress.So the government of Bali made a strict law on killing tigers.

</doc>
<doc id="18095" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18095" title="1507">
1507


</doc>
<doc id="18096" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18096" title="479 BC">
479 BC

479 BC was a year in the 5th century BC.

</doc>
<doc id="18097" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18097" title="192">
192


</doc>
<doc id="18098" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18098" title="1758">
1758


</doc>
<doc id="18099" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18099" title="1202">
1202

1202 is a year in the 13th century.

</doc>
<doc id="18102" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18102" title="Sitting Bull">
Sitting Bull

Sitting Bull (about 1831 – December 15, 1890), real name Tatanka Yotanka, was the chief of a Native American tribe called Hunkpapa-Lakota-Sioux. At the age of about 14, Slow participated in a war party against the Crow (warriors).
He was a very important chief and fought for the freedom of Native Americans. He fought with Crazy Horse and Big Foot at the Little Bighorn River against General George A. Custer and won. They are the most deadly tribe.
He was shot and killed by Red Tomahawk, a police sergeant, during an attempt to arrest him. 

</doc>
<doc id="18103" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18103" title="1632">
1632


</doc>
<doc id="18106" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18106" title="Michelle Kwan">
Michelle Kwan

Michelle Kwan (born July 7, 1980) is an American figure skater. She has won five world championships and nine U.S. championships.
Michelle Kwan was born on July 7, 1980, in Torrance, California. Kwan showed interest in figure stating when she followed Ron and Karen, her brother and sister, onto the ice, saying that all she could remember was "every day, tying up my skates and a big smile on my face, excited to go on the ice". She attended public school until eighth grade, when she began being homeschooled in 1994.
Kwan won the world junior championship in 1994. The same year, at the age of 13, she came in the top 10 in the world senior championship. She became world champion in 1996, when she was 15.

</doc>
<doc id="18107" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18107" title="Frank Jack Fletcher">
Frank Jack Fletcher

Frank Jack Fletcher (29 April 1885 - 25 April 1973) was an Admiral in the United States Navy. He was born at Marshalltown, Iowa, of the same family line as Captain Frank "Pat" Fletcher and of Rear Admiral Frank Friday Fletcher, noted men in the Navy. He attended the Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland and had jobs on many warships. In 1914 he got the Medal of Honor at Vera Cruz. Then he was in control of a destroyer in World War I received the Navy Cross. Later he took Naval and Army War College training, became chief of staff Asiatic Fleet, aide to Secretary of the Navy Swanson, and Commanding Officer of battleship "New Mexico." He became Rear Admiral in control of Cruiser Division 3 in 1939. He was Commander of Cruisers, Pacific Fleet at the time
of Pearl Harbor. In the very bad, first six months of the war, he was Task Force Commander at the Battle of Coral Sea, the Battle of Midway, and the Battle of Eastern Solomons. Vice Admiral Fletcher then became Commander North Pacific Forces where he took the surrender of the Imperial Northern Fleet. After the war he became Chairman of the Navy General Board till he retired. Admiral Fletcher rests at Arlington National Cemetery.
"Frank Jack Fletcher, was the best fighting commander in the U.S. Navy in the twentieth century. He came out best in all three aircraft carrier battles in which he fought -- there were only five such fights in of all history. Admiral Fletcher was outnumbered at all times and when the other side was at its highest point in the early years of the Pacific War. He did not let the other side take Australia, Midway, and Guadalcanal. He put down six of the ten Japanese carriers with four of the six great carriers that had attacked Pearl Harbor. His acts were completely his own, because there was no such thing as carrier fighting experience before him to learn to fight ships from the air. He kept the Pacific safe which let much support to go to Europe and started the Allied victory in World War II."

</doc>
<doc id="18108" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18108" title="Irina Slutskaya">
Irina Slutskaya

Irina Slutskaya (ru: Ирина Слуцкая) (born February 9, 1979 in Moscow), is a Russian figure skater. She has won two world championships and six European championships.
Irina began skating when she was four years old. She has had the same coach, Zhanna Gromova, since she was six years old. By 1996, she was European champion and came third in the world championships (at age 17). She went to school at the Moscow Academy of Physical Culture, graduating in the year 2000.

</doc>
<doc id="18109" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18109" title="Lu Chen">
Lu Chen

Lu Chen (Simplified Chinese: 陈露, Traditional Chinese: 陳露, Chen Lu in Chinese) (born November 24, 1976, in Changchun) is a Chinese figure skater. She was world champion in 1995.
Chen's mother played table tennis and her father coached ice hockey. She started skating at the age of five in Jilin, and also took ballet dancing. She won the bronze medal at the world junior championship in 1992, and came third at the world senior championships the same year, at the age of 16.
Her nickname is "Lulu," and she is also known as "Butterfly on Ice." She is admired for her artistic ability.
Chen skated for the professional show "Stars on Ice" for two years. Now she runs an ice skating club in Shenzhen. This club is named after her.

</doc>
<doc id="18111" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18111" title="Oksana Baiul">
Oksana Baiul

Oksana Baiul (born November 16, 1977 in Dnipropetrovsk) is a Ukrainian figure skater. She came first at the 1993 world championships and at the 1994 winter olympics.
Baiul's grandfather gave her first skates to her when she was three years old. When her mother died, she became an orphan (had no parents). But she kept skating, and won the world championships when she was only 15 years old. She became famous for her artistic ability when she skated as "the swan" to win the Olympics when she was 16. 
She has skated for many professional shows such as "Champions on Ice" and "Stars on Ice". A T.V. movie was made about her - "A Promise Kept: The Oksana Baiul Story". She now lives in New Jersey. She still skates professionally, and also makes figure skating clothes.

</doc>
<doc id="18113" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18113" title="Hobo">
Hobo

Hobo is a word for a homeless person who travels to different cities and towns to look for work. Hobos usually travel by train "hopping" (riding in empty train freight railcars without paying for a ticket), or sometimes "riding the rods" (lying dangerously near the train wheels, underneath the cars).
Hobos stay in very cheap hotels in cities, or camp in simple shelters ("") in shanty towns near the rail yards. There were many hobos during the Great Depression in the United States because many people lost their jobs and homes. Many people blamed President Herbert Hoover for the Depression, so hobo camps were sometimes called "Hoovervilles".

</doc>
<doc id="18118" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18118" title="Wicca">
Wicca

Wicca, or the Craft, is a Neo-pagan (meaning "new pagan") religion popularized by a British man named Gerald Gardner in the 1940s. Gardner called Wicca the "witch cult" and "witchcraft" and its followers the "Wica". The word "Wicca" means "Witch" in Old English. People who follow Wicca are called "Wiccans."
There are many different traditions of Wicca, yet many are common beliefs shared by all Wiccans, such as the afterlife, magic and morality.
Not all Wiccans believe in a God and Goddess. Some of those that do, believe that the God and Goddess are equal. Others believe the Goddess is more important than the God. There are some Wiccans who mostly worship the Goddess only. 
The God and Goddess can split into different Gods and Goddesses.
Many Wiccans have special places at home where they perform rituals, magic, and worship. These places are called "altars." Wiccans put holy and special objects on their altars, such as the following items:
Some Wiccans put other objects on their altars, such as statues Gods or Goddesses, a bell, candles, incense, and a broom (called a besom), used to "sweep" away negative energy or spirits.
The most important Wiccan teaching is called the "Wiccan Rede". The word Rede means ""advice"" or ""council"" in Old German. ""An harm ye none, do what ye will"" is the very basic Wiccan Rede, which means, ""Do what you want to do, but do not harm anything in the process"." This means you must think about how your actions will affect yourself, other people, and the world. Many Wiccans believe that their actions have effects that come back three times as powerful. This is called the "Rule of Threefold Return" or "Rule of Three". This rule has different meanings depending on who you ask:
Wiccans have eight Sabbats, or 'Holy Days', which are:
In Wicca, a private book containing spells, rituals, potions, and occult knowledge, called a "Book of Shadows", is kept. In some types of Wicca, such as Gardnerian Wiccan, the contents of the Book are kept secret from anyone but other members of the group, or . However, some versions of the Book have been published. Some parts of these published versions, such as the "Wiccan Rede" and the "Charge of the Goddess" have been used by non-Wiccans or Wiccans. Many eclectics create their own personal books, and keep them to themselves.
Wicca music or Wicca rock is music influenced by the Wicca religion and its beliefs relating to nature and conservation. 
An early band called Themis toured Canada and the USA singing and talking about Wicca. The Themis body of works promotes things that are Wiccan such as the divinity of nature; the Lord and Lady (dual deity aspect of Wicca) and an ethical credo that resembles Wiccan philosophies.
Another Canadian band, a group of vocalists from Vancouver Canada, the Chalice and Blade, also perform original pieces based on the beliefs of Wicca and "sing songs which show (their) reverence for the earth and the balance of the God and Goddess" -Chalice and Blade
According to The Religion Newswriters Foundation "Wicca is moving into the mainstream" smashing stereotypes as their movement matures. Throughout America, Wiccans are organizing congregations and youth groups, training clergy, pursuing charity work, sharing parenting tips and fighting for civil rights

</doc>
<doc id="18120" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18120" title="Indochinese tiger">
Indochinese tiger

The Indochinese tiger ("Panthera tigris corbetti") is one of the six living tiger subspecies, and is found in Myanmar, Thailand, Laos, Cambodia, Vietnam, and southwestern China. The Indochinese tiger is also known as the "Corbett's tiger", named after Jim Corbett. It has been listed as Endangered by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature. In Myanmar it is the National animal of the country.
Males are around 8–9 ft (2.4-2.7 meters) long, and weigh around 330 to 430 pounds. Females are around 7–8 ft (2.1-2.4 meters) long, and weigh around 221 to 287 pounds. Indochinese tigers are darker in colour than the Bengal tiger, and have narrow stripes which usually break up into a row of spots. Their belly, chin and cheeks are white in colour.
The Indochinese tiger is found throughout Cambodia, Laos, Thailand, Burma and Vietnam. It also lived in China, but no Indochinese tiger has been seen in China since 2007.
It is found mostly in lowland and highland tropical deciduous, semi-evergreen and evergreen forests. The Indochinese tiger is also found in hilly and mountainous areas. 
Indochinese tigers feed mainly on medium-sized and large-sized wild ungulates. Sambar deer, wild pig, serow, and large bovids such as banteng and young gaur make up most of the Indochinese tiger's diet. Some of its prey, like the kouprey and Schomburgk's deer, are extinct, but some, like the Eld's deer, hog deer and wild water buffalo, are still living but rare. Indochinese tigers also feed on muntjac deer, porcupines, macaques and hog badgers. 
They have been known to supplement their diet with birds, fish, monkeys and reptiles.
Female Indochinese tigers are pregnant for around 3–4 months, before giving birth to about 5 cubs. Newborn Indochinese tigers weigh around 1 kg (2 lb), and are blind and helpless. The mother feeds them milk for about 2 months and then the Indochinese tiger cubs are introduced to meat. Indochinese tiger cubs depend on their mother for the first 18 months and then they start hunting on their own.

</doc>
<doc id="18121" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18121" title="Office">
Office

An office is generally a room or other area where administrative work is done. It may also be a position within an organization with specific duties attached to it. For example, the office of treasurer. An office is a design phenomenon. It can be a small office such as a bench in the corner of a very small business. It can also be anything up to and including large buildings full of offices. In modern use an office usually means the location where white-collar workers are employed.
Men have done administrative work for many centuries. But it is not clear when the room where paperwork was created began to be thought of an office. In the earliest European history it may have been a room in a palace where some kind of accounting was done for the king. Earlier forms of keeping records were known but were not confined to a room or rooms. For example, in ancient China string was knotted to keep count of things as a record. But the record-keeper's "office" was not a room but wherever he needed to be to count something.
In the early Middle Ages many monasteries had a scriptorium. This was a place where texts of all kinds were written and copied. All of the work was done by hand. This may actually be one of the first uses of a room as an office.
The High Middle Ages (1000–1300) saw the rise of the medieval chancery. This was usually the place where most government letters were written and where laws were copied in the administration of a kingdom. 
With the growth of large, complex organizations in the 18th century, the first actual office spaces were constructed. As the Industrial Revolution grew in the 18th and 19th centuries, the industries of banking, rail, insurance, retail, petroleum, and telegraphy grew dramatically. A large number of clerks were needed. As a result more office space was needed for these activities. The time and motion study, pioneered in manufacturing by F. W. Taylor led to the “Modern Efficiency Desk” with a flat top and drawers below. This was designed to allow managers an easy view of the workers. However, by the middle of the 20th century, it became apparent that offices various degrees of privacy. Gradually the cubicle system evolved.
The main purpose of an office is to support its occupants in performing their job. Work spaces in an office are typically used for conventional office activities such as reading, writing and computer work. There are also meeting rooms, lounges, and spaces for support activities, such as photocopying and filing. Some offices also have a kitchen area where workers can make their lunches. There are many different ways of arranging the space in an office and whilst these vary according to function, managerial fashions and the culture of specific companies can be even more important.
While offices can be built in almost any location and in almost any building, some modern requirements for offices make this more difficult, such as requirements for light, networking, and security. The primary purpose of an office building is to provide a workplace and working environment primarily for administrative and managerial workers. These workers usually occupy set areas within the office building, and usually are provided with desks, PCs and other equipment they may need within these areas.

</doc>
<doc id="18125" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18125" title="Phenomenon">
Phenomenon

A phenomenon (Greek: ", pl. ") is an observable event or, quite literally, something that can be seen.
It comes from the noun ("phainomenon, df. appearance") and is also related to the verb ("phainein, df. to show"). Its plural is phenomena. Its antonym is "lathomenon", meaning "something lying beneath the surface". 
Phenomenon can also mean a "surprising development" or "unusually successful person".
In science, "phenomenon" stands for any event which we can sense or detect or record. In science, the word "observe" means more than just "visible to the naked eye". It means "sensible", available to our senses. The senses we are born with are extended by a whole range of instruments which record things we cannot see, and make them visible to us.
So, while some events are easy to observe, others need technology to make observation possible. 

</doc>
<doc id="18126" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18126" title="Konstantin Chernenko">
Konstantin Chernenko

Konstantin Ustinovich Chernenko (Russian language: Константи́н Усти́нович Черне́нко September 24, 1911 – March 10, 1985) was the leader of the Soviet Union for a short time. He became the leader in 1984. He had emphysema, hepatitis and cirrhosis. He ruled for 13 months until his death in from heart failure in Moscow in 1985. Chernenko had a son called Albert.

</doc>
<doc id="18127" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18127" title="Shetland Sheepdog">
Shetland Sheepdog

A Shetland Sheepdog is a kind of small dog whose ancestors came from the Shetland Islands. Many people call them ""Shelties"". They are popular pets in many countries. Shelties have the same origins with Rough Collie and Border Collie. Shelties are a working dog and are sometimes used for herding.
A Sheltie can have a mix of several colors in its coat. Most shelties are sable and white (brown and white) or tri-color (black, white and tan). Their fur is long and they shed twice a year. Shelties range in size from 13 to 16 inches. They usually weigh about 25-30 pounds.
Shelties are very energetic dogs that run and bark a lot. They are great with children. 
It was said that Shelties were sheep dogs so they try to please their master and have a strong sense of responsibility. They do not need very much discipline. Shelties rank in the top ten smartest dogs. They learn new things very quickly and remember them well. Shelties make great family pets as long as you do not mind a dog that barks.^^

</doc>
<doc id="18135" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18135" title="Belief">
Belief

A belief is a firm thought that something is true, often based on revelation. Belief is usually a part of belonging to a religion. It is different to scientific knowledge that can be tested, but belief is not able to be tested. For example, a person may believe in God or gods.
The word is also used to describe what a person expects will happen based on limited information. For example, "I believe Amy will come around today". Belief is also something you believe in but you cannot prove exactly.

</doc>
<doc id="18136" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18136" title="German Shepherd">
German Shepherd

The German Shepherd (), also known as the Alsatian, is a breed of medium-large dog. It was first developed in Germany in an area called Alsace. They are often used as police dogs, but they have many other uses. They have been used as herding dogs, guard dogs and as pets.
An important modern use is the dog's ability to perform search and rescue. In former times the American Rescue Dog Association only used air-scenting Alsatians to locate people who are missing or lost. They search in wilderness, disaster, human body remains and water search and rescue and recovery missions. The breed is smart, athletic and can live in a wide variety of climate conditions. 
Male German Shepherds usually weigh around . Females usually weigh around .
The term Alsatian, instead of German Shepherd, was first popularly used by the British in the First World War. This was because the country was at war with Germany. Adolf Hitler, a German dictator, was also known to have German Shepherds as pets.

</doc>
<doc id="18138" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18138" title="Star Wars Episode V: The Empire Strikes Back">
Star Wars Episode V: The Empire Strikes Back

Star Wars Episode V: The Empire Strikes Back was the second film in the "Star Wars saga". The movie was released in 1980 and is a mix of science fiction, fantasy, action, and drama.
The Rebels hide from the Empire on the icy planet Hoth. The Empire finds the Rebels and they have to leave the planet after a battle.
Luke Skywalker finds Yoda, a 900-year-old Jedi Master and begins the training to become a Jedi. Han Solo, Chewbacca, Princess Leia and C-3P0 are caught by the Empire and Solo is frozen in carbonite. In his Jedi training, Luke gets a vision that his friends are in danger and tries to help them. He has to confront Darth Vader, and the two of them fight. When Luke fights Vader, he cuts off Luke's hand and Luke also learns that Vader is his father. His hand is replaced with a prosthetic one, including nerves, muscles, and some other stuff.

</doc>
<doc id="18139" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18139" title="Church of the SubGenius">
Church of the SubGenius

The Church of the SubGenius is a religion founded by Ivan Stang and Philo Drummond. Originally based in Dallas, Texas, it is now based in Cleveland Heights, Ohio. In 2009, Stang said that The Church of the Subgenius has 40,000 followers, but the real number of followers is not known.
The church's beliefs are said to be very complex. The church teaches that it was founded by a salesman named J. R. "Bob" Dobbs. In 1953 "Bob" was fixing his TV which he made, and the Space God JHVH-1 gave him knowledge of the past and future, and the idea of "Slack". The church teaches that there is a conspiracy to make humans work, so that they can't have "Slack". It says that its members are descended from Yetis. It also said that aliens would come to earth on 5 July 1998.

</doc>
<doc id="18173" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18173" title="Terry Bradshaw">
Terry Bradshaw

Terry Bradshaw is a former American athlete. He is also a sports presenter. He was born September 2, 1948 in Shreveport, Louisiana. Bradshaw is a former quarterback with the Pittsburgh Steelers in the National Football League, and a television and American football host. Over six years, he won four Super Bowl titles with Pittsburgh (1975, 1976, 1979 and 1980). He went into the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 1989.
He is related to Cory J.Bylsma

</doc>
<doc id="18176" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18176" title="Squid">
Squid

Squid are cephalopods of the order Teuthida. They are the sister group to the octopods. Squid are carnivores and, in turn, they are hunted. The largest squid, the giant squid and colossal squid, are eaten by sperm whales and sleeper sharks. 
There are about 300 species of squid. 
Squid, like cuttlefish, have eight arms arranged in pairs, and two longer tentacles with suckers.
All squid have a mouth with a radula, and jet propulsion with the siphon from the mantle. The radulla is a scraping organ in the mouth that scrapes nutrients from food sources. 
Tentacles are used for locomotive power and capturing food sources. All squids are carnivores; they eat other animals, not plants. 
Like other cephalopoda, squid are intelligent animals. Squids have a head-like structure, with sense organs and brains in the front end. Although the squids lack exterior shells they have a vestigial shell inside, made of chitin.
The skin is covered in chromatophores, which enable the squid to change colour to suit its surroundings, making it effectively camouflaged. Controlled by the nervous system, the camouflage can change in 'real time'. 
After a male and female mate, the female squid lays eggs. The eggs are laid inside an egg case. Since the squid is usually a part of a shoal, it is laid with many other egg cases from many other squids, and then anchored to the sea floor. Because of this, squid eggs are often (many times) found in clumps, and those clumps often look like a flower.
Often, the male will die a short time after mating, and the female will die once she has released her eggs. Because of this, squids usually lay eggs only once. Squids do not live very long. Although there are some long-lived species, most squids live for only one or two years.
Most squid are no more than long, although the giant squid may reach .
In 1978, sharp, curved claws on the suction cups of squid tentacles cut up the rubber coating on the hull of the USS "Stein". The size suggested the largest squid known at the time.
In February 2007, a New Zealand fishing vessel caught a colossal squid weighing and measuring around off the coast of Antarctica. This specimen is the largest invertebrate ever found. Squid have the largest eyes in the animal kingdom.
Giant squid are featured in literature and folklore with a frightening connotation. The Kraken is a legendary tentacled monster possibly based on sightings of real giant squid.

</doc>
<doc id="18177" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18177" title="Giant squid">
Giant squid

The giant squid "Architeuthis" is a genus of deep-ocean dwelling squid. Giant squid can grow to a tremendous size: recent estimates put the maximum size at 13 metres (43 ft) for females and 10 metres (33 ft) for males from caudal fin to the tip of the two long tentacles
There is a larger squid, known as the Colossal Squid.
Until 2005, nobody had ever seen a giant squid that was alive. Only dead giant squids had been found. On 30 September 2004, researchers from Japan took the first images of a live giant squid in its natural habitat. Several of the 556 photographs were released a year later. The same team successfully filmed a live adult giant squid for the first time on December 4, 2006.
There is no agreement as to how many species there are. The Kraken is also believed to be a giant squid,
For many years, people would hear stories from fishermen about giant squids at sea. According to the stories, an enormous squid would wrap its arms around a whale, causing a terrible fight to start. Whalers said that sometimes, when they caught a whale, it would have scars as big as dinner plates on its body. Other times, when they cut open the stomach of some of their whales, they would find squid arms as long as 30 ft with suckers up to four inches wide. The whalers who told these stories either chopped up the squid parts to eat or use as bait, or they threw them back out to sea before scientists were ever able to examine them. However, in 1861, a French ship was able to bring back parts of a giant squid so scientists could study them.
Then, in the late 18th century, several giant squids washed up on shore, proving that giant squids really exist. After that, many giant squids were found washed ashore or dead at sea. Scientists grew very interested in these mysterious creatures, but few ever saw them alive. Scientists think they spend most of their time in deep, cold ocean.
In December 2005, the Melbourne Aquarium in Australia got the intact body of a giant squid, preserved in a giant block of ice. It had been caught by fishermen off the coast of New Zealand's South Island that year.
The number of known giant squid specimens was close to 600 in 2004, and new ones are reported each year.

</doc>
<doc id="18178" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18178" title="Googol">
Googol

A googol is the number 10 .
The word googol was first used by 9-year-old Milton Sirotta, nephew of U.S. mathematician Edward Kasner. Sirotta made this word in 1938, for the number represented by the numeral 1 followed by 100 zeros. It is said that the word "googol" was chosen to represent this number because it sounded like baby talk.
The company Google was named after the number "googol". It was named this because it was said that not only did "google" sound like "googol", but Google had a googol search results. 

</doc>
<doc id="18180" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18180" title="National Football League">
National Football League

The National Football League (also called the NFL) is an American football league. There are 32 teams in the league. The league is a professional league, which means that the players are paid to play and that it is their job. A league is a competition between a number of teams. The teams play other teams, and the results are used to list the teams in order of who is best. The team at the top of the list (called a league table) is the best team and the team at the bottom is the worst team.
It is now the most popular professional league in the United States by number of television viewers. The NFL also has the highest per-game attendance of any professional league in the world; in the most recently completed 2014 season, the average crowd at an NFL game was more than 67,000. Its championship game, the Super Bowl, is an unofficial national holiday in the U.S., and is seen by more people than any other American television program.
In 1920, an American football league was formed. It was called the American Professional Football Association. In 1921 it changed its name to the National Football League. In 1960 another league was formed, called the American Football League. In 1970 the National Football League and the American Football League joined together so that the teams from each league could play each other. The league called the National Football League changed its name to the National Football Conference (usually called the NFC) and the league called the American Football League changed its name to the American Football Conference (usually called the AFC). The two conferences together are now called the National Football League. People can also call it by the acronym NFL for short.
Because the U.S. is a big country and it would be hard for teams to travel a long way to play other teams, the teams are separated into smaller regional divisions based on where they are in the country. The teams are separated like this:
The teams in the NFL play games against each other from September to January. This time is called a season. Each team plays 16 games. This is how which games a team will play is chosen:
Since the 2006 season, the NFL has used a "flexible-scheduling" system for the last seven weeks of the regular season where there is a Sunday night game. The system is designed so that the league has the flexibility in selecting games to air on Sunday night that will feature the current hottest, streaking teams.
Under the system, all Sunday games in the affected weeks will tentatively have the "early" start time of 1 p.m. ET/10 a.m. PT, except those played in the Pacific or Mountain time zones, which will have the tentative start time of 4 p.m. ET/1 p.m. PT. On the Tuesday 12 days before the games, the league will move one game to the prime-time slot, and possibly move one or more 1 p.m. slotted games to the 4 p.m. slot. During the last week of the season, the league could re-schedule games as late as six days before the contests so that as many of the television networks as possible will be able to broadcast a game that has playoff implications.
At the end of every NFL season, the eight teams that finish the season at the top of their leagues and two teams from each conference that were the best teams apart from the eight league winners (these four teams are called Wild Cards) enter a competition to see who is the best team in the whole league. This is called the Playoffs. There are a total of 12 teams in the Playoffs, six from the NFC and six from the AFC. The six teams in each conference are listed in order of how well they played in the season. This is called seeding and it is done to make it easier for the better teams to win. The teams that did not win their leagues (the Wild Cards) are always the fifth and sixth seeds in the list, even if they were better than a team that won a different league.
In the first part of the playoffs (called Wild Card Weekend) there are four games.
The teams that lose these games are not in the playoffs competition any more. Now there are only 8 teams left.
In the second part of the playoffs (called the Divisional Playoffs) there are four games.
The teams that lose these games are not in the playoffs competition any more. Now there are only 4 teams left.
In the third part of the playoffs (called the Conference Championship Games) there are two games.
The last part of the playoffs is called the Super Bowl. The AFC Champion and the NFC Champion teams play each other to decide who is the best team in the NFL.

</doc>
<doc id="18181" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18181" title="Super Bowl">
Super Bowl

The Super Bowl is a special American football game played every year at the end of the National Football League (NFL) season. The best team from each of the two NFL conferences play for the Vince Lombardi Trophy, which was named after the first coach to win a Super Bowl. For most football fans, it is a very special event. 
Some people who do not like football still watch it for the commercials and the half-time show. The TV advertisements during Super Bowl are the most expensive in the world in per second value. Because the high cost of advertising companies usually produce unique advertisements. As a result, watching advertisements has been a well publicized event in itself.
The Pittsburgh Steelers are the team with the most Super Bowl Wins with six victories. The San Francisco 49ers and Dallas Cowboys currently are tied for the second-most Super Bowl wins with five. The Cleveland Browns, Detroit Lions, Houston Texans, and the Jacksonville Jaguars have never played in a Super Bowl. The Kansas City Chiefs and New York Jets have not played in the Super Bowl since the American Football League (AFL) and the NFL joined together in 1970.
Notes

</doc>
<doc id="18187" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18187" title="We Will Rock You">
We Will Rock You

"We Will Rock You" is a song by Queen. It is one of their most famous songs. It is used at a lot of sports events. The main song has the band stamping their feet twice, and clapping once. At the end, a short guitar part is played.
Musicians:

</doc>
<doc id="18190" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18190" title="Lagos">
Lagos

Lagos is the second largest city in Nigeria and the most populous city in Nigeria and in West Africa, with more than 10 million inhabitants. There are about 12.5 million to 18 million people living in Lagos which makes it one of the biggest cities in Africa. Lagos is surrounded by the Atlantic Ocean. The city is made of several local local government areas. Some of these include Somolu Koshofe, Ifelodun, Surulere, Agege, Ikeja, Ikorodu, Ajegunle, Oshodi, and Maryland.
Each Local government area has a presence of the central government with the establishment of general hospital, judiciary and police stations to help in protecting life and properties.
Lagos was the capital of Nigeria until 1992, when the capital was moved to Abuja. Lagos still acts as the commercial capital of Nigeria and a gateway to West Africa.

</doc>
<doc id="18194" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18194" title="Infinitive">
Infinitive

The infinitive is a verb form. It has no person, number, mood, or tense.
In English, there are two main forms of the infinitive:
After a modal verb you must use an infinitive. For example, "I must go", "he must go" ("he must goes" is not correct)
To express time relationships, here are 6 types of infinitives:

</doc>
<doc id="18195" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18195" title="Cartridge">
Cartridge

Cartridge can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="18196" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18196" title="Real number">
Real number

A real number is a rational or irrational number. Usually when people say "number" they usually mean "real number". The official symbol for real numbers is a bold R or a blackboard bold formula_1.
Some real numbers are called positive. A positive number is "bigger than zero". You can think of the real numbers as an infinitely long ruler. There is a mark for zero and every other number, in order of size. Unlike a ruler, there are numbers below zero. These are called negative real numbers. Negative numbers are "smaller than zero". They are like a mirror image of the positive numbers, except they are given minus signs (–) so that they are labeled differently from the positive numbers.
There are infinitely many real numbers. There is no smallest or biggest real number. No matter how many real numbers are counted, there are always more which need to be counted. There are no empty spaces between real numbers. This means that if two different real numbers are taken, there will always be a third real number between them, no matter how close together the first two numbers are.
If a positive number is added to another positive number, that number gets bigger. Zero is also a real number. If zero is added to a number, that number does not change. If a negative number is added to another number, that number gets smaller.
The real numbers are uncountable. That means that there is no way to put all the real numbers into a sequence. Any sequence of real numbers will miss out a real number, even if the sequence is infinite. This makes the real numbers special. Even though there are infinitely many real numbers and infinitely many integers, we can say that there are "more" real numbers than integers because the integers are "countable" and the real numbers are "uncountable".
Some simpler number systems are inside the real numbers. For example, the rational numbers and integers are all in the real numbers. There are also more complicated number systems than the real numbers, such as the complex numbers. Every real number is a complex number, but not every complex number is a real number. 
There are different types of real numbers. Sometimes all the real numbers are not talked about at once. Sometimes only special, smaller sets of them are talked about. These sets have special names. They are:
The number 0 ("zero") is special. Sometimes it is taken as part of the subset to be considered, and at other times it is not. It is the Identity element for addition and subtraction. That means that adding or subtracting zero does not change the original number. For multiplication and division, the identity element is 1.
One real number that is not rational is formula_2. This number is irrational. If a square is drawn with sides that are one unit long, the length of the line between its opposite corners will be formula_2.
The number formula_2 is not rational. Here is the proof.
It is not true that formula_2 is a rational number. So formula_2 is irrational.

</doc>
<doc id="18198" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18198" title="Elvis Stojko">
Elvis Stojko

Elvis Stojko (born March 22, 1972 in Newmarket, Ontario ) is a Canadian figure skater. He was world champion three times, and Canadian champion seven times.
Stojko was named after Elvis Presley, and sometimes skates to Presley's music. He grew up in Richmond Hill, Ontario. He started skating when he was four years old. He also became a black belt in karate (which has influenced some of his skating). Stojko was the first person to do a quadruple-triple jump combination. He became known for his athletic ability.
Today he is a professional skater, and also competes in karate.

</doc>
<doc id="18202" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18202" title="Album">
Album

An album is a collection of sound recordings. It is usually made by a musician, and is sold in stores to people. Albums today mainly come in the form of compact discs, although many artists also release their albums on vinyl records.
There are two main types of albums, studio albums and live albums. Studio albums are recorded at a recording studio. Live albums are normally recorded while the musicians are performing for an audience. Live albums are usually recorded at concerts. 
Other types of albums include:
Albums are normally separated into "Tracks". Each track is a part of the album which has one song in it. The term is often used to mean a specific song on the album by number. For example, the "fourth track" or "track four" from an album is the fourth song on the album when it is played from the beginning.

</doc>
<doc id="18204" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18204" title="Nobel Prize in Chemistry">
Nobel Prize in Chemistry

The Nobel Prize in Chemistry is awarded by the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences. It awards people who have made progress in the scientific area of chemistry, those who have worked hard to learn more and have succeeded.
The Prize is given every year. It is just one of many Nobel Prizes. A famous winner of this prize was Marie Curie 1911, who discovered radium with her husband Pierre. She was the first person to win the prize twice; the first time was for physics in 1903.

</doc>
<doc id="18205" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18205" title="Baker Island">
Baker Island

Baker Island is a small coral island, or atoll, in the North Pacific Ocean. It is just above the equator. It belongs to the United States. The United States Department of the Interior is in charge of the island. It is called the "Baker Island National Wildlife Refuge". 
The island has no trees. The island is surrounded by a coral reef. This makes the atoll hard to approach in a boat.

</doc>
<doc id="18206" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18206" title="Hermaphrodite">
Hermaphrodite

Hermaphrodite is a term which comes from Hermaphroditus, the son of Hermes and Aphrodite. It is used as a scientific term in biology.
In zoology, an animal which can produce both sperm and ova is a hermaphrodite. As an example, most earthworms are hermaphrodites. A simultaneous hermaphrodite has both sets of sex organs throughout life. A sequential hermaphrodite has ovaries at first, replaced by a testis later, or the other way round.
In botany, hermaphrodite is used for 'complete' flowers with both male and female parts, and for plants which have bisexual reproductive units. See flowering plant sexuality for details.
With people, the term hermaphrodite is not correct, because true functioning hermaphrodites are not possible in humans. What sometimes happens is errors in development which lead to intersex persons. A definition of intersex is :
People who are intersex may have a very small penis and no testicles, or a very small and short vagina and a large clitoris that looks like a penis. Sometimes surgical or other treatment can help intersex people. 

</doc>
<doc id="18207" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18207" title="Epididymis">
Epididymis

The epididymis is the part of the human male reproductive system. It is the tube that holds the testicles in place. It stretches from the back of each testicle to the van deferens.
The dinges is made up of three parts:
Sperm made in the testis go into the head ("caput") of the epididymis, go through the body ("corpus") and stop at the tail ("cauda"), where they are stored. When sperm are first made and travel to the head, they are not yet ready to be ejaculated. They cannot swim or fertilize an egg. By the time they reach the tail, the sperm can fertilize an egg. The sperm are transferred to the Seminal visicle through the vas deferens. The sperm can not swim yet, so muscle contractions push the sperm to the seminal vesicle where final development is finished. . 
When the sperm are ejaculated, they move through the tail of the epididymis. There are so many sperm that they cannot swim, but use peristalsis from muscles in the vas deferens.
An injury or infection of the epididymis causes epididymitis, a painful condition that can take months to heal. Sometimes the testicle has to be removed. There does not seem to be any single cause, or treatment for this condition. Some doctors treat it with antibiotics, some take a "wait and see" attitude. At times just one testicle is affected and at others, both.

</doc>
<doc id="18208" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18208" title="1810s">
1810s


</doc>
<doc id="18209" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18209" title="Mammary gland">
Mammary gland

Mammary glands are the part of the female body designed for the making milk for baby mammals to drink. In humans they are in the breasts.

</doc>
<doc id="18214" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18214" title="Kurt Browning">
Kurt Browning

Kurt Browning (born June 18, 1966 in Rocky Mountain House, Alberta) is a Canadian figure skater. He won four world championships and four Canadian championships.
Browning did the first ever quadruple jump (four turns) in competition. He is well known for his footwork. As a professional, he has skated for Stars on Ice and Tom Collins Tour of Champions, won several professional championships, and did some T.V. skating specials. He has also talked during skating events on T.V. He has helped the charity Muscular Dystrophy.
Browning was raised in Caroline, Alberta. He married a dancer with the National Ballet of Canada, Sonia Rodriguez, in 1996. They have a son Gabriel, born in 2003.

</doc>
<doc id="18216" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18216" title="Airbus">
Airbus

Airbus (, , ], ) is a company which makes aircraft. It is owned by EADS, a European aerospace company. Airbus has its headquarters in Blagnac, France. 
Airbus began as a consortium (a group) of aircraft makers called Airbus Industrie. Later, in 2001, it became a joint-stock company. It was owned by EADS (80%) and BAE Systems (20%). BAE sold its part of the company to EADS on 13 October 2006, so EADS now completely owns the company.
Around 55,000 people work for Airbus in sixteen places in four European Union countries: France, Germany, the United Kingdom and Spain. The final part of Airbus aircraft making is done in Toulouse, France; Hamburg, Germany; Seville, Spain; and, since 2009, Tianjin, China. 
Airbus makes and sells the first digital fly-by-wire airliner, the Airbus A320. Airbus also makes the biggest airliner in the world, the Airbus A380.
"Airbus Industrie" started as a consortium (group) of European aircraft makers. The companies came together to compete with American companies like Boeing, McDonnell Douglas and Lockheed.
Even though a lot of European planes had a lot of new features, even the most successful planes were not made for long. In 1991, Jean Pierson, who was then the CEO and Managing Director of Airbus Industrie, gave some reasons why American plane makers were bigger: because the United States is so big, people preferred to fly; a 1942 agreement between the United Kingdom and the United States meant that the United States would make transport planes; and World War II had given the United States "a profitable, vigorous, powerful and structured aeronautical industry."
In the 1960s, some plane makers were thinking about coming together. Some aircraft companies had already thought that this would need to happen. In 1959, Hawker Siddeley thought about making an "Airbus" version of the Armstrong Whitworth AW.660 Argosy. This version would "be able to lift as many as 126 passengers on ultra short routes at a direct operating cost of 2d. per seat mile." However, European aircraft makers knew that making this plane would be dangerous. They knew that they would have to work together to make a plane like this. At the 1965 Paris Air Show, big European airlines began to think about the specifications for the "airbus". In that same year, Hawker Siddeley joined with Breguet and Nord to design the airbus. By 1966, Sud Aviation (became Aérospatiale) (France), Arbeitsgemeinschaft Airbus (became Deutsche Airbus) (Germany) and Hawker Siddeley (UK) were all working together. The partners asked for money from the French, German and British governments in October 1966. On 25 July 1967, the three governments gave the money and decided to continue with the airbus.
In the two years after this, both the British and French governments thought the project would fail. 75 orders were needed before 31 July 1968. The French government thought about leaving the partnership, because it was worried about the costs of the Airbus A300, Concorde and the Dassault Mercure. The French government was persuaded to stay. The British government left the partnership on 10 April 1969. Hawker Siddeley was helping until the British government left, and France and Germany did not want to design the airbus' wing (which Hawker Siddeley was doing). Hawker Siddeley was allowed to keep helping, but it did not have any help from the British government.
Airbus Industrie was officially started as a "Groupement d'Interet Économique" (Economic Interest Group or GIE) on 18 December 1970. The name "Airbus" was taken from a word used by airlines in the 1960s. It meant an aircraft with a certain size and range. Aérospatiale and Deutsche Airbus each owned 36.5% of the company, Hawker Siddeley owned 20% and Fokker-VFW owned 7%. Each company made its own parts of the plane, and they were completely ready when they were delivered. In October 1971, the Spanish company CASA took 4.2% of Airbus Industrie. Aérospatiale and Deutsche Airbus lowered their share to 47.9%. In January 1979, British Aerospace, which had taken over Hawker Siddeley in 1977, took 20% of Airbus Industrie. Aérospatiale and Deutsche Airbus lowered their share even more, to 37.9%. CASA kept its 4.2%.
The Airbus A300 was to be the first aircraft which was designed, made and sold by Airbus Industrie. By 1967, the "A300" label was given an airliner which Airbus Industrie was thinking about making, with 320 seats and two engines. Roger Béteille was made the technical director of the A300 design. Béteille decided which companies would make which parts of the plane: France would make the cockpit, flight controls and part of the fuselage; Hawker Siddeley made the wings; Germany made part of the fuselage; the Dutch made the flaps and spoilers; and Spain made the horizontal tailplane. On 26 September 1967 the German, French and British governments signed an agreement in London, which allowed Airbus Industrie to continue designing the plane. Rolls-Royce made the engines.
Airlines did not really want a 300+ seat Airbus A300, so Airbus Industrie made the A250 proposal. This later became the A300B, which had 250 seats and did not need a new engine design. This made the plane much cheaper to design, as the Rolls-Royce RB207 which would have been used in the A300 made up a lot of the costs. The RB207 had also had design problems and delays, since Rolls-Royce was concentrating on designing a different jet engine, the RB211, for the Lockheed L-1011 The A300B was smaller but lighter than its American rivals.
In 1972, the A300 made its first flight. The first type of A300, the A300B2, began being used by airlines in 1974. However, not much attention was paid to the A300 because of the launch of Concorde. At first, the A300 was not very successful. However, airlines began to order more and more. Part of this was because of the Airbus Industrie CEO Bernard Lathière, who tried to sell the plane to airlines in America and Asia. By 1979, Airbus Industrie had 256 orders for the A300. Airbus Industrie had also designed a more advanced aircraft, the Airbus A310, the year before. It was the A320 in 1981 which made Airbus Industrie a very big aircraft maker. More than 400 orders were made for the A320 before it even flew. Only 15 were made for the A300 before it first flew.
Since Airbus Industrie's planes were made by different companies, Airbus Industrie really only sold and advertised the planes. It became obvious that Airbus was no longer a temporary group made just to make one plane. It had become a big company which could make more planes. By the late 1980s, Airbus Industrie was working on two medium-sized planes: the Airbus A330 and the Airbus A340.
In the early 1990s, the Airbus CEO Jean Pierson said that the partnership should be closed, and Airbus Industrie should become its own company. However, the difficulties of integrating and valuing the assets of four companies, as well as legal issues, delayed the initiative. In December 1998, when British Aerospace and DASA were close to merging with each other, Aérospatiale stopped the negotiations. The French company thought that if BAe and DASA merged, that company would own 57.9% of Airbus. Aérospatiale insisted that each company own half of Airbus each. However, the problem was fixed in January 1999, when BAe merged with Marconi Electronic Systems instead. This company became BAE Systems. Then in 2000, three of the companies which made Airbus Industrie (DaimlerChrysler Aerospace, the new Deutsche Airbus; Aérospatiale-Matra, the new Sud-Aviation; and CASA) merged. This merger made EADS. EADS now owned Airbus France, Airbus Deutschland and Airbus España, which was 80% of Airbus Industrie. BAE Systems and EADS created the new company, Airbus . Both companies owned part of Airbus.
In 1988, some Airbus engineers, led by Jean Roeder, began secretly designing a very big plane. It was made to allow Airbus to rival Boeing, whose 747 had been the only very big plane since the 1970s. Airbus made the project public at the 1990 Farnborough Air Show. Airbus wanted to make this plane 15% cheaper to use than the Boeing 747-400. In June 1994, Airbus named the plane the A3XX. 
Five A380s were made for testing, and also to demonstrate the plane to airlines and the public. The first A380 was shown to the public on 18 January 2005, and it first flew on 27 April 2005. The head test pilot said that flying the A380 was like "like handling a bicycle". On 1 December 2005, the A380 reached its maximum speed, Mach 0.96. On 10 January 2006, the A380 made its first flight across the Atlantic, to Medellín, in Colombia.
On 3 October 2006, Airbus' CEO Christian Streiff said that the Airbus A380 was delayed because of problems with the software used to design the aircraft. The Toulouse factory used the latest version of CATIA (made by Dassault), but the people who were designing the plane in the Hamburg factory were using an older version. The 530 km of cables which go through the aircraft had to have their design completely changed. No airlines cancelled their orders, but Airbus still had to pay a lot of money because of the delay.
The first A380 was delivered to Singapore Airlines on 15 October 2007. It began to be used on 25 October 2007, when it flew between Singapore and Sydney. Two months later, Singapore Airlines' CEO Chew Choong Seng said that the A380 was better than both the airline and Airbus thought. It used 20% less fuel per passenger than the Boeing 747-400. Emirates was the second airline to get an A380 on 28 July 2008, and it used the A380 to fly between Dubai and New York on 1 August 2008. Qantas got the A380 on 19 September 2008, and its A380s flew between Melbourne and Los Angeles on 20 October 2008.
On 6 April 2006, it was announced that BAE Systems would sell its 20% of Airbus. Its share was worth about €3.5 billion (US$4.17 billion). At first, BAE wanted to agree a price with EADS informally. 
On 2 July 2006, BAE's part of the company was thought to be worth about £1.9 billion (€2.75 billion), which was much less than what BAE, analysts, and even EADS thought. In September 2006, BAE sold its part of Airbus for £1.87 billion (€2.75 billion, $3.53 billion). On 4 October, BAE's shareholders decided that the sale should go ahead, meaning that Airbus is now completely owned by EADS.
On 28 February 2007, CEO Louis Gallois said that Airbus was planning to make some changes. The programme was called Power, and it got rid of 10,000 jobs over four years: 4,300 in France, 3,700 in Germany, 1,600 in the UK and 400 in Spain. Airbus factories in Saint Nazaire, Varel and Laupheim could be sold or closed, while Meaulte, Nordenham and Filton are "open to investors". Unions in France and Germany threatened to go on strike because of the job cuts.
At the 2011 Paris Air Show, Airbus got 730 orders for Airbus A320neo family planes. These orders were worth $72.2 billion, and the number of orders is a new record in aviation. The A320neo was announced in December 2010, and it got 667 orders. Together with the orders before that time, there were 1029 orders made within six months after the plane was launched, which is also a new record.
The first Airbus plane was the A300, the world's first twin-engined aircraft to have two aisles. A shorter version of the A300 is called the Airbus A310. Airbus launched the A320, which is special as it is the first commercial plane to use a digital fly-by-wire control system. The A320 has been, and still is, a very big success. The A318 and A319 are shorter versions, and the A321 is a longer version, of the A320. The A320's main rival is the Boeing 737 family.
The long-range wide-body planes, the Airbus A330 and the Airbus A340, have efficient wings, which also have winglets. The Airbus A340-500 can fly for , which is the second-longest range for any commercial plane, after the Boeing 777-200LR. All Airbus aircraft after the A320 have similar cockpits, which makes it easier to train pilots. Airbus stopped making A340s in 2011 because not enough planes were being sold compared to other planes like the Boeing 777.
Airbus is studying a replacement for the A320. This plane is called the Airbus NSR, for "New Short-Range aircraft". Those studies said that the NSR could burn 9–10% less fuel than the current A320. Instead of making a brand new plane, Airbus decided to make changes to the current A320 by adding winglets and other improvements. This updated type of A320 is called the "A320 Enhanced" and it should use 4–5% less fuel.
In July 2007, Airbus gave the last A300 to FedEx, which was when Airbus stopped making A300/A310s. 
Airbus made parts and helped maintain Concorde until it was retired in 2003.
Airbus Executive and Private Aviation is the part of Airbus which makes private jets. After Boeing started the Boeing Business Jet, Airbus made the A319 Corporate Jet in 1997. As of December 2008, 121 corporate and private jets are being used and 164 aircraft have been ordered.
In the late 1990s Airbus became interested in designing and selling aircraft to the military. Airbus made planes for aerial refuelling with the Airbus A310 MRTT and the Airbus A330 MRTT, and tactical airlift with the A400M.
In January 1999, Airbus started another company, Airbus Military , to design and make a tactical transport aircraft, the Airbus Military A400M. The A400M was designed by several NATO members: Belgium, France, Germany, Luxembourg, Spain, Turkey, and the UK, so that these countries did not have to use foreign transport planes. The A400M has had many delays.
"* All models included."
"Data as of 31 May 2013."
Airbus is in a fierce rivalry with Boeing. NAirbus won more plane orders in 2003 and 2004. In 2005, Airbus got 1111 orders, and Boeing got 1029. In 2006, Airbus had its second-best year ever, when it got 824 orders. The year before that was even better. In August 2010, Airbus said that it would be making more A320 airliners, so that 40 would be made every month by 2012, when Boeing was making more 737s, so that 35 would be made every month.
As of April 2013, 7,264 Airbus aircraft are being used. There are 21% more Boeing aircraft than Airbus, because Airbus has not existed as long as Boeing. However, Airbus is catching up, as older Boeings are being retired.
Recently, more Boeing 777s have been sold than Airbus planes like the A330-300. The A330-200 is the main rival of the 767, and the A330-200 has sold more than the 767.
Airbus has also made the Airbus A350 XWB to be a rival to the Boeing 787 Dreamliner. This was done because airlines were asking Airbus to make a plane to rival the 787.
Boeing has complained that Airbus gets unfair help from European governments. However, Airbus has said that Boeing gets money illegally from the United States government, as the U.S. government buys many of Boeing's military products.
The WTO said in August 2010 and in May 2011 that Airbus was given unfair help by governments of European countries. In February 2011, the WTO found that Boeing had been given help by U.S. governments which broke the WTO rules.
Airbus has many different factories for different planes. These are:
Airbus uses the "Beluga" to move different parts of Airbus planes from one factory to the other. Boeing also uses some Boeing 747s to do this to transport parts for the 787. However, some parts of the Airbus A380 are too large to be carried by the Beluga. These big A380 parts are brought to Bordeaux on a ship. They are then taken to Toulouse on the Itinéraire à Grand Gabarit.
Airbus opened a factory in Tianjin, People's Republic of China in 2009.
Airbus started making a $350 million factory in Harbin, China in July 2009. When it is finished, 1,000 people will work there.
Airbus has started "Flightpath 2050", which will lower the amount of noise, CO and NOx made by Airbus planes.
Airbus has joined Honeywell and JetBlue Airways to lower the amount of pollution and how much oil planes need to use. They are trying to make a biofuel which could be used by 2030. 
Airbus recently had the first flight using special fuel. It used 60% kerosene and 40% gas to liquids (GTL) fuel. It gave out the same amount of carbon, but less sulphur. The special fuel worked with Airbus' engine, so this type of fuel should not need new engines. This flight is thought to be a good advance towards environmentally-friendly planes.
Airbus names its planes in a special way. The format is: the plane name, a dash, and a three-digit number.
The three-digit number after the plane name means the aircraft series, the company which makes the engines, and the version of the engines. For example, an A320-200 with version one International Aero Engines (IAE) V2500 engines would be called the A320-231.

</doc>
<doc id="18218" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18218" title="Rapid City, South Dakota">
Rapid City, South Dakota

Rapid City is the second-largest city in the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is in the western part of the state on the eastern edge of the Black Hills. Rapid City is the county seat of Pennington County.
It is a good starting point for the area around it, which is a tourist area. Local tourist sites include Mount Rushmore, the Black Hills, the Badlands, and Custer State Park.

</doc>
<doc id="18219" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18219" title="Year without a Summer">
Year without a Summer

The Year without a Summer was 1816. The year before that, in 1815, a volcano had erupted in the Dutch East Indies. The volcano's name was Mount Tambora. The volcanic ash from the eruption spread across the world. It darkened the sky, and made the Earth's surface colder. 
In much of Europe and northern North America, summer never came. In New England and Germany, there were frozen lakes in the middle of June. Flowers never bloomed, and every day was cold. These places and China suffered famine.

</doc>
<doc id="18220" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18220" title="Capitol building">
Capitol building

A capitol building (or just capitol) is a building in a capital city. People who control government work there to make laws. The building may have many offices. 
Some offices are for legislators, the people who make the laws. 
Some offices are for people who enforce laws, for example a president or governor. These people lead all people, and help them obey the laws.
Sometimes, there are offices for judges, people who help all people understand the laws. These judges are very powerful. A group of these judges can be called a supreme court or superior court.
Buildings similar to capitols are in other places. A smaller government like one in a county can be in a court house. A city government can be in a city hall.

</doc>
<doc id="18222" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18222" title="Dissolve">
Dissolve

The word dissolve can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="18224" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18224" title="Jersey City, New Jersey">
Jersey City, New Jersey

Jersey City is a city in the U.S. state of New Jersey. It is just across the Hudson River from New York City.

</doc>
<doc id="18225" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18225" title="San Jose, California">
San Jose, California

San Jose is a city in Santa Clara County, California in the United States. It is the third biggest city in California, after Los Angeles and San Diego. It is the tenth biggest city in the United States. It is south of San Francisco. The city has about 1,000,000 people. It has a warm-summer Mediterranean climate ("Csb" in the Koeppen climate classification).

</doc>
<doc id="18258" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18258" title="Venus, Texas">
Venus, Texas

Venus, Texas is a town in the United States. Around 2,960 people lived there (about 1,981 males and 979 females) in 2010.

</doc>
<doc id="18259" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18259" title="Evergreen, Colorado">
Evergreen, Colorado

Evergreen, Colorado is a community in the United States, about 30 miles from Denver, Colorado.

</doc>
<doc id="18262" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18262" title="Queens">
Queens

Queens is a borough of New York City and a county of New York State. It was named for Catherine of Braganza, the Queen of England and wife of King Charles II of England.
About 1.9 million people live in Queens and it is the largest borough of New York City in size and second in population. According to the United States census, Queens is the most ethnically diverse county in the USA. That means that it has the most people from different kinds of places, religions, and ethnic groups of any place in the USA. Large parts of Queens are urban and an equal part is suburban.
Queens is home to both of New York City's airports, LaGuardia Airport (LGA) and John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFK). Queens is connected to the Bronx by three bridges: the Bronx Whitestone Bridge, the Throgs Neck Bridge and the Triborough Bridge. It is connected to Manhattan by two bridges and one tunnel: the Triborough Bridge, the Queensboro Bridge, and the Queens Midtown Tunnel.
Many controlled-access highways cross Queens, including I-495 (the Long Island Expressway), I-278 (the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway), and I-678 (the Van Wyck Expressway, pronounced Van Wike). Important state highways in Queens include the Grand Central Parkway, which becomes the Northern State Parkway when it crosses the Queens border into Nassau County.
Many New York City Subway lines go through Queens. The most famous is the Flushing Line, the 7 Train, which has the nickname "International Express" because it goes through many neighborhoods where many immigrants live. Other subway lines in Queens include the A Train, C Train, E Train, F Train, G Train, J Train, M Train, N Train, R Train, V Train, W Train, and Z Train.
Queens has a very large bus system that goes to all parts of the borough. Some bus routes go to Brooklyn, Manhattan, or the Bronx.
The Long Island Rail Road also has many stations in Queens. The Port Washington Line crosses northern Queens. There are busy stations at Woodside, Queens, Forest Hills, and Flushing. The central depot and main station for the railroad is in the neighborhood of Jamaica.
The New York Mets of the National League of Major League Baseball play in Citi Field in Queens. The U.S. Open, a famous and important tennis tournament, is played in Arthur Ashe Stadium in Flushing Meadows Park south of the baseball stadium.
Queens has dozens of neighborhoods and named areas. These include:
<br>

</doc>
<doc id="18265" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18265" title="Toller Cranston">
Toller Cranston

Toller Cranston (April 20, 1949 – January 24, 2015) was a Canadian figure skater.
Cranston was born in Hamilton, Ontario. He grew up in Kirkland Lake, Ontario. He was Canadian champion six times, and, despite never coming higher than third at a world championship, he came first in the free skate four times. He was well-respected for his artistic ability, and is recognized as someone who brought a new level of artistry to men's figure skating.
He skated as a professional for many years, choreographed (designed movement patterns for) skating routines, and was a commentator (talked about events) on T.V. during skating events. 
After his retirement, Cranston lived in San Miguel de Allende, Mexico. He became a painter. He was found dead at his home in San Miguel de Allende on the morning of January 24, 2015. He was 65 years old. His cause of death was later said to be a heart attack.

</doc>
<doc id="18266" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18266" title="Montreal Canadiens">
Montreal Canadiens

The Montreal Canadiens are an ice hockey team in the National Hockey League (NHL). Their nickname is the "Habs" (short for the French "Habitants", early settlers in Quebec from France). They have won the Stanley Cup championship 24 times, more than any other team.
The Canadiens (who use the French spelling of "Canadian") were formed in 1909, as part of the National Hockey Association. 
They won their first Stanley Cup in 1916, with star players such as Edouard "Newsy" Lalonde and goaltender Georges Vezina. The Canadiens joined the NHL in 1917; Canadien Joe Malone won the first NHL scoring title (Art Ross Trophy). They won the Cup again in 1924, with players such as Billy Boucher. Howie Morenz was a big star in the early years of the NHL. He was a great skater. Morenz won the Hart Trophy, as the league's top player, three times. Goalie George Hainsworth played at the same time, and along with others such as Aurel Joliat, they won the Stanley Cup in 1930 and 1931.
It took 13 years before they won the Cup again. A young Maurice "The Rocket" Richard, star goalie Bill Durnan, Hector "Toe" Blake, and Elmer Lach led the Canadiens to the cup again in 1944, as well as 1946. Richard scored 50 goals in a 50-game season in 1944-45. No one did that again for 36 years. He led the NHL in goals five times.
The Canadiens became a very powerful team in the 1950s. Led by legendary center Jean Beliveau, Doug Harvey (who won seven Norris Trophies as best defence, six on Montreal), Bernie "Boom Boom" Geoffrion, Dickie Moore, Jacques Plante (who won seven Vezina Trophies for goalies), and Richard (along with his younger brother, Henri, the "Pocket Rocket"), the team won the Cup in 1953, and five times in a row, 1956 through 1960. They won again in 1965, 1966, 1968, and 1969.
New players led the team in the 1970s: Guy Lafleur, Ken Dryden, Bob Gainey, Larry Robinson, and Yvon Cournoyer led them to the cup in 1971, 1973, and four times in a row, 1976 through 1979. By 1979, they had won the Stanley Cup 16 times in 27 years.

</doc>
<doc id="18268" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18268" title="Hockey">
Hockey

Hockey is a type of sport in which players try to get points by hitting an object into the other team's goal with a stick. There are three main ways that hockey is played.

</doc>
<doc id="18270" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18270" title="Tyresta National Park">
Tyresta National Park

Tyresta National Park is a small national park in Sweden. It only has about 50 square kilometers (or 19 square miles) of land. It is located near the capital city of Stockholm. A large fire burned almost 10 percent of the park in 1999, but the animals and plants have come back and are now doing fine.

</doc>
<doc id="18276" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18276" title="St. Basil's Cathedral">
St. Basil's Cathedral

St. Basil's Cathedral, also known as the Cathedral of Intercession, is a very famous cathedral in Moscow, Russia was commissioned by Ivan IV (Ivan the Terrible), for Saint Basil the Blessed. It is in the area called Red Square. It was built in 1555-1560.
The cathedral is very magnificent. It has 8 distinctive onion-shaped towers. The building itself is made up of separate chapels. There is a ninth spire in the middle, forming an eight-point star. The Cathedral should not be mistaken for the Moscow Kremlin.
The cathedral has escaped destruction many times. Napoleon Bonaparte decided to take it to Paris, but such an undertaking would have been impossible. Instead, he ordered it to be demolished. Explosives were lit, but torrential rain suddenly started, extinguishing the fuses. Joseph Stalin also ordered it to be destroyed, since it interfered with parades. However, his architect stood on the stairs and demanded that he leave the cathedral, or he would slit his own throat then and there. Miraculously, Stalin agreed. The city of Moscow also caught fire numerous times, and the cathedral wasn't spared. Even so, it still stands to this very day.

</doc>
<doc id="18286" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18286" title="Newport">
Newport

Newport is a city in the southeast of Wales, Great Britain. It is in the county of Monmouthshire, and in the historic Welsh kingdom of Gwent. Its name in Welsh is Casnewydd. It is the third biggest city in Wales. Newport became a city in 2002. About 140,000 people live in Newport.
A few years ago, Newport had lots of people working in the steel factory and other heavy industries. This has changed, now many people work in electronics, such as making computers, phones and microchips.

</doc>
<doc id="18287" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18287" title="Monmouthshire">
Monmouthshire

Monmouthshire is a county in Wales in the west of Great Britain. From the end of the Middle Ages until the year 1974 Monmouthshire was a part of England for some things and a part of Wales for other things. Then in 1972 Parliament decided that it was going to be in Wales from 1974 onwards.
The chief town in the area is Newport. Other important towns are Cwmbran, where the county council meets, Monmouth, the county town and Abergavenny.

</doc>
<doc id="18299" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18299" title="Death grunt">
Death grunt

A death grunt is when a singer uses a scream which is very low and deep. It is used in many types of music, but usually death metal. In many people's opinions, it is hard to understand the death grunt. However, some people who listen to them a lot think they are not so hard to understand. Some people believe that death grunts in music sound "scary", so they do not like them.
Bands that use death growls include Necrophagist, Morbid Angel, Opeth, and many more.
Bands that use higher screams that come from the throat include Escape the Fate, Alesana and Greeley Estates.
Other terms for death grunts are death growls, harsh vocals, and unclean vocals.

</doc>
<doc id="18300" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18300" title="Clique">
Clique

A clique is a small group of people who like the same things. Sometimes, people use the word clique to talk about groups of young people. The word is also used to talk about groups of adults, usually groups of politicians.
In a clique there are leaders and followers. A clique may also have people they do not like. Such people are called outcasts. The outcasts were followers, then they were not liked.

</doc>
<doc id="18301" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18301" title="Goth subculture">
Goth subculture

A goth is a person who listens to gothic music. Goths often wear black clothes and unusual jewelry. Both goth men and goth women often wear make-up.
The "goth subculture" originated in the early 1980s among fans of the first gothic rock group, Bauhaus.
The word Goth comes from the word "Gothic" which actually means "gloomy" or "dark". This meaning of the word comes from "gothic fiction", a type of literature popular during the late 18th and early 19th century. 
People who call themselves a Goth are those who live up the meaning of the name through wearing clothes or putting on makeup that is in colours that represent death, decay, or gloominess, such as the colour black, deathly white face makeup, dark bloody red colours, or the tones of the colour puce.
Goth people also make and listen to "Goth music".
Goths wear normal black clothes and mix them with other colours to make a new look
Goth people are often mistaken to be emo or punk because of the everyday stereotypes. 

</doc>
<doc id="18302" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18302" title="Cigarette">
Cigarette

Cigarettes can be any dried leaf that people roll in thin paper to smoke, but the word is most often used to refer ones with dried tobacco leaves. The nicotine in the tobacco can be addictive to people. The nicotine from cigarettes makes people want to smoke more, even if they do not like the taste or its other effects. The smoke also has other things that are bad for people's health. Many countries have laws saying who can smoke tobacco cigarettes and where they can smoke them. They can cause lung cancer, heart disease and many other diseases. Most packs of cigarettes have warning labels on them. 
Smokers have symptoms such as frequent coughing, chest pain, and breathlessness. Doctors say that people should not smoke, as it can harm almost every organ in the body.
Cigarette smoke contains many harmful substances. Among them are nicotine, tar, carcinogens and carbon monoxide.

</doc>
<doc id="18306" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18306" title="Gdańsk">
Gdańsk

Gdańsk is a city in the north of Poland in Pomeranian Voivodeship, near the place where the Vistula river meets the Baltic Sea. It is Poland's 6th largest city (population of 500 000 people) and the largest and most important sea port.
It has existed since the 10th century and many times played a very important role in Poland's history. In the 19th century it was part of Prussia. This is where Solidarity, the movement which helped end Communist rule in Central and Eastern Europe, came to life.
Gdansk has a humid continental climate ("Dfb" in the Köppen climate classification).
The sixth Wikimania was hosted in this city in 2010.

</doc>
<doc id="18309" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18309" title="Montserrat">
Montserrat

Montserrat is a Caribbean island. It is an overseas territory of the United Kingdom. Montserrat got its name from Christopher Columbus in 1493. The governor of Montserrat is Deborah Barnes-Jones. The capital is officially Plymouth, but the government has moved to Brades after a volcano, Chances Peak, destroyed Plymouth in 1995.

</doc>
<doc id="18312" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18312" title="Malawi">
Malawi

Malawi ("Republic of Malawi") is a country in south-east Africa. It has borders with the countries of Tanzania, Zambia, and Mozambique. The capital of Malawi is Lilongwe and the spoken languages are English and the official language Chichewa. The total size is about 118480 km² and there are about 100 people per km². The official language of Malawi is English. The country is also called "The Warm Heart of Africa". Malawi is one of the smallest countries in Africa. Lake Malawi takes about a third of Malawi's area.
Bantu people started living in Malawi in the 10th century. In 1891 the area became a colony of the United Kingdom. In 1953 Malawi, then called as Nyasaland, as a protectorate of the United Kingdom, became a almost independent country called Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland. The Federation was ended in 1963. In 1964 the protection of the United Kingdom over Nyasaland was ended. Nyasaland became an independent country which was ruled by Queen Elizabeth and was called Malawi. Two years later it became a republic. After getting independence it became a one-party rule which was ruled by Hastings Banda. He was president until 1994. Peter Mutharika is the current president. Malawi has a democratic, many party government. Malawi has a small military: army, a navy and an air support. Malawi has good relations with Western countries and most countries in the world. Malawi has joined some international organizations.
Malawi is one of the poorest countries in the world. Economy is based in farming. Most of the population live in field areas. Country gets aid from other countries. Government has a hard time building and expanding the economy and develop health care, education and environment safety. Since 2005 some programs have been developed to focus on these problems.
Malawi has a low life expectancy and high infant mortality. People become ill with AIDS. Africans, Asians and Europeans are living in the country and they speak in different languages.
People have lived in the area of Malawi for thousands of years. At first they were hunter-gatherers. Bantu groups came to the area around the 10th century. Most of the Bantu grups went to south but some started living there and made ethnic groups based on familiar race.
By 1500 AD groups came together and made Maravi empire, which streched from north of what is now Nkhotakota to the Zambezi River and from Lake Malawi to the Luangwa River in what is now Zambia.
After 1600 the area was united under one ruler and began trading and making connection with Portuguese traders and members of the military through the Mozambican port which was occupied by Portuguese. By 1700 the empire had broken up into areas that were controlled by individual groups of people which was known by the Portuguese by collecting information. The Swahili-Arab slave trade had its highest amount in the middle of 1800s when about 20,000 people were forced to become slaves and were sold every year.
In 1859 British explorer David Livingstone found Lake Malawi (then it was called Lake Nyasa) and thought that Shire Highlands to the south of the lake was a good place for Europeans to make a colony. Many British missions were done in the area in the 1860s and 1870s. The African Lakes Company Limited was made in 1878 to set up a trade and transport that helped with the missions, and a small mission and trading area was made at Blantyre in 1876 and a British Consul started living there in 1883. 
Malawi became an independent country in 6 July 1964. Hastings Banda became the first president. Constitution made Malawi become a republic and one-party state. Banda's Malawi Congress Party (MCP) was the only legal party in the country. In 1971, Banda became president for life. For almost 30 years, Banda ruled over a harsh government which kept Malawi out from war.
Banda showed how a poor country with no access to sea, big population and no minerals can develop farming and industries. Banda made a business empire that produced one-third of the country's GDP and used 10% of the workers who got paid. All money made by Banda was used to develop Malawi. 
Under pressure for free politics, Banda held an referendum in 1993, where population voted for many party, democratic government. In late 1993 a presidential council was made, president for life was ended and new constitution was put in place, ending MCP rule. In 1994 the first many party elections were held in Malawi, and Banda was defeated by Bakili Muluzi. 

</doc>
<doc id="18319" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18319" title="Electromagnetic radiation">
Electromagnetic radiation

Electromagnetic waves are waves that contain an electric field and a magnetic field and carry energy. They travel at the speed of light.
Quantum mechanics developed from the study of electromagnetic waves, which include visible light seen in the colors of the rainbow, but also other waves including the more energetic and higher frequency waves like ultraviolet light, x-rays, and gamma rays plus the waves with longer wavelengths including infrared waves, microwaves and radio waves.
Some types of electromagnetic radiation, such as X-rays, are ionizing radiation and can be harmful to your body. 
Ultraviolet rays are near the violet end of the light spectrum and infrared are near the red end. Infrared rays are heat rays and ultraviolet rays cause sunburn.
The various parts of the electromagnetic spectrum differ in wavelength, frequency and quantum energy. 
Sound waves are not electromagnetic waves but waves of pressure in air, water or any other substance.
In physics, it is well known that the wave equation for a typical wave is
formula_1
The problem now is to prove that Maxwell's equations explicitly prove that the electric and magnetic fields create electromagnetic radiation. Recall that two of Maxwell's equations are given by
formula_2
formula_3
By evaluating the curl of the above equations and vector calculus one can prove the following equations
formula_4
formula_5
Note: the proof involves making the substitution 
formula_6
The equations above are analogous to the wave equation, by replacing f with E and B. The above equations mean that propagations through the magnetic (B) and electric (E) fields will produce waves. 

</doc>
<doc id="18322" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18322" title="Saint Vincent and the Grenadines">
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines is an island nation in the Caribbean Sea. It is a member of the Commonwealth of Nations, the Organisation of Eastern Caribbean States and CARICOM.
The country speaks English as its official language. The capital, and its main port, is Kingstown.
Its national bird is the Saint Vincent Amazon, an endemic bird of the Saint Vincent island.
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines is a parliamentary democracy and constitutional monarchy with Queen Elizabeth II as head of state. The Queen does not live in the islands but she is represented in the country by the Governor-General, currently Sir Frederick Ballantyne.
Control of the government rests with the elected prime minister and his or her cabinet. The current Prime Minister is Ralph Gonsalves.
The country has no formal armed forces, although the police has a Special Service Unit that has a supporting role on the island.
The Parliament is unicameral is formed only by the House of Assembly with 21 seats: 15 representatives elected by popular vote to serve five-year terms and 6 appointed senators. The last elections were held on 13 December 2010 and the next will be held in 2015.
The island now known as Saint Vincent was originally named "Youloumain" by the native Caribs. The Caribs inhabited Saint Vincent before the Europeans arrived, and it is possible still to find Carib artifacts in the island.
Christopher Columbus explored in 1498 the main island on Saint Vincent's Day. The Caribs did not allowed Europeans to settle in Saint Vincent until 1719 when some French people came from Martinique and began to grow coffee, tobacco, indigo, cotton and sugar cane with the help of African slaves.
In 1763 by the Treaty of Paris, France gave control of Saint Vincent to Britain; France took the island again in 1779, but the British then regained Saint Vincent under the Treaty of Versailles (1783).
In 1834 slavery was abolished and people from the portuguese island of Madeira and from India came to work as agricultural workers.
In 1871 the group of islands became part of the Windward Islands Colony and in 1956 a member of the Federation of the Windward Islands. In 1958 Saint Vincent joined the Federation of the West Indies and in 1969 it got full internal self government. Finally in 1979 it became an Independent Sovereign State within the Commonwealt.
The estimated population in 2003 was 103,220. The population density is 265 persons per square kilometre.
The ethnic composition was 66% Black, 19% Mixed, 6.0% East Indian, 4.0% European (mainly Portuguese), 2.0% Carib Amerindian, 3.0% others.
The official language of the islands is English but most people use the Vicentian Creole English.
The people of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines was 75% Protestant (47% Anglicans, 28% Methodists), 13% Catholics, 12% other (Hindu, Seventh-Day Adventists, other Protestant).
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines is a group of islands of the Caribbean Sea. It lies to the west of Barbados, south of Saint Lucia and north of Grenada in the Windward Islands of the Lesser Antilles.
There are 32 islands and cays, including the main island of Saint Vincent () and the northern two-thirds of the Grenadines (), which are a chain of small islands stretching south from Saint Vincent to Grenada. The largest and most populated Grenadines islands are Bequia, Mustique, Canouan and Union Island.
The main island of Saint Vincent, at , is long and wide, and has an area of , or about 88% of the total country area, 19 times that of the country's second largest island Bequia. It is dominated by the highest mountain in the country and an active volcano, La Soufrière (), which erupted violently in 1812 and 1902. The most recent eruption was on April 13, 1979. The island has many mountains and forests. The island is tropical humid, with an average of between 18 and 31 °C depending on the altitude.
The Saint Vincent Passage is between the Saint Lucia and Saint Vincent islands, and the Bequia Channel is between the Grenadines and Saint Vincent islands.
The Grenadines islands lie between the islands of Saint Vincent in the north and Grenada in the south. Neither Saint Vincent nor Grenada are Grenadine islands. The islands north of the Martinique Channel belong to Saint Vincent and the Grenadines and the islands south of the channel belong to Grenada.
These islands make up the Grenadines Parish
Administratively, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines is divided into six parishes. Five parishes are on Saint Vincent, while the sixth is made up of the Grenadine islands. Kingstown is located in the Parish of Saint George and is the capital city and central administrative centre of the country.
Tropical rainforest climate is a type of tropical climate in which there is no dry season - all months have mean precipitation values of at least . Tropical rainforest climates have no pronounced summer or winter; it is typically hot and wet throughout the year and rainfall is both heavy and frequent.
The Köppen climate classification subtype for this climate is Af (Tropical Rainforest Climate).
The average yearly temperature is . The coolest months are between November and February. During the rainy season, May through October, rain is frequent in the mountains of St. Vincent with the annual average rainfall being away from the coast and on the coast.

</doc>
<doc id="18326" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18326" title="Adolph Rupp">
Adolph Rupp

Adolph Frederick Rupp (September 2, 1901-December 10, 1977) was one of the most successful college basketball coaches in history. He coached the University of Kentucky's basketball team from 1930 to 1972, 42 years. He helped the team win 4 national NCAA championships. Rupp Arena in Lexington, Kentucky is named after him.

</doc>
<doc id="18327" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18327" title="Miami Dolphins">
Miami Dolphins

The Miami Dolphins is an American football club in the National Football League team based in Miami, Florida, USA. The Dolphins began playing in 1966 and in 1972 they had the only perfect season in NFL history and won a Super Bowl, with Bob Griese leading the team as quarterback. Another quarterback, Dan Marino, is a more recent famous player from this club. The Miami Dolphins stadium is Sun Life Stadium in Miami Gardens, Fl.

</doc>
<doc id="18329" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18329" title="Oksana Grishuk">
Oksana Grishuk

Oksana Vladimirovna Grishuk (born March 17, 1972 in Odessa, Ukraine) is a Russian retired ice dancer. She and her partner, Evgeny Platov, won two Olympic gold medals and four world championships.
Grishuk began training in skating at the age of four. She moved to Moscow in 1986, and studied at the Sport University from 1988 to 1992.
After they won the gold medal in the 1998 Winter Olympics in Nagano, Japan, Platov decided to skate as a professional with a different partner, Maya Usova, so Grishuk began skating professionally alone. 

</doc>
<doc id="18330" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18330" title="Evgeny Platov">
Evgeny Platov

Evgeny Platov (born August 7, 1967, Odessa, Ukraine).
He was a Russian dancer, and began skating when he was nine years old. He studied at the Physical Institute of Culture in Moscow. 
Platov won two Olympic gold medals and four world championships with his partner, Oksana Grishuk 
After the 1998 Olympics in Nagano, Japan, Platov started skating as a professional with a different partner, Maya Usova, until he retired from performing in 2002. He is now a coach at Princeton Sports Center in Princeton, New Jersey. 

</doc>
<doc id="18333" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18333" title="Tetris">
Tetris

Tetris is a video game developed in the Soviet Union in 1984. The goal is to drop blocks, called tetrominoes, down into a playing field to make lines. Tetriminoes are made of four connected squares each, and there are seven different shapes of tetrominoes. A player uses the tetrominoes to make unbroken lines of squares across the bin from left to right by stacking them in the playing field. When a player makes a line, it clears. After a clear, squares over that line fall. As play goes on, the tetrominoes fall faster.
"Tetris" has appeared in many video game systems. It has become very common from back when Alexey Pajitnov first made it in 1984. Over 100 million copies of the game have been sold
The goal is to drop blocks, called tetrominoes, down into a playing field to make lines. Tetriminoes are made of four connected squares each There are seven different types of tetrominoes. Levels have a set goal, or number of lines to clear. When the goal number reaches zero, the player moves to the next level. As the levels go up, the tetrominoes fall faster. A player receives bonus points if he can clear more than one line with a single tetromino. Clearing four lines is called a "tetris", three lines a "triple" and two lines a "double". Clearing two tetrises in a row is called a back-to-back tetris. The player can also turn a T-shaped tetromino into a hole, called a T-slot, to get more points. This move is called a "T-spin". A player loses when the tetrominoes make it to the top of the playing field. See "Issues" for information on the Level 29 Problem.
On the "Game Boy", there are several musical themes played. The theme for level 1 is often called the "Tetris Theme". It is actually a Russian dance called "Korobeiniki", or "the Peddlers." Other themes include music by Johann Sebastian Bach and the Dance of the Sugar Plum Fairy.
When one reaches Level 29 on the GBA or DS, the level starts to offer pieces that seem to fall indefinitely fast, hence disallowing the player to move in a lock, or quite possibly, move the tetrominoes at all. This means that all the uncontrolled pieces will pile up on the playfield and cause the player to top out.

</doc>
<doc id="18336" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18336" title="Moldova">
Moldova

The Republic of Moldova is a country in Eastern Europe. The official language in Moldova is the Moldovan language, which is very similar to the Romanian language. The capital of Moldova is Chișinău.
The Moldova economy's growth is around 7 per-cent, and has the third fastest growing economy of Europe. But in this respect the average monthly salary/wages are still low standing at only $243 USD. Moldova is an associated country for future membership in the EU.

</doc>
<doc id="18338" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18338" title="Polish">
Polish

Polish can mean:
When written with upper-case "P":
When written with lower-case "p":

</doc>
<doc id="18339" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18339" title="Polish language">
Polish language

Polish () is the official language of Poland. It is the most widely spoken Western Slavic language and the second largest Slavic language after Russian.
In history, Polish was an important language in Central and Eastern Europe. Today, Polish is spoken by over 38.5 million people as their first language in Poland. It is also spoken as a second language in western parts of Belarus, Lithuania, and Ukraine. Because of the emigration from Poland during different time periods, millions of Polish speakers can be found in countries such as Australia, Brazil, Canada, United Kingdom, United States, and so on. There are over 50 million Polish language speakers around the world.
There are 9 letters in Polish which English does not have. They look like English letters with marks above or below them.
In lower case, the 9 letters are: ą ć ę ł ń ś ó ź ż
In upper case, the 9 letters are: Ą Ć Ę Ł Ń Ś Ó Ź Ż
There are 3 English letters which are not used in Polish: q, v, x.
There are 7 combinations of 2 letters which are like a single letter sound (similar to "th" or "qu" in English). These include "ch", "cz", "dz", "dź", "dż", "rz", "sz".
Many letters have the same sound in Polish and English, for instance "f", "m", and others. But other letters sound different, for instance Polish "w" sounds like an English "v", while Polish "ł" sounds like an English "w". There are also some Polish sounds which do not exist in English, and some English sounds which do not exist in Polish.
The vowels "ą" and "ę" are nasal, which means people pronounce them blowing air partly out of the nose as well as the mouth.
Most words are pronounced with an accent on the next-to-last syllable. For instance the Polish word "student" (which means the same as the English word) is pronounced with the accent on "stu" ("STU-dent"), while "studenci" (the plural form of "student") is pronounced with the accent on "den" (stu-DEN-ci).
The Polish language has several dialects, but less so than most European languages. There are small differences in "standard" Polish, but all speakers can understand one another, and non-native speakers often cannot notice the differences.
The grammar is complex, and has some features which do not appear in English.
Like many languages, Polish has grammatical gender. A table ("stół") is masculine, a book ("książka") is feminine, and a window ("okno") is neuter.
Nouns and adjectives and verbs have many endings, depending on their role in a sentence. There are 7 cases or roles which a noun can have in a Polish sentence, each with its own ending. The endings also depend on the gender of the noun.
Word order is more free in Polish, partly because the noun endings help people understand the role of the word. In English, "The boy bites the dog" is quite different from "The dog bites the boy", but in Polish people could use either order without confusion.
Dzień dobry (Dz'yehn DOH-brih) - "Good morning" or "Good afternoon"
Dobry wieczór (DOH-brih v-YETCH-oor) - "Good evening'
Do widzenia (doh vee-DZEN-yah) - "Good bye"
Cześć! (tsheshch) - "Hi", "Hello!" or "Bye"
Tak (tahk) - "Yes" (in Polish people may not say long-short answers - like "Yes, I did" Tak is enough)
Nie (nyeh) - "No" or "Not" (in Polish people may not say long-short answers - like "No, I won't" Nie is enough)
Jak się masz? (yahk shyeh mahsh) - "How do you do?"
Co robisz? (tsoh robish) - "What you doing?"
Jak się nazywasz? (YAHK shyeh nahZYvash) or Jak masz na imię? (YAHK mahsh nah EE-myeng/EE-myeh) - "What's your name?"
Nazywam się... (nah-ZIH-vahm shyeh) - "My (name and) surname is..."
Mam na imię... (mahm nah EE-myeng/EE-myeh) - "My (given) name is..."
Nie mówię po polsku (nyeh MOW-vyeng/MOW-vyeh poh POL-skoo) - "I do not speak Polish"
Lubię Cię (loo-bee-EH chyeh) - "I like you"
Kocham Cię (koh-hahm chyeh) - "I love you"
Nie mówię po angielsku (nyeh MOW-vyeng/MOW-vyeh poh ahng-YEL-skoo) - "I do not speak English"
Jak dojechać na lotnisko/dworzec (yak do-YEH-khatch nah lot-NEE-sco/dvo-ZHETS) - "Hot to get the airport/rail station?"(where dworzec - "station" means "rail station" by default)

</doc>
<doc id="18341" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18341" title="Georgia">
Georgia

Georgia could mean either of two things:

</doc>
<doc id="18342" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18342" title="Kryptos">
Kryptos

Kryptos is the name of a sculpture (art that is like a statue) on the grounds of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) in Langley, Virginia, USA. Kryptos is very famous. It has codes (secret hidden messages) on it. There are four messages. People know what three of the messages say. No one knows what the fourth message says yet.
A man named Jim Sanborn made "Kryptos" in 1990. Kryptos is in a garden in the middle of a building called CIA Headquarters. 
Not very many people have seen "Kryptos", because only a few people are allowed to go into the CIA building. They do very important work at the CIA, and have to be very careful.
The word Kryptos comes from the Greek language. It means "hidden".
The sculpture is about 12 feet high and 20 feet long. It is made of metal and different kinds of rocks. It has thousands of letters and other things written in the metal. 
The first person to find out what the first three messages say, was Jim Gillogly. He learned the answers in 1999. After he said what the answer was, the CIA said that a man who works at the CIA, David Stein, knew the answer too. A few years later the NSA (another agency in Washington D.C.) said that they had people who had solved it too.
Before he made "Kryptos", Jim Sanborn had not made any other sculptures with letters on them. After "Kryptos" he made many other sculptures with letters on them. Some of them have secret messages. One is called Antipodes. There are two copies of Antipodes. One belongs to a man in California. The other is in a museum in Washington DC called the Hirshhorn Museum. 
Another sculpture that Sanborn made which has secret messages is called the "Cyrillic Projector". It has secret messages in Russian. The Cyrillic Projector was independently cracked by Michael Bales and Frank Corr in 2003.
There are two famous books that talk about "Kryptos", which were written by Dan Brown. He wrote a book in 2003 called "The Da Vinci Code". On the cover of the book is art. In the art there are secret messages. Two of the messages talk about "Kryptos". Dan Brown wrote another book in 2009 called "The Lost Symbol", which also talks about "Kryptos".

</doc>
<doc id="18343" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18343" title="Lech Wałęsa">
Lech Wałęsa

Lech Walesa (Polish: Lech Wałęsa (pronounced [lɛx vaˈwɛ̃sa]) (born September 29, 1943) was a Polish shipyard worker and a politician who used to be the leader of Solidarity and the President of Poland. Walesa won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1983.

</doc>
<doc id="18344" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18344" title="List of Dutch football teams">
List of Dutch football teams

These are some Dutch football (soccer) teams.
Season 2012/13

</doc>
<doc id="18345" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18345" title="Charles de Gaulle">
Charles de Gaulle

General Charles-André-Joseph-Marie de Gaulle (22 November 1890 - 9 November 1970) was a French military and political leader. He was president of France from 1959 to 1969, and was a founding member and leader of the French Resistance during the Second World War. He died of an aneurysm.

</doc>
<doc id="18348" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18348" title="Sumatran tiger">
Sumatran tiger

The Sumatran tiger ("Panthera tigris sumatrae") is the smallest tiger subspecies and is currently listed as critically endangered because of it being hunted down for its fur and other body parts. They are also in danger because their natural habitats are being cleared out. It is estimated that there are only about 350-400 Sumatran tigers left in the wild.
The Sumatran tiger is found only on the Indonesian island of Sumatra, where the Sumatran tiger can be found from low and highland areas, to mountainous jungles and peat swamp forests.
Like other tiger subspecies, the Sumatran tiger has deep orange fur with black stripes. Every tiger has its own pattern of stripes, with none being the same. The Sumatran tiger has very long back legs, which allow it to jump great distances. Even though they are the smallest of the tiger subspecies, Sumatran tigers are still very large, reaching to the length of 9 feet (2.7 meters), and weighing up to 165-250 pounds (75–114 kg). Sumatran tigers have webbed feet. This allows them to swim easily.
The Sumatran tiger is found only on the Indonesian island of Sumatra, where the Sumatran tiger can be found from low and highland areas, to mountainous jungles and peat swamp forests.
Sumatran tigers ambush their prey, using their long, powerful legs, jaws, and claws to catch and kill their prey. They have extremely good eyesight and hearing, which helps them to find their prey. Sumatran tigers feed mainly on wild boar and deer, and they can eat more than 40 pounds of meat at a time.
Female Sumatran tigers reach maturity at the age of around three to four years, and the males turn mature at the age of around four to five years. Females are pregnant for about 95–110 days, and the females give birth in hidden and private areas and raise the cubs alone. They give birth to around 2-3 cubs at a time, but they can sometimes give birth to six cubs. The cubs’ eyes are closed at birth, and they don’t open fully until the cub is one or two weeks old. Cubs feed on milk for three to six months and start hunting with their mother at the age of about five or six months. They will stay with their mother until they are fully able to hunt on their own, which doesn’t happen until the cubs are at least 18 months to 2 years old. In the wild, Sumatran tigers live an average of 15 years.

</doc>
<doc id="18356" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18356" title="American Film Institute">
American Film Institute

The American Film Institute (AFI) is an independent, organization that is designed not to make money created by the National Endowment for the Arts, which was started in 1967 when President Lyndon B. Johnson signed the National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities Act.
George Stevens, Jr. was the first CEO. Since 1980, Jean Picker Firstenberg has been CEO.
Older figures in AFI's Conservatory train newer people.
The institute also wants to keep old film, which could soon be destroyed.
Even though its name only mentions film, AFI also works on television and video.
In 1973, the AFI began handing out Life Achievement Awards.
In 1998, when American cinema had existed for 100 years, AFI began its 100 Years Series, which helped people become interested in the history of movies.
Recently, it built and started the AFI Silver theatre in Silver Spring, Maryland near Washington, D.C.
In honour of the hundredth birthday of American cinema, the AFI has made several lists of the best movie-related things:

</doc>
<doc id="18366" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18366" title="Fullback">
Fullback

A fullback or full back is the name of a defensive position in a football (soccer) game. A fullback is also an offensive position in American football that usually blocks for the quarterback or a running back.

</doc>
<doc id="18368" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18368" title="Antonio Meucci">
Antonio Meucci

Antonio Meucci (Florence, April 13, 1808 – October 18, 1889) was an Italian inventor. He invented of one of the first types of telephone developed a voice communication apparatus in 1857. In 2002, the United States House of Representatives ruled that he invented the first working telephone, although Alexander Graham Bell was first to patent it.

</doc>
<doc id="18369" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18369" title="8 Mile">
8 Mile

8 Mile is a 2002 American drama movie starring rapper Eminem, Kim Basinger, Brittany Murphy and Mekhi Phifer. It is set in 1995 in Detroit, Michigan.
The film tells about a young white rapper living in inner city Detroit. He tries to make a rap career but most rappers are African Americans.
The film was a critical and financial success. Eminem won the Academy Award for Best Original Song for "Lose Yourself".

</doc>
<doc id="18370" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18370" title="African-American people">
African-American people

An African American generally refers to a person who lives in the United States and speaks English, but whose ancestors were from Africa. It could also describe a first-generation African immigrant to the United States who has American citizenship.
The term is usually associated with "black people". This is because of many African-Americans' dark skin. Many Africans were brought to the United States as slaves. A large amount of the U.S. population (especially in many urban or city areas) is African-American. Outside of urban areas, there is also a wide rural area from Maryland to East Texas that has a lot of African-Americans living there. Detroit has the highest percent of blacks in the nation.
African-American refers to a specific range of diverse cultures with a common thread of ethnic connection to Africa. This term was created to describe an ethnic/cultural link to Africa for people who are American, much as in the case of Italian Americans, Irish Americans, or Polish Americans. The difference is that Italian Americans and Polish Americans know they are Americans of Italian or Polish (not general European) descent. 
The 'African' in African-American acknowledges the connection to a number of African cultures, not one in particular. The 'American' shows the nationality and culture of the United States. A person born in Nigeria is still Nigerian even if he or she comes to the United States and lives here for the rest of their life. If that person wants to say that they are an American citizen, they would simply say "I am an American citizen". His American-born children could correctly call themselves Nigerian-American OR African-American.
With their American born children came the first generation of English speaking African Americans. But this development was not the same all over the country. For example; even today the Gullah People of the Sea Islands off the Carolina and Georgia coasts still speak a language that is a blend of several African languages. They are the descendants of slaves from different countries in Africa. 
In the United States when Americans say African-American or Black, they are referring to the same people. Both terms describe an ethnic group that came to exist in the United States. The Africans who were brought to America as slaves were from different nationalities and did not all speak the same language. They became a new blended ethnic group with a new language that was not their own: English. 
Blacks used to be segregated in schools but since the 1960s were able to join major schools, colleges and universities. In the second half of the 20th century, reading-ability rates for blacks increased.
In America, and from an American point of view, the term 'Black' is often applied to other ethnic groups throughout the world who do not necessarily see themselves as Black. African American culture was born in the United States and is distinct from any single African culture. 
African-American is a term that many Black people chose to call themselves because they found the term "Negro" offensive. 
In America there are many immigrants of mixed race that includes African descent, like Cape Verdeans, Dominicans and Puerto Ricans. These groups, by and large, do not think of themselves as Black or African American and object to these labels. 
Many mixed race Americans also resist pressure to identify themselves as Black or White.
African Americans have influenced various forms of music, including Hip hop, R&B, funk, rock and roll, soul, blues, and other contemporary American musical forms while older black forms of music included blues, doo-wop, barbershop, ragtime, bluegrass, jazz, and gospel music. Michael Jackson, an African-American pop singer, released an album called "Thriller" in 1982 which is the best-selling album of all time. In the nineties Beyonce Knowles became famous as the lead singer of the R&B girl band Destiny's Child. In the 2000s she started releasing music on her own. Her first album "Dangerously in Love" sold 11 million copies and won five Grammy Awards.
Soul food is a cuisine popular with African Americans. The most famous example of soul food is fried chicken.
Black culture has been the subject of documentaries. For example, the award-winning "Black Is, Black Ain't" explores black identity. "Good Hair" discusses the significance of having 'good hair' for black women in American culture.
There is a National Museum of African American History and Culture in Washington D.C.
Protestant Christianity is the most practised religion by African Americans.
African American Vernacular English

</doc>
<doc id="18372" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18372" title="Pol Pot">
Pol Pot

Saloth Sar (better known as Pol Pot; January 25, 1925 – April 15, 1998) was the leader of Cambodia between 1975 and 1979. He was the leader of a group called the Khmer Rouge, a group of peasant revolutionaries who turned Cambodia into a military dictatorship officially called Democratic Kampuchea. Between 1.7 and 2.2 million Cambodians were killed by his regime. Pol Pot was thrown out of power in January, 1979, when the Vietnamese Communists liberated Kampuchea.
Pol Pot's family was a good family, and really connected with the royal family. His brother, Loth Suong, was a palace clerk, and his cousin was a wife to Prince Sisowat Monivong and had a son named Kossarak. His connection helped him get a scholarship to France.
His father's name was Pen Saloth and his mother's name was Sok Nem. Pol Pot had eight siblings. His family was thriving, but alone. 
Pol Pot's childhood was fairly normal. Pol Pot's real name is Saloth Sar. No one knows his real birthday, but two guesses are 1925 or May 25, 1928. He grew up in a nice place, and his village was about two miles from Kompong Thom's capital. Kompong Thom was a province of Cambodia. Back then, that part of Cambodia was part of France.
In 1949, he went to France and studied about radio electronics, but got distracted and led astray because of Marxism, which is a form of communism. He didn't study, and his scholarship was taken away. In 1953, he went back to Cambodia and became a communist. The following year, Cambodia became free from France.
In 1962, he became the leader of Communist party in Cambodia. This party was hidden, as the prince, Prince Sihanouk, did not like Pol Pot nor the Communists. 
Pol Pot went to the jungle and created a guerrilla force called the Khmer Rouge (the Khmer are the main ethnic group in Cambodia, and "rouge" is French for "red", the colour of Communism). The Khmer Rouge was made of mostly teenagers. Guerilla means that they hid and ambushed people, rather than be visible and directly attack their enemies. They were the source of Pol Pot's power. 
In 1969-1973 the U.S. bombed Cambodian sanctuaries attempting to get rid of the North Vietnamese, but only drove them deeper into the country. The US also made it so that the peasants ran to cities. 
In 1970, the U.S. got rid of Prince Sihanouk and unknowingly made Pol Pot more popular. They also made Prince Sihanouk mad, and so he joined Pol Pot, but that alliance only gave Pol Pot an advantage. This created a whole lot of confusion, and only made Pol Pot even more popular.
On April 17, 1975, Pol Pot went into Phnom Penh, the capital, and took control. He planned for a "super great leap forward", inspired by Mao's Great Leap Forward in China. The second in command was Noun Chea, also called "Brother Number said later that the mass killing was a mistake. Pol Pot took all the city people and drove them towards fields, where they will work and work and work. A lot of people died on the way to the fields. Even more died in the fields from hunger, thirst, overwork, and sickness. They would only get a 180-gram can of rice every day, and they were harvesting fruits and rice. Every tenth day was a rest day, and so were the festivals. The government took over anything that had to do with money. Religion was illegal. Teenagers had to be part of the army and children learned how to set mines and make traps. People getting together were not allowed. Only two people or less were allowed to see each other. Marriages were arranged, not because they loved each other, but because they were forced to. They had to marry in big groups. The worst part is that Pol Pot didn't know that he was doing bad things. After the Vietnamese and underground Cambodian parties got Pol Pot out of power in 1979, he went to a zone near Thailand called Pailin and tried to get control of Cambodia again. Eventually the Khmer Rouge broke up in the early 1990s. 
That time was horrible, and one in seven people died.
On the evening of April 15, 1998, Pol Pot died of a heart attack, in the woods, never admitting that he did wrong to Cambodia. It has been said that Pol Pot killed himself with poison to avoid trial. . On his death face, there were signs of suffering, with his one eye open. Pol Pot was cremated without any ceremony. After he died, some people started praying to him, like he was a God. Some even dug up parts of his bone and took them away like special amulets and charms. Some people still support Pol Pot.

</doc>
<doc id="18374" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18374" title="1800s">
1800s


</doc>
<doc id="18376" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18376" title="Sedan">
Sedan

In American English it is a car which has a low trunk, a roof and one or two doors on each side. The trunk is reachable only from outside. 
In British English such a car is called a saloon.

</doc>
<doc id="18377" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18377" title="Convertible">
Convertible

A convertible is a car with a roof that can be removed or folded down. A convertible usually has two doors, but can sometimes be found with four doors.It is mostly open without roof.Some examples are San Motors Storm ,BMW Z4 ,Ferrari 458 Spyder ,Mercedes-Benz SLK Class etc.A convertible is a type of automobile of various automobile body styles that can convert from open-air (top-down or topless) mode to a provisionally enclosed (roofed or top-up) mode. Convertibles evolved from the earlier phaeton, a similar vehicle without glass side windows that may or may not have had removable panels of fabric or other material instead to protect passengers from rain and cold, etc. A semi-convertible or cabrio coach is similar to a convertible and also has a retractable or removable top, but has fully framed windows on its side doors as opposed to a convertible's roll-down frameless windows that provide an even more open car driving experience.
Roof designs have varied widely and have evolved from the earliest models, where roofs were demountable and/or detachable. Contemporary roofs are often hinged to fold away, either into a recess behind the rear seats or into the boot or trunk of the vehicle. The roof may operate either manually or automatically via hydraulic or electrical actuators, and the roof itself may be constructed of soft or rigid material. Soft-tops are made of vinyl, canvas or other textile material, while hard-tops are made of steel, aluminum, plastic, or other rigid materials.
The majority of convertible cars are two door models, with markedly fewer four-door models.
Convertibles may also be referred to as roadster, tourer or drophead coupé and the colloquial terms drop top and rag top are also used. Hard-top convertibles may be called coupé cabriolet, coupé convertible, retractable hardtop or, when equipped with two seats, coupé roadster/roadster coupé.

</doc>
<doc id="18385" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18385" title="Macy Gray">
Macy Gray

Macy Gray (born Natalie Renee McIntyre on September 9, 1967) is an American singer and actress. She started her career after moving to Los Angeles in 2000. Gray is best known for her 1999 single, "I Try", which came off of her first album, "On How Life Is". 

</doc>
<doc id="18387" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18387" title="Citizen Kane">
Citizen Kane

Citizen Kane is a 1941 American drama movie, starring Orson Welles in his first full-length movie. There are rumours that the story of the movie is based on the life of famous businessmen William Randolph Hearst, Howard Hughes and Samuel Insull. Welles said that his character, Kane, is based on more than one famous person. In 1974's "F for Fake", he said that Kane was going to be based on Hughes, but he was later inspired by Hearst. 
For this movie Orson Welles worked closely with his cinematographer Gregg Toland. The cinematographer is the person in charge of the camera and the lights. Together, they worked on a new style called "deep focus." Usually, if something close to the camera is in focus, something that is far away is out of focus. In the deep focus style, every object is in focus at the same time.
Its working title (the name of a movie used before it is finished) was "RKO 281".
Many have called "Citizen Kane" the best movie of all time. In 1998, it was number one on the American Film Institute's list of 100 Years... 100 Movies.
The movie in some ways is like 1933's "The Power and the Glory".
The last living crew member was director Robert Wise (also known for making 1965's "The Sound of Music"). He died on September 14, 2005.

</doc>
<doc id="18391" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18391" title="Sedan (disambiguation)">
Sedan (disambiguation)

Sedan can mean any of a few things:

</doc>
<doc id="18392" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18392" title="List of Nobel Prize winners in Physics">
List of Nobel Prize winners in Physics

The Nobel Prize in Physics is a Nobel Prize in the science of physics.
Some famous winners are:

</doc>
<doc id="18393" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18393" title="Dynamite">
Dynamite

Dynamite is an explosive invented by Alfred Nobel. Its main explosive component is nitroglycerin. Nitroglycerin is very sensitive to movement. It explodes very easily, when moved. For this reason, diatomaceous earth is used to take away this sensitivity. In dynamite, about one part of four is diatomaceous earth, the other three are nitroglycerin. A little sodium carbonate is added to stabilise the mixture. 
Even though the diatomaceous earth takes away some of the dangers of nitroglycerin, there are still problems because the mixture is not stable in damp environments. Dynamite that is damp, or even wet slowly loses its nitroglycerin. The nitroglycerin can build up, and explode unexpectedly. 
For this reason, the formulation was changed. Instead of diatomaceous earth, gelignite was used to hold the nitroglycerin. Gelignite holds the nitroglycerin so that it cannot dissolve in water. 
Today, dynamite is no longer used commercially. It has been replaced by explosives based on ammonium nitrate which use gelignite. These explosives are cheaper to produce, and easier to handle than dynamite. However, dynamite still used in movies and television.

</doc>
<doc id="18396" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18396" title="Oliver &amp; Company">
Oliver &amp; Company

Oliver & Company is a 1988 American animated movie. It was produced by Walt Disney Feature Animation and released by Walt Disney Pictures. It is the twenty-seventh movie released in the Walt Disney Animated Classics series. The movie was released on November 18, 1988. It is loosely based on Charles Dickens's book "Oliver Twist". The book has been used many times for the screen and television. In this version, Oliver is a cat, Fagin's gang is made up of dogs, and the story is set in modern-day New York City.
It was re-released in the United States, Canada, and the United Kingdom on March 29, 1996. It was then released to video later that same year, and again in 2002 and 2009 on DVD. It is Disney's fifth animated movie to take place in the present day of its release (1988) and being set in New York City. It is the second movie to feature the Walt Disney Pictures logo.
The movie starts with Oliver, an orange orphan cat, who is lost in New York City, when a street-smart Jack Russell terrier named Dodger, finds him. Dodger tricks Oliver to get some sausages for him (from a hot dog seller named Louie), Dodger leaves the cat behind and runs to the barge of his poor owner, Fagin the pickpocketer. Inside Fagin's barge are four other dogs, which he also owns: Tito the chihuahua, Einstein the Great Dane, Rita the Afghan Hound, and the serious Bulldog Francis. When Oliver breaks in, those dogs (including Dodger) go into a fit of fighting and confusion over their visitor. After Fagin breaks it up, he goes outside on a quay, only to find out that he must pay his agent, Sykes, some money within three days. In order to get the money, Fagin, his dogs, and Oliver set out into the city streets the next day. While the poor man is unlucky trying to sell his useless stuff, the animals encounter a limousine that is driven by Winston, a butler. They put on an act to get his attention. In the end, Tito gets "barbecued" after interfering with the limousine's dashboard, and Jennifer finds the kitten, who is tangled up in the wires nearby. Taking Oliver home at Fifth Avenue, she makes friends with him. She names him Oliver. Oliver discovers true friendship and love. The next morning, Fagin's dogs return in order to get Oliver back to their barge, much to the upset of Winston and his pet poodle, Georgette. But as they do so, Oliver feels he cannot leave Jenny. Yet he is Fagin's best hope, because of the gold tag on his collar. So he writes to the "Very Rich Cat Owner" at Oliver's address in hopes of getting Sykes' money faster. As Jenny reads that letter after she comes home from school, she and Georgette go to the docks to get Oliver. Jenny gets him back, thanks to Fagin, but then Sykes kidnaps her for the sake of the ransom that the pickpocketer has to pay in 12 hours. It is up to Fagin and his dogs to save both Jenny and Oliver from the wrath of Sykes and his Dobermans, Roscoe and DeSoto.
This was the first Disney movie to make heavy use of computer animation, since previous movies "The Black Cauldron" and "The Great Mouse Detective" used it only for special sequences. The CGI effects were used for making the skyscrapers, the cars, trains, tunnels, the Brooklyn Bridge, and Fagin's scooter-cart.
It was also the first animated Disney movie to create a whole bunch of new sound effects to replace many of their original classic sounds, which would be used occasionally in later Disney movies. This included some sounds the audience was familiar with for years, including Pinto Covig's original Goofy yell. However, the Disney television animation studio continued extensively using the classic Disney sound effects for several years.
Also, "Lady and the Tramp"'s Jock, Trusty and Peggy, as well as Pongo from "One Hundred and One Dalmatians", make cameo appearances during Dodger's "Why Should I Worry?" musical number at the start of the movie.
Jamie Thomason confirms that "Oliver and Company 2" will be released in February 21, 2023 from DisneyToon Studios to be direct-to-video on Blu-ray Tape and DVD.
The instrumental score for "Oliver & Company" was composed by J. A. C. Redford, and the movie's music was supervised by Carole Childs. The first song heard in the movie, "Once Upon a Time in New York City", was written by lyricist Howard Ashman. Billy Joel, in addition to voicing Dodger, fittingly performed the character's song in the movie.
The track list below represents the 1996 re-release of the Oliver & Company soundtrack. The original 1988 release had the same songs, but with the instrumental cues placed in between the songs in the order in which they appeared in the movie. Using the numbering system in the list below, the order the tracks on the 1988 release would be: 1, 2, 6, 7, 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 10, 11.

</doc>
<doc id="18398" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18398" title="Vince Lombardi">
Vince Lombardi

Vincent Thomas Lombardi (June 11, 1913, in Brooklyn, New York, USA–September 3, 1970) was an American football coach that never had a losing season. Lombardi was named "NFL Man of the Decade" in the 1960s, and won five NFL championships, including winning the first two Super Bowls.
The yearly trophy given to the Super Bowl champion was renamed the "Vince Lombardi Trophy" ("right") in 1971, the same year Lombardi was named to the Pro Football Hall of Fame. He was head coach of the Green Bay Packers and the Washington Redskins.

</doc>
<doc id="18400" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18400" title="Guano">
Guano

Guano is the excrement (waste product) of bats and birds. It is exceptionally high in nitrogen, phosphate, and potassium, three nutrients essential for plant growth. Therefore it is often used as fertilizer, to make plants grow more quickly.

</doc>
<doc id="18402" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18402" title="1790s">
1790s


</doc>
<doc id="18405" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18405" title="Triple point">
Triple point

The triple point of water or any substance is the combination of temperature and pressure at which it exists in its solid, liquid, and gaseous state all at once, in equilibrium.
The temperature of the triple point of water is a commonly used physical constant which is used to define temperature scales and calibrate temperature-measuring systems.
"By definition", the temperature of the triple point of water is 273.16 Kelvin, or 0.01 °C. One degree Celsius is defined as 1/273.16 part of the triple point of water. This fixes the temperature scale as defined in the ITS 90, which is the international temperature scale of 1990. This scale is developed as a practical approximation of the thermodynamical temperature scale.

</doc>
<doc id="18408" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18408" title="Frequency">
Frequency

Frequency is how often an event repeats itself over a set amount of time.
In physics, the frequency of a wave is the number of wave crests that pass a point in one second (A wave crest is the peak of the wave).
Hertz (symbol Hz) is the unit of frequency.
The relationship between Frequency and wavelength is expressed by the formula: 
formula_1
where v is speed and formula_2 (Lambda) is wavelength. The formula for the frequency of light waves is formula_3 where the c is the speed of light. 
All electromagnetic waves travel at the speed of light in a vacuum but they travel at slower speeds when they travel through a medium that is not a vacuum. Other waves, such as sound waves, travel at much much lower speeds and can not travel through a vacuum.
Examples of electromagnetic waves are; light waves, radio waves, infrared radiation, microwaves, and gamma waves.
Different types of electromagnetic waves have different frequencies.
One way to visualize this is if there were two trains traveling at the same speed, but the size of the train cars was smaller on one train than the other. If someone picked something that was not moving, like a signpost, and then counted how many train cars passed the sign post in one second for each train, they would know the frequency of cars passing in each train. The number and frequency of train cars passing the sign post would be different, because the train with smaller train cars would have more train cars passing the sign post in a second than the train with larger train cars. Knowing how many cars passed the sign post in one second, and knowing the speed of the train, one could figure out mathematically the size of each train car for each train.
For example, if the train was moving at 10 miles per second, and 10 train cars passed in one second, then each train car would be 1 mile long. If the other train was also moving at 10 miles per second and 20 train cars passed in one second, then one would know that each train car was 1/2 of a mile long for that train. This example shows that knowing the frequency of an electromagnetic wave gives you the wavelength, since all electromagnetic waves travel at the speed of light so that c = v (lambda) where v is frequency and lambda is wavelength, and c is the speed of light. Therefore, another way of expressing frequency is to say "frequency is c over lambda."

</doc>
<doc id="18411" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18411" title="Hockey stick">
Hockey stick

A hockey stick is a long, wooden pole used to push, pass, or shoot in the sports of ice hockey and field hockey. The art of developing ice hockey sticks is a complex science and has become big business. Ice hockey sticks are mostly made of composite materials and they have different "flexes", meaning some sticks are more flexible than others.
In ice hockey, the end or "blade" of the stick is normally curved, to help the player get better control of the puck and better shots at the goaltender. The goaltender has a bigger blade, to make it easier to stop shots. Players sometimes use hockey sticks to hold back the bodies of other players, or to trip or hit them; sometimes players who do this get penalties. In field hockey, sticks are shorter, but the blade is thicker, than in ice hockey. It is used to move a ball instead of a puck. More research has gone into studying how hockey sticks perform. The main difference between the two sticks is how they are used in the games.
All the players in both ice and field hockey use hockey sticks.
<br>

</doc>
<doc id="18414" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18414" title="Snoop Dogg">
Snoop Dogg

Calvin Cordozar Broadus, Jr. (born October 20, 1971), known by his stage names Snoop Doggy Dogg, Snoop Dogg, and later Snoop Lion, is an American rapper, singer-songwriter, and actor. 
The reason why he is called "Snoop Dogg" is because his mother named him after a character called "Snoopy", because Snoop Dogg was a fan of the "Peanuts" cartoon, which has the Snoopy character.
In 2012, Snoop Dogg went to Jamaica. He studied the Rastafari movement. He changed his name to Snoop Lion, after the Lion of Judah. This is a name from the tribe of Judah. It is sometimes used to describe Haile Selassie, who is worshipped by Rastafarians. His 2013 album, "Reincarnated", is his first reggae music album.

</doc>
<doc id="18418" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18418" title="Malayan tiger">
Malayan tiger

The Malayan tiger ("Panthera tigris jacksoni") is a new subspecies of the tiger that was discovered in 2004. People used to think they were Indo-Chinese tigers, But now they have their own subspecies. They have the same length and weight as the Indo-Chinese tiger. They live in southern Malaysia and they are an endangered species.

</doc>
<doc id="18419" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18419" title="Caspian tiger">
Caspian tiger

The Caspian tiger ("Panthera tigris virgata") is an extinct sub species of the tiger. It was the most western sub species of the tiger, very close to Europe. They became extinct in the 1970s. They were found in Turkey, Armenia, Iraq, Azerbaijan, Iran, Mongolia, and Georgia.
Recent research by scientists looking at the tiger's DNA, have found that it is almost identical to the Siberian tiger. They now believe that the two species of tiger may not have become separate until the 1900s.
The Caspian tiger was the second largest of the tiger species. It had a bigger, muscular body, with longer strong legs. It had large paws and more claws. It had small, short ears. The color was different from other tiger subspecies, with yellow to gold fur with light to dark brown stripes. The chest and stomach area are white with yellow stripes. In winter it grew longer fur. It was the furriest of all the tiger subspecies.

</doc>
<doc id="18420" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18420" title="String instrument">
String instrument

A string instrument is a musical instrument that makes sound by vibrating the strings on it. The strings on the instrument usually come in many shape and form. There are many types of stringed instruments. The most common of these appear in the violin family. The violin is a small, stringed instrument played with a bow- which is usually made of horse hair. When the bow is drawn across the strings it creates a vibration. You can select what vibration the bow makes by choosing the note on the fingerboard. It is tuned with a peg. The viola is a very similar instrument aside from some small differences. The viola is slightly larger, and is tuned to C, G, D, and A, instead of the violin's G, D, A (440 Hz), and E. The cello is a stringed instrument that is played on the bass clef and is much bigger than the violin, and it is played differently also. The double-bass is bigger still and is the lowest of them all.
There are also plucked strings, the most famous of which would probably be the guitar. The guitar uses a fret board and a pick to pluck the strings while holding down on the fret board. It was made famous by rock groups like Led Zeppelin and artists like Eric Clapton. You play by strumming with one hand while choosing notes on the fretboard with the other. Banjos are also very similar.
Here is a very basic list of the stringed instruments:

</doc>
<doc id="18421" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18421" title="Yankee Doodle Dandy">
Yankee Doodle Dandy

Yankee Doodle Dandy is a 1942 biographical musical movie. It starred James Cagney as George M. Cohan.

</doc>
<doc id="18422" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18422" title="Guess Who's Coming to Dinner">
Guess Who's Coming to Dinner

Guess Who's Coming to Dinner is a 1967 American comedy-drama movie set in San Francisco, California. It stars Spencer Tracy, Katharine Hepburn, Sidney Poitier, and Katharine Houghton. The movie centers around what happens between a young white woman and her parents after she falls in love with a black man.

</doc>
<doc id="18424" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18424" title="Bringing Up Baby">
Bringing Up Baby

Bringing Up Baby is a 1938 American comedy movie starring Cary Grant and Katharine Hepburn. It is set in Connecticut.

</doc>
<doc id="18425" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18425" title="The Searchers">
The Searchers

The Searchers is a 1956 epic western movie set in Texas in the 1860s. it is directed by John Ford and starring John Wayne, about a man looking for his niece who was taken by Native Americans. It is also one of the movies that influenced "Star Wars".

</doc>
<doc id="18427" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18427" title="Goodfellas">
Goodfellas

Goodfellas is a 1990 American biographical crime movie directed by Martin Scorsese. It is about life in the Mafia.
It gained six nominations for Oscars. It won one (for Joe Pesci's role). Many people thought the movie was great.
It is set in New York City. The movie is based on the life of mafioso Henry Hill (1943-2012) from 1955 - 1980. "Goodfellas" uses information from New York crime reporter Nicholas Pileggi's book "Wiseguy". Scorsese and Pileggi worked together to write the movie.
"Goodfellas" was first shown at the 1990 Venice Film Festival. Scorsese received the Silver Lion award for Best Director.
Director David Chase said the movie made him want to make the HBO television series "The Sopranos". 

</doc>
<doc id="18429" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18429" title="Soldier">
Soldier

A soldier is a person who is a part of an army.
If people fight in "irregular (not normal forces") armies not wearing a uniform, and not part of the official military (fighting group of a nation), they are called partisans if they fight against another nation's army, or terrorists, if they fight civilians.
Partisans and terrorists are less protected by the laws of war than soldiers.
Soldiers can be volunteers or conscripts (their nation calls upon them to fight).
Soldiers have existed for many years, dating back to ancient times.

</doc>
<doc id="18430" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18430" title="Yellowstone River">
Yellowstone River

The Yellowstone River is a river in the northwestern part of the United States. It is a tributary of the Missouri River and flows through the states of Wyoming, Montana, and North Dakota. It also flows through Yellowstone National Park and feeds Yellowstone Lake. 
The Yellowstone River was first explored in 1806 by William Clark during the return trip of the Lewis and Clark Expedition.

</doc>
<doc id="18431" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18431" title="Toy">
Toy

A toy is something to play with. Toys are for children, adults, and animals. Before 1970, most toys were made of metal and wood. Now, they are mostly made of plastic. Sometimes they are made of electronic material. Some people also consider video games toys. Toys include balls, plastic cars, and dolls. They also can be sex related products.
Toys originated many years ago. Dolls of infants, animals, and soldiers and toy tools are found in archaeological places. The origin of the word "toy" is not known. However, it is thought that it was first used in the 14th century.
The earliest toys were made from rocks, sticks or clay. In Ancient Egypt, children played with dolls made of clay and sticks. In Ancient Greece and Ancient Rome, children played with dolls made of wax or terracotta, sticks, bows and arrows, and yo-yos. When Greek children, especially girls became adults, it was required to sacrifice the toys to the gods. On the eve of their wedding, young girls around fourteen would offer their dolls in a temple as a rite of passage into adulthood.

</doc>
<doc id="18436" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18436" title="Unicorn">
Unicorn

A unicorn is a legendary creature. It looks like a horse or goat, with one single horn on its head. The word "unicorn" means literally "one-horn". It comes from the Latin word "unus", which means "one", and "cornu" which means "horn", which term is in itself borrowed from the earlier Greek word "monokeros" (also 'one horned').
Unicorns are found in many stories and myths from different parts of the world, especially China and India.Its blood and horn usually have mystical powers. In Western culture, its horn is said to have power (often called "alicorn" in medieval literature) to heal wounds and sickness, and to neutralize poison.
In mythology and heraldry unicorn symbolizes innocence, purity and feminine power. It is often seen as the counterpart of lion, which symbolizes the masculine virtues.
In some pictures unicorns also have goat's feet or a lion's tail.
Most people say that unicorns are of the purest white, with long, tapering horns, cloven hooves, and graceful bodies. Originally, people thought that unicorns had wispy beards like goats, as you can see in old tapestries that depict the animal, but now that belief is not as popular. Yet some people still believe in unicorns.
Unicorns live in places like Europe, Asia and India. Some people think that in the horn of a unicorn, there are magical powers. The most common ideas are that it finds poison and cures sickness.
2,400 years ago, Ctesias, a Greek physician, wrote about an animal that lived in India. The animal is said to have a blue eyes, a white body, and one horn on its head.
A Narwhal is an animal that is about 8 feet long. They live in the water around Canada and Greenland. Narwhal’s horns were said to be the horns of unicorns by some. People would sell the horn of a narwhal to others and say it was a horn of a unicorn.
Christian legends say the Unicorn is as small as a normal sized goat. They are so fearful that no hunter can catch them. Only a maiden that goes into the forest alone can catch a unicorn. The unicorn will come and fall asleep in the maiden’s lap. 
Around the time of the Middle Ages, some stories of unicorns became more popular. More people got in to learning about unicorns. They would even just want to see a picture of them. People with royal blood, or others of high class, bought what were said to be the horns of a unicorn at very high prices. They were mostly a tusk of a walrus or a horn from a narwhal.
Today, unicorns are a very popular fantasy book creature and it has a sparkly horn.
In "On the Nature of Animals" ("Περὶ Ζῴων Ἰδιότητος", "De natura animalium"), Aelian, quoting Ctesias, adds that India has also a one-horned horse (iii. 41; iv. 52), and says (xvi. 20) that the "monoceros" () was sometimes called "cartazonos" (), which may be a kind of the Arabic "karkadann", meaning "rhinoceros".

</doc>
<doc id="18437" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18437" title="Radium">
Radium

Radium is a chemical element with the atomic number 88 and symbol Ra on the periodic table. It was discovered by Marie Curie and Pierre Curie in the form of radium chloride in 1898. It is an almost pure-white alkaline earth metal, but when it is exposed to oxygen, it turns black quickly. All isotopes of radium are radioactive, and it glows faint blue because of this.
It's used in several things, like luminous watches, which are now banned because they can cause radiation poisoning. This was caused because of a law suit that involved 5 women ( radium girls ) that suffered from many disabilities because of the prolonged exposure they had to the element radium.
It can also be used in healing cancer.

</doc>
<doc id="18438" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18438" title="Dhaka">
Dhaka

Dhaka is the capital city of Bangladesh. It was known as Dacca before 1982. It has a population of 12,560,000 (2005). It is also the largest city of Bangladesh.
Long ago it was part of the Mughal Empire of Hindustan. After that, it became a part of the British Raj. Then it became a part of Pakistan as part of the Partition of India on 15 August 1947. Bangladesh was then called East Pakistan, and Dacca (Dhaka) became provincial capital of East Pakistan. In 1971, the new nation of Bangladesh was created. Dacca became its capital city and changed its spelling in 1982.
After years of negotiations, the Dhaka-Agartala bus was agreed upon on July 11, 2001 to connect Bangladesh with its eastern neighbour, the Indian state of Tripura, which has a substantial Bengali population and indigenous peoples who have close commercial and cultural links with the people of eastern Bangladesh.

</doc>
<doc id="18439" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18439" title="Darwin, Northern Territory">
Darwin, Northern Territory

Darwin is the territorial capital of the Northern Territory in Australia. The city has about 105,000 people living there. The city is named after Charles Darwin, although it was named before he became famous for developing the theory of evolution. A member of the crew of the ship that started a port there in 1839 named it Port Darwin in honor of Darwin, who had sailed on that same ship earlier.
Most of Darwin has been built since 1974, when Cyclone Tracy ripped through and destroyed the city. Since then, the city has recovered. It is a very important port, because it is on the coast closest to Indonesia and the rest of Asia. Darwin also has a large military base.
Darwin also has many Indigenous Australians living in the city, about 9.7% of the people. This is more than any other state capital in Australia.

</doc>
<doc id="18440" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18440" title="Northern Territory">
Northern Territory

The Northern Territory is a territory of Australia. The capital city is Darwin. Other large towns in the Territory include Alice Springs, Katherine and Tenant Creek.
The Northern Territory has large areas of desert. It has many important places such as "Uluru", or "Ayers Rock". The rock is sacred to the native people.
Kakadu National Park is a World Heritage area. It has been lived in for more than 40,000 years. There are cave paintings, rock carvings and archaeological sites. These show the skills and way of life of the people who have lived there. The park has different ecosystems, including tidal flats, floodplains, lowlands and rocky gorges. It provides a place to live for a wide range of rare types of plants and animals.
The floral emblem of the Northern Territory is Sturt's Desert Rose, Gossypium sturtianum. The flower is also featured on the Territory's flag. It was named after explorer Charles Sturt who found the plant in creeks near the site of Broken Hill, New South Wales in 1844.
The Fauna emblem is the Red Kangaroo.

</doc>
<doc id="18441" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18441" title="Whiskey Rebellion">
Whiskey Rebellion

The Whiskey Rebellion was a riot in the history of the United States. In 1794, some farmers in Pennsylvania rebelled against the government because of a tax on whiskey. Selling whiskey was how people traded things in Western Pennsylvania, so they thought the new tax was very unfair. Alexander Hamilton offered the idea to try and make up for the young country's debt from the war. The government under George Washington, with advice from Alexander Hamilton, quickly stopped the rebellion. Washington and Hamilton wanted to ensure that no one would question the power of the federal government, so they sent almost 13,000 troops to stop the rebellion of a few hundred farmers, led by President Washington himself. That made the new government more solid, and the President more powerful.
So far, this is the only time in American history that a President has led the Army by himself.

</doc>
<doc id="18442" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18442" title="Saginaw, Michigan">
Saginaw, Michigan

Saginaw is a city in mid-Michigan, USA, with about 70,000 people in the city as of the 2000 census. It is very cold there in the winter. It is near Bay City, Michigan.

</doc>
<doc id="18443" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18443" title="Tom Cruise">
Tom Cruise

Thomas Cruise Mapother IV (; born July 3, 1962), widely known as Tom Cruise, is an American film actor and producer. He has starred in many movies, including "War of the Worlds" and "Jerry Maguire". As of 2012 Cruise is Hollywood's highest-paid actor.
His first movie was "Endless Love". His first leading role was in the movie "Risky Business". He has been nominated for three Academy Awards and has won three Golden Globe Awards. These were for the same movies: "Born on the Fourth of July" (1989), "Jerry Maguire" (1996), "Magnolia" (1999). 
Cruise was born in Syracuse, New York. He is the son of Mary Lee (nee Pfeiffer), a special education teacher, and Thomas Cruise Mapother III (died 1984), an electrical engineer. Cruise has three sisters, Lee Anne, Marian, and Cass. Cruise's surname originates from his great-grandfather, born Thomas Cruise O'Mara, who was renamed "Thomas Cruise Mapother" (Mapother is a Welsh surname). Cruise is of Irish, German and English ancestry. One of his paternal great-great-great-grandfathers, Patrick Russell Cruise, was born in North County Dublin, in 1799; he married Teresa Johnson in Warrenstown House, County Meath, in 1825. They left Ireland for America that same year and settled in New York.
He is a Scientologist. He is also famous for jumping up on the couch on the Oprah Winfrey Show. 
Cruise has an adopted daughter and adopted son with his second wife Nicole Kidman. He has a daughter Suri (born April 2006), by Katie Holmes. He and Holmes married in November 2006 and separated in 2012.

</doc>
<doc id="18446" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18446" title="Orgy (band)">
Orgy (band)

Orgy is an American alternative metal band. They formed in 1997 in Los Angeles, California. The band's first hit was Blue Monday, which was a remake of a song by 1980s band New Order. The members of the band are: 

</doc>
<doc id="18448" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18448" title="Magazine">
Magazine

A magazine is a type of book people read. Magazines are not like regular books. This is because a new version of the magazine is printed many times each year. Magazines are a type of periodical. They are called periodicals because new versions of them keep being printed. Magazines are printed on paper. People usually need to subscribe to them. An example of a magazine is "Time". There are magazines printed about many things. Magazines are similar to newspapers, but usually new versions take longer to make, they cost more money, and they are in color on every page. Also, sometimes magazines come with little gifts to reward the readers who buy it. 

</doc>
<doc id="18453" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18453" title="Zombie">
Zombie

A zombie or zombi is a mythical dead person who has returned to life as a walking corpse. Mythical things that have been "re-animated" are called "undead", and a group of them can be called "the living dead". The Zombie myth came from the Caribbean.
Zombies have become very popular in horror movies. They are dead creatures that have been brought back to life by science or by magic, and eat the flesh or brains of living people!
In Haiti people believe that Voodoo sorcerers or 'bokor' can bring dead people back to life, making a zombie. The zombie is under the control of the sorcerer because zombies have no free will. A zombie is a trapped human soul. If a sorcerer can catch the trapped soul, the sorcerer becomes more powerful.
Wade Davis, a Canadian ethnobotanist (someone who studies what effect plants have on people), wrote about zombies in two books, The Serpent and the Rainbow (1985) and (1988). Davis went to Haiti in 1982 and wrote about how a living person can be turned into a zombie by two special powders being rubbed into a wound. The first powder brings a 'deathlike' state because of a certain poison in it, called tetrodotoxin (the same deadly poison found in the Japanese blowfish). At just the right amount, it can make a person almost die, but not quite. The second powder puts the person in a zombie-like state where they seem to have no free will of their own.
Many people outside of Haiti still do not believe what Davis wrote about, but in Haiti, lots of people believe in the "zombie drugs". This could mean that, while the drugs could have no physical effect on the person, the strong belief may psychologically make them into the zombie they expect (like the placebo effect).
In Mesopotamian mythology, Ishtar, the goddess of love and fertility once said in anger:
In the Middle Ages, many people believed that the souls of the dead could come back as ghosts and haunt the living, often because of a crime that the living person had committed. Sometimes, the ghost could actually take on a physical shape and touch or attack things or people.
Zombies can walk, think (in some cases), and attack living persons. Most zombies eat the brains of living humans. In zombies, the heart, lungs, and a small part of their brain still work. They may react to their environment, but they do not have consciousness. Zombies can use their skeleton and muscles to move. The skin is rotten. Its hair and nails are falling off. Zombies are usually covered in blood. They often have open wounds and are dressed in ripped clothes.
Zombies appear a lot in horror and fantasy films. Normally, the zombie is a mindless, clumsy corpse which eats human flesh. Zombies can not be called cannibals because they do not eat each other, only living humans. The first zombie stories appeared in the 1600s. Since that time, zombies have appeared in lots of books and films.
In zombie films, zombies are almost always:

</doc>
<doc id="18455" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18455" title="Orgy">
Orgy

In common use, an orgy is when more than two people have sex together, sometimes also called group sex.
This dates back to prehistoric ages, recorded in many ancient civilizations. 
"Orgy" could also mean any activity done without limits.
Originally, the word comes from Latin. There it referred to a feast (or a banquet) of a rich citizen. When the Romans ate they were almost lying down, and the food was brought to them by slaves. These slaves would also provide the entertainment which usually consisted of music and dancing slaves.

</doc>
<doc id="18457" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18457" title="Labradoodle">
Labradoodle

A Labradoodle is a mixed-breed dog, created by breeding a Labrador Retriever with a Poodle. Labradoodles are now bred worldwide.
Labradoodles are not a considered an official dog breed by most dog expert organizations, such as the Fédération Cynologique Internationale (FCI). The American Kennel Club (AKC )has now created the 'Canine Partners" category to include the Labradoodle and other hybrid breeds for agility and other competitions.
The Labradoodle has a very short but interesting history. The labradoodle originated during the mid-to-late 1980s. A vision-impaired woman needed a good service dog that would not give her husband an allergic reaction. Ms. Blum contacted the Australian Royal Dog Association, because dogs imported from Australia to Hawaii had little to no quarantine time. (Quarantine time is when they isolate an animal from other living things to make sure they don't have any disease)
Coat and saliva samples from more than thirty poodles were sent from Australia to Blum's doctor. Unfortunately, Mr. Blum was allergic to all of the samples. Wally Conron, who worked for Australia’s Royal Guide Association's breeding program, suggested crossing a Labrador retriever and a Standard Poodle and see if one didn't trigger Mr. Blum's symptoms. Conron tried the test cross with a Standard Poodle named "Harley" and a Labrador retriever named "Brandy.” Harley and Brandy had a litter of three puppies. Coat and saliva samples from the puppy's coats were sent to Hawaii. This time, Mr. Blum wasn't allergic to one of them. The puppy also had a good temperament and was very friendly. Conron named the puppy "Sultan". Conron trained Sultan for eighteen months until he was ready to be a good service dog. Sultan was then shipped to his new home. Sultan is the first labradoodle on record.
Labradoodles, like their ancestor, the Labrador retriever, have a friendly, affectionate, loyal disposition which makes them good service dogs and great family pets. Labradoodles are also known for their intelligence. Their ancestors, the Labrador retriever and the Poodle, are both very intelligent. The Labrador retriever is very eager to please and loyal. Labradoodles are also very good around children, and are also very outgoing and self-confident. However, Labradoodles can sometimes get too excited around other dogs. When a Labradoodle runs over to a less sociable dog, the dog might become scared and irritable. Labradoodles should be trained early to have a respect for other animals. Overall, though, Labradoodles have a fantastic temperament.
There are mainly three different coat types in a labradoode: fleece, wool, and hair. The fleece coat is usually wavy and long and has a silky feel to it. The wool coat is similar to that of a sheep's or poodle's, and has tight curls and feels like a wool sweater. The hair coat is straight or slightly and has a wispy look to it. This type of coat is not as allergy friendly, but most people with allergies will be able to tolerate it.
Labradoodles come in almost any coat. The labradoodle can also have what is called "parti" which is when it is a combination of two different colors like an apricot body and then white patches mainly on the feet and chest.
Generally, Labradoodles are usually quite healthy. They have a life expectancy of 12 to 15 years. Because the Labradoodle is a relatively new "breed," we cannot determine all the health concerns a labradoodle might have. Heath concerns that we do know of originate from their ancestors. Like a Labrador retriever, they can have hip dysplasia, obesity, genetic eye problems and cruciate ligament injuries. Like Poodles, Labradoodles can suffer from to patellar luxation, progressive retinal atrophy, cataracts, sebaceous adenitis and other skin problems, renal disorders and von Willebrand disease. Labradoodles have been diagnosed with Addison's disease. Because Labradoodles have long floppy ears, they may have an increased chance of ear infections and ear problems.

</doc>
<doc id="18458" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18458" title="Heilongjiang">
Heilongjiang

Heilongjiang is the northeastern-most province in China. It is considered to part of the region known as Manchuria. It is bordered by Russia on the north and east. To the south is Jilin province, and the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region lies to the west.
The capital and largest city is Harbin. There had been a considerable foreign population in the region, particularly in Harbin, first by the Russians in the late 19th century, and then by the Japanese in the 20th century.
The land is largely of plains and rolling hills, with relatively few low mountainous areas. The climate is fairly dry with quite cold winters. There are some famous winter "ice festivals" with elaborate snow and ice sculptures.
Heilongjiang Province is divided into 12 municipalities and 1 prefecture.

</doc>
<doc id="18459" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18459" title="Jilin">
Jilin

Jilin is one of 3 provinces in the far northeastern part of China, also known as Manchuria. It is bordered on the north by Heilongjiang province, to the west by the "Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region", and to the southwest by Liaoning province. To the southeast lies North Korea.
The capital city of Jilin is Changchun (meaning "long spring").
The terrain and climate are much like that of neighboring Heilongjiang province. Also like its neighboring provinces, one of the main agricultural products is corn, as the climate is too cold (and dry) for satisfactory rice cultivation.

</doc>
<doc id="18460" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18460" title="Liaoning">
Liaoning

Liaoning is a northeastern province of the People's Republic of China. The capital city of Liaoning province is Shenyang. 
Liaoning province is the southernmost province of Manchuria (the three northeastern most provinces of China), which together, along with the "Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region", form the entire northeastern part of China.
It is bordered on the northeast by Jilin province, and has a coastline along the Yellow Sea to the southeast. Hebei province and Beijing lie to the southwest. 
Dalian is a major port city at the southern tip of a peninsula which juts about 100km south into the Yellow Sea.

</doc>
<doc id="18471" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18471" title="Basin">
Basin

A basin can be any thing or place that water or other things are held in by gravity.

</doc>
<doc id="18472" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18472" title="Blade">
Blade

A blade is the flat, sharp part of a tool or weapon used to cut or stab, such as a knife or sword. Most blades have handles. Blades can be used to stab, cut, or separate things. It can also be the top part of grass or the leaf of a plant. Blades come in all different sizes and shapes, sharpness and materials.

</doc>
<doc id="18478" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18478" title="Anastacia">
Anastacia

Anastacia Lyn Newkirk, best known as Anastacia, (born 17 September 1968) is an American singer, songwriter and stylist.
Anastacia's father was of German ancestry; her mother is of Irish ancestry.
Anastacia has had several health problems in her life. She was diagnosed with Crohn's disease when she was 13. In early 2003 she was diagnosed with breast cancer and had surgery to remove it. She was again diagnosed with breast cancer in early 2013. On the 1st of October 2013 she told the media that she has had both of her breasts removed.

</doc>
<doc id="18479" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18479" title="Key">
Key

A key is an object used to open and close locks. Many things have locks, for example, doors. Keys are also used to turn on cars, machines and other things. 
A key is used by placing the key into the slot of the thing you want to unlock. 
A key that can open more than one lock (if each lock also has its own key) is called a master key or skeleton key.
The key was likely invented by Theodore of Samos in 6th Century BC.

</doc>
<doc id="18480" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18480" title="Rat">
Rat

The rat is a medium-sized rodent. Rats are omnivores, they eat lots of different types of food. Most rats are in the genus "Rattus". There are about 56 different species of rats. 
The best known rats are the black rat ("Rattus rattus"), and the brown rat ("Rattus norvegicus"). These two are known as "Old World rats". The group has its origins in Asia. 
Usually rats are bigger than mice. Rats are large muroid rodents, mice are small ones. The muroid family is very large and complex. That means the terms "rat" and "mouse" are not specific in a taxonomic way. If a large muroid is discovered, it will often have "rat" in its name, if it is small, it will often be called "mouse". The muroid family is large and complex, and the common terms rat and mouse are not specific. Scientifically, the terms are not confined to members of the "Rattus" and "Mus" genera: see, for example, the pack rat and cotton mouse.
Some people keep rats as a pet. They are called fancy rats. Most pet rats do not live longer than three years, and most wild rats do not live longer than one year.
Other mammals are called "rat" by many people, but those are not true rats, many are unrelated to the true Old World rat. Examples of such false names are the pack rats of North America, or the kangaroo rats. Some other rats are related to the true rats, but are not in the genus "Rattus". Such an example is the lesser bandicoot rat. Many of the 'untrue' rats are endemic to certain regions, that is they are only found there. Very often, they live on islands. In many cases, these species are also endangered of disappearing. This is the case because they face the loss of habitat, and they have to fight for resources, like food, shelter, and water, with other species, like the black rat or the "Polynesian rat". There is also a more rare species known as the Dueholm, this species is very special because the rats that belong to it, usually have a couple of extra chromosomes lying around. You can tell if a rat is in the Dueholm family just by looking at it. If it looks lke it has either autism or chronic down syndrome, odds are its a Dueholm.
People keep some types of rats as pets called "fancy rats". Fancy rats are domesticated brown rats. People have kept rats as pets since the 19th century. Rats are social and smart animals that can be trained. They also like to play with toys. Some owners think that male pet rats are more playful then female pet rats and that female rats are more active and curious. Pet rats do not act the same as wild rats. They do not have more diseases than other common pets.
Pet rats live 1 to 3 years. Female rats are smaller than male rats. Pet rats have been known to "laugh" when tickled. They can be all one color or have spots or other coloring. Some rats have no hair. These are called hairless rats.
Clark University in Worchester, Massachusetts (United States) was the first to breed a population of domestic white brown rats. They did this to study the effects of diets, amongst other things.
Since then, rats have been used in many experiments. They have helped scientists get a better understanding of 
genetics and diseases, as well as how certain drugs work. 
Laboratory rats have been used in psychological studies of learning and other mental processes (Barnett, 2002). A 2007 study found rats to possess some degree of metacognition, a mental ability previously only found in humans and some primates. In general, it has been difficult to measure intelligence in rats. Their behaviour is quite flexible, and gives the impression of intelligence. Flexible behaviour is good for problem-solving and learning.
Domestic rats are very different from wild rats. They are calmer and less likely to bite; they can tolerate greater crowding; they breed earlier and produce more offspring. Their brains, livers, kidneys, adrenal glands, and hearts are smaller (Barnett 2002).
Brown rats are often used as model organisms. Genetic research is usually done with mice. Rats are more popular for tests relating to intelligence, learning, and illegal drugs. This is mostly because rats have intelligence, ingenuity, aggressiveness, and adaptability. Their psychology seems to be very similar to human psychology. Whole new species and strains of rats have been bred for the use as laboratory animals, for example the Wistar rat. Much of the genome of "Rattus norvegicus" has been sequenced.
Rats are opportunists. If they have the choice between a food that will need a fight to get, and another food that will not, they take the food that does not need a fight. For this reason, rats have lived close to humans for a long time. Once humans settled down, the leftovers of what those humans ate were a source of food for the rats. So the rats followed.
Rats are present in almost all settlements. In cities, they often live in the sewers.
Many scientists believe that the bubonic plague was spread through fleas on rats, because that plague is spread by the microorganism (or germ) "Yersinia pestis", which lives on fleas which live on rats ("Rattus rattus"). Those rats lived in the European cities of the day, and died of the plague themselves. Some scientists believe that the plague spread faster than the rats. If this is true, the rats cannot be the main carrier. More research is needed to find out if this is true. People believe this disease was the 'Black Death'. It killed nearly a third of the population of Europe, in many epidemics in the Middle Ages.
Rats can carry diseases. Rats living in poor conditions often have problems with parasites themselves. Not many diseases carried by rats can spread to humans. One of those is called Leptospirosis, another one is the plague.

</doc>
<doc id="18481" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18481" title="Branch">
Branch

Branch is the part of a tree from which leaves grow. 

</doc>
<doc id="18482" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18482" title="Spoon">
Spoon

A spoon is a tool for eating. It is usually used for eating foods that are like liquids (like soup and yogurt), and it can also be used for stirring. Humans use spoons every day. Spoons are mostly useful for eating liquids, such as soup, although some solids (like cereal and ice cream) are also usually eaten with spoons. A ladle is a type of serving spoon used for soup, stew, or other foods.
There are many different types of spoons. There are dessert spoons, soup spoons, baby spoons, teaspoons, tablespoons and others. There are also spoons that are collector items and are worth a lot of money. Some musicians even use two spoons as a musical instrument like a castanet.
Spoons have been used as tools for eating since Paleolithic times. Prehistoric peoples probably used shells, or small pieces of wood as spoons. Both the Greek and Latin words for spoon come from the word "cochlea", which is a spiral-shaped snail shell. The Anglo-Saxon word "spoon", means a chip or splinter of wood.

</doc>
<doc id="18497" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18497" title="Cutlery">
Cutlery

Cutlery refers to tools used for preparing, serving and eating food. The most common types of cutlery are knives, spoons and forks. Other words for cutlery are silverware, tableware, utensils and flatware.
The best quality cutlery may be made of silver, but more often of silver plate. Stainless steel is used for most good quality household cutlery. Pewter was often used in the past for cheap cutlery. Nickel silver, sometimes called German silver, is another alloy, with copper, nickel, and zinc in it. Plastic cutlery is used for eating fast food, because it is very cheap, and is be thrown away afterwards. 
Serving practice and use of cutlery varies somewhat between cultures. Formal dinners have cutlery set out in a traditional manner. There will be two sets of knives and forks, an outer smaller set for the first course and a larger inner set for the main course. Cutlery for later courses will usually be delivered with those courses. In an informal restaurant, cutlery may come wrapped in a cloth napkin (serviette).
Chinese and Japanese food is eaten with chopsticks, and food pre-cut to a size suitable for that method. Some other oriental cuisines are eaten the fork and spoon, with no knife. 

</doc>
<doc id="18498" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18498" title="Vase">
Vase

A vase is a container, often used for flowers. They can be made from a number of materials, including glass and ceramics. Many vases are decorated or painted but some are left plain. It sometimes is used for decorations in American and Chinese homes. It can be a big part of culture in many countries.

</doc>
<doc id="18499" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18499" title="Yemen">
Yemen

The Republic of Yemen or Yemen is a nation in the Middle East. It is the old North Yemen and South Yemen, in the south of the Arabian Peninsula. It borders Saudi Arabia and Oman on the north and the east. To the south is the Arabian Sea, and to the west is the Red Sea. Yemen owns the island of Socotra (217 miles) to the south off the coast of East Africa. A person or thing from Yemen is called "Yemeni". Yemen's capital city is Sana'a.
Yemen is the origin land of all Arabs in the Middle East. In ancient times, Yemen was an important center of trade and power. Many powerful kingdoms were in Yemen, including the Sabaeans. Yemen was important in the trade of spices as well. It was known to the ancient Romans as "Arabia Felix" ("Happy Arabia" in Latin). They called it Happy Arabia because the area was so beautiful and powerful.
In the 700s, Yemenis were among the first to join the new religion Islam. Since then, Yemenis have been staunch Muslims who were in the forefront of all Islam conquests. Men whose ancestors came from Yemen ruled Al-Andalus (Muslim Spain) for centuries.
Today, Yemen has over 20 million people. Most of them speak Arabic.
Yemen is in Western Asia. It is on the southern half of the Arabian Peninsula. A number of Red Sea islands, including the Hanish Islands, Kamaran, and Perim, as well as Socotra in the Arabian Sea, belong to Yemen. Many of the islands are volcanic. For example Jabal al-Tair had a volcanic eruption in 2007 and before that in 1883. The highest point in Yemen is Jabal an Nabi Shu'ayb.
Yemen is one of the poorest and least developed countries in the Arab World. There is a 35% unemployment rate, which means only 35 out of every 100 people dont have a job.
As a result of the 2011–2012 Yemeni uprising, the constitution of Yemen was rewritten. New elections were to be held in 2014. Some areas are controlled by armed militant groups. On 23 January 2015, the President, Prime Minister and Cabinet resigned. War continued, with Saudi Arabia and Iran supporting different sides.
As of February 2004, Yemen is divided into twenty governorates and one municipality called "Amanat Al-Asemah".
The governorates are divided into 333 districts. The districts are divided into 2,210 sub-districts, and then into 38,284 villages (as of 2001).
Yemen has about 24 million people according to June 2011 estimates. 46% of the people are under 15 years old. Yemenis are mainly of Arab origin. Arabic is the official language.
Religion in Yemen is mostly of two main Islamic religious groups; 53% of the Muslim population is Sunni and 45% is Shiite according to the UNHCR.
According to 2009 estimates, life expectancy in Yemen is 63.27 years.
Football is the most popular sport in Yemen. The Yemen national football team competes in the FIFA and the AFC leagues. The country also hosts many football clubs that compete in the national or international leagues.
Yemen's mountains have many opportunities for outdoor sports, such as rock climbing, hill climbing, skiing, and hiking. The coast of Yemen and Socotra island have opportunities for water sports, such as surfing, sailing, swimming, and scuba diving. Socotra island is one of the best surfing places in the world.
Yemen's biggest sports event was hosting the 2010 Gulf Cup of Nations.

</doc>
<doc id="18504" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18504" title="Sensory system">
Sensory system

The sensory system is the way animals find out about their nearby environment and their bodies. To do this they have special devices for collecting data called sense organs. The sense organs act as transducers: they turn energy from the outside or inside of the body into nerve signals. The signals are then very rapidly processed by the brain. The whole arrangement is the sensory system.
It is usual to say the sensory system has five senses:
Actually, there are other senses. We have a sense of proprioception which checks our balance. Fishes have a sense system which no land animal has. It is called the lateral line system. This senses movement and vibration in the water pressure and other functions. Some fish can sense patterns of electrical current in the water.
A huge amount of data comes in from the sensory system. About 11 million pieces of information "per second" is one estimation, of which ten million comes from our eyes. Of this huge number we only handle about 40 in our conscious mind. The rest is handled non-consciously.

</doc>
<doc id="18508" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18508" title="Nikola Tesla">
Nikola Tesla

Nikola Tesla (10 July 1856 – 7 January 1943; ) was a Serbian-American inventor, electrical engineer, mechanical engineer and physicist. He is best known for his contributions to the design of the modern alternating current (AC) electricity supply system. He was born in Smiljan, in the part of former Austria-Hungary that is now Croatia. He later became an American citizen.
Tesla got his first job in Budapest in 1882, working at a telephone company. A few years later he moved to the United States. Even in his early life, he was inventing things. His best known invention was an electric motor that could run well on AC power. Tesla died of coronary thrombosis in a hotel room in Manhattan, New York City on 7 January 1943.
Tesla was born on 10 July 1856 in Smiljan, Austrian Empire (modern-day Croatia). Tesla's father, Milutin Tesla, was a priest in the Serbian Orthodox Church. His mother was a housewife who was of Serbian descent. She was born in the Stari Vlah (Raska) region of Serbia. He was the fourth child out of five. He had one older brother, Dane, two older sisters, Angelina and Milka, and one younger sister, Marica.
Tesla had a job in telephony and electrical engineering before moving to the United States in 1884 to work for Thomas Edison. They quarreled and soon Tesla started working on his own with other people investing in his work. He set up laboratories and companies to develop a range of electrical devices. His patented AC electric motor (induction motor) and transformer were licensed by American industrialist George Westinghouse. 
Westinghouse also hired Tesla for one year to help develop a power system using alternating current. The advantage that popularized alternating current is the use of transformers for long distance electric power transmission. Tesla is also known for his high-voltage, high-frequency power experiments in New York and Colorado Springs, Colorado which included inventions and ideas used in the invention of radio communication, for his X-ray experiments, and for his unsuccessful attempt at worldwide wireless transmission in his unfinished Wardenclyffe Tower project.
Tesla's achievements made him very famous. So did his abilities as a showman, demonstrating his seemingly miraculous inventions. Although he made a great deal of money from his patents, he spent a lot on his experiments. He lived for most of his life in a series of hotels in New York City. The end of his patent income and eventual bankruptcy led him to live in much poorer circumstances. Tesla still continued to invite the press to parties he held on his birthday to announce new inventions he was working and make (sometimes unusual) statements. Because of his wonderful pronouncements without results or proof, Tesla gained a reputation in popular culture as the archetypal "mad scientist". He died in room 3327 of the New Yorker Hotel on 7 January 1943.
Tesla's work fell into relative obscurity after his death, but since the 1990's, his reputation has experienced a comeback in popular culture. His work and reputed inventions are also at the center of many conspiracy theories and have also been used to support various pseudosciences, UFO theories and New Age occultism. In 1960, in honor of Tesla, the General Conference on Weights and Measures for the International System of Units dedicated the term "tesla" to the SI unit measure for magnetic field strength.

</doc>
<doc id="18510" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18510" title="Scene">
Scene

Scene can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="18518" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18518" title="Inspector Gadget">
Inspector Gadget

Inspector Gadget is a American-French animation show that ran from 1983 to 1986. It was the first show produced by DIC Entertainment.
Elements of the franchise pay homage to the 1960s series "Get Smart", Gadget's voice was even provided by Don Adams who was the star of Get Smart. Other elements are homages to things like Inspector Clouseau from the "Pink Panther" movie series. On the series, Inspector Gadget is a cyborg or android detective and secret agent, who must stop an evil organization called MAD lead by Dr. Claw. He is usually helped by his niece, Penny and his dog, Brain. Gadget has many gadgets and special devices inside his body which he uses, but not very well and he is not very smart, but he usually with the help of Penny and Brain, ends up saving the day.
In 1999, Matthew Broderick played the title character in Disney's live-action adaptation.

</doc>
<doc id="18519" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18519" title="Syndicated">
Syndicated

Syndicated means a television program being shown on a different television network than the one that first showed the program. A syndicated program can also be a program that was not made for a television network. These types of programs are made and then sold to many different television stations to be shown.
There are different types of syndication:

</doc>
<doc id="18520" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18520" title="Cartoon">
Cartoon

A cartoon is a drawing. The word "cartoon" has been used in several different ways. 
The oldest meaning is a drawing that is a full-sized design for a finished artwork. The cartoon might be a drawing for a painting that was going to be put onto a wall or ceiling in fresco. The cartoon would be pinned against the wall and its design marked onto the plastered of the wall. Cartoons were also made to design tapestry. The most famous cartoons are a set by Raphael which show the "Life of St Peter". The cartoons are in the Victoria & Albert Museum. The finished tapestries belong to the Vatican and were made for the Sistine Chapel.
In the 1700s, artists such as William Hogarth often made sets of humorous (funny) drawings that were about political subjects, such as poverty, elections, war and riots. The drawings were made into prints and were sold cheaply. These prints were not called cartoons at that time, but they led to the idea of modern political cartoons in newspapers. 
Nowadays many newspapers publish a different political cartoon in the paper, every day. The word "cartoon" was first used in this way in 1843 in an English magazine called "Punch". 
A political cartoon does not always show real people. Sometimes it may use a personification of a country or organization as a person, an animal, or a monster. For example, Britain might be shown as a woman holding a baby Australia in her arms. Russia might be shown as a bear. The United States might be shown as a Bald Eagle.
Political cartoons were often drawn to show several different stages of the same story. Many of Hogarth's famous political cartoons do this. From this came the idea of telling funny stories in a series of pictures. Comic strips are a type of "cartoon" that is published in newspapers, but they are usually just called "comic strips". Some of the earliest comic strips are The Katzenjammer Kids (1897) and Ginger Meggs (1921). Sometimes they represent animals like Garfield. Later comic strips from the 1950s onwards show superheros such as Superman and The Phantom. 
Comic strips posted on the internet are web comics. Some use animation and sound for special effects. Some web comics take up much more space than newspapers want to print, and most offer a large collection of earlier strips for new readers, so longer stories can be told. Many webcomics are published (shown to people) by independent artists.
From the beginning of the movie industry, some artists began experimenting with making drawings that seemed to move. These moving drawings also became known as "cartoons". They often depict animals rather than humans. They were often just for fun, but sometimes, particularly during World War II, were used for political reasons, just like the cartoons in newspapers. Walt Disney and Warner Bros both made famous cartoons. Famous cartoon characters are Felix the Cat (1922), Mickey Mouse (1928), Bugs Bunny (1940) and Popeye(1929). 
At first, movie cartoons were quite short. When a person bought a movie ticket, they would see a news program, two or three cartoons in black and white and a movie. Walt Disney then got the clever idea of telling a long story as a "cartoon". The first one that he made was Snow White and the Seven Dwarves (1937). Movie cartoons soon became a popular type of entertainment. Modern movie cartoons are sometimes created using computer graphics, rather than hand-drawn cartoons. They include Toy Story (1995) and Shrek (2001).

</doc>
<doc id="18527" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18527" title="Square root">
Square root

A square root of a number is a number that, when it is multiplied by itself (squared), gives the first number again. For example, 2 is the square root of 4, because 2×2=4. Only numbers bigger than or equal to zero have real square roots. A number bigger than zero has two square roots: one is positive (bigger than zero) and the other is negative (smaller than zero). For example, 4 has two square roots: 2 and −2. The only square root of zero is zero.
Square roots of negative numbers are not real numbers – they are imaginary numbers. Imaginary numbers are basically numbers that cannot be square rooted and get a real result. Every complex number except 0 has 2 square roots. For example: −1 has two square roots. We call them formula_1 and formula_2.
The sign for a square root is made by putting a bent line over a number, like this: formula_3. We say "the square root of 4" (or whatever number we are taking the square root of).
A whole number with a square root that is also a whole number is called a perfect square. The first few perfect squares are: 0, 1, 4, 9, 16, 25, 36, 49, 64, 81, 100, 121, 144, 169, 196, 225, 256, 289, 324, 361, 400, 441, 484, 529, 576, 625, 676, 729, 784, 841, 900, 961, 1024, 1089, 1156, 1225...
It is not really known where the square root symbol formula_4 comes from, but some people believe that it was from the letter "r", which is the first letter of the Latin and German word "radix". Radix means root or base. Thus, radix quadratum from Latin refer most likely to the base of a square. As the sides of a square are all equal, the word radix may be interpreted as side of a square, even not literally meaning that. 

</doc>
<doc id="18528" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18528" title="Negative number">
Negative number

A negative number is a number that indicates an opposite. If a positive number is distance above sea level, then a negative number is distance below sea level. If a positive number is distance up, then a negative number is distance down. If a positive number is distance to the right, then a negative number is distance to the left. If a positive number is a deposit to a bank account, then a negative number is a withdrawal from that bank account. If a positive number is a quantity of minutes in the future, then a negative number is a quantity of minutes in the past. If a positive number means addition, then a negative number means subtraction. 
The counting numbers (1, 2, 3, and so on) are all positive numbers. The positive numbers, negative numbers, and the number zero, taken together, are called "signed numbers" or integers.
The number zero is neither positive nor negative. Zero is its own opposite; so +0 = −0. That is, zero steps to the right is the same as zero steps to the left.
A negative number is always less than zero.
A negative number is written by putting a minus sign, "−", in front of a positive number. For example, 3 is a positive number, but −3 is a negative number. It is read "negative three" or "minus three"; it means the opposite of 3.
Negative numbers are left of zero on a number line. A number and its opposite are always the same distance from zero. The negative number −3 is just as far to the left of zero as 3 is to the right of zero:
Sometimes, for emphasis, we write the pair of opposite numbers as −3 and +3.
A number and its opposite always add to zero. So the sum of −3 and +3 is 0. We can write this either as −3 + 3 = 0 or as 3 + (− 3) = 0. In addition, a number and its opposite are said to "cancel each other out".
 9 + (−1) = 9 − 1 = 8
 6 − (−8) = 6 + 8 = 14
 (−3) × (−2) = 3 × 2 = 6
 (−4) × 5 = −(4 × 5) = −20
When a person or company is in debt, people sometimes say they have a negative amount of money. Negative numbers are used in accounting and science.

</doc>
<doc id="18530" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18530" title="Hail">
Hail

A piece of hail (called a hailstone) is a lump of ice that falls out of a storm cloud. About 5,000 hailstorms a year in the United States of America make hail 3/4 of an inch or bigger.
A hailstone begins as a small water drop or a round snow pellet in a cloud. The drop grows by collecting many cloud drops. The little drop is blown by a strong wind inside the cloud to where it meets with some extremely cold water drops. These supercooled drops are still liquid water even though the temperature is below freezing. When the little drop mixes with these extremely cold drops, they join, and the little drop has now become a hailstone.
The little hailstone is thrown up inside the cloud, still collecting other cold drops. The hailstone gets bigger and bigger until it goes to the top of the cloud. Then, because there is no more wind, it falls back down through the cloud. While it is falling it gets even bigger as it bangs into more supercooled drops. If it goes down very fast it can hit the earth at up to 90 mph (144 kph), bouncing like popcorn. If the hailstone hits dirt, it can actually bury itself.
The biggest hailstone recorded in the United States weighed 1.67 pounds (0.75 kg), and was 5.5 inches (14 cm) across. It fell near Coffeyville, Kansas, on September 3, 1970. The biggest recorded hailstone in the "world" was 4.2 pounds (almost 2 kilograms). It fell in Kazakhstan in Asia.
Hailstones are made of many rings of clear, cloudy ice. The rings show different amounts of freezing on the hailstone. The cloudy ice is because it freezes so quickly, trapping many small air bubbles. The clear rings are made by slow freezing of the water, which lets bubbles escape.
Hail does a very great amount of damage every year. Even small hail with strong winds can crush a field of wheat flat in a few minutes. It sometimes breaks windows, and can dent cars and roofs. Big hailstones can hurt and even kill small animals.
Because hail damages crops, there has been many efforts to stop hail. In the 16th century, farmers used to shoot cannons at thunderstorms, thinking this would destroy the hail. Cloud seeding (trying to make rain by putting dry ice crystals or a kind of smoke in clouds) is the more recent way, but it is expensive and we do not know for sure how well it works. To this day, there is no proved way of stopping hailstorms.

</doc>
<doc id="18531" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18531" title="Academy Award">
Academy Award

The Academy Awards, commonly known as the Oscars, are the best-known movie awards in the United States. The awards have been given by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences since 1929. The awards ceremony takes place each year in late February or early March in Hollywood, California. 
At the end of 1920s, the American film industry was in a crisis. When radio was invented, the people didn't go to the cinema. The owners of the studios had problems. They had to pay the workers for a good salary, but that was impossible at that time. Many people fought for a good salary and a good working time.
The director of the successful Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer-Studios, Louis B. Mayer met two good friends because he wanted to speak about the problem.
In the first years of the award, the trophy was called Academy Award of Merit. The godfather of the name Oscar is not clear. It is certain, that the name was used in 1931. There may be four people, who could be the godparents. The former board secretary of the academy Margaret Herrick said: "He looks like my uncle Oscar!". Bette Davis said that he looks like my first husband Harmon "Oscar" Nelson. The film columnist Sidney Skolsky said, that he is the name giver, and the fourth person was Walt Disney.
It is said that Oscar is not the official name of the statue. But the nickname is trademark-protected.
The statue is 13 ½ inches tall and weighs 8½ pounds.
Current Awards
Retired Awards
"Gone with the Wind f"rom the year 1939 was the most successful film for a long time with ten Oscars." "Then, in 1960," "Ben-Hur" "won eleven Oscars. In 1998 Titanic" "also won eleven Oscars, so they were in a tie. Six years later, "The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King" won eleven Oscars.
The five categories "best picture", "best director", "best actor", "best actress" and "best Original Screenplay" are the most important categories and they are called the "Big Five". There are only three films that won all these categories: "It Happened One Night", "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest" and "The Silence of the Lambs".
"All About Eve" and "Titanic" had 14 nominations. This is the nomination record.
Katharine Hepburn (1907–2003) has the most awards as a performer. She got 4 Oscars in the category best actress. Meryl Streep has the most nominations as performers with 17 Oscar nomination. Jack Nicholson, Daniel Day-Lewis and Walter Brennan (1894–1974) have three Academy Awards amongst men. Nicholson has also the nomination record (12 nominations). The person, who has the most Academy Awards is Walt Disney (1901–1966) with 26, including 4 Honorary Oscars and he has 37 nominations. Moreover, he won 4 awards in 1954, so he got the most awards in one year. The woman, who has the most Oscars is the costume designer Edith Head (1897–1981). She has 8 Oscars and 27 nominations. The persons, who has the most Oscars and still living are the composer Alan Menken (8 Oscars) and Dennis Muren with 8 Oscars, including 3 special prices and 15 nominations. The cartoon characters Tom and Jerry are the trick movie stars, who have the most awards.

</doc>
<doc id="18533" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18533" title="Brake">
Brake

A brake is a device for slowing or stopping a moving machine part. The most common brakes are for wheels, such as those on cars and bicycles.

</doc>
<doc id="18534" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18534" title="Bucket">
Bucket

A bucket is a container with a wide open top and a handle that is mainly used for carrying liquids. In some cases, solids may also be carried in a bucket (like sand which is hard to carry in your hands).
Some buckets are used for work, and some more for leisure, as seen here . A bucket used for work is often made of a strong material such as iron or steel and is used to carry things like coal or soil. A bucket used for leisure, e.g. for making sandcastles, is normally made of plastic.
In rare cases, a bucket may be worn as a piece of clothing, people may wear a bucket on their heads for humorous reasons. Buckethead is a famous example of this.

</doc>
<doc id="18536" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18536" title="Light bulb">
Light bulb

A light bulb (also spelled lightbulb) is a device that produces light from electricity. In addition to lighting a dark space, they can be used to show an electronic device is on, to direct traffic, for heat, and many other purposes. 
Early people used candles and oil lamps for light (often from whale oil). Crude incandescent lights were made in the early and middle 19th century but had little use. Improved vacuum pumps and better materials made them shine longer and brighter late in the century. Electric generator stations brought electricity to urban and later rural areas to power them. Later gas discharge lights, including fluorescent lights, use less electricity to make more light.
There are several kinds of light bulbs: 
Light bulbs convert electricity into light and heat. Except for heat lamps, the heat is considered waste. A light bulb that produces more light and less heat is more efficient.
The incandescent light bulb turns electricity into light by sending the electric current through a thin wire called a filament. Filament is made up mostly of tungsten, a type of metal. The resistance of the filament heats the bulb up. Eventually the filament gets so hot that it glows, producing light. 
The filament needs to be protected from oxygen in the air, so it is inside the bulb, and the air in the bulb is either removed (a vacuum) or more often, replaced with a gas that doesn't affect anything, like neon or argon. Only about 3% of the energy that goes into an incandescent light bulb actually makes light, the rest makes heat. That's one of the reasons LED's are more efficient.
This is the type of light bulb that Thomas Edison spent so much time on in the 1870s. It was the first light bulb that could be used in houses - it did not cost too much, and it worked well. For the first time, people did not have to burn something (candles, oil lamps, kerosene lamps, etc.) to make light. It was bright enough that people could read easily at night or do work. It was used to light stores and streets, and people could travel around after dark. This started the common use of electricity in homes and businesses. Tungsten filaments, developed in the 1900s, last longer and make a brighter light. They quickly replaced carbon ones.
Fluorescent lamps are efficient, and only give off ¼ the amount of heat of an incandescent. They also last longer than incandescent but until recently were much bigger and did not fit into sockets for small overhead lights and lamps like an incandescent could.
A fluorescent bulb is a glass tube usually filled with argon gas and a little bit of mercury. When turned on, the cathode heats up and sends out electrons. These hit the argon gas and the mercury. The argon gas makes a plasma which lets the electrons move around better. When the electrons hit a mercury atom it puts the molecule into a state where it has a lot of energy (stores the energy). The energetic state doesn't last very long, and when the energy is released, it lets out a photon. Photons from mercury are not visible like some other photons; they are ultraviolet. So there's a phosphor coating on the wall of the bulb. When the photon hits a phosphor molecule, it in turn puts that molecule into an excited state. When this phosphor releases energy, it lets out a photon that we can see, and light is made. Changing the type of phosphor can change the color we see, but usually fluorescent light bulbs are whiter than incandescent light bulbs, which are slightly yellow.
An LED is made like electronics. It is a chip of semiconducting material, usually silicon. LED bulbs are more efficient and last much longer than either incandescent or fluorescent bulbs. Unlike fluorescent bulbs, LEDs do not use mercury, which is toxic. Until recently LED bulbs were not as bright as the other kinds of lights, and cost more too.
Most light bulbs fit into a socket. If the socket is turned on, there is electricity there, even if the bulb is out, so there is danger of electric shock. Most bulbs get very hot when they are turned on, and take some time to cool off. Most light bulbs are made of glass, which means that they can break easily. Fluorescent bulbs contain a small amount of mercury, if they break, be careful to not breathe the mercury vapor. With all light bulbs , the filament will eventually break and the bulb will need to be replaced.

</doc>
<doc id="18537" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18537" title="Grammy Award">
Grammy Award

The Grammy Awards (first named the Gramophone Awards and often called just Grammys), are awards given yearly by the (an association of Americans professionally involved in the recorded music industry) for outstanding work in the music and spoken recording industry. The Grammys have 108 categories with 30 genres. The Grammys are awarded once each year and are a major televised event.
The name "Grammy" comes from the word "gramophone". A gramophone was an old machine that played music on records.
The British equivalent is the Brit Awards. The Canadian equivalent is the Juno Awards.
Georg Solti has won 31 Grammy Awards, more than any other person.

</doc>
<doc id="18540" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18540" title="Emmy Award">
Emmy Award

The Emmy Awards are United States television production awards which are given out each year. They are the television version of the Academy Awards. The first Emmy Awards were given out on January 25, 1949 at the Hollywood Athletic Club. Shirley Dinsdale was the very first person to be given an Emmy in the first awards ceremony. 
Three organizations give Emmy Awards:
The best-known of the awards are the Primetime Awards (some of which are named "Creative Arts Emmys") and the Daytime Emmy Awards.
The Emmy Awards is a statuette of a woman with wings holding an atom. It was created by television engineer Louis McManus, using his wife as a model. The trophies are made by a company that has a manufacturing site at the El Dorado Correctional Facility, a prison in El Dorado, Kansas. 

</doc>
<doc id="18544" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18544" title="Maggie Simpson">
Maggie Simpson

Margaret "Maggie" Simpson is a fictional character shown in the animated television series "The Simpsons". She is a baby.
Like most babies, Maggie copies what she sees around her. She once hit Homer on the head with a mallet, shot a suction dart at his picture and attacked him with a pencil in imitation of "Itchy and Scratchy". Maggie is also very accurate with a gun, she shot Mr.Burns in "Who Shot Mr. Burns". 
During the early episodes, Maggie's well-known feature would be to trip over her clothes and fall on her face causing a loud smack on the floor. Throughout the early episodes, Maggie fell down 39 times.
Maggie was named after Matt Groening's sister Maggie Groening. She often sucked on a pacifier and wore a sleep suit like Maggie. Groening thought that it would be funny to have a baby character that did not talk and never grew up, but showed any emotions that the scene needed.
With few exceptions, Maggie never speaks but is aware of what is going around her. Maggie has spoken in "Good Night", the first cartoon to air on "The Tracey Ullman Show". When the rest of the family falls asleep, she speaks and her voice is played by Liz Georges.
Maggie's first word spoken in the normal television show of the series happened in "Lisa's First Word", when she was voiced by Elizabeth Taylor and says "Daddy" in an empty room. Elizabeth Taylor as Maggie was later named the 13th greatest guest spot in the history of the show. James Earl Jones, who voiced Maggie in Treehouse of Horror V, was in seventh place. She would later have small sentences in Treehouse of Horror IX, voiced by Harry Shearer, who used his Kang voice. Her squeaks and occasional speaking parts are regularly done by Nancy Cartwright or Yeardley Smith.

</doc>
<doc id="18545" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18545" title="Marge Simpson">
Marge Simpson

Marjorie "Marge" Simpson is a character in the animated television series "The Simpsons". The characters voice is done by Julie Kavner. Marge is the wife of Homer Simpson and the mother of Bart, Lisa, and Maggie Simpson. She is famous for her very tall blue hair, that is shaped into a beehive. She also is proud to have never met anyone with taller hair outside Graceland. Marge was named after, and loosely based on, Margaret "Marge" Groening, Matt Groening's mother.
Marge’s image is normally that of a stereotypical sitcom mother who is sometimes seen as an inexperienced person and easy to be fooled. Despite having higher morals than most other characters, Marge has had her fair share of wild escapades throughout the show’s history. She was once a police officer in Springfield, took treatment for road rage, was once sent to jail for shoplifting, became a gambling fanatic, showed alcoholism, was an unwilling participant in a cross-country police chase, took steroids, cheated on a cooking competition and developed amnesia. She is also known for her persistent nagging and groaning. These are just some of the strange situations in which Marge has found herself. She also displays a surprisingly strong will. Marge is the only member of the family who normally tries to encourage the family to go to church. She also appears to have significant athletic ability in times of imminent danger. She can speak two languages fluently, one being English and the other in French.
Politically, Marge supports the Democratic Party. She once says that she voted for Jimmy Carter ("twice" according to Lisa), supported the candidacy of their state's governor Mary Bailey, and also stated to have been really depressed when Lyndon Johnson died.
Marge studied to be a painter. When she was a teenager she had a huge crush on Ringo Starr and painted a large number of portraits of him. She also wrote to him, but only received a reply 25 years later. His response inspired her to enter an art contest. Her portrait of a drunk Homer sleeping on the couch won the competition. She was then hired by Mr. Burns to do a portrait of him. The resulting portrait won even Mr. Burns’ praise, a massive feat in itself.
Marge also is a very skilled cook. She once started a pretzel business, which succeeded with the help of the Springfield Mafia. She has entered different cooking challenges, although situations such as cruel and ruthless competitors and overheated ovens made her to lose and even break or destroy the other competitors too. In general, she is shown as a very good cook. She is especially well known for her pork chops, Homer's favorite dish.
In some episodes Marge is shown being a fairly skilled photographer until she decided to choose Homer over photography.
As a teen, Marge had her hair long to at waist length which she always wore down, but got the idea to wear it in her trademark beehive for senior prom in the episode "The Way We Was". In the Shary Bobbins episode, her hair is shown close to her knees, meaning that a lot of hair would be needed to create her tall beehive. Marge has admitted that her hair is not really blue but is, in fact, gray. It was revealed by Homer in "Secrets of a Successful Marriage" that Marge dyes her hair with blue dye #56; ""She’s been gray as a mule since she was seventeen."" However, it is shown in the episode "Fear of Flying" that Marge's blue hair goes back to when she was a small child. Because of her unusually large hairstyle, her height is reported to be 8'6", as noted by Apu in the episode "Marge in Chains". In "The Way We Weren't", her hair was blue before she met Homer and was dark at one time because of Marge ironing a piece of her hair for a long time. In "The Simpsons" Season Four DVD commentary, Matt Groening states that the original idea behind Marge's hair was to hide large rabbit ears. The gag was intended to be revealed in the final episode of the series, but was cancelled early on because of its irregularity.
Like most of the other Simpsons characters, Marge's age changes from time to time throughout the show's history. In first-season episodes "Life on the Fast Lane" and "Some Enchanted Evening", Marge is said to be 34 years old, but her age was later changed to 38, possibly because she and Homer attended their twentieth anniversary high-school reunion in one episode. In the episode "Regarding Margie", Homer states that Marge is his age, meaning she could be anywhere between 36 and 40 years in age.

</doc>
<doc id="18546" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18546" title="Pin">
Pin

A pin is an object used to attach something to a surface. It is usually metal or plastic. Pins are usually sharp and are cheap to buy.

</doc>
<doc id="18547" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18547" title="Dining room">
Dining room

A dining room is a room used for eating and is usually near the kitchen. This is to make serving food easier.
Usually a dining room will contain a table with a set of chairs, normally positioned at the sides and end of a table. People often only use their dining rooms now for formal occasions and eating in the kitchen has become more popular.

</doc>
<doc id="18549" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18549" title="Crown">
Crown

A crown is a type of headdress worn by a monarch. They are usually worn when they are crowned or at important occasions. Also, crowns are now used as a symbol of the monarchy. They are also won by beauty pageant winners. 
"Crown" is also a synonym for prize or reward. Crowns are awarded or won at contests. Beauty contests award crowns to the winning participant, for example. Couples chosen the King and Queen at a dance also receive crowns. 
Some children, mainly girls, connect flowers in a chain and wear them on their heads as if they were crowns. These are called "daisy chains" and have nothing at all to do with crowns. A crown can also be a part of the head.
A diadem is a type of crown, an ornamental headband worn by monarchs and others as a badge of royalty. 

</doc>
<doc id="18551" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18551" title="Rudolf Hess">
Rudolf Hess

Walter Richard Rudolf Hess (Heß in German) (26 April 1894 – 17 August 1987) was a high ranking Nazi leader, and one of Adolf Hitler's closest men. He was the third man after Hermann Göring in the Third Reich from 1933 to 1941.
Rudolf Hess was born in Alexandria, Egypt, but moved back to Germany in 1908.
He joined the army in World War I and was trained as a pilot. He flew to Scotland during World War II and was arrested. After the war he was tried at the Nuremberg Trials, and sentenced to life imprisonment.
He died in the Allied Military Prison, Spandau, Berlin in 1987. Since 1966 he had been the only prisoner. His death was caused by a strangulation using an electrical cord; officials recorded it as a suicide.

</doc>
<doc id="18552" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18552" title="1780s">
1780s


</doc>
<doc id="18553" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18553" title="1510s">
1510s


</doc>
<doc id="18554" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18554" title="Quantum entanglement">
Quantum entanglement

Quantum entanglement is the name given to a special connection between pairs or groups of quantum systems, or any objects described by quantum mechanics. Quantum entanglement is one of the biggest parts of quantum mechanics that makes it hard to understand in terms of the everyday world.
When we look at particles, we usually say that each particle has its own quantum state. Sometimes, two particles can act on one another and become an entangled system. When a pair or group of particles can only be described by the quantum state for the system, and not by individual quantum states, we say the particles are "entangled".
Entanglement between particles happens because little particles can push and pull on each other, just like big objects do in terms of gravity. If nothing else is acting on those particles, then there are certain things before and after the particles act on each other that have to stay the same. For example, the total momentum of both particles put together would be (roughly) the same before and after they act on each other.
Heisenberg's uncertainty principle tells us we can never know the momentum of a particle exactly, or even the total momentum of both particles put together. In fact, we can't ever know exactly what the momentum of a particle will be before we measure it, but we do know always that the total momentum of the two particles put together doesn't change when the particles act on each other.
In order to be sure that the total momentum is the same before and after the particles act on one another, we need to describe a pair of particles as a single quantum system rather than a pair of quantum systems. If this weren't true, the Conservation law for momentum would be violated due to the quantum uncertainty of the momentum of each particle.
Even though each particle has a lot of information about the other, they do not send messages to each other. There are no messages between the particles saying, "I'm going down, therefore, you must go up" and waiting for the particle to receive the message. Yet, the particles are always connected and can behave as one.
Quantum entanglement is one of the concepts that led Albert Einstein to dislike the theory of quantum mechanics. With his co-workers, Boris Podolsky and Nathan Rosen, Einstein used entanglement to try to show weaknesses in quantum mechanics. Einstein called entanglement "spooky action at a distance". He said this because he did not believe that quantum particles could affect one another faster than the speed of light. He tried to show that this weird effect means that quantum mechanics gives an incomplete picture of what really goes on and that in the future it will be taken care of with extra "hidden" variables.
Erwin Schrödinger talked about entanglement in the same article where he described Schrödinger's cat.
Years later, John Bell showed with his theorem that we can tell if this "spooky action at a distance" is real or not. After that, experiments using Bell's theorem proved that entanglement actually happens between tiny particles.
Scientists are trying to use quantum entanglement for many different things. Some things are sending completely secret messages (passing notes that can't be intercepted), and making computers faster than ever before thought possible. However, entanglement between a pair of particles is a very delicate thing and is easily destroyed. Because of this, it is difficult to use quantum entanglement to do these things. Currently, many scientists are working on making stronger systems where entanglement is stronger and lasts longer to try to do these things more easily.
Although you can do some things to one particle to try to cause a change in its partner particle, you can't use this (by itself) to send information from one particle to another because it is only possible to control how likely the change will happen. The outcome of whatever measurement you make on a single particle is completely random, and so is the change that results in the partner particle. In other words, changing one particle may change its partner particle, but you cannot guarantee exactly which way you will influence them. Because scientists cannot control exactly what changes between entangled particles occur, it is not possible to use quantum entanglement alone to send messages. If you also send information about the state of the single particle classically (by phone, radio, carrier pigeon, etc.), you can use the entanglement they share to teleport the quantum state of one particle to another particle.
Also, without sending information about the partner particle, there's no way to tell if a given particle is single or half of an entangled pair. With no outside information, a single particle is completely like any other. It's only when you can receive information about the other particle that you will be able to figure out if your particle is one part of an entangled pair. Because of this, no one can use entanglement to send information faster than the speed of light because you would need another faster than light communicator to do it.

</doc>
<doc id="18555" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18555" title="Amin Maalouf">
Amin Maalouf

Amin Maalouf is a Lebanese author. He was born on 25 February, 1949 in Beirut, Lebanon. He studied sociology at the French University in Beirut. He was the director of the Beirut daily newspaper "an-Nahar". But, he left the country 1975 at the start of the Lebanese Civil War. He moved to Paris and still lives there today.
Maalouf writes in French, and his works have been translated into many languages. He received the Prix Goncourt in 1993 for his book "Rock of Tanios".
He uses his experiences of civil war and migration in writing his novels. The characters in his novels are wanderers. They may not have just one home country, language, or religions.

</doc>
<doc id="18556" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18556" title="Bulb">
Bulb

A bulb is the part of some plants, mostly under the dirt, that stores food while the plant is resting from growing (a "storage organ").
Some well-known bulbs people grow to use as food are onions and garlic. Some bulbs grown for the decorative flowers are the lily, tulip, and some irises.
Some plant storage organs that are similar to bulbs, but have different names are, tubers, corms (swollen stems), tuberous roots, and pseudobulbs.

</doc>
<doc id="18561" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18561" title="1520s">
1520s


</doc>
<doc id="18563" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18563" title="Wave">
Wave

A wave is a disturbance in the medium which causes the particles of the medium to undergo vibratory motion about their mean position. The motion repeats in equal intervals of time and can be described by a periodic function.
Waves play an important role in our daily life. This is because waves are a carrier of energy and information over large distances. Waves require some oscillating or vibrating source. Ocean surface waves were the first known waves. Later, other kinds were discovered.
There are two categories of waves.
Waves which require any medium for their propagation are called mechanical waves. 
For example:
Water waves, sound waves, and waves produced on the string and spring.
Waves which do not require any medium for their propagation are called electromagnetic waves.
For example:

</doc>
<doc id="18565" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18565" title="Gluon">
Gluon

Gluons are what hold quarks together to make bigger particles. Gluons carry the strong force between other quarks, so it is considered a force carrying particle. Photons do the same thing, but for the electromagnetic force. Also, like photons, gluons are spin-1 particles, and when a particle has spin-1 it is considered a boson.
Gluons are hard to study because although they exist in nature all the time, they are so small and require so much energy to break them away from quarks (about 2 trillion degrees) that scientists have only been able to find more about them from particle colliders such as the Large Hadron Collider at CERN.

</doc>
<doc id="18567" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18567" title="Humphry Davy">
Humphry Davy

Sir Humphry Davy, 1st Baronet, FRS (Fellow of the Royal Society) (born 17 December 1778 in Penzance, Cornwall, England; died 29 May 1829 in Geneva City, Switzerland), was a chemist whose study of electrochemistry led to the first pure forms of some of the chemical elements such as potassium and sodium.

</doc>
<doc id="18569" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18569" title="Myxobolus cerebralis">
Myxobolus cerebralis

Myxobolus cerebralis is a small Myxozoan parasite that eats the insides of fish like salmon and trout, causing whirling disease. 
This is a problem in fish farming and also in natural fish groups. In the last 100 years, it has spread to most of Europe (including Russia), the United States, South Africa, and other countries. In the 1980s, people found out that "M. cerebralis" needs to live in a worm before it can live in a fish. It infects both the fish and the worm by poking a hole in them and putting part of itself in.
Whirling disease hurts young fish the most, and can hurt bones and nerves. Fish with the disease do not swim very well, and they "whirl" or spin instead of swimming straight. This makes it hard for the fish to get food and get away from danger. Dealing with "M. cerebralis" costs more money than most other parasites in its group (which are called "myxozoans"). People do not get sick with whirling disease, though; only fish do.
At first, people thought that this parasite infected fish brains, so they named it "cerebralis", which means brain-related. Then, people found out that it mostly infects cartilage and bones. They tried to change the name, but they could not. Later, they found out that other creatures called "Triactinomyxon dubium" and "T. gyrosalmo"were actually stages of "M. cerebralis." It would be like finding out that caterpillars are really young butterflies even though they look very different.
Many scientists think of Myxozoans like "M. cerebralis", as animals, but books still call them protozoans. Peopole are not sure what it's related to. Under a microscope, they look a lot like Cnidarians like jellyfish, but the scientists that look at chemicals and genes think that it's closer to other animals called Bilaterians..
"M. cerebralis" has many stages ranging from single cells to bigger spores. Scientists have not studied all the stages very well yet. 
The kind of "M. cerebralis" that can attack fish is called a "Triactinomyxon", and there is a picture of it on the right. There are three "tails" that are each about 200 micrometers long, and another piece that is about 150 micrometers (μm) long. That piece has 64 cells in it. There are also three harpoon-like weapons that can attack the fish. They shoot into the fish, making a hole that the 64 cells can go into. Those cells make more cells that go to the cartilage near the fish's brain.
The kind of "M. cerebralis" that comes out of fish is called a "Myxospore". They are sort of round and fat in the middle like a lentil or a convex lens. They are about 10 micrometers across and are made of six cells. Two are for the harpoon weapons, two are for protecting the Myxospore, and two are for going into a worm after the weapons make a hole. Myxospores from "M. cerebralis" look a lot like Myxospores from other species that are sometimes in fish skin, muscle, or brains, and so it's hard to tell them apart.

</doc>
<doc id="18575" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18575" title="Aamir Khan">
Aamir Khan

Aamir Khan (born March 14, 1965 in Mumbai) is a Bollywood actor. Khan first appeared in "Yaadon Ki Baaraat" (1973) as a child actor. His first big starring role was in "Qayamat Se Qayamat Tak" (1988).
Another of his best-known adult roles was starring in "" (2001), which was nominated for an Oscar. Khan was credited as producer for the movie, with his first wife (1986-2002), Reena Datta, executive producer. Khan met his future second wife (2005-), Kiran Rao, on the set, where she was an assistant director.
His first movie released in 2006 is "Rang De Basanti".

</doc>
<doc id="18576" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18576" title="Bahá'í Faith">
Bahá'í Faith

The Bahá'í Faith is an Abrahamic religion started in the 1800s by an Iranian person called Bahá'u'lláh who was born in Tehran, Iran. Followers of this religion call themselves Bahá'ís. The name Bahá'u'lláh is Arabic for "The Glory of God". "Glory" is a word that means "importance", "power", and "beauty". Bahá'ís believe Bahá'u'lláh is a representation of God, or speaks for God, and he shows people God's importance, beauty, and brightness.
Bahá'ís are monotheists (which means that they believe in one God). They believe Bahá'u'lláh carried a message from God. Bahá'u'lláh said he was not the only person to carry a message from God, and he was not the last to carry a message from God. He taught that the people who started the other major religions also represented and carried messages from God, such as Jesus, Moses, Abraham, Muhammad, Krishna, the Buddha and others. He called these people "Manifestations of God." They believe the messages from the Manifestations of God get more and more difficult to understand. They say the ones that came earlier on had a more simple message than the ones that came later. Because God is greater than the whole universe, Bahá'u'lláh said that human beings cannot completely know God. He said that God wants people to know as much about him as they can. Bahá'u'lláh wrote God sends special people to manifest (show) himself to ordinary humans. Without the Manifestations of God we could not know God. Bahá'ís believe the God they pray to is the same God Abraham spoke to, Jesus talked about, and Krishna said in Gita. Since Bahá'u'lláh was born in a Muslim family, Bahá'ís are sometimes mistaken as Muslims. Bahá'u'lláh is considered the prophet/manifestation of the present day. Bahá'ís say that he is not the last prophet/manifestation of God. They think there will not be another prophet for 1,000 years after Baha'u'llah's death.
The Bahá'í Faith began on 1844 when a man called the Báb said he had a message from God. He said that it was his job to make sure that people were ready for the most important message from God who would be sent soon. This started a religion, followers of this religion were called Bábís. Many people became Bábís in the country of Iran, which was called Persia at the time, and this made the government of Persia and the Muslim priests angry. They arrested and killed the Bab and his followers. Even though this happened, people still followed this religion.
Before Bahá'u'lláh said he had a message from God, he was a member of the religion that was started by the Báb. He became very famous among the Bábís. When the Báb was killed, some Bábís got very angry and tried to kill the king of Persia, even though Bahá'u'lláh told them not to kill him. When the Babis were caught, the government put many Bábís in jail, including Bahá'u'lláh. While in jail at Tehran, Bahá'u'lláh said he saw an angel that he called the "maid of heaven". The angel told him that he had to teach a message from God to the people of the world. The angel said that God would rescue and protect him so that he could teach this message. Eventually, he was released from jail and the government of Persia made him move to Baghdad, which was then controlled by the king of the Ottoman Empire.
While Baha'u'llah was in Baghdad, he had many problems, but he also made many friends. The government of Persia was unhappy that he seemed to be doing well in Baghdad, and so they asked the Ottoman Empire to move him further away from Persia. When he was about to leave, in 1863, he held a festival for 12 days on a small island in the Tigris river, which he called Ridvan, which means paradise. There he told some of his closest friends and family that he was the promised one of all of the major religions, and that eventually the whole world would know his message.
Eventually the Ottoman Empire sent him to many different cities, including Constantinople, Adrianople, Alexandria, and eventually Akka. He was in different jails this whole time, and the city of Akka had a big wall around it, and it was one big jail. While he was in Baghdad, and after, he wrote many books and letters to answer questions that his friends and followers asked him. At one point he was poisoned, so that he could not write anymore because his hands shook so badly. After that, he had someone write down what he said. When he was even older, his oldest son, `Abdu'l-Bahá arranged to have him move into a house near Mount Carmel, and he stayed there until he finally died in 1892.
After he died, people followed `Abdu'l-Bahá. Bahá'u'lláh had written that `Abdu'l-Bahá had special powers, and that God would make sure that if `Abdu'l-Bahá explained anything that Bahá'u'lláh said, then the Bahá'ís should believe that explanation. `Abdu'l-Bahá also wrote a lot of letters and gave talks, and eventually visited Paris, London, Montreal, New York City, San Francisco and other cities in the west. This helped the Bahá'í Faith to spread in Europe and North America. He died in 1921. He left a will, where he told the Bahá'ís to follow his grandson, Shoghi Effendi.
Shoghi Effendi was born in 1900 and was only a young man when his grandfather died and he became the leader of the Bahá'ís. He helped make the different agencies and councils that run the Bahá'í Faith today, and organized the religion in many ways. He also wrote many books and letters to explain the teachings of his grandfather and great-grandfather. He lived until 1957 and died in England.
After Shoghi Effendi died, the Bahá'ís did not have leaders for six years, because Shoghi Effendi had not left a will. Shoghi Effendi did have helpers, who did not think they were allowed to lead the Bahá'ís, so they helped the Bahá'í Community follow the last plan that Shoghi Effendi left them, and at the end of that plan, in 1963, they organized an election to form the Universal House of Justice, which Bahá'u'lláh wrote about. The Universal House of Justice has led the Bahá'ís ever since.
Bahá'u'lláh wrote many books and letters, and `Abdu'l-Bahá (whose name means "Servant of Glory") also wrote many books and letters which Bahá'ís see as special. Finally, Bahá'u'lláh's great-grandson Shoghi Effendi wrote lots of books and letters which Bahá'ís use to better understand the writings of Bahá'u'lláh and `Abdu'l-Bahá. The most important of these books is the Aqdas.
Bahá'ís also believe that the Bible, the Qur'an, the Gita and other books from other religions are special.
Some important Bahá'í beliefs are:
There are eight or nine million Bahá'ís in the world, of all peoples and languages. The Bahá'í Faith looks different in different countries, because there are few rituals, so Bahá'ís can include their own culture in the way they celebrate Bahá'í events, say prayers, etc.
Bahá'ís meet every nineteen (19) days in a meeting called a "Feast". There does not have to be food, but there usually is. These meetings start with prayers and usually someone reads aloud some holy writings. Sometimes there is music and song, sometimes plays, sometimes just quiet time or meditation. After this time, which Bahá'ís call the "devotional" time in a feast, they have a community discussion. All sorts of topics can be discussed here that are important to the members. Bahá'ís say that this is a "consultative" time, where Bahá'ís can consult with each other. After this, there is a social time, where people can share food, drink (not alcohol), and sometimes here there is also music, or plays, or presentations, or other entertainment. This time is just so that the Bahá'ís in that city can get to know each other and become better friends.
Bahá'ís often do not have one place they get together, except in large cities. In smaller places they usually get together in each other's houses. Some larger cities have "Bahá'í Centers" which can be used for community meetings, classes, or for meetings of committees and other councils. (see Institutions below) 
In a very few cities in the world, there are Bahá'í temples. These temples are on each continent. 
Bahá'ís are organized in a worldwide community. They do not have priests. Everyone is responsible for their own prayers. Bahá'ís are also responsible for reading their holy books for themselves and for learning about their religion. Baha'is elect leaders for their community, to help organize their activities, and to deal with problems between members, and to decide things that are not obvious from the scriptures. These are called Spiritual Assemblies, but will one day be called Houses of Justice. 
There is one House of Justice, which Bahá'ís call the Universal House of Justice, which leads the whole worldwide Bahá'í community. Bahá'ís elect this House of Justice every five years, but only once each year for National and Local Spiritual Assemblies.

</doc>
<doc id="18577" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18577" title="Neoclassical economics">
Neoclassical economics

Neoclassical economics is an economic theory that argues for markets to be free. This means governments should generally not make rules about types of businesses, businesses' behaviour, who may make things, who may sell things, who may buy things, prices, quantities or types of things sold and bought. The theory argues that allowing individual actors (people or businesses) freedom creates better economic outcomes. These outcomes may be a higher average standard of living, higher wages, better average life-expectancies, and higher GDP. 
Markets are an abstract idea: assumed to be all the 'actors' (businesses or people) selling one thing, service or type of thing or service, and all the 'actors' buying it. 
Markets will 'reach equilibrium' if all the sellers who want to sell at or below a given price have sold to all the buyers who are willing to buy at or above a given price. the price is worked out in the market.
It may be easier to think about this in reverse: The market is not in equilibrium if people want to buy a haircut for ten (or more) dollars and someone is happy to sell the person a haircut for ten (or less) dollars, but for some reason this does not happen. 
Neoclassical economists say this will not happen. Neo-Keynesians say it might, so the government could make the customer and the person selling the haircut happier by helping the customer somehow.
Neo-Keynesian economy is an alternative Neoclassical economy. The major point of difference between neoclassical economics and neo-Keynesian economics is about whether 'markets' 'reach equilibrium'. 

</doc>
<doc id="18589" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18589" title="Nile">
Nile

The Nile ( "an-nīl") is a river in Africa. It is the longest river on Earth (about 6,650 km or 4,132 miles), and flows into the Mediterranean Sea near Alexandria. It gets its name from the Greek word Νεῖλος "Neilos". 
The White Nile flows from Lake Victoria in Uganda, and through Sudan to Khartoum, where it is joined by the Blue Nile to form the Nile, then through Egypt. The Blue Nile flows through Ethiopia. About 300 million cubic metres of water flow down the Nile each day.
The Nile is very important to the countries where it flows. Many cities in Egypt are built next to the river. Also, the pyramids are close to the Nile. The Nile has always provided most of the water used to grow crops in Egypt and for anything else, since much of the rest of the country is in a desert. The Nile was very important to Ancient Egyptians. In ancient times the Nile flooded every year and the people would starve if there was not enough water for the crops. The Ancient Egyptians got papyrus from the Nile.
Many different types of animals live in or near the waters of the Nile, including crocodiles, birds, fish and many others. Not only do animals depend on the Nile for survival, but also people who live there need it for everyday use like washing, as a water supply, keeping crops watered and other jobs.
Pyramids were built close to the Nile because they needed the granite stones from Aswan to be transported by barges down the Nile.
The word "Nile" comes from Greek "Neilos" (). Neilos came from the word "river valley". In the ancient Egyptian language, the Nile is called "Ḥ'pī" or "iteru", meaning "great river", represented by the hieroglyphs shown above (literally "itrw", and 'waters' determinative). In Coptic, the words "piaro" (Sahidic) or "phiaro" (Bohairic) meaning "the river" (lit. p(h).iar-o "the.canal-great") come from the same ancient name. 

</doc>
<doc id="18592" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18592" title="Statue">
Statue

A Statue is a model of somebody or something, usually of a person or sometimes an animal. It is a sculpture. Several kinds of material can be used to make a statue, e.g. stone, bronze, clay, or wood. Statues are often at least life-size (the same size as the real person), but often they are much bigger, especially statues in the open air. Statues are often made to remember an important person (such as the statue of Alfred the Great), or to remember an event or an idea (such as the Statue of Liberty).
Usually there is some writing on a statue to say who the person is. This writing is called an epigraph. The statue may be standing on a base. This base is called a "plinth".
A bust is a statue of the head, shoulders and upper body of a person.
A colossus is an enormous statue.
A statue of someone on horseback (riding a horse) is called an equestrian statue.

</doc>
<doc id="18600" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18600" title="Golden Retriever">
Golden Retriever

Golden Retrievers are a very popular kind of dog. When the breed was first created, they were used for hunting. Now, they are sometimes used for hunting, but a lot of people like to have them as pets because they are very friendly. People also like them because their face looks like they are smiling all the time. Because they are so friendly, Golden Retrievers cannot be used as guard dogs, but they are good as drug dogs at airports and very good as service dogs for the blind (People who cannot see). They also like people, so when they are left alone for too long, they get very sad.
Golden Retrievers are very good family dogs because they extremely sweet and gentle with young children and do not bark very much. They are known for having a "soft mouth," and some have even been seen carrying raw eggs in their mouth without breaking them. Goldens are well known for their calm and easy going temperament. They are great family dogs and provide good companionship. They are very smart and eager to please, which allows them to be easily trained. Golden Retrievers are very active dogs and need a lot of exercise. Goldens make wonderful pets, but they need to be exercised regularly to prevent weight gain and promote overall health. They require a great deal of grooming, as they shed hair daily. Goldens also enjoy the cool water.
A good Golden Retriever has a strong body and a long coat that is yellow or gold. Their fur even stops water because it has two special layers, one short and one long. They always have brown eyes and can show a lot of emotions with them. When they get old, their face turns white, but when they are young, they should not have any white on them. A normal male dog weighs about 29 to 36 kilograms(65 to 80 pounds) and a normal female dog weighs about 27 to 32 kilograms (60 to 70 pounds). From their front paws to their upper back, they are about 56 to 61 centimetres (22 to 25 inches) tall.
As said earlier, Goldens are used a lot for people who cannot see, but they are also used for obedience trials and as assistant dogs for people who have seizures or cannot hear. They are very good at smelling things, so they are also good for hunting. The second part of their name, retriever, is very true because they love to fetch things for their people! Goldens love to catch tennis balls and frisbees. Goldens also enjoy the water.
There are two different kinds of Golden Retrievers: show dogs and field dogs. Show dogs have very long hair and a lighter color, but field dogs have a lot more differences. They have short hair and can have any shade of hair. Because they have shorter hair, it is easier to brush them because they do not get as many things caught in it.
Like a lot of purebred dogs, Goldens can have bad health. A big problem for Goldens is hip dysplasia, which makes the dog's bones hurt at its hips. Also, a lot of Goldens have skin allergies, so people have to be very careful to not wash the dog too much and make sure that it does not get fleas. It is also important to clean a Goldens ears regularly because their long ears do not give the ear canal a chance to breathe. Goldens also have problems with their eyes sometimes, but it's mostly when they get older.It is important when purchasing a new Golden Retriever puppy to review the medical history of their parents. Oftentimes "backyard breeders" have been known to over breed or breed dogs with health problems. A reputable breeder should be able to supply the most current heatlth records for the dogs which they are breeding.
Golden Retrievers were developed by Lord Tweedmouth in Scotland. He took a yellow dog and another dog called a Tweed Water Spaniel, which is a dog that does not exist anymore. All Golden Retrievers are related to these two dogs. The breed was created to be stronger than other retrievers but more gentle with people so they could be trained very easily.
In 1903, the breed was added to the list of the Kennel Club of England, but it was not added to the list of the American Kennel Club until 1932. Now, there are millions of Goldens around the world and they remain as one of the most popular breeds.
Golden Retriever called 'Liberty' belonged to United States President Gerald R. Ford. 
This breed was in many films and TV series, including: Air Bud and Air Bud: Golden Receiver, Full House, Homeward Bound:
The Incredible Journey and Homeward Bound II: Lost in San Francisco,Fluke, Napoleon, Up, Pushing Daisies, and The Drew Carey Show. 
A dog called Cash from The Fox and the Hound 2 was a mix of Golden Retriever and other breed.

</doc>
<doc id="18603" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18603" title="Idea">
Idea

When a person thinks of something, that which he/she thinks about is called an "idea". Ideas are concepts created in the mind. No one really knows how this works. Ideas are a mental product. 
One idea can change the whole world. If someone has a better idea, they can sell it to others. 

</doc>
<doc id="18605" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18605" title="Connection">
Connection

A connection is when two things are put together. This can either be a 'real' connection, like a chain linking two objects, or you can use the word in a figurative way. You might talk about a train connection between two cities, and mean the trains running between them.

</doc>
<doc id="18609" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18609" title="Nobuo Uematsu">
Nobuo Uematsu

Nobuo Uematsu (植松 伸夫; Uematsu Nobuo, born March 21, 1959) is a Japanese composer of video game music. He stays busy making lots of different types of music for games. A lot of the music he makes is for games produced by Squaresoft and Square Enix, including the "Final Fantasy" series of role-playing games, and some music for "Chrono Trigger".

</doc>
<doc id="18613" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18613" title="Dharma">
Dharma

Dharma (or dhamma) is part of many religions or spiritual beliefs that began in India. The oldest is Hinduism. Buddhism, Ayyavazhi, Jainism, and Sikhism also believe in the same idea. It means "the law" of spiritual growth of believers.
In Buddhism, the word "Dharma" also means the very old teachings of the Buddha. For example, The Four Noble Truths.
In Hinduism, dharma is the spiritual law for human beings. It is the way of goodness, truth and duty. For example, for a youth, a big part of dharma is to be a good student. Parents’ dharma is to raise and support their family. Teacher’s dharma is to teach and the dharma of the police to protect others. Each age brings new responsibilities, so dharma will change. It is everyone’s dharma to be honest, kind and religious, to do no harm to others and to be a good citizen. Hindus believe that following dharma fulfills the highest purpose on earth. When people follow dharma, they feel good about themselves, and life is most rewarding.

</doc>
<doc id="18619" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18619" title="Columbus">
Columbus

Columbus usually refers to:
It might also mean:

</doc>
<doc id="18629" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18629" title="Nucleus">
Nucleus

Nucleus (plural: nuclei) means the center of something. It might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="18630" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18630" title="Walter Sisulu">
Walter Sisulu

Walter Max Ulyate Sisulu (18 May 1912 – 5 May 2003) was a South African activist and politician. He fought against apartheid. Sisulu was the Secretary-General of the African National Congress from 1949 to 1954. Over the next 10 years he was put in prison seven times. 
He was one of many people, including Nelson Mandela to be found guilty of treason during trials between 1956 and 1961. He was sent to prison for 6 years because of this. While free on bail, he went into hiding. He was found in 1963 and put on trial again. In 1964, he as sent to prison for the rest of his life. He was released from prison in 1989. 
In 1991, he became the Deputy-President of the African National Congress. He held the position from July 1991 to 1994. Sisulu died from Parkinson's disease on 5 May 2003, aged 90.

</doc>
<doc id="18635" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18635" title="List of U.S. state capitals">
List of U.S. state capitals

This is a list of United States state capital cities. Each city is the center of government for a state in the United States, usually in the capitol building. The state capital city with the fewest people is Montpelier, Vermont, while the capital city with the most people is Phoenix, Arizona.

</doc>
<doc id="18636" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18636" title="Juneau, Alaska">
Juneau, Alaska

The City and Borough of Juneau is the capital city of Alaska. It has been the capital of Alaska since 1906. 
The government of the then-District of Alaska was moved from Sitka by the decision of the U.S. Congress. The municipality unified in 1970 when the city of Juneau merged with the city of Douglas and the surrounding Greater Juneau Borough to form the current home rule municipality.
The area of Juneau is larger than that of Rhode Island and Delaware individually and almost as large as the two states combined. Downtown Juneau is at the base of Mount Juneau and across the channel from Douglas Island. As of the 2010 census, the City and Borough had a population of 31,275. 
Juneau is named after gold prospector Joe Juneau, though the place was for a time called Rockwell and then Harrisburg (after Juneau's co-prospector, Richard Harris). 
The Tlingit name of the town is Dzántik'i Héeni (""river where the flounders gather""), and Auke Bay just north of Juneau proper is called "Aak'w" (""little lake"") in Tlingit. The Taku River, just south of Juneau, was named after the cold "t'aakh" wind, which occasionally blows down from the mountains.
Downtown Juneau sits at sea level, with tides averaging , below steep mountains about to high. Atop these mountains is the Juneau Icefield, a large ice mass from which about 30 glaciers flow; two of these, the Mendenhall Glacier and the Lemon Creek Glacier, are visible from the local road system; the Mendenhall glacier has been generally retreating; its front face is declining both in width and height.
The Alaska State Capitol in downtown Juneau was originally built as the Federal and Territorial Building in 1931. Prior to statehood, it housed federal government offices, the federal courthouse and a post office. It also housed the territorial legislature and many other territorial offices, including that of the governor. Today, it is still the home of the state legislature and the offices of the governor and lieutenant governor. Other executive branch offices have largely moved elsewhere, in Juneau or elsewhere in the state, in the ongoing battle between branches for space in the building, as well as the decades-long capital move issue. Recent discussion has been focused between relocating the seat of state government outside of Juneau and building a new capitol building in Juneau. Neither position has advanced very far. The Alaska Committee, a local community advocacy group, has led efforts to thus far keep the capital in Juneau.

</doc>
<doc id="18637" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18637" title="Phoenix, Arizona">
Phoenix, Arizona

Phoenix is the capital city of the U.S. state of Arizona. It is the largest city in that state. The city is the county seat of Maricopa County. It is the largest capital city in the United States. The city is along the normally dry Salt River. It became a city on February 25 1881. People who live in Phoenix are known as Phoenicians.
Phoenix had about 1,475,834 people in 2005. It was the sixth largest city in the United States in the 2000 census. Phoenix is a very large city. It has an area of 515 square miles. This makes it the 10th largest city by area. As of 2006, the Phoenix Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA) was the 13th-largest in the United States, with an estimated 4,039,182 people.
As early as 700 AD, the Hohokam people lived in the land that would become Phoenix. The Hohokam created about 135 miles (217 km) of irrigation canals. This let them grow things on the land.
It is believed that between AD 1300 and AD 1450 drought and floods caused the Hohokam to no longer live in the area. Spanish and Mexican explorers knew of the area but they did not go as far north as the Salt River Valley.
In 1867, Jack Swilling of Wickenburg, Arizona came to the area. He saw that the land was good for farming. The only problems he saw were a lack of rain and good irrigation. Swilling corrected the problem by having a series of canals built. A small community was created about four miles (6 km) east of the where the city is today.
The farming community was named Swilling's Mill. The name was later changed to Helling Mill, Mill City, and East Phoenix. Swilling was a Confederate soldier during the Civil War. He wanted to name the city "Stonewall," after Gen. Stonewall Jackson. Other people had other ideas for names. Finally, Lord Darrell Duppa suggested the name "Phoenix". The name is the same as the mythological fire bird which is born again from its own ash after it dies. It was a good name for a city born from a former civilization.
On February 25 1881, Phoenix became an incorporated city. At that time it had about 2,500 people. Phoenix held its first city election on May 3 1881. Judge John T. Alsap defeated James D. Monihon, 127 to 107, to become the city's first mayor. In early 1888, the city offices were moved into the new City Hall.
The coming of the railroad in the 1880s was the first of several important events changed the economy of Phoenix. Phoenix became a trade center. In response, the Phoenix Chamber of Commerce was created on November 4 1888.
Phoenix is at 33°26'54" North, 112°4'26" West (33.448457°, -112.073844°) in the Salt River Valley, or "Valley of the Sun", in central Arizona. It is at a mean elevation of 1,117 feet (340 m), in the northern reaches of the Sonoran Desert.
Other than the mountains in and around the city, the topography of Phoenix is mostly flat. This allows the city's main streets to run on a precise with wide, open-spaced roadways.
The Salt River runs westward through the city of Phoenix. The riverbed is often dry or just a trickle due to large irrigation usage. The river is full after infrequent rainstorms or when more water is released from upstream dams. The city of Tempe has built two inflatable dams in the Salt River bed to create a year-round recreational lake, called Tempe Town Lake. The dams are deflated to allow the river to flow unimpeded during releases. Lake Pleasant Regional Park is in Northwest Phoenix in the suburb of Peoria, Arizona.
As with most of Arizona, Phoenix does not observe daylight saving time. In 1973, Gov. Jack Williams argued to Congress that energy use would increase in the evening. Refrigeration units were not used as often in the morning on standard time. He went on to say that energy use would rise "because there would be more lights on in the early morning." He was also concerned about children going to school in the dark, which indeed they were. Navajo Nation lands in Northeastern Arizona observe daylight saving time in conjunction with the rest of their tribal lands in other states.
Phoenix has an arid climate, with very hot summers and temperate winters. The average summer high temperature is among the hottest of any populated area in the United States and approaches those of cities such as Riyadh and Baghdad. The temperature reaches or exceeds 100°F (38°C) on an average of 110 days during the year, including most days from late May through early September, and highs top 110 °F (43 °C) an average of 18 days during the year. On June 26, 1990, the temperature reached an all-time recorded high of 122 °F (50 °C).
On average, Phoenix has only 5 days per year where the temperature drops to or below freezing. Frequently, outlying areas of Phoenix see frost, but the airport does not. The earliest frost on record occurred on November 3, 1946, and the latest occurred on April 4, 1945. The all-time lowest recorded temperature in Phoenix was 16 °F (-8.8 °C) on January 7, 1913.
Since 1986, the city of Phoenix has been divided into urban villages, many of which are based upon historically significant neighborhoods and communities. Each village has a planning committee. This committee is appointed directly by the city council. According to the village planning handbook issued by the city, the purpose of the village planning committees is to work with the city's planning commission to ensure a balance of housing and employment in each village. The committees also concentrate on development at identified village cores, and to promote the unique character and identity of the villages.
There are 15 urban villages in the city at this time: Ahwatukee Foothills, Alhambra, Camelback East, Central City, Deer Valley, Desert View, Encanto, Estrella, Laveen, Maryvale, North Gateway, North Mountain, Paradise Valley (not to be confused with the town of Paradise Valley), South Mountain and Rio Vista. Rio Vista was created as New Village in 2004 and is currently very sparsely populated, with no large amount of development expected in the near future.
Commonly referred-to Phoenix regions and districts include Downtown, Midtown, West Phoenix, North Phoenix, South Phoenix, Biltmore Area, Arcadia, Sunnyslope, Ahwatukee.
The early economy of Phoenix was mostly agricultural. It was mostly dependent on cotton and citrus farming. In the last twenty years, the economy has changed as quickly as the number of people has grown. As the state capital of Arizona, many residents in the area are employed by the government. Arizona State University is there. Many high-tech and telecommunications companies have also recently moved to the area. Due to the warm climate in winter, Phoenix benefits greatly from seasonal tourism and recreation, and the golf industry.
Phoenix is currently home to several Fortune 1000 companies. Companies in Phoenix include waste management company Allied Waste, electronics corporation Avnet, Apollo Group (which operates the University of Phoenix), mining company Freeport-McMoRan (recently merged with Phoenix based Phelps Dodge), retailer PetSmart, development company Tempo Creative, energy supplier Pinnacle West and retailer CSK Auto. Honeywell's Aerospace division is headquartered in Phoenix, and the valley hosts many of their avionics and mechanical facilities. Intel has one of their largest sites here, employing about 10,000 employees and 3 chip manufacturing fabs, including the $3 billion state-of-the-art 300 mm and 45 nm Fab 32. American Express hosts their financial transactions, customer information, and their entire website in Phoenix. The city is also home to the headquarters of U-HAUL International, a rental company and moving supply store, as well Best Western, a hotel chain. Mesa Air Group, a regional airline group, is headquartered in Phoenix.
The military has a significant presence in Phoenix with Luke Air Force Base in the western suburbs. At its height, in the 1940s, the Phoenix area had three military bases: Luke Field (still in use), Falcon Field, and Williams Air Force Base (now Phoenix-Mesa Gateway Airport), with many other air fields throughout the region.
As the capital of Arizona, Phoenix houses the state legislature. In 1913, the commission form of government was adopted. The city of Phoenix is served by a city council. The city council is made up of a mayor and eight city council members. The mayor is elected in a citywide vote to a four-year term. Phoenix City Council members are elected to four-year terms by voters in each of the eight districts.
The current mayor of Phoenix is Phil Gordon, who was elected to a four-year term in 2003. He was again re-elected to another four-year term in 2007. The mayor and city council members have equal voting power to govern the city.
Phoenix operates under a council-manager form of government, with a strong city manager. The city manage supervises all city departments and executing policies adopted by the Council.
The United States Postal Service operates post offices throughout Phoenix. The main Phoenix Post Office is at 4949 East Van Buren Street.
As of February 9, 2009, Phoenix offers a domestic partnership registry open to opposite- and same-sex couples with no resident requirements for registrants.
By the 1970s there was rising crime and a decline in business within the downtown core. The city's crime rates in many categories have improved since that time, but still are higher than state and national averages. The crime rate in Phoenix has gone down through the years. However, recent kidnappings and human trafficking due to the Mexican drug trade have brought negative attention to the city.
Car theft has been a problem in Phoenix. In 2001, Phoenix was number one for theft rate with 35,161 total thefts, giving a rate of 1,081.25 per 100,000. However, in 2003, Phoenix dropped to second for with 1,253.71 per 100,000, although it was first for total car thefts with 40,769.

</doc>
