<doc id="23598" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23598" title="Traffic cone">
Traffic cone

Traffic cones (also called road cones, safety cones, or pylons) are cone-shaped markers, generally made out of plastic, that are placed on roads to temporarily redirect automobile traffic in a safe manner. 
Traffic cones are often placed around construction sites or roadside accidents. As well, many utility companies such as telephone companies and electric companies place cones on the road when utility workers are working on or near the road. Cones are also used by driving schools to set up tests of turning and parking skills.
They have many other uses including bike training, fun and for personal use like reserving parking spaces.
Traffic cones are easily movable and about 60 cm (24 inches) tall. Traffic cones come in many different colors, with orange, yellow and red being the most common colors. Many types of traffic cones have reflective strips or stripes of reflective paint, so that the cones are easier to see at night.
Traffic cones were invented in 1914 by Charles P. Rudabaker. The first cones were made of concrete. In the 2000s, most cones are made of brightly-colored plastic.

</doc>
<doc id="23607" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23607" title="Agatha Christie">
Agatha Christie

Agatha Christie, in full Dame Agatha Mary Clarissa Christie (15 September 1890 – 12 January 1976) was an English writer of crime stories. Her books are very famous all over the world, and she sold a lot of books. Her stories are about murders and finding out who did them. The most well-known characters in her books are Miss Marple and Hercule Poirot. Miss Marple is an old lady, and she talks to everyone. She uses logic to find out who is guilty of the murder. Hercule Poirot is a private detective from Belgium who lives in London. He likes to find out who did the murder by thinking about all the evidence.
Christie was born in Torquay. She was married twice; she had a daughter called Rosalind Hicks. She worked in a hospital and in a pharmacy during World War I. She also wrote romance novels and plays. They were very successful too. In 1971, she was honoured by the Queen with the title Dame Commander of the Order of the British Empire.
Christie died on 12 January 1976 at age 85 from natural causes at her Winterbrook House in the north of Cholsey parish, adjoining Wallingford in Oxfordshire (formerly part of Berkshire). She is buried in the nearby churchyard of St Mary's, Cholsey.
The "Guinness Book of World Records" ranks Christie as the best-selling novelist ever. Her novels have sold about 4 billion copies. Her works are the world's most-widely published books after those of William Shakespeare and the Bible. Her books have been translated into at least 103 languages. Christie's best-selling novel is "And Then There Were None". It has sold 100 million copies. It is the world's best-selling mystery novel.

</doc>
<doc id="23623" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23623" title="Motion">
Motion

Motion could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="23627" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23627" title="MB">
MB

MB, Mb, mB or mb may mean:
MB may mean:
Mb may mean:
mb may mean:

</doc>
<doc id="23628" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23628" title="Kwame Nkrumah">
Kwame Nkrumah

Dr. Kwame Nkrumah (born Francis Nwia-Kofi Ngonloma, September 21, 1909 – April 27, 1972) was an African political leader. He was well known as the first Prime Minister, then President, of Ghana. He imagined a united Africa. On March 6, 1957, after ten years of campaigning for Ghanaian independence, Nkrumah was elected President and Ghana gained independence from British rule.
Nkrumah was born Francis Nwia-Kofi Ngonloma in Nkroful, a town in Gold Coast (the British colony that was to become Ghana) to Kofi Ngonloma, a goldsmith, and Elizabeth Nyaniba, a salesperson, who he saw as a great inspiration.
He attended Elementary School at Half Assini where his father worked as a goldsmith. A German priest called George Fischer influenced his education. He went to a school for teachers in Accra, then became a teacher himself. In 1935 he went to Lincoln University in the United States. He learned more about Communism. His education continued at the University of Pennsylvania, from 1939 to 1943. Next he went to London and organized an international conference for African freedom. He also changed his name to "Kwame".
Nkrumah returned to the Gold Coast and founded the Convention People's Party. He was elected Prime Minister. When Ghana became independent from England, Nkrumah was its first president. He created the flag of Ghana. He required all children to attend school. More women attended school and took jobs. For electricity, Nkrumah ordered the building of a hydroelectric dam and a nuclear power plant. 
Nkrumah was not friendly to the tribes in Ghana, such as the Asante. He wanted everyone to be a member of the Convention People's Party. He wanted them to be loyal to Ghana and Africa but not to smaller groups. Some people did not like Nkrumah because he opposed the tribes.
The military and police forced Nkrumah from power on February 24, 1966. He lived for the rest of his life in Guinea.
The Osagyefo, Dr. Kwame Nkrumah authored over 20 books and publications. (See a list of his publications) and he is a lead authority on the Political theory and Practical Pan-Africanism.

</doc>
<doc id="23630" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23630" title="Diego Velázquez">
Diego Velázquez

Diego Velázquez (6 June 1599 – 6 August 1660) was a Spanish painter, the leading artist in the court of King Philip IV.
Diego Velázquez had a hard life. He got married when he was eighteen. With his wife, he had two daughters. He died at the age of 61 after having painted many paintings, including the famous "Las Meninas".

</doc>
<doc id="23632" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23632" title="Kinshasa">
Kinshasa

Kinshasa is the capital city of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (once called Zaire). It is the third largest city in the continent of Africa (after Lagos and Cairo). Seven and a half million people live there. Kinshasa is also a province in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The city of Kinshasa is there.
Kinshasa is on one side of the Congo river, and Brazzaville, the capital of the Republic of Congo, is on the other side. Kinshasa and Brazzaville are the nearest country capitals in the world.
Henry Morton Stanley founded (started) the town in 1881 and called it Léopoldville (after King Léopold II of Belgium, who controlled the large territory that is now the Democratic Republic of the Congo), next to a village called Nshasa or Kinshasa. The city was originally private property (not public). The city of Léopoldville changed its name to Kinshasa in 1966. The post developed successfully as the first navigable port on the Congo River above Livingstone Falls, a series of rapids over 300 kilometres (190 mi) below Leopoldville. At first, all goods arriving by sea or being sent by sea had to be carried by porters between Léopoldville and Matad.

</doc>
<doc id="23635" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23635" title="Great Barrier Reef">
Great Barrier Reef

The Great Barrier Reef is the world's largest coral reef. It is close to the coast of Queensland, Australia. It is made up of nearly 3000 coral reefs and over 600 islands. It is 327,800 km² big and 2600 km long. It has been listed an important World Heritage Site by UNESCO. The Great Barrier Reef is the largest structure made by living things. It can be seen from outer space. The Reefs are threatened.
The Reef Research Centre has found the remains of coral that are half a million years old. Corals have been growing in the region for as long as 25 million years. The corals have not always formed coral reefs.
It is difficult to work out the age of the Great Barrier Reef. This is because of the way a reef can grow and shrink as the sea level changes. A coral reef can grow in diameter, that is how wide they are, from 1 to 2 cm per year. They can also grow upwards from 1 to 15 cm per year. Coral can not grow if the water is too deep (150 metres or more) because it needs light from the sun. They cannot grow out of the water (above sea level).
The Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority and Australian Institute of Marine Science say the current, living reef started growing about 20,000 years ago. It started to grow on an older reef. This makes the beginning of the reef duringay. The land that forms the bottom of the Great Barrier Reef was a coastal plain. The plain had some large hills. Some of these hills were parts of older reefs.
From 20,000 years ago until 6,000 years the sea level began to rise. As it rose, the corals could grow higher on the hills of the coastal plain. 13,000 years ago the sea level was 60 metres lower than the present day. Corals began to grow around the hills of the coastal plain. These became continental islands. As the sea level rose higher, most of these continental islands were covered by water. The corals could then grow over the hills. This formed the present cays and reefs. Sea level on the Great Barrier Reef has not risen much in the last 6,000 years. The CRC Reef Research Centre has worked out that the present, living reef is 6,000 to 8,000 years old.
The remains of a very old barrier reef has been found in the Kimberley area. This is in the northern part of Western Australia.
The Great Barrier Reef World Heritage Area has been divided into 70 different areas. These are called bioregions. Each bioregion has its own special plants and animals. There are 30 reef bioregions, and 40 are non-reef bioregions. In the northern part of the Great Barrier Reef, there are ribbon reefs and deltaic reefs. These kinds of reef do not exist in the rest of the Great Barrier Reef system.
The Great Barrier Reef has 1,500 species of fish, and many other animals, algae, and corals. This includes many vulnerable or endangered species. Some of these exist only on this reef system.
Thirty species of whales, dolphins, and porpoises have been seen in the Great Barrier Reef. This includes the dwarf minke whale, Indo-Pacific humpback dolphin, and the humpback whale. Most of the population of the dugongs live there.
Six species of sea turtles come to the reef to breed. These are the green sea turtle, leatherback sea turtle, hawksbill turtle, loggerhead sea turtle, flatback turtle, and the olive ridley. There are two different groups of green sea turtles on the Great Barrier Reef. One group lives in the northern part of the reef and the other in the south. Fifteen species of seagrass attract the dugongs and turtles. They also provide a food and shelter for fish. The most common kinds of seagrasses are "Halophila" and "Halodule".
Saltwater Crocodiles live in mangrove and salt marshes on the coast near the reef. No crocodile nests have been found on the reef. The salt water crocodiles on the reef travel long distances. There are not many living around the reef. Around 125 species of shark, stingray, skates or chimaera live on the reef. About 5,000 species of mollusc live on the reef. These include the giant clam, nudibranchs and cone snails. Forty-nine species of pipefish and nine species of seahorse have been found. Seven species of frogs live on the islands.Also, the Moray eel lives on the bottom, preying on fish.
215 species of birds come to the reef or nest or roost on the islands. This includes 22 species of seabirds and 32 species of shorebirds. These include the white-bellied sea eagle and roseate tern. Most nesting sites are on islands in the northern and southern regions of the Great Barrier Reef. About 1.7 million birds use the sites to breed.
The islands of the Great Barrier Reef have 2,195 known plant species. Three of these do not live anywhere else. The northern islands have 300-350 plants which are woody. The southern islands have 200 plants which are herbaceous. The Whitsunday region has the most plant species placing at 1,141. The plant species are mostly spread by fish
Seventeen types of sea snake live on the Great Barrier Reef. They take about 4 years to become old enough to breed. They usually live on the sea floor. They live in warm waters up to deep. They are more common in the southern part of the reef.
More than 1,500 species of fish live on the reef. These include the clownfish, red bass, red-throat emperor, and several types of snapper and coral trout. There are at least 330 species of sea squirts (ascidians) on the reef. These vary in size from 1 mm-10 cm in diameter. Between 300-500 species of bryozoans live on the reef system. These are small water animals that look like moss, or
branches
Four hundred species of corals, both hard corals and soft corals live on the reef. Most of these spawn, releasing thousands of eggs, in huge events. This spawning is controlled by the rising sea temperatures. This happens in spring, summer and some parts of autumn, as part of the moons lunar cycle, and the day/night diurnal cycle. Reefs in the inner Great Barrier Reef spawn during the week after the full moon in October. Outer reefs spawn in November and December. The common soft corals on the Great Barrier Reef belong to 36 different types. Five hundred species of marine algae or seaweed live on the reef. This includes thirteen types of "Halimeda". These deposit chalky (calcareous) mounds up to 100 metres wide. They have mini-ecosystems on their surface which have been compared to rainforest cover.
A new report, the Reef Outlook Report, says that climate change will cause huge damage to the reef. The report was written by the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority. Warmer and more acidic water around the coral reef will slow down calcification, which is how the coral grows and becomes strong. The corals will become bleached (lose their colours) and many species that live on and around the reef will be in danger. The Australian government has already spent AU$325 million to improve the health of the reef in the last two years.
The Reef Outlook Report also warned of other dangers to the reef. These included poor quality water running into the sea from the mainland. This water is polluted with farm insecticides and rubbish from nearby towns. The increasing amount of development on the coast is destroying natural marine and coastal habitats. There is also some damage from fishing.

</doc>
<doc id="23641" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23641" title="Missouri Compromise">
Missouri Compromise

The Missouri Compromise, also called the Compromise of 1820, was a plan proposed by Henry Clay of the U.S. state of Kentucky. It was signed by President James Monroe and passed in 1820. The agreement was between the pro-slavery and anti-slavery factions in the United States Congress, involving primarily the regulation of slavery in the western territories. It admitted Missouri as a slave state to please the South and it also admitted Maine as a free state to please the North. It kept the balance of power in the United States Senate between the free states and slave states. The plan also called for slavery to be banned from the Louisiana Territory north of the parallel 36 degrees 30' north (also known as the Missouri Compromise Line), except within the boundaries of the proposed state of Missouri.
Prior to the agreement, the House of Representatives had refused to accept this compromise and a conference committee was appointed. The United States Senate refused to concur in the amendment, and the whole measure was lost.
During the following session (1819-1820), the House passed a similar bill with an amendment, introduced on January 26, 1820 by John W. Taylor of New York, allowing Missouri into the union as a slave state. The question had been complicated by the admission in December of Alabama, a slave state, making the number of slave and free states equal. In addition, there was a bill in passage through the House (January 3, 1820) to admit Maine as a free state.
The Senate decided to connect the two measures. It passed a bill for the admission of Maine with an amendment enabling the people of Missouri to form a state constitution. Before the bill was returned to the House, a second amendment was adopted on the motion of Jesse B. Thomas of Illinois, excluding slavery from the Missouri Territory north of the parallel 36°30' north (the southern boundary of Missouri), except within the limits of the proposed state of Missouri.

</doc>
<doc id="23642" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23642" title="Peafowl">
Peafowl

A peafowl is a bird of the "Phasianide" family. It is a relative of the pheasant.
There are two species of peafowl: the Asiatic peafowl ("Pavo") or the Congo peafowl ("Afropavo congensis"). The Congo peafowl is the only member of the pheasant family that originated outside Asia.
The male peafowl can have up to 150 brightly colored feathers on its tail coverts.
For centuries peafowl have been admired for their beauty and hunted for their meat. Recently peacocks have become more popular in parks and gardens.
The male peafowls (called peacocks) have long, colorful feathers. Female peafowls (called peahens) have shorter, brown feathers.
They like to eat any kind of green shoots (flowers, veggies, grass etc.) as well as wheat, cracked corn or wild game feed. They can handle freezing temperatures as long as they have a dry perch that is out of the wind and weather. Dry dog and cat chows make excellent winter feed for peafowl, who are omnivores, eating insects, small snakes, lizards, grain, as well as many varieties of greens. They are particularly fond of petunias and similar pot plants, leaving nothing but a small green circle where the stem once emerged from the soil. The birds will learn to come to a specific place at specific times of day to be fed, and a regular light feeding during summer adapts them to coming to the feeding place in winter.
The peafowl is native to southeast Asia, including India and Pakistan. They were brought to Europe long ago, and can acclimatize to colder areas.
The very long, elegant and colorful plumage of the male birds, peacocks, is grown over the winter months so that they are ready for the early spring mating season, during which each male establishes a territory. The male calls to the females to come and admire his dance.
He displays a rustling of tail quills which hold up the fanned back plumes (= tail feathers) as he stamps and turns. The summoning call is loud, repeated, happens sometimes at night, and sounds, to some people, like a woman screaming. Often it is tri-syllabic, mi-fa-sol. Once the mating season is over, the tail feathers are naturally shed.
The peacock's display is a classic example of sexual selection.
The female birds, peahens, are soft brown and gray with white chests and bellies and some light green on the neck, the colors blending so well with weeds and grasses that when the female is nesting on the ground, she is almost invisible.
The hen teaches her chicks what to eat by putting her beak down at a chosen bug, grain, seed, or leaf and making a throaty "grock" sound. The chick put its beak against the mother's, follows the beak to the tip, and eats whatever it points at. The chicks can learn what to eat from a hen of another species, but, unlike baby chickens, peachicks need to be shown what to eat. Chicks hatched in a hatchery can starve to death if there is no hen to teach them what to eat.
In addition to the "eat this" sound, the female has a particular call for a missing chick, a "where are you," "hoo-hah" call, two toned, high then low, mi-do, mi-do. When a chick is missing, this call can go on for hours.
She lays from two to six eggs in the spring time and, once all are laid, sits on the eggs for about thirty days to hatch them, leaving the nest once or twice a day to feed and drink. Often the female will utter a shrieked "trouble" call, a quickly repeated "cuk, cuk, cuk, cuk" when she leaves the nest, to attract predators away from it.
Once the chicks are hatched, the mother leads them away from the broken eggs, as the smell of the eggs attracts predators. They are able to flutter a little within hours, and in a few days can fly up into sheltering trees by going first to lower branches and working their way higher, preferring high, protected branches. The chicks roost on either side of the peahen, and she extends her wings to cover them during the night, thus protecting them from rain, hail, and visits from owls. They begin to grow their "crowns" when they are only a few weeks old and it takes about a year for them to reach full size, though it may take three years to reach breeding age. Both males and females are hatched with the same plumage; nine to twelve months after hatching, the males' necks begin to turn peacock blue, and their splendid plumage takes about four years to reach full size.

</doc>
<doc id="23643" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23643" title="Manager">
Manager

A manager is a person who "manages" or is "in charge of" something. Managers can control departments in companies, or guide the people who work for them. Managers must often make decisions about things.
According to Henri Fayol, a French management theorist, managers must be able to do:

</doc>
<doc id="23646" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23646" title="Dachshund">
Dachshund

The dachshund is a breed of dog. It is usually short (small in height), but long from front to back and with short legs. “Dachshund” is a German word that is used in English, and it means “badger dog.” (In German, dachshunds are called "Dackel" or "Teckel".)
The breed was developed to use its sense of smell to find, chase, and hunt badgers and other animals that live in holes. A dachshund has a long, narrow body, so it is sometimes called a "wiener dog", "hot dog", or "sausage dog". Some people believe that using those words does not show respect.
Today, dachshunds have crooked legs, loose skin, and a barrel-like chest. Over time, breeders selected dogs so that those features would appear in puppies. That way, dachshunds could do a better job of burrowing into tight spaces. Another feature is a long tail.
The coat or fur of a dachshund comes in three kinds – smooth or short-haired, long-haired, and wire-haired. The wire-haired dachshund usually is shorter front to back than the other two. 
A fully-grown dachshund weighs between 16 and 28 lb. (7 to 12.7 kg), while the miniature dachshund may weigh less than 11 lb. (5 kg). The writer H. L. Mencken said that “A dachshund is a half-dog high and a dog-and-a-half long.”
Dachshund fur comes in many colours. The colors that are most common are red (a brown color that looks a little reddish) and black-and-tan (black body with brown parts). There are solid black and solid chocolate-brown dachshunds. Many people think those dachshunds are handsome, but the colors are not standard or official – that is, you cannot enter those dogs in some dog shows.
Dachshunds are playful, fun dogs. People know that dachshunds like to chase small animals and birds, and when they chase those animals they do it ferociously (without fear and very intensely). Many dachshunds are strong-headed or stubborn, and that means they can be hard to train. However; if trained in proper way and at an early age, these dogs can be a good family dogs. These dogs should be trained for socialization and obedience. Dachshunds are often very loyal to their owners (devoted to their owners, or very interested in their owners). In fact, they can be much more loyal than other kinds of dogs. But wire-haired dachshunds often do not show that kind of loyalty to their owners.
People know that dachshunds have deep and tender eyes, and that dachshunds have many facial expressions (dachshunds can communicate just with the look on their faces).
Dachshunds often have spinal problems, that is, their backbone can become injured. That is because of the dog’s very long spinal column and short rib cage. The problems are usually hereditary (genetic), that is, they are passed down from parent dogs to puppies.
A dachshund that is obese (fat) can have a higher risk of getting injured. That is because the extra weight puts more strain on the backbone (vertebrae).
To prevent injury, dachshunds should not climb stairs or jump unless they really have to. It is also important to hold the dog the right way – by holding up the front and the rear parts of the body at all times.
Some people have wondered if dachshunds go back to ancient Egypt. People have found drawings and engravings from ancient Egypt that show hunting dogs with short legs. But the dachshund of today was bred in Europe, and it has parts of German, French, and English hounds and terriers.
Kings and queens all over Europe have had dachshunds. Queen Victoria especially liked dachshunds.

</doc>
<doc id="23654" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23654" title="Karachi">
Karachi

Karachi () is the largest city and former capital of Pakistan and the capital of the province of Sindh. It's old name found in history books is "Mai Kolachi Jo Goth" and "Karatishi" is also one of the old version of its name. A native of Karachi is called a Karachiite. The city is the financial and commercial centre of Pakistan. It has two important regional seaports. The city lies on the coast of the Arabian Sea west of the Indus River delta. Karachi generates the largest share of Pakistan's GDP and national revenue. The population is estimated at approximately 12 million, making it the third largest cities in the world after Shanghai and Mumbai.It has five districts: District South, District East, District West, District Central, and Distrct Malir. Karachi has the most number of districts in Sindh after Hyderabad, which has six districts. Quad-e-Azam (Muhammad Ali Jinnah) father of the nation was born and buried in Karachi.
Apart from the University of Karachi, there are several other institutions of higher education and numerous colleges and schools in Karachi. Karachi is home to the National Stadium which hosts many cricket games, and several other sports complexes. The city has several long sandy beaches including Clifton/Kemari beach and Sandspit beach. Clifton beach suffered from a recent oil spillage but the beach has been cleaned.Karachi has Pakistan's first nuclear site KANUP in 1952 from Canada. The city has 26 universities, including 1. Karachi university-KU 2. Nadirshaw Eduljee Deenshaw engineering university-NED University Hamdard Medical University & 4. Dow University of Health Sciences. Karachi has the honor to host the first ever night hockey match between India and Pakistan in 1986 at Hockey Club of Pakistan Stadium but failed to gain the official status due to having no night hockey match recognition by World Hockey federation at that time.
Karachi has many large and small shopping areas including the Saddar area in downtown Karachi. Karachi also has a number of large modern shopping malls. The city has a modern international airport called the Jinnah International Airport and two large shipping ports at Port of Karachi and Port Qasim. Karachi is linked by railway to the rest of Pakistan.
Karachi has a hot desert climate ("BWh" in the Koeppen climate classification).

</doc>
<doc id="23662" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23662" title="Transliteration">
Transliteration

Transliteration is how writing is changed from a writing system or alphabet to another, while making each sound stay the same. There are different systems of writing in the world. Some use letters to write out sounds, and others use characters to write out whole words that have many sounds in them. Transliteration is what happens when letters from an alphabet match letters of another alphabet, that have the same sounds. Most often this is done by spelling the sounds of one system, with the letters or symbols of another. For example, the Cyrillic letter "я" is usually written as "ya".

</doc>
<doc id="23663" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23663" title="Taoism">
Taoism

Taoism or Daoism is a type of belief, or a way of thinking about life. It is at least 2,500 years old and it comes from China. Taoism is now said to be a philosophy. Tao (or Dao, ) is the name of the force or the "Way" that Taoists believe makes everything in the world. Taoists think that words cannot be used to correctly describe Tao. The very first line of the "Dào Dé Jīng" (), the most important text in Taoism, says "the Way that can be explained in words is not the true Way." There are many other sacred writings by the teachers of Taoism.
Instead of spending a lot of time trying to explain what the Tao is, Taoists focus on living a simple and balanced life in harmony with nature. This is one of the most important principles in Taoism. Taoists also believe that conflict is not good and that if you have a problem with something, it is better to find a way around it.
Taoism first showed up in writing in China about 2000 years ago. People do not always write about their religions at first, so this religion may be much older. Some important people the history of Taoism are:
People who follow this religion believe that doing something with words, thoughts, symbolic actions, etc. can make things in the real world change. That idea is hard to understand. Here is an example: There is an old story that says China was once covered by a flood. The world was saved from the flood by 禹 Yǔ, who had only one leg that worked. Yǔ went to different parts of China in a special order, and he dug ditches to let the flood water go into the ocean. When something very bad happens in the world, a Daoist priest can go to the Daoist temple and act out what Yǔ did, and just doing that will make the world get fixed.
Daoist priests do many other things. For instance, they can use fire and noise to scare demons away. They can do things to cure sickness. They can perform funerals and help keep the new ghosts safe from harm.

</doc>
<doc id="23667" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23667" title="Adjustment">
Adjustment

An adjustment is when something is changed in a small way. This is usually to make it better. The word can be used as a verb, as in "Bill needs to adjust his tie".
Examples of adjustments:

</doc>
<doc id="23668" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23668" title="Poverty">
Poverty

Poverty means not having enough money for basic needs such as food, water, shelter, or toilets. Many people in different countries live in poverty, especially in developing areas of Africa, Latin America and some parts Asia. 
Poverty is caused by illiteracy
There are different ways to measure poverty. The World Bank says that "extreme poverty" is when someone has less than US$1 a day to live on (that dollar is an ideal one). It has been changed to rule out certain effects such as inflation, meaning that prices of things rise higher than what a person is paid, and other price level differences. "Moderate poverty" is when people have to live on less than $2 a day. In the year 2001, 1.1 billion people were seen as "extremely poor", and 2.7 billion were seen as "moderately poor". 
In the developed world this does not apply. There, many people are seen as the "working poor". They have a job, but do not earn enough money for basic things such as food and a home. In most developed countries, people without jobs receive money from the government, but this is often less than they need for a comfortable life. 
There are different ways to tell if a country is rich or poor. The Gross Domestic Product, or GDP, and Human Development Index, or HDI, are two of those measures. Gross Domestic Product is the money made from trade from inside the country. 
HDI, meaning the Human Development Index is a different matter. It is determined by life expectancy and adult literacy rates. Places in Africa like Guinea-Bissau and Sierra Leone are the poorest, with Sierra Leone having the lowest HDI ranking in the world.
Poverty is a hurdle in the way of a country's progress. One way of helping lower poverty is by educating poor people, so that they can start contributing to a nation's economic development. Education teaches the poor about their rights and may show them the path to become an important part in growth and expansion of the country. Vienna Declaration also tells this fact. 
One of the most important things that is needed to make a country richer is for the Government to want to help poor people do better. Without this it is hard for people to become better off.

</doc>
<doc id="23672" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23672" title="Course">
Course

A course can mean one of these things:

</doc>
<doc id="23677" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23677" title="British Empire">
British Empire

The British Empire was made up of the colonies, protectorates, mandates and other territories which were controlled by the United Kingdom. 
It began with the overseas colonies and trading posts set up by England between the late 16th and early 18th centuries. At its height, it was the largest empire in history, and the world's most powerful superpower for more than a century. By 1922, more than 458 million people lived in the British Empire, which was more than one fifth of the world's population at that time. The empire was larger than , almost a quarter of the Earth's total land area. Since it was so large, the British Empire has left a large legal, linguistic and cultural legacy. Like the Spanish Empire before it, the British Empire was often said to be "the empire on which the sun never sets" because it was so large that the sun was always shining somewhere in the empire.
During the Age of Discovery in the 15th and 16th centuries, Portugal and Spain were the first countries to begin exploring. This allowed them to create large and rich colonial empires. Jealous of how rich Spain and Portugal became because of their empires, England, France, and the Netherlands began to make colonies and trade networks of their own in the Americas and Asia. England fought and won some wars in the 17th and 18th centuries against the Netherlands and France. After these wars, England (and then, after the union between England and Scotland in 1707, Great Britain) became the main colonial power in North America and India.
After the Thirteen Colonies became independent in the American War of Independence, the British Empire lost some of its oldest and most important colonies. Britain then began focusing on Asia, Africa, and the Pacific. After defeating Napoleonic France in 1815, Britain became the world's only superpower for more than a century and made its empire even larger. 
By the start of the twentieth century, the economies of Germany and the United States had begun catching up to Britain, especially in their industrialisation. 
The First World War damaged all of Europe. Having taken most of the German overseas colonies, the British Empire was at its largest after World War I, but by now the United States was the greatest industrial power. In the Second World War, the Japan took Britain's colonies in South-East Asia. The allies (principally the U.S. forces) eventually defeated Japan. Britain's prestige in Asia was damaged. This caused the empire to decline more quickly.
The British Raj included the whole of the Indian subcontinent. The independence of the two states of India and Pakistan in 1947 was the first and most important step in decolonisation. Britain also gave independence to most of the territories of the British Empire. After the UK transferred Hong Kong back to China in 1997, the British Empire was essentially over. However, Britain still controls some overseas territories. After they were given independence, many countries which used to be British colonies joined the Commonwealth of Nations. have the same head of state, Queen Elizabeth II, and are Commonwealth realms.

</doc>
<doc id="23689" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23689" title="Chimbote">
Chimbote

Chimbote is the largest city in the Ancash Region of Peru. The city has over 400,000 residents.
It is on the coast of the Pacific Ocean. Most of the people of Chimbote catch fish, or work with seafood in some way. The city catches more fish than any other place in Peru. 
Chimbote is known for its good version of the national dish of Peru, ceviche. Chimbote is also the hometown of the former president of Peru, Alejandro Toledo.

</doc>
<doc id="23690" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23690" title="Tram">
Tram

A tram (tramcar, trolley, streetcar, or street railway) is a passenger vehicle that is like a light train. It carries people to places within a city. Because a single tram can carry many people at the same time, riding on a tram instead of driving a car is a good way to help prevent pollution and stop the roads getting too busy.
The word "tram" is used mainly outside North America, while within North America these vehicles are called "streetcars" or "trolleys" as they run mainly on streets.
More modern and larger trams manufactured since the 1970s, such as the one in the second picture from Warsaw, are called light rail vehicles. These vehicles are bigger because they are very often made of two or more parts, with a bendy section in the middle which works like a human joint. In railway jargon, these types of vehicles are called "articulated". These may sometimes have their own right-of-way instead of traveling on the street and their stops are usually farther apart than the stops of trams so that they can travel faster. 
On Market Street in San Francisco, vintage streetcars from the 1910s through the 1940s, called "historic streetcars" (the "F Market" line), that travel on the street are a popular tourist attraction. Another city whose trams are highly used by tourists is Hong Kong, because here the trams have two floors which is very rare in the world.
The largest tram networks in the world are in: Melbourne, St. Petersburg, Amsterdam, Berlin, Moscow and Vienna. 
Trams first came into use in the 1890s, when they replaced horsecars--streetcars drawn by horses.
In the 1910s to 1930s, in many metropolitan areas in North America, there were special bigger and longer streetcars that traveled long distances to distant suburbs on what were called "interurban" lines. These streetcar lines sometimes had "dedicated tracks" with their own right-of-way and made fewer local stops. 
In the late 1940s and early 1950s, in the United States, there was a conspiracy by Standard Oil, General Motors, and Firestone Rubber. They formed a company called National City Lines to buy streetcar systems, tear up the tracks, and replace them with buses in almost all the cities in North America. They did this so they could make bigger profits by selling more oil, buses, and rubber tires. Because of this, it was necessary to spend hundreds of millions of dollars of public funds in the 1980s and 1990s to reconstruct the streetcar systems as light rail systems using light rail vehicles. This conspiracy is obliquely referred to in the 1988 film Who Framed Roger Rabbit?. 

</doc>
<doc id="23692" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23692" title="Fast food">
Fast food

Fast food is the term for a kind of food that people eat from a restaurant, cafe or take-out where food is prepared and served quickly. 
The restaurants that sell fast food are called "fast food shops" or "fast food restaurants". Some of the more common fast food restaurants are McDonald's, Wendy's, Burger King, Taco Bell, and KFC.
When a lot of fast food is eaten, it can cause health problems and complications, such as high cholesterol, clogged arteries, diabetes, obesity, and death.

</doc>
<doc id="23694" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23694" title="Ford (disambiguation)">
Ford (disambiguation)

Ford can mean more than one thing:

</doc>
<doc id="23695" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23695" title="Scott Joplin">
Scott Joplin

Scott Joplin was an American ragtime musician and composer.
Joplin was born in the U.S. state of Texas sometime between June 1867 and January 1868. Even though he was from Texas, most of his pieces were written when he was in Missouri and New York City.
Joplin is most well known for writing piano pieces called rags. His music became popular again in the 1970s, with the album "Scott Joplin: Piano Rags", performed by Joshua Rifkin, from Nonesuch Records. He may be most commonly known now by the Marvin Hamlisch adaptation of his composition "The Entertainer" (1902) which was used in the 1973 movie "The Sting" starring Paul Newman and Robert Redford. His best-known song while he was alive was "Maple Leaf Rag" (1899). Other rags he wrote were "The Ragtime Dance" (1906) and "Magnetic Rag" (1914). Scott Joplin wrote more than 40 piano rags, but he also wrote two operas; "A Guest of Honor" and "Treemonisha". "A Guest of Honor" was performed in Joplin's lifetime, but since then the music has been lost. "Treemonisha" was never performed while Joplin was alive, but it has been performed since then. Joplin also wrote a symphony, but the music has been lost.
Joplin died of syphilis in New York City on April 1, 1917.
• Gildo_De_Stefano, "Ragtime, jazz & dintorni". Preface by Amiri Baraka. SUGARCO Editions, Milano 2007 ISBN 978-88-7198-532-9

</doc>
<doc id="23697" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23697" title="Propane">
Propane

Propane is an alkane (a hydrocarbon). An alkane is a molecule composed of the chemical elements hydrogen and carbon. Propane has three carbon atoms and eight hydrogen atoms, so its molecular formula is CH.
It begins to burn very quickly. 
Its melting temperature is −187.7 °C; its boiling temperature is −42 °C; its density is 1.83 g/l.
Propane is extracted from natural gasoline or from petroleum.

</doc>
<doc id="23710" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23710" title="Flag of Japan">
Flag of Japan

The flag of Japan shows a red sun (rising sun) in the middle of a white field. It is called "Nisshoki" (日章旗) formally in Japan. But Japanese people usually call it "Hinomaru" (日の丸) which means "circle of the sun".
The Japanese navy uses the other flag; the sun has rays.
This flag represents the heat of the sun.

</doc>
<doc id="23712" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23712" title="Nationalism">
Nationalism

Nationalism is a way of thinking that says that every ethnic group of humans should be free to rule itself. Nationalists think that the best way to make this happen is for every ethnic group to have its own nation or society that they can rule without being controlled or oppressed by anybody else. Many nationalists think that nationalism is the best way to save small and not powerful groups, which are threatened by the mixing of ethnic groups. Nationalists think that the world is better with lots of cultural diversity. They also think that diversity is threatened by worldwide influences and mixing.
Many early socialists were also nationalists. The earliest forms of nationalism had lots of socialist features. In this period, political thinkers who thought that ethnic groups should not be oppressed by other ethnic groups thought also that 'normal folk', the backbone of society, like workers and peasants, should not be oppressed by higher social classes like rich people. They thought that it is wrong for somebody to live in great welfare that is made of the hard work of others, or the oppression of others. All the social classes should work together and have a common goal that aims for the good of everyone. These goals can be called "national interest". National interest is ideal and not always easy to find. There are different ways to reach national interest, for example politics.
Nationalists started to support and admire normal people, especially peasants, who were seen as uncorrupted, gallant, and fair, unlike high classes. For example, normal folk often had more original and local ethnic culture than high classes, whose culture was seen more rootless. National Romanticism was based much on the ideal of uncorrupt folk.
Socialism and nationalism grew together, but they have also been placed in opposition in some theories. The most known opposition between these ideologies was with the Soviet Union. The Soviet propaganda made nationalism an insult word that was linked with opposed ideologies like capitalism, liberalism, imperialism or fascism. Still, even in the Soviet Union and other communist or socialist countries, there was nationalism in great measure (even if it was not called with that name). The most capitalist countries like United States were patriotic rather than nationalist. The Nordic countries, which were amongst the most pure nation-states (countries that follow nationalist principle), were not very capitalist or rightist; they were built on the social democratic idea, which is left. Only after Nordic countries became more multicultural did their politics become more rightist. 
Today nationalism does not have a common stand on those fields of politics that are outside of its basic goals, like left-right politics. However nationalism can be a part of bigger political ideology or agenda that can be leftist or rightist or something outside that classification.
Nationalism is still usually connected to goals that resist strong hierarchy between social classes inside society. Nationalist people are usually more or less against the strongest forms of capitalism, which they think gives too much power to rich people and big companies.
Nationalism had an important role in ending the colonial rule. Nationalism spread to colonies and made their people desire independence. Nationalism also made the people in metropolitan states (countries that colonized others) accept more the desire of other people to rule themselves. However nationalists think that the end of colonialization of Africa was not done well. They think that there would not be so many conflicts in Africa if African nations had built in a nationalist way (so that every ethnic group is its own nation). After the imperialists left their African colonies, the new nations were built with borders that were not the same as the ethnic borders. New nations became nations with many ethnic groups, which do not want to or cannot live peacefully in the same society with the others.

</doc>
<doc id="23713" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23713" title="Drought">
Drought

Drought is a continuous period of dry weather, when an area gets less than its normal amount of rain, over months or even years. Crops and other plants need water to grow, and land animals need it to live. It can become dangerous to people and other animals; causing famine and even creating deserts.
A drought is a natural event, caused by other weather events like El Niño and high-pressure systems. Drought can also be triggered by deforestation (people cutting down forests), by global warming, and by diverting rivers or emptying lakes.
Drought is a disaster which usually takes place slowly. It is often difficult to decide when a drought started and sometimes when it ends too. Its effects often build up slowly over a long period of time and may last from months to years after rain resumes.
Many people die every year in famines due to drought in subsistence farming areas. Conflicts can result from drought conditions.

</doc>
<doc id="23714" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23714" title="Deafness">
Deafness

Deafness is when someone cannot hear or cannot hear well. There were many famous people who were deaf, such as Ludwig van Beethoven and Helen Keller. Deafness is also known as 'hearing loss'. 
A person is considered to be deaf if they cannot hear the same range of sounds as a person with normal hearing ability. People that cannot hear any sounds are also deaf. People who are partially deaf may hear some sounds and may hear words.
People who cannot hear and understand words well are hard of hearing.
There are different causes of deafness:
Generally, there are two views of deafness:
These categories may overlap.

</doc>
<doc id="23716" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23716" title="Liver bird">
Liver bird

The Liver birds are two large and famous bronze metal birds on top of a building - the Liver Building - in the city of Liverpool, England. The building has the offices of an insurance organization. The birds are symbol of the city, although no birds really look like this. 
The sound of the end of the word "liver" in the name of the bird is like "driver" not "river". The start of the word Liverpool ("liver") sounds like the word "river". This is a funny play on words. 
There is also a British television sitcom with the same name that is about two young women who share a flat in Liverpool. The play on words is increased by a second British slang meaning of the word "bird" to mean young woman.
Many people in Liverpool (known as "Liverpudlians") are proud of their city and of the Liver birds. There is a story that the birds will come alive if a truly pure woman walks between them. This will never happen! This is an example of the humor of the local people.

</doc>
<doc id="23717" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23717" title="Demonstration">
Demonstration

A demonstration can mean an event where people do something to let others know what they think and to try to change people's point of view. A demonstration is usually considered more successful the more people participate. Demonstration is permitted by international human rights law as the freedom of assembly if done peacefully.
Examples of this type of demonstration include marches and rallies.
In 2003 many people demonstrated against the 2003 Invasion of Iraq.
A demonstration can also mean when someone shows how to do something, or in what ways a thing can be used. Salespeople often demonstrate things like computers, cars, and televisions to customers so they can make sure the customer sees all the features of the item. ""Demo"" is short for demonstration, and people often use it to describe this meaning of the word.

</doc>
<doc id="23718" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23718" title="Chartist">
Chartist

The Chartists were people who wanted to get more rights for working class people in the mid-19th century. They were called Chartists because they wrote their main aims down in the People's Charter of 1838.

</doc>
<doc id="23721" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23721" title="Movie theater">
Movie theater

A movie theater or movie theatre is a place where movies are shown on a big screen. People or "patrons" (the audience) watch movies, usually in chairs inside an auditorium. An electric machine called a projector shines a very bright light through the movie, and people sitting in the dark room see it on the big screen. A movie theatre is sometimes called a cinema. A theatre with multiple screens commonly is called a "multi-plex" or "mega-plex" (if more than 10 screens). Movie theatres have comfortable chairs. There are different types of formats of a movie theatre.
The first movie theatre was opened to the public on April 23, 1896, in Koster and Bial's Music Hall on 34th Street in New York City. The oldest movie theatre in the world, which is still in action today is the "Kino Pionier" (opened 1907) in Szczecin, Poland.
Movie theatres make money from not only movie tickets but from concessions which sell food and drinks, such as popcorn, candy, soft drinks, etc. In recent years with the increase of movie rental costs, theatres have become more and more creative about how they make money. New theatres being built include restaurants, party rooms, conference rooms, arcades and more.

</doc>
<doc id="23728" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23728" title="1654">
1654


</doc>
<doc id="23731" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23731" title="The KLF">
The KLF

The KLF were a band from England. They made music from the late 1980s until the early 1990s. A lot of the music they made was pop music or dance music. The band members were two men, Bill Drummond and Jimmy Cauty. Bill Drummond is a musician, singer, and writer from Scotland. Jimmy Cauty is a musician and artist from England. Sometimes they used the names The Justified Ancients of Mu Mu, The JAMs and The Timelords as their band name, instead.

</doc>
<doc id="23734" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23734" title="Monounsaturated fat">
Monounsaturated fat

Monounsaturated fats are found in food items, more particularly natural foods like nuts and avocados. They are the main component in olive oil (oleic acid). 
In general, these fats are considered to be healthier as compared to the others. They have the same amount of energy, but they reduce blood cholesterol levels. This reduces the risk to the heart. Another type of fat is polyunsaturated fat.

</doc>
<doc id="23735" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23735" title="Polyunsaturated fat">
Polyunsaturated fat

Polyunsaturated fats are fats that are usually found in items like vegetable oils. Such items are typically found to be liquid at room temperature.
Polyunsaturated fats are called organic compounds. Its molecules contains more than one double bonds. The peculiar structure reduces the strength of the forces between molecules. This causes the items to have a lower melting point. This is why the items are usually liquid at room temperature.

</doc>
<doc id="23739" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23739" title="The North Avenue Irregulars">
The North Avenue Irregulars

The North Avenue Irregulars is a 1979 movie starring Edward Hermann, Ruth Buzzi, Steven Franken, and Cliff Osmond.
The movie is about a newly installed minister, who entrusts, despite objections by the founding pastors daughter, the churches "sinking fund" money into the hands of a congregate whom he does not even know, with instructions to increase the amount in the fund.
The money is bet on a horse race, and upon hearing this, the Pastor gives the shortest sermon in history and begins a pursuit of the money and the organized crime syndicate, amid the hijinx of assorted feminine members of the congregation in a pursuit of the "money trail".

</doc>
<doc id="23740" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23740" title="Candleshoe">
Candleshoe

Candleshoe is a 1977 Walt Disney Productions live action movie. It stars Jodie Foster as Casey Brown, Helen Hayes as Lady St. Edmund (in her last screen appearance), David Niven as Priory (as well as Colonel Dennis and Mr. Gipping), and Leo McKern as Harry Bundage. Candleshoe is loosely based on the Michael Innes novel "Christmas at Candleshoe".

</doc>
<doc id="23748" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23748" title="Hikaru Utada">
Hikaru Utada

Hikaru Utada (宇多田ヒカル "Utada Hikaru", born January 19, 1983 in New York City), is a Japanese singer and songwriter. Because she was born in the United States, she can speak English perfectly. She is the only child of the 1970s Enka singer Keiko Fuji. Her first Japanese album, "First Love", was very popular. It sold more copies than any other Japanese singer ever. She is also known in the west for singing the theme songs for "Kingdom Hearts" and "Kingdom Hearts II": "Simple and Clean" and "Sanctuary".
When Hikaru was little, she did not want to become a singer. She saw how busy her parents' lives were, and did not want that for herself. When she was 10 years-old, her parents asked her if she wanted to write songs. She did not want to, but tried doing it. She wrote a song called "I'll Be Stronger". During this time, Hikaru went to school in New York. Her classmates were not able to say her name right (Hee-ka-roo) so they shortened it to 'Hikki'. 'Hikki' became Hikaru's nickname. Her fans in Japan call her that. The name is not promoted very much in the United States because it sounds too much like 'hickey'.
In 1996, Hikaru started to record an album, when she was only 13 years old. It was in English. The album was in the R&B style. It was written all by herself. The album was going to be released on the EMI's record company, but since the company fell apart, it was never sold in the United States. A man called Akira Miyake from Japan heard the album, and wanted to release it there. Hikaru agreed, and the album was released in Japan in 1998.
The album sold okay, but it was not until later when Hikaru started to sing Japanese songs that she became famous. Her music still sounded very R&B, but at this point, it sounded more like pop. Her first single, "Automatic / Time Will Tell", reached #2 on the single charts in Japan. A while later, after another single, she released her first Japanese album, "First Love". This sold a very large amount (over 9 million copies) and became the most sold album by a Japanese singer.
Hikaru went on to release two more albums: "Distance" (2001), and "Deep River" (2002). In each album, her style changed slightly. Each album was less R&B, and more pop. In 2004, she released an album made up of all her old single songs. She then released an album in English called "Exodus". "Exodus" was released under the record label Island Def-Jam. It was sold in Japan, the United States, and the United Kingdom. She sang, wrote, and made the music for the whole album herself (except for when she got hip-hop producer Timbaland to help her). The album sold many copies in Japan, but it did not sell that well in the United States. However, many famous people and music critics thought that the album was good (for example, Elton John thought it was interesting).
Hikaru has started to make new Japanese music again, but continued on making all the music herself. Usually, a singer/songwriter will only write the music and the lyrics, but Hikaru decided she wanted to arrange her songs all by herself as well. She released her new album, "Ultra Blue", in mid-2006. Soon after, she went on a tour all across Japan. This is the second time she has ever done this (despite her singing for eight years).

</doc>
<doc id="23751" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23751" title="Scramble for Africa">
Scramble for Africa

The Scramble for Africa (or the Race for Africa), from the 1880s until the start of World War I, was a time of much colonial expansion in Africa. Many European countries started colonies in Africa during this time. This is an example of New Imperialism.
The last half of the 19th century saw a change in the way countries controlled their colonies. They changed from economic control through mass settlement, to political and military control of the colony's resources, especially in the 1870s. This was seen in the fight for the areas that were controlled by European nations.
Some famous people who helped European countries find more land in Africa included the explorers David Livingston, Henry Morton Stanley, and Pierre Savorgnan de Brazza, and the French politician Jules Ferry.
The Berlin Conference (1884 - 1885) tried to end disputes between the United Kingdom, France's Third Republic, the German Empire, and other European countries. They agreed that "effective occupation" would be the rule for colonial claims. Laws were made for using direct rule on a colony, backed up by military power.

</doc>
<doc id="23752" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23752" title="1160s">
1160s


</doc>
<doc id="23763" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23763" title="Seaweed">
Seaweed

Seaweed is a term used for several forms of multicellular marine algae. Red algae, Green algae and Brown algae are commonly considered to be seaweed. Seaweed gets its energy from photosynthesis just as plants do.
Two specific environmental requirements dominate seaweed ecology. These are the presence of seawater (or at least brackish water) and the presence of enough light for photosynthesis. Often, a firm attachment point is also needed. 
For this reason, seaweeds can be found in the littoral zone of the sea. Within that zone, they are more frequent on a rocky shore, than on sand. 
Another common requirement is a firm attachment point. As a result, seaweeds most commonly inhabit the littoral zone and within that zone more frequently on rocky shores than on sand or shingle. Seaweeds occupy a wide range of ecological niches. The highest elevation is only wetted by the tops of sea spray, the lowest is several meters deep. In some areas, littoral seaweeds can extend several miles out to sea. The limiting factor in such cases is sunlight availability. The deepest living seaweeds are the various kelps.
A number of species such as "Sargassum" have adapted to a fully planktonic niche and are free-floating, depending on gas-filled sacs to maintain an acceptable depth.
Others have adapted to live in tidal rock pools. In this niche seaweeds must withstand rapidly changing temperature and salinity and even occasional drying.
Seaweed has different uses. Sometimes it is farmed or foraged from the wild.
People living on the coast often eat seaweed, especially those in East Asia, such as Japan, China, Korea, Taiwan, Thailand, and Vietnam. It is also used in Belize, Peru, the Canadian Maritimes, Scandinavia, Ireland, Wales, Philippines, and Scotland.
Tiwi, Albay residents discovered a new pancit or noodles made from seaweed. These have health benefits. Seaweed is rich in calcium and magnesium and seaweed noodles can be cooked into pancit canton, pancit luglug, spaghetti or carbonara.
In Asia, Zicai (紫菜) (in China), gim (in Korea) and nori (in Japan) are sheets of dried "Porphyra" used in soups or to wrap sushi. "Chondrus crispus" (commonly known as Irish moss or carrageenan moss) is another red alga used in producing various food additives, along with Kappaphycus and various gigartinoid seaweeds. "Porphyra" is a red alga used in Wales to make laver. Laverbread, made from oats and the laver, is a popular dish there. Affectionately called "Dulce" in northern Belize, seaweeds are mixed with milk, nutmeg, cinnamon, and vanilla to make a common beverage.
Seaweeds are also harvested or cultivated for the extraction of alginate, agar and carrageenan, gelatinous substances collectively known as hydrocolloids or phycocolloids. Hydrocolloids have attained commercial significance as food additives. The food industry exploits their gelling, water-retention, emulsifying and other physical properties. Agar is used in foods such as confectionery, meat and poultry products, desserts and beverages and moulded foods. Carrageenan is used in salad dressings and sauces, dietetic foods, and as a preservative in meat and fish products, dairy items and baked goods.
Seaweed is a source of iodine, necessary for thyroid function and to prevent goitre.
Seaweed extract is used in some diet pills. Other seaweed pills exploit the same effect as gastric banding, expanding in the stomach to make the body feel more full.
Seaweed is currently under consideration as a potential source of bioethanol. Seaweed is an ingredient in some toothpaste, cosmetics and paints.

</doc>
<doc id="23778" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23778" title="Fairy tale">
Fairy tale

A fairy tale is an English language expression for a kind of short story. It has the same meaning as the French expression ' or ', the German word ', the Italian ', the Polish ', the Russian ' or the Swedish "". These stories are not all directly about fairies, but they are different from legends and traditions (which usually say that the stories are true) and directly moral stories. There are usually fairies, goblins, elves, trolls, giants or gnomes in fairy tales, and usually magic.
Fairy tales can also mean unusual happiness (for example, the expression "fairy tale ending", meaning a happy ending, even though not all fairy tales have a happy ending). Also, "fairy tale" can simply mean any unbelievable story.
Where demons and witches are seen as real, fairy tales can sometimes be similar to legends, where the story is claimed to be historically true. However, differently from legends and epics, they usually do not specifically mention religion and actual places, people, and events. They also do not say exactly when it happened. Instead, they say that the story happened "once upon a time".
Fairy tales are found in oral form (passed on from mouth to mouth) and in literary form (written down). Fairy tales' histories are hard to find. This is because only written fairy tales can be passed on for a long time. Still, literary works show that there has been fairy tales for thousands of years. Many fairy tales today have are based on very old stories that have appeared, though in different ways, in many different cultures around the world. Fairy tales, and works based on from fairy tales, are still written today.
At first, fairy tales were for both adults and children, but now children are mostly connected with fairy tales. Examples of traditional old fairy tales are "Sleeping Beauty", "Little Red Riding Hood" and "The Three Little Pigs". There can also be new fairy tales written by an author, like "The Little Mermaid" or "Pinocchio". New fairy tales were for example written by Hans Christian Andersen, James Thurber and Oscar Wilde.
People do not agree what a fairy tale exactly is. Some argue that a story with fairies or other magical beings in the story would make it a fairy tale. However, others have suggested that the expression began when the French expression "conte de fées" was being translated (it was first used by Madame D'Aulnoy in 1697). Vladimir Propp criticized the difference between "fairy tales" and "animal tales" in his book "Morphology of the Folktale". He said that many stories had both fantastic qualities and animals. He suggested that fairy tales could be recognized by their story, but this has been criticized, because the same stories can be found in stories that are not fairy tales.
In fact, people such as Stith Thompson point out that there are often more talking animals and magic in fairy tales than fairies. However, just because there is a talking animal in a story does not mean that the story is a fairy tale.
Steven Swann Jones said that fairy tales were different from other sorts of folktales because of magic. Davidson and Chaudri say that "transformation (changing)" is the most important part of a fairy tale.
Some like to use the German expression "Märchen" or "wonder tale" instead of "fairy tale". For example, in his 1977 edition of "The Folktale", Thompson said that fairy tales were "a tale of some length involving a succession of motifs or episodes. It moves in an unreal world without definite locality or definite creatures and is filled with the marvelous. In this never-never land, humble heroes kill adversaries (enemies), succeed to kingdoms and marry princesses." The characters and motifs of fairy tales are simple: princesses and girls taking care of geese; youngest sons and brave princes; ogres, giants, dragons, and trolls; wicked stepmothers and false heroes; fairy godmothers and other magic helpers, often talking horses, or foxes, or birds; rules, and people breaking rules. 
Fairy tales were passed down by speaking of it from person to person before writing was developed. Stories were told or acted out dramatically. Because of this, the history of fairy tales is not very clear. The oldest written fairy tales we know are from ancient Egypt, around 1300 BC. There are sometimes fairy tales in written literature in different cultures, such as "The Golden Ass", which includes "Cupid and Psyche" (Roman, 100–200 AD). They show that fairy tales were told from very long ago.

</doc>
<doc id="23780" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23780" title="Game show">
Game show

A game show is a reality television program where people play a game for points, with the goal of winning money or prizes. Different game shows use different games. Some game shows involve word games, and others involve tests of skill or general knowledge. Many game shows incorporate some element of chance; for example, in "Wheel of Fortune", contestants spin a wheel to determine how much prize money they get for a correct letter.
Some game shows have the contestents compete against other individual contestants; other game shows group contestants into teams. Some game shows have regular people as the contestants. Other game shows have celebrities such as movie actors or musicians as the contestants. 
Many game shows air on the Game Show Network and stations like NBC, ABC, and G4.
Game shows often reward people with money, holidays, or cars. These prizes are often given by the people or group of people that give the game show money to run. The people who give the game show money to run are called sponsors. 
The first game shows were on radio.
Examples of game shows include:

</doc>
<doc id="23781" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23781" title="Genre">
Genre

A genre (from ) is a style or type of music, literature, movies, or other media.
Some genres (styles) are used in more than one form of art or communication. For example, the genres fantasy and science fiction are used in literature, movies, and television.

</doc>
<doc id="23800" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23800" title="Kristy Swanson">
Kristy Swanson

Renee Kristen "Kristy" Swanson (born December 19, 1969) is an American actress. She is best known for playing the main character in the movie "Buffy the Vampire Slayer". She has also starred in the movie "Flowers in the Attic" as well as many movies and television programs.

</doc>
<doc id="23805" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23805" title="Octopus">
Octopus

The Octopus is a genus of cephalopod mollusc in the order Octopoda. The genus is quite typical of most octopods. They have two eyes and four pairs of arms with suckers. They have a hard beak, with the mouth at the center point of the arms. 
Octopods have no internal or external skeleton, allowing them to squeeze through tight places. Many stay in cracks between rocks or corals when they are not hunting. They are intelligent predators with a taste for crabs.
Octopods inhabit many regions of the ocean, especially coral reefs. For defense against predators, they hide, flee quickly, expel ink, or use colour-changing camouflage. They live rather short lives.
An octopus trails its eight arms behind it as it swims. All octopods are venomous, but only the small blue-ringed octopus is known to be deadly to humans.
There are about 300 octopod species, of which more than 100 are in the genus "Octopus". Octopods make up over one-third of the total number of living cephalopods. The term 'octopus' may be used to refer to those in the genus "Octopus". The term 'octopod' is correct for members of the order Octopoda in general.
Unlike most other cephalopods, most octopods have only soft body with no internal skeleton. They have no protective outer shell like the nautilus, which is another type of cephalopod.
A beak, similar in shape to a parrot's beak, is their only hard part.
Because of this, it is very easy for an octopus to squeeze through very narrow openings between rocks, for example squeezing through a hole as big as its eye.
Octopods are highly intelligent, probably more so than any other invertebrate. The exact extent of their intelligence and learning capability is much debated among biologists. Maze and problem-solving experiments have shown that they do have both short and long-term memory. Their short lifespans limit the amount they can learn. 
Some octopods, such as the Mimic Octopus, can move their arms in ways which copy the movements of other sea creatures.
In laboratory experiments, octopuses can be readily trained to distinguish between different shapes and patterns. They have been seen in what some have described as play: repeatedly releasing bottles or toys into a circular current in their aquariums and then catching them. Octopuses often break out of their aquaria and sometimes into others in search of food. 
The largest of the 300+ species of octopods, the Giant octopus "Enteroctopus", is large indeed. Mature males average about 50 pounds and females about 33 pounds. Their arm spans are about eight feet. They have even boarded fishing boats and opened holds to get at and eat crabs.
In the UK, cephalopods such as octopuses are regarded as "honorary vertebrates" under the Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act 1986 giving them protection not normally afforded to invertebrates.
Octopods are the only invertebrate which has been conclusively shown to use tools. At least four specimens of the Veined Octopus ("Amphioctopus marginatus") have been seen picking up discarded coconut shells, and then reassembling them to use as shelter.
Octopods are active and intelligent predators, with good eyesight and brains. They eat mostly crabs and some fish. Some species of octopuses eat other octopuses. 
Octopods have a variety of defences. They use active camouflage and mimicry, controlled by their nervous system. Most can eject black ink clouds to help escape, and some can shed an arm in extreme danger. It wriggles, and attracts the attacker.
Octopod eyes are complex. In fact, they do not have a blind spot. A "blind spot" is a special place in the eyes that is not able to sense light. So, when we look somewhere, part of what is there is not actually perceived (the brain 'fills in' so we do not notice). However, an octopus does not have this problem.
The lens in octopod are movable. It moves back and forth to focus. This is the way a camera focuses. When a camera focuses on an object to take a picture, the lens moves back and forth until the image that the camera sees is in the right focus.
Some octopuses can use their chromatophores for more than camouflage. If they are not blending in with their surroundings, they can signal their feelings using color. When they are relaxed, for example, they are a dull, grayish brown or orange-tinged color. When they become angry, they can become red. If they feel scared, they may turn white.
When octopods reproduce, males use a specialized arm to put packets of sperm into the female's mantle cavity. Males die within a few months of mating. In some species, the female octopus can keep the sperm alive inside her for weeks until her eggs are mature.
After they have been fertilized, the female lays about 200,000 eggs (this figure dramatically varies between species). The female cares for the eggs, guarding them against predators, and gently blowing currents of water over them so that they get enough oxygen. The female does not hunt during the roughly one-month period spent taking care of the unhatched eggs and may ingest some of her own arms for sustenance. 
At around the time the eggs hatch, the mother leaves the lair and is too weak to defend herself from predators like cod, often succumbing to their attacks. The young larval octopuses spend a period of time drifting in clouds of plankton, where they feed until they are ready to descend to the ocean bottom, where the cycle repeats.
All octopods for which we have data have a relatively short life expectancy. Some species live for as little as six months. Larger species, such as the North Pacific Giant Octopus, may live for up to five years under suitable circumstances. 
"Reproduction is a cause of death": males can only live for a few months after mating, and females die shortly after their eggs hatch. They neglect to eat during the (roughly) one month period spent taking care of their unhatched eggs, but apparently they do not die of starvation. A biological explanation of these short lifespans (or rapid ageing) is not agreed at present.
Off the coast of California, marine biologists have watched the same female octopod guarding her eggs for over four years. Their development took a long time because the water 1.4 kilometres down was very cold. They knew it was the same octopod because it had a characteristic scar. The research was done using a remote diving vehicle with cameras, lights and robotic arms.

</doc>
<doc id="23811" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23811" title="Byzantine Empire">
Byzantine Empire

The Byzantine Empire (or Eastern Roman Empire) was the name of the Greek part of the Roman Empire which survived into the Middle Ages. Its capital was Constantinople, which today is in Turkey, and is now called Istanbul. Unlike the Western Roman Empire, its people spoke Greek, not Latin and had a largely Greek culture and identity.
In 324, the Roman Emperor Constantine I moved the capital of the Roman Empire to the city of "Byzantium", and he renamed the city Constantinople. 150 years later, after the city of Rome was slowly taken over by Germanic people, the only remaining capital of the Empire became Constantinople. The remaining Eastern empire had a smaller territory than the original Roman Empire.
The Byzantine Empire tried to take back Rome and Italy from the Germans. Between 530–555 AD, the Byzantines won many battles and took back Rome.
These gains did not last however. More Germans came and eventually Italy and Rome was lost again. Worse was to come when Avar and Slavic peoples came to take modern Bulgaria and Greece from the Byzantines. Gradually, after the 560s the invaders won much of the Balkans. These invaders were later followed by the Bulgarians. The Avars and Bulgarians were both Turkish peoples at first. They ruled over Slavic people called "Sklavinai" and slowly absorbed Slavic language and customs.
After western Rome was captured by Germanic people, the Empire continued to control modern Egypt, Greece, Palestine, Syria and Turkey. However, another Empire, known as the Persian Empire, tried to take over these lands for itself. Between 224–628 AD, the Romans and the Persians fought many battles, with many men killed in the fighting. Eventually, the Persians were finally defeated in modern-day Iraq, near the ancient city of Nineveh in 627 AD, allowing the Byzantines to keep their lands.
After this, another enemy appeared: the Arabs. The Byzantines were economically damaged by the battles with the Persians. They could not withstand the Arabs. Palestine, Syria and Egypt were lost between 635 and 645. However, the Byzantines defended Asia Minor (modern Turkey) and the Arab advance stopped.
In 718 AD, the Arabs were defeated outside Constantinople, ending the Arab threat in the east, but leaving the Byzantine Empire severely weakened. In the west, the Byzantines launched a number of attacks against the Bulgarians. Some of these were successful, others were not and led to the deaths of many emperors. Over time, the Byzantine Empire would became weaker as it loss land to outside invaders.
Between 1007–1014, the ambitious Byzantine Emperor Basil II attacked Bulgaria many times and eventually won a great victory. Later, he fully recaptured Greece, adding it back to the Byzantine Empire. He then went on to conquer Bulgaria, which was completed in 1018.
In the east, the Arabs once again became a threat to the Empire. However, Basil II's attacks won many more victories. Much of Syria was restored to the Empire and Turkey and Armenia were secured. After 1025, the Arabs were no longer a threat to the Byzantine Empire.
After the Byzantine Emperor Basil II died, many unskilled Emperors came to the throne. They wasted the money of the Empire and reduced her army. This meant that she could not defend herself well against enemies if they would attack. Later, the Byzantines relied on mercenaries, soldiers who fought for money and not for their country, so they were less loyal and reliable and more expensive. Because they had mercenaries, military generals were able to rise to power and grab it from the elaborate bureaucracy, a system of administration where tasks are divided by departments.
A large number of people known as the Turks rode on horseback from central Asia and attacked the Byzantine Empire. They took all of Turkey from the Byzantines by 1091. However, the Byzantines received help from people in Europe. This help is known as the First Crusade. Many knights and soldiers left to help the Byzantines but also to secure Jerusalem for Christians, which at the time was in Muslim hands.
The Byzantine Empire survived and with the help of the Europeans took back half of Turkey from the Turks, with the other half remaining under the Turks. The Byzantines survived because three good Emperors ruled one after the other, allowing the Byzantines to grow strong again.
After the three good Emperors, the remaining Emperors ruled badly and again wasted a lot of money and soldiers.
In the west, the Europeans betrayed the Byzantines and attacked their capital, Constantinople. The Byzantines lost their capital in 1204 and they did not take it back until 1261. The Byzantines were then divided into many smaller Greek states that were fighting with each other for the throne of the Empire.
After the Byzantines took back Constantinople, they were too busy fighting the Europeans who had betrayed them and could not find enough soldiers or money to fight the new Ottoman Empire of the Turks. All of Anatolia was lost by 1331. In 1369, the Turks crossed over from Turkey and into Greece, taking over much of Greece between 1354–1450. 
The Byzantines lost so much land, money and soldiers that they became very weak and begged for help from the Europeans. Some soldiers and ships came from Italy and the Pope to assist the Byzantines when the Turks attacked Constantinople in April 1453. They were very outnumbered though, and the walls of Constantinople were badly damaged by cannons used by the Turks. At the end of May 1453 the Turks captured Constantinople by entering through one of the gates along the walls and the Empire came to an end. The city was plundered for three days. At the end, the population which had not been able to escape, was deported to Edirne, Bursa and other Ottoman cities, leaving the city deserted except for the Jews of Balat and the Genoese of Pera. After that Constantinople became the capital of the Ottoman Empire, which it would be until the 1900s, when the capital was moved to Ankara, a city in the Asian part of Turkey.
The Empire had many achievements:

</doc>
<doc id="23826" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23826" title="Guqin">
Guqin

The (; ; Wade-Giles: ku-ch'in; literally "ancient stringed-instrument") is the modern name for a plucked seven-string Chinese musical instrument of the zither family. It has been played since ancient times, and has traditionally been favored by educated people as an instrument of great beauty and refinement. It is uncommonly spelt as Gu Qin (and sometimes GuQin or Gu-qin) in English.
Traditionally the instrument was called simply qin 「琴」, but by the 20th century the term had come to be used on many other musical instruments as well (for example, the "yangqin" 「揚琴」 hammered dulcimer, the "huqin" 「胡琴」 family of bowed string instruments, and the Western piano (; literally "steel stringed-instrument")), so the prefix "gu-" 「古」 (meaning "ancient") was added for clarification. It can also be called qixianqin 「七絃琴」 ("seven-stringed instrument"). The guqin is not to be confused with the "guzheng", another Chinese long zither also without frets, but with moveable bridges under each string. Because Robert Hans van Gulik's famous book about the qin is called "The Lore of the Chinese Lute", the qin is sometimes inaccurately called a lute. Other incorrect classifications (mainly from music CDs) include "harp" or "table-harp". Other Western nicknames for the guqin include "Chinese guitar" and "Chinaman's harp".
The qin is a very quiet instrument, with a range of about four octaves, and its open strings are tuned in the bass register (its lowest pitch is about two octaves below middle C, or the lowest note on the cello). Sounds are produced by open strings, stopped strings, and harmonics. Stopped sounds are special for the variety of slides and ornaments used, and the use of glissando (sliding tones) gives it a sound similar to a pizzicato cello or fretless bass guitar. Extended sections in music scores consisting entirely of harmonics are common, this made possible because the 91 indicated harmonic positions allow great flexibility; early tablature shows that even more harmonic positions were used in the past. By tradition the qin originally had five strings, but ancient qin-like instruments with 10 or more strings have been found. The modern form has been standardized from about two thousand years.
Legend has it that the qin, has a history of about 5,000 years; that the legendary people of China's pre-history; Fuxi, Shennong and Huang Di (the Yellow Emperor), was involved in its creation. It is mentioned in Chinese writings dating back nearly 3,000 years, and related instruments have been found in tombs from about 2,500 years ago. Chinese tradition says the qin originally had five strings, but then two were added about 1,000 BCE, making seven. 
Based on the detailed description in the poetic essay "Qin Fu" 【琴賦】 by Xi Kang / Ji Kang (223–262), the form of the qin that is recognizable today was most likely set around the late Han Dynasty (206 BC - 220 AD). The earliest surviving qin in this modern form, preserved in both Japan and China, have been dated to the Tang Dynasty (618-907). Many are still playable, the most famous perhaps being the one named "Jiuxiao Huanpei" 《九霄環佩》, said to have been made by the famous late Tang dynasty qin maker Lei Wei (雷威). It is kept in the Forbidden City Museum in Beijing. 
According to Robert Temple, the qin played an important part in the gaining the first understanding of music timbre for the Chinese. He said that "the Chinese understanding of the nature of sound as vibration was much increased by studying the production of timbre on the strings of the "ch'in"." This understanding of timbre, overtones and higher harmonics eventually led the Chinese to discover equal temperament in music. 
In 1977, a recording of "Liu Shui" (Flowing Water, as performed by Guan Pinghu, one of the best qin players of the 20th century) was chosen to be included in the Voyager Golden Record, a gold-plated LP recording containing music from around the world, which was sent into outer space by NASA on the Voyager 1 and Voyager 2 spacecrafts. It is the longest music track included on the disc. In 2003, guqin music was proclaimed one of the Masterpieces of the Oral and Heritage of Humanity by UNESCO.
Because of the difference in geography in China, many qin schools known as "qin pai" (琴派) developed over the centuries. Such schools generally formed around areas where qin activity was greatest. 
The main schools are: 
Most qin schools and groups are based in China. During the 20th century some societies began in other countries. Qin study was initially confined to China in ancient times. Today countries like Japan also have their own qin small traditions. The Tokyo Qin Society was recently founded. Japan has published a "qinpu" (qin tablature collection) in the past, known as "Toukou Kinpu" or "Donggao Qinpu" 【東臯琴譜】.
There have been many players throughout the ages. The instrument was a favourite of the scholars, so many artists played it. Some famous players are also associated with some melodies, like Confucius and Qu Yuan. 
Historical:
Classical books such as "Qin Shi", "Qinshi Bu" and "Qinshi Xu" have biographies of hundreds of more players.
The beauty of qin melodies comes not only from the melodies themselves, but from the variation a player can apply to the individual tones and their combinations. The rich tones of the qin can be categorised as three distinctively different "sounds." The first is "san yin" 〔散音〕, which means "scattered sounds." This meant simply pluck the required string to sound an open note. The second is "fan yin" 〔泛音〕, or "floating sounds." These are harmonics, and the player simply lightly touches the string with one or more fingers of the left hand at a position indicated by the white "hui" dots, pluck and then lift, creating a crisp and clear sound ringing sound. The third is "an yin" 〔按音 / 案音 / 實音 / 走音〕, or "stopped sounds." This forms the majority of most qin pieces and requires the player to press on a string with a finger or thumb of the left hand until it touches with the surface board, then pluck. Afterwards, the hand can slide up and down, thereby changing the pitch. 
When plucking the strings, it is not required to attach fake-nails on one's fingers. One will often leave their fingernails long, and cut them into an rounded shape. The length is subjective and will depend on the player's preference, but it is usually around 3-4mm from the finger tip. If it is too short, then the finger tip will deaden the sound as it touches the string after the nail has plucked it. If it is too long then the fingers can make playing difficult. Generally, the nails of the right hand are kept long, whilst the nails of the left are cut short, so as to be able to press on the strings without difficulty. 
There are eight basic right hand finger techniques: "pi" 〈劈〉 (thumb pluck outwards), "tuo" 〈托〉 (thumb pluck inwards), "mo" 〈抹〉 (index in), "tiao" 〈挑〉 (index out), "gou" 〈勾〉 (middle in), "ti" 〈剔〉 (middle out), "da" 〈打〉 (ring in), and "zhai" 〈摘〉 (ring out); the little finger is not used. Out of these basic eight, their combinations create many more. "Cuo" 〈撮〉 is to pluck two strings at the same time, "lun" 〈輪〉 is to pluck a string with the ring, middle and index finger out in quick succession, the "suo" 〈鎖〉 technique involves plucking a string several times in a fixed rhythm, "bo" 〈撥〉 cups the fingers and strums two strings at the same time, and "gun fu" 〈滾拂〉 is to create a sequence of sounds by running up and down the strings continuously with the index and middle fingers. These are just a few. 
Left hand techniques start from the simple pressing down on the string (mostly with the thumb between the flesh and nail, and the ring finger), sliding up or down to the next note ("shang" 〈上〉 and "xia" 〈下〉), to vibrati by swaying the hand ("yin" 〈吟〉 and "nao" 〈猱〉, there are as many as 15 plus different forms of vibrato), plucking the string with the thumb whilst the ring finger stops the string at the lower position ("qiaqi" 〈掐起 / 搯起〉), hammering on a string using the thumb ("yan" 〈掩 / 罨〉), to more difficult techniques such as pressing on several strings at the same time. 
Techniques executed by both hands together are more difficult to achieve, for example, "qia cuo san sheng" 〈掐撮三聲〉 (a combination of hammering on and off then plucking two strings, then repeating), to more exciting forms, like pressing of all seven strings with the left, then strumming all the strings with the right, then the left hand quickly moves up the qin, creating a rolling sound like a bucket of water being thrown in a deep pool of water (this technique is used in the Shu style of "Liu Shui" to copy the sound of water). 
In order to master the qin, there are in excess of 50 different techniques that must be mastered. Even the most commonly used (such as "tiao") are difficult to get right without proper instruction from a teacher. 
Written qin music did not directly tell what notes were played like many outer musical instruments; instead, it was written in a tablature detailing tuning, finger positions, and plucking technique, thus made up of a step by step method and description of how to play a piece. Some tablatures do indicate notes using the "gongche" notation system, or indicate rhythm using dots. 
The earliest example of the modern shorthand tablature survives from around the 12th century CE. An earlier form of music notation from the Tang era survives in just one manuscript, dated to the 7th century CE, called "Jieshi Diao: You Lan" 《碣石調幽蘭》 (Solitary Orchid, in Stone Tablet Mode). It is written in a longhand form called "wenzi pu" 〔文字譜〕 (literally "written notation"), which gives all the details using ordinary written Chinese characters. Later in the Tang dynasty, Cao Rou (曹柔) and others simplified the notation, using only the important elements of the characters (like string number, plucking technique, "hui" number and which finger to stop the string) and combined them into one character notation. This meant that instead of having two lines of written text to describe a few notes, a single character could represent one note, or sometimes as many as nine. This notation form was called "jianzi pu" 〔減字譜〕 (literally "reduced notation") and it was a great step forward for recording qin scores. It was so successful that from the Ming dynasty (1368-1644) onwards, a lot of qinpu 〔琴譜〕 (qin tablature collections) appeared, the most famous and useful being "Shenqi Mipu" (The Mysterious and Marvellous Tablature) compiled by Zhu Quan (朱勸), the 17th son of the founder of the Ming dynasty. In the 1960s, Zha Fuxi discovered more than 130 qinpu that contain well over 3360 pieces of written music. Many qinpu compiled before the Ming dynasty are now lost, and many pieces have remained unplayed for hundreds of years. 
Existing qinpu generally come from private collections or in public libraries throughout China, etc. Those that are available for public purchase are photographic copies printed and bound in the traditional Chinese bookbinding process. More modern qinpu tend to be bound in the normal Western way on modern paper. The format uses qin notation with staff notation and/or "jianpu" notation. 
Qin pieces are usually around three to eight minutes in length, with the longest being "Guangling San" 《廣陵散》, which is 22 minutes long. Other famous pieces include "Liu Shui" 《流水》 (Flowing Water), "Yangguan San Die" 《陽關三疊》 (Three Refrains on the Yang Pass Theme), "Meihua San Nong" 《梅花三弄》 (Three Variations on the Plum Blossom Theme), "Xiao Xiang Shui Yun" 《瀟湘水雲》 (Mist and Clouds over the Xiao and Xiang Rivers), and "Pingsha Luo Yan" 《平沙落雁》 (Wild Geese Descending on the Sandbank). The average player can generally play around ten pieces from memory which they will aim to play very well, learning new pieces as and when they feel like it. Players mainly learn popular well studied versions, often using a recording as a reference. In addition to learning to play established or ancient pieces very well, highly skilled qin players may also compose or improvise, although the player must be very good and extremely familiar with the instrument to be successful at it.
Dapu 〔打譜〕 is the conversion of old tablature into a playable form. This can be used to create new music as well as to reconstruct the ancient melodies. Since qin tablature does not indicate note value, tempo or rhythm, the player must work it out for him/herself. Normally, qin players will learn the rhythm of a piece through a teacher. They sit facing one another, with the student copying the master. The tablature will only be looked at if the teacher is not sure of how to play a certain part. Because of this, traditional qinpu do not indicate them. If one did not have a teacher, then one had to work out the rhythm by themselves. But it would be a mistake to say that qin music has no rhythm or melody. By the 20th century, there had been attempts to try to replace the shorthand notation, but so far, it has been unsuccessful; since the 20th century, qin music is generally printed with staff notation above the qin tablature. Because qin tablature is so useful, logical, easy, and the fastest way (once the performer knows how to read the notation) of learning a piece, it is invaluable to the qin player and cannot totally be replaced. There are two views of how to best use dapu: one is to use it to create new music, and the other is to use it to reconstruct the way the original music was played.
According to tradition, the qin originally had five strings, representing the five elements of metal, wood, water, fire and earth. Later, in the Zhou dynasty, Zhou Wen Wang 周文王 added a sixth string to mourn his son, Bo Yihou 伯邑考. His successor, Zhou Wu Wang 周武王, added a seventh string to motivate his troops into battle with the Shang. The thirteen "hui" 『徽』 on the surface represent the 13 months of the year (the extra 13th is the 'leap month' in the lunar calendar). The surface board is round to represent Heaven and the bottom board flat to represent earth. The entire length of the qin (in Chinese measurements) is 3 feet, 6.5 inches, representing the 365 days of the year (though this is just a standard since qins can be shorter or longer depending on the period's measurement standard or the maker's preference). Each part of the qin has meaning, some more obvious, like "dragon pool" 『龍池』 and "phoenix pond" 『鳳沼』. 
The sound chamber of the qin is constructed with two boards of wood, typically of differing wood types. The slightly rounded top board (soundboard) is usually made of "tong" wood 『桐』, the Chinese parasol tree, or Chinese paulownia. The bottom board is made of "zi mu" 『梓木』 catalpa ("Catalpa ovata") or, more recently, "nan mu" 『楠木』 camphor wood ("Machilus nanmu"). The wood must be well aged, that is, the sap and moisture must be removed (of the top board wood). If sap remains then the sound will not be clear and, as the moisture evaporates, the wood will warp and crack. Some makers use old or ancient wood to construct qins because most of the sap and moisture has been removed naturally by time (old "shan mu" 『杉木』, Chinese Cunninghamia or Japanese Cryptomeria, is often used for creating modern qins). Some go to lengths to obtain extremely ancient wood, such as that from Han dynasty tomb structures or coffins. Although such wood is very dry, it is not necessarily the best since it may be infected with wood worm or be of a bad quality or type. Many modern qins made out of new "tong" wood (such as those made by Zeng Chengwei) can be better than the quality of antique qins. 
There are two sound holes in the bottom board, as the playing techniques of the qin employ the entire surface of the top board which is curved / humped. The inside of the top board is hollowed out to a degree. Inside the qin, there are 'nayin' 『納音』 sound absorbers, and a 'tian chu' 『天柱』 and 'di chu' 『地柱』 soundposts that connect the bottom board to the top. The boards are joined using bamboo nails. Lacquer 『漆』 from the Chinese lacquer tree ("Rhus vernicifera") is then applied to the surfaces of the qin, mixed with various types of powder, the most common being "lujiao shuang" 『鹿角霜』, the remains of deer antler after the glue has been eremoved. Often, ceramic powder is used instead of deer antler powder, but the quality is not as good. After the lacquer has dried (a qin will need several layers), the surface will be polished using oil stones. At the head end of the instrument is the "yue shan" 『岳山』 or bridge, and at the other end is the "long yin" 『龍齦』 (dragon's gums) or nut. There are 13 circular mother-of-pearl inlays which mark the harmonic positions, as well as a reference point to note position, called "hui" 『徽』 ("insignia"). 
Until the Cultural Revolution, the guqin's strings were always made of various thicknesses of twisted silk 『絲』, but since then most players use modern nylon-flatwound steel strings 『鋼絲』. This was partly due to the scarcity of high quality silk strings and partly due to the newer strings' greater durability and louder tone.
Silk strings are made by gathering a prescribed number of strands of silk thread, then twisting them tightly together. The twisted cord of strings is then wrapped around a frame and immersed in a vat of liquid of natural glue that binds the strands together. The strings are taken out and left to dry, before being cut into the appropriate length. The top thicker strings (i.e. strings one to four) are further wrapped in a thin silk thread, coiled around the core to make it smoother. 
Recently in China, production of very good quality silk strings has resumed and more players are beginning to use them. Although most contemporary players use nylon-wrapped metal strings, some argue that nylon-wrapped metal strings cannot replace silk strings for their refinement of tone. Furthermore, it is the case that nylon-wrapped metal strings can cause damage to the wood of old qins. Many traditionalists feel that the sound of the fingers of the left hand sliding on the strings to be a distinctive feature of qin music. The modern nylon-wrapped metal strings were very smooth in the past, but are now slightly modified in order to capture these sliding sounds.
To string a qin, one traditionally had to tie a butterfly knot ("shengtou jie" 『蠅頭結』) at one end of the string, and slip the string through the twisted cord ("rongkou" 『絨剅』) which goes into holes at the head of the qin and then out the bottom through the tuning pegs ("zhen" 『軫』). The string is dragged over the bridge ("yueshan" 『岳山』), across the surface board, over the nut ("longyin" 『龍齦』 dragon gums) to the back of the qin, where the end is wrapped around two legs ("fengzu" 『鳳足』 "phoenix feet" or "yanzu" 『雁足』 "geese feet"). Afterwards, the strings are fine tuned using the tuning pegs. The most common tuning, "zheng diao" 〈正調〉, is pentatonic: 1245612 in the traditional Chinese number system or "jianpu" 〔簡譜〕. Today this is generally interpreted to mean C D F G A c d, but this should be considered do re fa so la do re, since historically the qin was not tuned to absolute pitch. In fact the same tuning can also be considered as 5612356 when the third string is played as do. Thus, except when accompanied by other instruments, only the pitch relations between the seven strings needs to be accurate. Other tunings are achieved by adjusting the tension of the strings using the tuning pegs at the head end. Thus "manjiao diao" 〈慢角調〉 (slackened third string) gives 1235612 and "ruibin diao" 〈蕤賔調〉 (raised fifth string) gives 1245712, which is transposed to 2356123. 
The guqin is nearly always used a solo single instrument, as its quietness of tone means that it cannot be heard over the sounds of most other instruments or an ensemble. It can, however, be played together with a "xiao" (end-blown bamboo flute), with other qin, or played while singing. In old times, the "se" (a long zither with movable bridges and 25 strings, similar to the Japanese koto) was frequently used in duets with the qin. 
In order for an instrument to accompany the qin, its sound must be mellow and not overwhelm the qin. Thus, the "xiao" generally used for this purpose is one pitched in the key of F, known as "qin xiao", which is narrower than an ordinary "xiao". If one sings to qin songs (which is rare nowadays) then one should not sing in an operatic or folk style as is common in China, but rather in a very low pitched and deep way; and the range in which one should sing should not exceed one and a half octaves. The style of singing is similar to that used to recite Tang poetry. To enjoy qin songs, one must learn to become accustomed to the strange style some players may sing their songs to.
Traditionally, the qin was played in a quiet studio or room by oneself, or with a few friends; or played outdoors in places of outstanding natural beauty. Nowadays, many qin players perform at concerts in large concert halls, almost always, out of necessity, using electronic pickups or microphones to amplify the sound. Many qin players attend yaji (『雅集』 literally "elegant gatherings"), at which a number of qin players, music lovers, or anyone with an interest in Chinese culture can come along to discuss and play the qin.
Chinese books on qin:
English books on qin:
Qin society sites
General Qin sites
Other specialist Qin sites
Sites with music samples

</doc>
<doc id="23828" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23828" title="Ripuarian">
Ripuarian

Ripuarian has several meanings:

</doc>
<doc id="23841" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23841" title="Vandal">
Vandal

Vandal can mean several things:

</doc>
<doc id="23842" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23842" title="São Paulo (state)">
São Paulo (state)

São Paulo (Portuguese: Saint Paul) is a state in the Southeast Region of Brazil. Its capital city is called São Paulo too.
São Paulo is located in the south-east region of Brazil, with close to 248,000 square kilometers of area. (For comparison, Oregon State in the United States of America has 251,000 square miles). 
It borders the state of Minas Gerais to the north, the state of Rio de Janeiro and the Atlantic Ocean to the east, the state of Paraná to the south and state of Mato Grosso do Sul to the west. 
The capital of São Paulo is the city of São Paulo.
São Paulo is the state in Brazil with the highest economical output. 
It has the second highest per capita income of Brazil, second only to the Federal District, where Brasília is located. 
With the states of Santa Catarina and Rio Grande do Sul it shares the highest standard of living in Brazil, despite of pockets of blight poverty in its largest cities.
The robust economy of São Paulo is based in industrial production, to include automobile and aviation, agriculture, services and tourism.
São Paulo is the Brazilian state with the largest population and also is the most ethnically diverse. 
Portuguese, Italian, Spanish, Arab, Asian and other descents chose São Paulo as their home, due to its thriving economy. 
Also migrants from other Brazilian states (especially from the Northeast Region) come to São Paulo in search of a better life. Because there are not enough jobs, these people usually want to back to their states.
São Paulo is the state in Brazil with the largest and most efficient transportation system. 
The city of São Paulo relies on underground train and also suburban at-grade rail systems. City buses complement the public transportation system. 
Air traffic is the busiest of all Brazil.
Harbors along the state's ocean front receive and ship a great share of Brazil's export and import goods.
São Paulo is a vibrant place when it comes to sports. Football (soccer) is king but the state has human resources and facilities to produce some of the best athletes in the world in many other fields. 
The state has many professional soccer clubs but also volleyball has found a niche here. 
Auto racing is a staple of the paulista's way of life. The state has produced several racing drivers that have attained international fame.
São Paulo, Campinas, Guarulhos, Osasco, Ribeirão Preto, Santo André, Santos, São Bernardo do Campo, São Carlos, São José dos Campos and Sorocaba.

</doc>
<doc id="23853" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23853" title="Trolley">
Trolley

A trolley is a small vehicle with wheels that can carry things. People can push trolleys.
There are different kind of trolleys. There are shopping trolleys which are used in supermarkets and other large stores with self-service. In American English these are called shopping carriages or shopping carts. Customers can put things they want to buy in the trolley and then pay for everything at the checkout. Usually they are then allowed to wheel the trolley with the things they have bought out to their car.
Sometimes the customers have to pay a small deposit when collecting a trolley. The trolleys are chained together. The customer puts in a coin (in Britain a £1 coin) which he can have back again when he parks the trolley back in the trolley chain.
Trolleys are used in airports and some large railway stations for passengers to carry their luggage.
A trolley can also be a tea-trolley. This is a small trolley used traditionally in the house for plates, cups, saucers and sandwiches and cakes for afternoon tea. Tea-trolleys are also used in hospitals and offices to take cups of tea and coffee to people.
In American English "trolley" can be used to mean a tram (or streetcar). This is not to be confused with a trolleybus which is a bus which uses electricity from an overhead cable (like a tram).
When someone says "He is off his trolley" it means that he is crazy.

</doc>
<doc id="23865" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23865" title="Abuse">
Abuse

Abuse might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="23874" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23874" title="Mutant (Marvel)">
Mutant (Marvel)

A mutant is a type of fictional character in a fictional universe created by Marvel Comics. In this world, mutants can be either heroes or villains. A mutant is someone who has different DNA than its parents. These mutations often lead to superpowers. They may also cause physical changes such as wings, blue skin, or a tail.
Mutants were created in the Marvel Universe in the 1960s with the comic book "The X-Men". It was a way for them to tell stories that dealt with racism. Racism, hatred and fear of mutants are an important part of their history . Two main teams of mutants have been around since the 1960s: The X-Men (heroes) and the Brotherhood of Mutants (villains).
Sometime a human is born with a certain kind of DNA change. This "X-GENE" is passed to their children. This genetic change may not create any noticeable difference. It could pass for generations without anyone knowing about it.
Mutants may be born to human or mutant parents, though the odds of a mutant birth are much better for the latter. Likewise, it is rare but possible for mutant parents to have human children, termed "baseline" by characters within the Marvel Universe. Some baseline humans are genetically predisposed towards having mutant descendants such as the Guthrie family (see Cannonball, Husk, and Icarus). Mutant children born to mutant parent(s) will not necessarily have the same power(s) as their parent(s), nor will they necessarily have the same power(s) as any mutant siblings they may have; however, examples of children with the same power(s) as their parents and/or siblings are not uncommon.
There is, however, a chance that mutants may not even be able to reproduce a child at all. The Hayes (Runaways), telepathic mutant doctors, were unsure their mutant heritage could even produce a child; it did, however, take them several years to finally have a child: Molly Hayes.
Marvel's mutants are classified by their level of power.
Note: Only Alpha and Omega have actually been used as classification within comics. The other ranks were created by fans. 
The X-Men were created in the 1960s during a time of civil unrest in the United States. The characters allowed the writer to write stories that showed racism and bigotry without singling out a specific minority.
By classifying Mutants as they did, they also created different aspects of racism. Some mutants are easily recognized by how they look (similar to African-Americans). Some have a few physical characteristics that can make them get notices (Similar to Jews). Other mutants blend in so well that it nearly impossible to tell they are a mutant unless they use their powers (Similar to homosexuals)
In the Marvel universe normal people often hate and fear mutants. This is because they think mutants may make normal humans extinct. They fear what they do not understand. They are jealous of them having superpowers. Bigotry and xenophobia are also reasons for hatred of mutants. In the Marvel universe, anti-mutant feeling has led to the separation of mutants from society. It has led to mob violence and government sponsored tries to fight mutants.
The X-Men books have been written as typical superhero comic books. They have epic adventures and battles with super villains. Yet, the idea of mutants as a metaphor for real world minorities who face oppression is shown throughout the series. Some examples:

</doc>
<doc id="23884" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23884" title="Urethra">
Urethra

The urethra is a tube that connects the bladder to the outside of the body. It allows people and animals to remove urine from the body. People and animals control urination using the urethral sphincter.
The urethra is part of the urinary system in mammals. Because humans are mammals, they have urethras. In male mammals, the urethra is also a part of the reproductive system, because males use it as a tube for sperm during sex.
In human anatomy, men have longer urethras than women. This means that women have bladder infections more often, because their bladders are closer to the outside. Because the male urethra is longer and is not straight, inserting a catheter (tube to help urination) is more difficult in men.
In women, the urethra is 2.5-4 cm (1-1.5 in) long. Its opening to the outside of the body is part of the vulva (the area between a woman's legs). The female urethra is between the clitoris and the opening to the vagina. In men, the urethra is about 20 cm (8 in) long and its opening to the outside of the body is at the end of the penis.
The male urethra has three sections:

</doc>
<doc id="23889" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23889" title="Stanislav Lem">
Stanislav Lem

Stanislaw Lem() (September 12, 1921 – March 27, 2006) was a Polish science fiction writer. His writings are highly philosophical and satirical. His books have been translated into 41 languages. Over 27 million copies of his books have been sold worldwide. At one point he was among the most widely read science fiction authors in the world. Lem's writing is full of intelligent humor, puns, and neologisms, and Michael Kandel's translations into English have been praised by many for capturing Lem's style.
Lem is perhaps best known for his novel "Solaris". This novel was published in 1961. It is set into the future. Humans have discovered what they think is intelligent life in space. They want to talk to the alien life form. The only problem they have is that the life form is the size of a planet. It is an ocean. This book has also been made into a film by Andrei Tarkowski in 1972. Steven Soderbergh made another film of the book in 2002.
Lem won various prizes for his novels.

</doc>
<doc id="23890" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23890" title="Hostage">
Hostage

A hostage is a person who is held captive against his or her will. Hostages are often taken (held captive) to force someone else to do something for their "captors" (the people who took them hostage). Hostages are taken for many different reasons. 

</doc>
<doc id="23895" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23895" title="Intel">
Intel

Intel Corporation (Integrated Electronics Corporation) is a microprocessor company that was set up in the 1960s. Different types of processors made by Intel were used in most computers. Their most famous older products are the 386, 486, and Pentium models. Many people use Core 2 processor in their computer - it says "Intel Inside." Intel makes many different products, and has switched to dual core, 64-bit processors in 2006. The first Pentium chips were released on March 22, 1993.
Intel Corporation is traded on the NASDAQ under the ticker INTC and has been a component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average since 1999.

</doc>
<doc id="23898" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23898" title="Nintendo Entertainment System">
Nintendo Entertainment System

The Nintendo Entertainment System (NES) also known as the Family Computer or Famicom in Japan is the first video game console made by Nintendo in Japan, Europe, the United States. It came out in 1985 in the United States and was very popular.
The controller for the NES was different from the joysticks that older consoles had. It had a D-pad button, that could go up, down, left, or right. It also had A, B, Select, and Start buttons. The NES could use up to two controllers for multiplayer games. There were also other types of controllers that could be used with the NES.
Some famous games for the NES are "Super Mario Bros.", "The Legend of Zelda", "Metroid", "Mega Man", "Castlevania", "Donkey Kong", and "Final Fantasy". There have been many sequels made to these games and they are still enjoyed today. Nintendo discontinued (stopped making and selling) the NES in 1995.
The CPU (Central Processing Unit) in the NES is called MOS 6502 and is an 8-bit CPU. The chip that contains the CPU also contains other electronics that generate sound for games and help with some other things. There are two different versions of the chip called 2A03 and 2A07 that are used in different regions of the world (2A03 works with NTSC TVs, 2A07 with PAL TVs). It was made by a company called Ricoh.
The NES uses a chip called the PPU (Picture Processing Unit) to draw graphics on the TV. It has two different versions called 2C02 (for NTSC TVs) and 2C07 (for PAL TVs). It was also made by Ricoh.

</doc>
<doc id="23902" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23902" title="System of a Down">
System of a Down

System of a Down is an American metal band. They started in 1995 in Los Angeles, California by four members of Armenian descent, Serj Tankian (lead singer, born August 21, 1967), Daron Malakian (lead guitar, singer, born July 18, 1975), Shavo Odadjian (bass, background singer, born April 22, 1974) and Andy Khachaturian (but was replaced with John Dolmayan). He played the drums.
The band have five albums:
The band became successful with popular songs like "Sugar", "Spiders", "Chop Suey!", "Toxicity", "Aerials", "B.Y.O.B.", "Question!", "Hypnotize", and "Lonely Day".
After the release of "Mezmerize"/"Hypnotize", System of a Down went on a break, but they say they have not broken up.
Often described as very angry, Khachaturian was unhappy about his place as drummer, and wanted to lead the band. He left the band and the drummer from the band, "Friik", John Dolmayan, joined the band.
Serj, Daron, and Shavo, went to the same school, Alex Pilibos School for Armenian Americans in Los Angeles, when they were young. 
In 1995, they made their first demo tape, and had the songs: "Suite-Pee", "Sugar", "Dam", and "P.L.U.C.K.(Politically Lying Unholy Cowardly Killers)". In 1996, another demo tape was released with the songs: Soil, and two songs that were not on the first album, "Honey" and "Temper". They made another demo tape, and this was the one that got them put on the record label. The producer, Rick Rubin, had tried to sign up the band several times before they agreed.
In 1997, SOAD teamed up with Rubin and produced their first studio album in 1997, "System of a Down". This album was not as popular as the next album, but it made people aware of who and what System of a Down stood for.
Their next album, "Toxicity", made in 2001, had their first UK top 20 single "Chop Suey". This album explores a more melodic side of metal music. It is also political; for example the opening track: "Prison Song" which has Serj speaking the lines "Minor drug offenders
med up with Rubin and produced their first studio album in 1997, "System of a Down". This album was not as popular as the next album, but it made people aware of who and what System of a Down stood for.
In May 2005, the band released part one of a double album, "Mezmerize". More melodic than before, it included "B.Y.O.B" (Bring Your Own Bombs), and "Lost in Hollywood"; a song based on Daron's childhood about growing up in Hollywood, which he did not think was all that glamorous.
Months later, the second part of the double album, "Hypnotize", was released. This was the same sort of style as they were recorded at the same time.
In 2006, the band decided that they were going to go on break for a little while. They said they were going to come back together in a few years. After 10 years together, they each wanted to do different things for a while. They've been rumors of them returning in 2011. In July 2010 Dolmayan said in an interview that the band will most likely tour in 2011.

</doc>
<doc id="23903" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23903" title="Belarusian language">
Belarusian language

The Belarusian language ("", transliteration: Biełaruskaja mova) is an eastern Slavic language. This language is a part of the Indo-European language family. It is spoken in Belarus and eastern Poland (in the area of Białystok). It is also spoken by Belarusians who live in other countries of Europe, Australia, and North America.
When writing Belarusian, people can use the Cyrillic or the Latin alphabet.

</doc>
<doc id="23904" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23904" title="Kevin Bacon">
Kevin Bacon

Kevin Norwood Bacon (born July 8, 1958 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania) is an American movie actor who has starred in "Stir of Echoes", "Wild Things", "JFK", "Footloose" and "Apollo 13", among others. He has been married to actress Kyra Sedgwick since September 4, 1988. They have two children, Travis and Sosie Ruth. Bacon is known for the Bacon Number.

</doc>
<doc id="23905" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23905" title="Kyra Sedgwick">
Kyra Sedgwick

Kyra Sedgwick (born August 19, 1965) is an American actress. She was born in New York City, New York to a father of English descent and a Jewish mother. She is the great-granddaughter of Endicott Peabody, the founder of Groton School. She is married to actor Kevin Bacon. She produced and starred in "The Closer".

</doc>
<doc id="23906" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23906" title="Treaty of Versailles">
Treaty of Versailles

The Treaty of Versailles was a peace treaty between the five nations, France, Germany, Britain, Austria-Hungary and the United States after World War I. The treaty was made in 1919, but the German government did not participate in it. In fact, Germany had the choice between signing it or facing the occupation of Germany by Allied troops. This was known as a diktat Frieden. This angered the German people as they believed that they did not start the war. 
The French made the Treaty unfavorable for the Germans so that Germany would not be able to start a new war. Thus, Germany had to reduce its armed forces from 6 million to 100,000 men, and get rid of its submarines, military aircraft and most of their artillery, such as cannons. Their Navy battleships were limited to only six small ones. Germany also had to give back French territories it had occupied, as well as large territories of its own to Poland, for instance, and all of its colonies. A heavy economical burden for Germany was to pay back the very big World War I reparations for the damage done to the Allied countries, mostly France, during World War I by German troops. This sum was not fixed. 132 billion gold marks had to be paid only as a first part of the German debt. They only finished paying off this debt in 2010.
This Treaty can be seen as a one-sided peace diktat for Germany, a treaty which later was used as a reason for Germany's nationalists and Adolf Hitler to try to get the support of the Germans to get rid of the "chains of Versailles," which finally led to World War II.
The treaty made a League of Nations, which decided things after the treaty was signed. It solved some international disputes without war, but could not stop World War II. 
Germany had to give back French areas (Alsace-Lorraine) taken by Germany in the Franco-Prussian War, which Germany had won and which was still an embarrassment for France. The French made Germany take its troops out of the Rhineland (the long stretch of land on Germany's border with France where the Rhine river flows), which was an important part of land for Germany where many factories and businesses existed. If Germany put troops back into the Rhineland the punishment would be France invading Germany.
Germany also had to give many parts to Poland, a new country made out of old Russian and Austrian parts and the Polish and Lithuanian people who lived in them. Poland was a very strong kingdom a few hundred years before but Austria, Prussia and Russia had split it between them. 
Belgium was given Moresnet and Eupen and Malmedy. This is the main reason that Belgium now has a German-speaking community.
Versailles also split up many large empires on the losing side. The U.S. President, Woodrow Wilson, thought this was a very good idea because many people in Europe wanted to be free from the big empires. But it also created problems.
Austria-Hungary was split into many countries. One was Austria. Austria was meant to be the homeland of the Austrians, who spoke German and mainly ruled Austria-Hungary. Its capital was Vienna. One of the problems of Versailles was that many Austrians, like Adolf Hitler, thought that Austria was meant to be part of Germany. This lead to the later German occupation of Austria.
The new country of Hungary was also created. Like Poland, it was a country that was strong on its own centuries before. Its capital was Budapest. Another new country, Czechoslovakia was created to be the homeland of the Czechs and Slovaks. The Czech part was made up of the country once called Bohemia and Moravia. Its capital was Prague. Many Germans lived on its borders called the Sudetenland, which was why Adolf Hitler insisted that it should belong to Germany.
Bosnia, Slovenia, Croatia (which were parts of Austria-Hungary), northern Macedonia (which was part of Bulgaria), Serbia and Montenegro made one country, called Yugoslavia. It was made to be a Slav homeland, but there were many religious, language and national differences.
New countries by the Baltic Sea called Estonia, Finland, Latvia and Lithuania were created. The Russian Revolution started during the war, and later resulted in the death of Tzar Nicholas II of Russia and the formation of a Communist state. A civil war raged in Russia between the anti-Communist White Russians and pro-Soviet Red Russians. Russia had lost control of its western territory which made up Estonia, Finland, Latvia, Lithuania and parts of Poland. During the Second World War, the Soviet Union reclaimed Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, and half of Poland.
Italy gained parts of Austria.
It was agreed in another treaty called the Treaty of Sèvres that Greece would take parts of Western Turkey (called Ionia) and its past most important city, Constantinople from Turkey. Greece took them at first but a new Turkish army drove the Greeks out, killing many Greek people. Greece did gain most of the islands in the Aegean Sea from Turkey and parts of Bulgaria.
The League of Nations decided that parts of old Turkey were given to France and Great Britain to protect and keep peace in the area. Britain ruled Palestine, Iraq and Transjordan, which would become Israel, Iraq, and Jordan. France ruled Syria and Lebanon.
The German Empire became the Weimar Republic. A big problem for Germany was to pay back a giant amount of money for the all of the damage done to the Allied countries, mostly France, during World War I. This made Germany one of the poorest countries in Europe for almost 20 years, and caused political fighting in Germany. Germany officially finished paying off its debt on Sunday, October 3, 2010. The two most important parties, the Communists (who wanted a Communist revolution as had happened in Russia) and the Nazis (who thought Germany should become the most powerful country in Europe) fought for many years.
The debt to the Allies was made easier for the Germans during the Great Depression, and all debt was cancelled in 1932. Many Germans hated the treaty and some even wanted to fight more after Versailles. 
The League of Nations created after Versailles was usually not powerful enough to stop wars, either. Japan took a part of China called Manchuria and the League was not able to stop it. Italy invaded Ethiopia and although the Ethiopian Emperor begged the League to help him, it did not. Germany, Japan and Italy became the Axis powers, and by invading many peaceful countries caused World War II. The United States and the USSR did not even join the League, even though it was the idea of US President Woodrow Wilson in the first place. The League was never taken seriously, even though it was created to make sure Versailles was respected. 
The treaty failed to keep peace in the end, and was a reason for Nazi Germany and Adolf Hitler to win the support of the poorer Germans to get rid of the "chains of Versailles", leading to World War II.

</doc>
<doc id="23941" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23941" title="Saint Pierre and Miquelon">
Saint Pierre and Miquelon

Saint-Pierre and Miquelon (French "Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon") is a French overseas collectivity. It is made up of several small islands. Those islands are near the eastern coast of Canada. They are close to Newfoundland. It is the only thing left of the former colonial territory of New France.
The communes are:
Historically L'Île-aux-Marins was a separate commune. Then in 1945 it was added into the commune of Saint-Pierre.
In each commune there are settlements Miquelon, Miquelon-Langlade and Saint-Pierre, Saint-Pierre.

</doc>
<doc id="23945" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23945" title="50 (number)">
50 (number)

Fifty is the integer that is after forty-nine and before fifty-one.
The prime factors of fifty are 2 and 5. (2 * 5 * 5 = 50) The factors of 50 are 1, 2, 5, 10, 25, and 50. 5*10=50. 50 is the smallest number that can be written as the sum of two squares in two distinct ways: 50=1+7=5+5. Also, 50 is one-half of 100 or half of a century (a century is 100 years).

</doc>
<doc id="23946" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23946" title="Rzeszów">
Rzeszów

Rzeszów (, ) is city in the south-east part of Poland in Subcarpathian Voivodeship with a population of 170,722 (2008). The city is located on the river Wislok.

</doc>
<doc id="23947" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23947" title="1604">
1604


</doc>
<doc id="23948" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23948" title="Houston">
Houston

Houston is a large city in the United States. It is in the state of Texas. It is the fourth largest city in the U.S. The mayor of Houston is Sylvester Turner. Over two million people live in Houston. It is named after Sam Houston, who fought for Texas freedom in 1836. It is well known for Johnson Space Center of NASA.
The George Bush Intercontinental Airport is the main airport serving Houston.
Houston has many sports teams. The Astros play baseball. The Rockets play basketball. The Texans play American Football.
Houston has a humid subtropical climate ("Cfa" in the Koeppen climate classification).

</doc>
<doc id="23949" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23949" title="1138">
1138


</doc>
<doc id="23950" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23950" title="1140s">
1140s


</doc>
<doc id="23951" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23951" title="Polynesian people">
Polynesian people

Polynesians are native people from islands in Polynesia, including Hawaii, Tahiti, Samoa, and Maoris in New Zealand.
they are very hardworking they trade with Hawaii etc 

</doc>
<doc id="23965" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23965" title="Colonialism">
Colonialism

Colonialism occurs when a country (nation) takes control of other lands, regions, or territories outside of its borders (boundaries of the country) by turning those other lands, regions, or territories into a colony. Usually, it is a more powerful, richer country that takes control of a smaller, less powerful region or territory. Sometimes the word "imperialism" is also used to refer to colonialism.
In the 1700s and 1800s, many of the richer, more powerful European countries (such as Britain, France, Spain, and the Netherlands) established colonies in the continents of Africa, South America, and the Caribbean.
Some countries use colonialism to get more land for their people to live in. When countries are using colonialism to get more land for their people to live in, the country will help settlers move to the new area. The local people living in the land or territories were usually moved away by using force and violence from armies. To protect these settlers from the local residents who were pushed aside, colonial nations often set up a military fort or colonial police system. 
Other countries use colonialism to get more land so that they can use the land for farming or to extract (take out) resources such as trees (wood), coal, or metals, or to create a local government or military fort.
Other countries use colonialism so that they can get workers from the poorer country to work in factories or farms (either in the richer country, or in the poorer country). In the past, powerful countries that were colonizing poorer countries or regions often forced the people from the poorer countries to work as slaves.
The Phoenicians started many trade colonies around the Mediterranean. Carthage was the largest and most famous, and also made colonies including Cartagenain Spain. Later, the Ancient Greeks expanded their territories with colonies. Ancient Greece was many cities. Each city was independent with a government in place. Some city-states were monarchies, others elected (part of) the people who governed by (part of) the people who were citizens of that city, and who lived there. This is called democracy.
Those cities also fought wars against each other and traded goods. To get more influence, or to secure a trade route, the city would send people called settlers to a new place. These people would then make a new city called a colony . The cities had to pay some form of taxes to the old city, in exchange for protection, for example.
If the settlers found a local tribe living in the new territory, they would wage war against it to force them to leave. The local tribe was usually made into slaves. The new colony would exploit the land it found, by growing crops or by raising cattle.
Ancient Rome invented the word "colonia" meaning a new town to which some Romans moved, including farmers. Many of the settlers were veterans.
There are several different types of colonialism. Some countries that expanded their territory used Settler colonies. Some countries that started out as settler colonies include the United States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and Argentina. In all of these countries, people from European countries moved to the new region, and forced the local people )(the indigenous peoples, such as Indians, Maori, etc.) to move. When the local people or tribes had to move, it caused a lot of problems.
In some regions which were colonized, the settlers married the local people and had children with them. An example is Mexico, where a new people called the mestizos came from the marriages of the settlers and the local tribes. In other regions which were colonized, the settlers and the local people lived in separate areas, without living together or marrying. An example of this situation is French Algeria (when France colonized the African country of Algeria) or Southern Rhodesia. 
Another type of colonialism is when a powerful country sets up (establishes) dependencies. With a dependency, the colonizing country does not send over thousands of settlers to the new territory. Indstead, the colonizing country sets up administrators (a governing organization) that controls the existing local (native) populations or tribes. Examples include the British Raj,(geraldine) in which the British government controlled India; the Dutch East Indies, in which the Netherlands controlled parts of the East Indies; and the Japanese colonial empire, in which Japan controlled Asian territories.
With the plantation colony, the powerful, rich country use the poorer country's land to grow crops. The local people are forced to become slaves and work on the farms. Examples of plantation colonies include Barbados, Saint-Domingue and Jamaica. 
Another type of colony is the trading post colony. Rich and powerful countries set up trading post colonies so that there would be a territory where trading, selling, and business could be conducted. The rich and powerful countries usually set up military forts or police forces to enforce the rules and laws of the colonizing country. Examples of trading colonies include Macau, Malacca, Deshima and Singapore.

</doc>
<doc id="23966" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23966" title="Hey Arnold!">
Hey Arnold!

Hey Arnold! was an American animated television show on the Nickelodeon network. It was about a boy with a football-shaped head named Arnold, his "gang" of friends, and their lives in the fictional city of Hillwood. Episodes of "Hey Arnold!" lasted for about 15 minutes each. In 2002, Nickelodeon made a movie from it. Arnold's best friends in his gang are Gerald, Sid, Stinky, Eugene, Rhonda, Phoebe, Lila, and Curly (who was voiced by Haley Joel Osment). Adult Arnold was voiced by Christopher Walberg.

</doc>
<doc id="23968" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23968" title="Diego Maradona">
Diego Maradona

Diego Armando Maradona (born 30 October 1960 in Lanús, Buenos Aires) is an Argentine former football player. He was nicknamed "El Diez", "Pelusa", "El Diego" and "El pibe de oro". He won the World Cup in Mexico in the year of 1986.
He is regarded as one of the best footballers of all time. At age 25, Diego Maradona was the main figure of Argentina's drive to its 1986 World Cup. His great skill and moves reserved him a spot in soccer history and as one of the best players. Once he controlled the ball for more than half of the entire field, beating English defenders, he kicked the ball off his left leg into the net, juking out the goalkeeper. The World Cup made Maradona the most famous soccer player after Pele from Brazil. Even the British named him "athlete of the decade."
240||150||colspan="2"|-||colspan="2"|-||240||150
62||27||12||7||7||8||81||42
188||81||54||29||25||5||267||115
490||258||66||36||32||13||588||307
!Total||91||34
"Diego Maradona." Encyclopedia of World Biography. Vol. 20. Detroit: Gale, 2000.Biography in Context. Web. 12 May 2014.
"Maradona, Diego Armando." Hutchinson Encyclopedia. 2011. eLibrary. Web. 12 May. 2014.

</doc>
<doc id="23970" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23970" title="José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero">
José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero

Don José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero (; born 4 August 1960 in Valladolid) is a Spanish politician. He was elected for two terms as Prime Minister of Spain. This was in the 2004 and 2008 general elections. On 2 April 2011 he said he would not stand for re-election. His party is the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party (PSOE).
He left the office on 21 December 2011. He was succeeded by Mariano Rajoy. He left the PSOE's Secretary General chair on 4th February 2012 to Alfredo Pérez Rubalcaba. On 9th February he entered the Spanish Council of State. 
Important actions of his government have included withdrawing Spanish troops from Iraq, legalizing same-sex marriages and negotiating with Basque terrorist group ETA.
He studied Law at the University of León, graduating in 1982. Rodríguez Zapatero met Sonsoles Espinosa in León in 1981. They married on 27 January 1990 and have two daughters named Laura (born 1993) and Alba (born 1995).
Zapatero is a supporter of FC Barcelona.

</doc>
<doc id="23976" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23976" title="Electric guitar">
Electric guitar

The Electric guitar is a type of musical instrument. It was made in 1931 by George Beauchamp. It is a string instrument usually played with a pick and sometimes with the fingers. It uses things called "electric pickups" which are wire-wound magnets that change the vibration of the strings into electric current. This electric current is then sent to an amplifier that changes it to sound. This electric current can also be changed to produce effects.
The main parts of an electric guitar are the neck, the pickups, the tuners, the bridge, the input, the body, the frets, the pick guard, the volume knobs and the tone knobs. There may also be other parts that can change other sounds. A normal electric guitar has one neck with 6 strings on it, although there are 12 string guitars and guitars with more than one neck. 
Guitars are made and sold in many parts of the world by many companies. They can be hand made or factory made. Some companies that make electric guitars are Fender, Gibson, and Ibanez.
Many guitarists today share their music through a system called tablature (commonly known as 'tab'). Tablature is a way of reading notes for a guitar. It is much simpler than musical notes, but most tabs do not support rhythm. Many tabs can be found online or in books and magazines.
To read guitar tab, generally there is a staff like this:
Each line represents a string. Tab is always read as if the player were holding the guitar on their lap, strings facing up. Each number then represents what fret the finger is placed on.
E -----------------0------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
B -----------------0------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
G --1-------------1-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
D ----2-----------2-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
A ------2---------2-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
E -----------------0------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The above diagram would be to play an open E chord, picking each string individually, and then strumming the chord. If the notes are stacked directly above each other, it means to strum the chord.
Some guitar music is written in both musical note format and tablature. The musical notes are written out, with the corresponding tablature under each line of notes.

</doc>
<doc id="23979" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23979" title="Louise Brooks">
Louise Brooks

Louise Brooks (Cherryvale, Kansas, 14 November 1906 – Rochester, New York, 8 August 1985) was an American dancer and actress. She became a leading film star, and a style icon famous for her beauty and her bobbed hair style. 
In 2006, the centenary of Brooks' birth was celebrated by the release of three DVDs and three books, museum exhibits, screenings, and other events.
Brooks' signature film role was as Lulu in G.W. Pabst's "Pandora's Box" ("Die Büchse der Pandora") in 1929. Brooks' portrayal was of a young woman whose raw sexuality and uninhibited nature brings ruin to herself and those who love her. It made the actress a star.

</doc>
<doc id="23982" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23982" title="Bangor, Maine">
Bangor, Maine

Bangor is the 3rd-largest city in Maine. In 2000, the city had 31,473 people.
In 1937, Al Brady, an armed robber and murderer is shot dead in a gun battle with FBI agent Walter Walsh, ending a long crime spree.

</doc>
<doc id="23984" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23984" title="Portland">
Portland

Portland can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="24005" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24005" title="Ben Bradshaw">
Ben Bradshaw

Benjamin Peter James Bradshaw (born 30 August 1960) is an English politician and the Member of Parliament for the Exeter constituency in the United Kingdom. He was elected in the 1997 general election.
He was a Minister of State in the Department of Health, a Minister for the South West and Secretary of State for Culture, Media and Sport. He holds no posts in the current shadow government.
He is a member of the Labour Party.

</doc>
<doc id="24014" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24014" title="Eschelbronn">
Eschelbronn

Eschelbronn is a village with 2597 people living there. It is in the Rhein-Neckar area of Baden-Württemberg, Germany and close to Sinsheim.
Eschelbronn is in the north of Kraichgau with a distance of about 25 km to Heidelberg.
It was already mentioned in the years 788/789 in a document of the monastery of Lorsch. Afterwards there was no documentation until the end of the 13th century when it became part of the restrict of Speyer.
The first mayor was Heinrich von Eschelbrunnen in the year 1261. In 1267 a castle made of wood was built and later rebuilt into a water-castle of stone in 1375. In 1526 the village became Protestant.
In 1803 Eschelbronn became part of Baden. From 1807 on the village was administered by Waibstadt and 1803 by Sinsheim until the 31st of December 1972. Today it belongs to the Rhein-Neckar area.
In former times most of the people were farmers, however later in the 18th century the production of textiles became more and more important. Since the end of the 19th century Eschelbronn is well known for its furniture production.

</doc>
<doc id="24021" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24021" title="Order of the Bath">
Order of the Bath

The Most Honourable Order of the Bath is a British order of chivalry. It was founded by George I, on 18 May 1725. The name comes from an old ceremony, first mentioned in 1128. In the ceremony, men participated in a vigil of fasting, prayer, and taking a bath. They did this on the day before they were made a knight. The ceremony was abolished in 1815. 
The Order is made up of the Sovereign (the British Sovereign), the Great Master (Charles, Prince of Wales), and three classes of members: (Highest to lowest)
Originally founded as a military order of chivalry, the star (or pip) is worn as army officers' rank insignia. The insignia is that of the Order of the Bath. Members of the order now belong to either the Civil or the Military Division. The Order's motto is "Tria juncta in uno" (Latin for "Three joined in one"). This is a reference to either the union of England, Scotland and Ireland, or to the Holy Trinity. A symbol of the Order that is seen over and over has three crowns in it. Another motto, "Ich dien" (German for "I serve") is used occasionally, but only by members of the Order who serve in the military.
The Order is the fourth oldest of the British Orders of Chivalry, after The Most Noble Order of the Garter, The Most Ancient and Most Noble Order of the Thistle, and The Most Illustrious Order of St Patrick. The last of those Orders–which relates to Ireland, no longer a part of the United Kingdom–still exists, but is no longer active; no appointments have been made to it since 1934.

</doc>
<doc id="24028" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24028" title="Kurdish people">
Kurdish people

The Kurds are an ethnic group found in Turkey Iraq, Iran, Syria, Armenia and Lebanon. They have their own culture. Kurds are Indo-European settlers together with the people of Western and northwestern Iran, widely thought to be descended from the Medes. They speak Kurdish. 
Kurds have similarly distinct features like those of southern Europe, however their looks vary from blondes to brunettes and although they have mainly brown eyes they can have varied colours. They have a rich culture despite the long struggle by their neighbours to demolish it: it remains a strong influence on their way of life. Today, there are thought to be about 40 million Kurds. Most are Sunnite Muslim.

</doc>
<doc id="24031" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24031" title="Guerrilla warfare">
Guerrilla warfare

A guerrilla is a civilian who attacks a regular army. When civilians attack civilians, it is usually called terrorism. When two or more armies (representing countries) attack each other, this is a war. 
Guerrilla warfare is a war tactic in which people () use the land and geography as an advantage against an organized army. Guerrilla warfare is sometimes practiced from dense areas such as forests, or jungles. Usually, this army is invading a territory.
Guerrilla is a word of Spanish origin. It means "little war".
This war tactic was used on the British by the Native Americans. The natives had an advantage because they used Guerrilla warfare. This war tactic was also used on the Americans during the Vietnamese War.

</doc>
<doc id="24041" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24041" title="Sacrament">
Sacrament

In Christianity, a sacrament is a special rite. It is a visible token of the reality of God.
The Roman Catholic Church knows seven such sacraments. These are
Following Martin Luther's tradition, many Protestant churches see only Baptism and Eucharist as Sacraments. They also have most of the other rites, but do not consider them to be sacraments.
Eastern Orthodox and Oriental Orthodox Churches basically have the same views as the Roman Catholic Church. They say however, that many things the church does (as church), can be seen as sacraments, in some way.

</doc>
<doc id="24049" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24049" title="St. Petersburg, Florida">
St. Petersburg, Florida

St. Petersburg (shortened to St. Pete by the area residents) is a city in the U.S. state of Florida. It is the county seat of Pinellas County. It is home to the MLB team Tampa Bay Rays.

</doc>
<doc id="24055" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24055" title="20 (number)">
20 (number)

Twenty is the number that is after nineteen and before twenty-one.
The prime factors of twenty are 2 and 5. (2 * 2 * 5 = 20)
Its factors are: 1, 2, 4, 5, 10, and 20. As the sum of its factors is more than itself (i.e. 22), it can be referred to as an abundant number.
20 can been used as a number base. Remnants of this system remain in some European languages, for example in the English “score” (20) and the French “quatre-vingts” (80, literally four groups of twenty). The old (pre-decimal) English monetary system had twenty shillings in a pound. The ancient Mayan numerical system – counting on fingers and toes – was a base 20 or "vigesimal" system.
A polyhedron of 20 faces is an icosahedron, one of the five Platonic solids. It is a convex regular polyhedron composed of twenty triangular faces, with five meeting at each of the twelve vertices. It has 30 edges and 12 vertices. Its dual polyhedron is the dodecahedron.
In Japanese tradition, adulthood is established at the age of 20. See seijin not hi (the celebration of adulthood in Japan).
It is the number of milk teeth in an infant’s mouth.
In Roman numerals, 20 is written as XX.

</doc>
<doc id="24057" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24057" title="40 (number)">
40 (number)

Forty is the number that is after thirty-nine and before forty-one.
The prime factors of forty are 2 and 5. (2 * 2 * 2 * 5 = 40)
Forty is also the only number in the English language which is spelt in alphabetical order.
In the Judeo-Christian Bible, the number forty has special meaning. The Jews wandered in a desert for forty years, there was a forty-day and forty-night rainstorm, and other instances.

</doc>
<doc id="24058" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24058" title="70 (number)">
70 (number)

Seventy is the number that is after sixty-nine and before seventy-one.
The prime factors of seventy are 2, 5, and 7. (2 * 5 * 7 = 70)

</doc>
<doc id="24060" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24060" title="Gas giant">
Gas giant

A gas giant is a large planet that has a solid core, but a very thick atmosphere. This means that most of the planet is made up of gas. These planets are very large.
In our Solar System, there are 4 gas giants: Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune.
Jupiter and Saturn are similar because they are made up of mostly hydrogen and helium. They both contain massive rocky cores that are bigger than Earth. Neptune and Uranus are similar because they are mainly made up of water and rock (a mixture of one or several minerals).
Gas giants have also been found around other stars than the sun.

</doc>
<doc id="24065" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24065" title="North Vietnam">
North Vietnam

The Democratic Republic of Vietnam (DRVN), or less commonly, Vietnamese Democratic Republic (Vietnamese: "Việt Nam Dân Chủ Cộng Hòa"), also known as North Vietnam, is a former country that existed from 1945 until 1976. It was in the north of present-day Vietnam. It lay north of the local Demilitarized Zone, and South Vietnam lay to the south of it.
It was proclaimed by President Hồ Chí Minh in Hà Nội on September 2, 1945. It was the first socialist country in Southeast Asia. However, it was not recognised by China and the Soviet Union until 1950. North Vietnam took part in the Vietnam War.

</doc>
<doc id="24068" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24068" title="Set theory">
Set theory

Set theory is the study of sets in mathematics. Sets are collections of objects. We refer to these objects as "elements" or "members" of the set.
To write a set, one wraps the numbers in {curly brackets} and separates them with commas: e.g., holds 1, 2, and 3.
There are three types of set theories: Description method, Roster method (tabular form), Rule method (set builder form).
Set theory was made in 1874 by Georg Cantor.
It had to be made better because collections of objects can cause problems if you work with them without explaining them better. Russell's paradox was one of the problems. Think about the set of all sets that are not members of themselves. If it were inside itself, then the rule which defines it would mean that it is "not" inside itself. But, if it were not inside itself, then the rule which defines it would mean that it "is" inside itself. This was a serious problem, and it meant that the old set theory was broken.
It was improved by people including Zermelo and Bertrand Russell.
Set theory begins by giving some examples of things that are sets. Then it gives rules in which you can make other sets from the already known sets. Collections of objects that are not sets are called classes. It is possible to do mathematics using only sets, rather than classes, so that the problems that classes cause in mathematics do not occur.
A binary relation between two sets is the subset relation, also called "set inclusion". If all the members of set are also members of set , then is a "subset" of , marking . For example, is a subset of , but is not. From this example, it is clear that a set is a subset of itself. In cases where one wishes to not to have this, the term "proper subset" is meant not to have this possibility.
The selfconsidering object in the set theory was existing too, an example numbers: 1={1}, 2={1, 2}, 3={1, 2, 3} and so on.

</doc>
<doc id="24069" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24069" title="Bangor">
Bangor

Bangor is a city name found in several countries.

</doc>
<doc id="24079" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24079" title="Demo (music)">
Demo (music)

A demo, in music, is the first version of a song or album.
It can also refer to an album made by the band as a "sample" in hopes of getting a contract with a record label.

</doc>
<doc id="24087" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24087" title="Breton language">
Breton language

Breton ("", in Breton) is a Celtic language spoken in Brittany, in the north-west of France. Breton is closely related to the Cornish language of Cornwall spoken in south-west Great Britain. It is less closely related to Welsh, and the Goidelic languages of Scotland, Ireland and the Isle of Man. The Breton language has approximately 240,000 speakers, but this number is falling very quickly due to the French government's policy of using French. As such, Breton is considered to be an endangered language.

</doc>
<doc id="24088" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24088" title="Celtic languages">
Celtic languages

The Celtic languages are a language family inside of the Indo-European languages. There are six Celtic languages still spoken in the world today, spoken in north-west Europe. They are divided into two groups, the Goidelic (or Gaelic) and the Brythonic (or British). 
The three Goidelic languages still spoken are Irish, Scottish, and Manx. Scottish is the main language spoken in parts of north-west Scotland and Irish is the main language spoken in the Gaeltacht in Ireland. Manx is spoken mainly by people interested in the language.
The three Brythonic languages are Welsh, Cornish, and Breton. Of these Cornish became extinct in the 18th century but people have started speaking it again now. Welsh is spoken everywhere throughout Wales, but is mainly the first language for people in the western part of Wales, in the area some people call the Bro Gymraeg. Breton is spoken mainly in west Brittany, and is the only Celtic language not mainly spoken in the British Isles. Because Brittany is part of France, the language is in danger of becoming extinct, just like Cornish, and there are ongoing efforts to prevent this from happening.
Scottish Gaelic also has a native community of speakers in Canada where it was once very widely spoken, and there are Welsh speakers in Patagonia, Argentina.

</doc>
<doc id="24091" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24091" title="Salem, Tamil Nadu">
Salem, Tamil Nadu

Salem is a district and major city in Tamil Nadu, in India. It is known for its steel plants, factories which make steel.
Salem online yellow pages Directory

</doc>
<doc id="24096" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24096" title="Hunger strike">
Hunger strike

A hunger strike is a way that people protest by not eating. Many people have done this to get people's attention, especially the attention of leaders.
Sometimes, hunger strikes are done by people who are in prison. In this case, the hunger strikes are sometimes ended by force feeding, when the prisoners are fed against their will through a feeding tube.

</doc>
<doc id="24099" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24099" title="Hermitage Museum">
Hermitage Museum

The Hermitage Museum (Эрмитаж) in St. Petersburg, Russia is one of the largest and oldest art galleries and museums of human history and culture in the world. The vast Hermitage collections are displayed in six buildings, founded by Catherine II of Russia in 1764 and opened in public since 1852. The main building is the Winter Palace. This was the official residence of the Russian Tsars. 
Strong points of the Hermitage collection of Western art include Michelangelo, Leonardo da Vinci, Rubens, Van Dyck, Rembrandt, Poussin, Claude Lorraine, Watteau, Tiepolo, Canaletto, Canova, Rodin, Monet, Pissarro, Renoir, Cézanne, Van Gogh, Gauguin, Picasso, and Matisse. There are several more collections. Among the collections are the Russian imperial regalia, an assortment of Faberge jewellery, and the largest existing collection of ancient gold from Eastern Europe and Western Asia.
A population of cats lives on the museum grounds. They are named the Hermitage cats. They are an added attraction for tourists.

</doc>
<doc id="24103" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24103" title="Dirt">
Dirt

Dirt may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="24106" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24106" title="Boeing 747">
Boeing 747

The Boeing 747 is a jet airliner. It is made by Boeing Commercial Airplanes. The Boeing 747 has more than one aisle, which means it is a wide-body aircraft. It is often called the "Jumbo Jet" or "Queen of the Skies". The Boeing 747 is one of the easiest planes in the world to recognise. It was the first wide-body aircraft ever made. The first type of 747 was two and a half times the size of the Boeing 707. The Boeing 747 made its first flight for an airline in 1970. The 747 could carry more people than any other aircraft for 37 years, until the Airbus A380 was made.
The 747 is a double deck plane. It can carry people, cargo and many other things. Boeing designed the 747's upper deck to be a first class lounge or just extra seats. They also designed the upper deck so that the aircraft could be changed into a cargo plane easily. This was done by removing seats and putting in a cargo door at the front of the plane. Boeing did this because they thought that supersonic airliners would become much more popular than the 747 and other subsonic airliners. However, they thought that subsonic cargo planes would always be popular. It was thought that the 747 would become unpopular after 400 were sold. However, 1,000 planes had been made by 1993, so it stayed popular. By September 2012, 1,448 aircraft had been built. 81 747-8s were still waiting to be built.
The 747-400 is one of the fastest airliners being used today. It usually flies at Mach 0.85–0.855 (up to ). It can fly for 7,260 nautical miles (8,350 mi or 13,450 km). The newest version of the 747, the 747-8, is now being made.
The 747 will be replaced by the Boeing Y3 (part of the Boeing Yellowstone Project) eventually.
In 1963, the United States Air Force began to look for a very big plane to transport things. At that time, the C-141 Starlifter was being used. However, the Air Force thought that a much bigger plane which could carry more cargo was needed. The Air Force called the big plane the CX-Heavy Logistics System (CX-HLS). It needed to be able to carry of cargo and travel at Mach 0.75 (). It also had to be able to fly for while carrying of cargo. The cargo bay had to be wide, high and long. There had to be doors for the bay at the front and the back of the plane.
The Air Force also wanted the plane to have only four engines. This meant that new engines had to be made. On May 18, 1964, Boeing, Douglas, General Dynamics, Lockheed and Martin Marietta designed a plane. General Electric, Curtiss-Wright and Pratt & Whitney designed the engines. The Air Force liked Boeing, Douglas and Lockheed's designs. They also liked General Electric and Pratt & Whitney's engine designs.
In 1965, Lockheed's plane and General Electric's engines were used for the C-5 Galaxy. At that time, it was the biggest military cargo plane in the world.
The idea for the 747 was thought of in the 1960s. Jets like the Boeing 707 and Douglas DC-8 had made it easy to travel long distances. Juan Trippe from Pan American World Airways (Pan Am), asked Boeing to build a plane which was more than two times bigger than the Boeing 707. At this time, airports were very busy. Trippe thought that a big plane could help make them quieter.
In 1965, Joe Sutter was told to design this new plane. It was called the 747. Sutter asked Pan Am and other airlines what they would like from the plane. At the time, it was thought that supersonic aircraft would replace the 747. Because of this, Boeing made the 747 so that it could easily be turned into a cargo plane if the passenger version became less popular.
In April 1966, Pan Am bought 25 747-100 planes. The order cost US$525 million. Since Pan Am was the launch customer, Pan Am had a big say in the design and making of the 747. No other airline before then or since then has been able to have so much influence over a plane.
The design that Boeing made for the Air Force in 1963 was not used for the 747. However, Boeing made some new things for the Air Force which were used in the 747. The first design had two full decks. However, in 1966, this was changed to only one deck. The cockpit was put above the deck, which made a "bulge". There was a small space behind the cockpit which people could sit in. At first, it was a "lounge" area with no seats.
Planes as big as the 747 needed high-bypass turbofan engines. High-bypass turbofans could make twice the power of turbojets. It also used a lot less fuel. General Electric made the first of these engines. However, it was making the engines for the C-5 Galaxy. It did not make engines for airliners until later. Pratt & Whitney was also working on this type of engine. In 1966, Boeing, Pan Am and Pratt & Whitney designed a new engine, the JT9D, for the 747.
Boeing used some special devices to make the plane make more lift. This was done so that the 747 could take off from shorter runways. The 747 has a lot of flaps on the wing. The flaps make the wings bigger by 21 percent. They also make 90 percent more lift when they are used.
Boeing tried to give the 747 to Pan Am by the end of 1969. This meant that Boeing only had 28 months to design the aircraft. The people who worked on the 747 had the nickname "The Incredibles".
Boeing did not have a factory big enough to make the new plane. Boeing thought about putting their factory in 50 different cities. They eventually decided to build their factory in Seattle, near Everett, Washington. Boeing bought the factory in June 1966.
Designing the 747 was very difficult. Building its factory was also not easy. Boeing's president, William M. Allen, asked Malcolm T. Stamper to be in charge of the building of the Everett factory. He was also asked to begin building the 747. The factory is the biggest building ever built (by volume). It has been made bigger many times so that Boeing can build even bigger planes.
Before the first 747 was put together, parts and systems were being tested. In one important test, 560 volunteers evacuated a replica of a 747 cabin using the emergency chutes. The first evacuation took two and a half minutes. However, the FAA says that the maximum time for an evacuation is 90 seconds. Many of the volunteers were hurt. More evacuations happened, and they eventually reached the 90 seconds. However, they also caused a lot of injuries. Evacuating from the top deck of the plane was difficult. Instead of using the usual slides, the volunteers had to leave the plane using a harness. The plane's taxiing also had to be tested. Boeing made "Waddell's Wagon" (named after a 747 test pilot, Jack Waddell) to train the pilots. "Waddell's Wagon" was a replica of a 747 cockpit which was put on the roof of a truck. This helped pilots to learn how to taxi the plane.
On September 30, 1968, the first 747 was finished. People from the 26 airlines that had ordered the 747 were also there. The 747 first flew on February 9, 1969. Its pilots were Jack Waddell and Brien Wygle. There was a small problem with the flaps, but the 747 handled well.
The testing was delayed because of some problems with the JT9D engines. For example, the engines stalled if the throttles were moved too quickly. This meant that 747s could not be delivered for many more months. 20 planes were stuck at the factory while they were waiting on engines. On December 13, 1969 the test plane was being taken to have some changes made to it. The pilot, Ralph C. Cokely landed too early and did not reach the runway. One of the landing gears was ripped off, and two of the engines were damaged. However, Boeing took the 747 to the 28th Paris Air Show in mid-1969. There, the public saw the 747 for the first time.
Designing the 747 and building the new factory cost a lot of money. This meant that Boeing had to borrow a lot of money from a bank. Just before the first aircraft was finished, Boeing had to keep asking for more money. If Boeing was not given this money, the company could have collapsed. Boeing was in over $2 billion in debt. Allen said, "It was really too large a project for us." However, the 747 program was a success. Boeing was the only company to make very big planes for many years.
The very first time a 747 was used by an airline was on January 22, 1970. Pan Am used it to fly from New York to London. The flight was supposed to happen on the evening of January 21. However, the engines on the aircraft overheated. Pan Am had to find another plane, which took six hours.
The 747 did quite well when it first began to be used. Some people thought that airports would not be able to handle such a big plane. However, they could. There were some problems, but they were quite small and they were fixed quickly. After Pan Am began to use the plane, other airlines began to use their 747s. Boeing thought that a lot of 747s would be sold because airlines wanted a plane which could fly for a long time, not because it was so big.
The recession of 1969-1970 was very bad for Boeing. For over a year after September 1970, it only sold two 747s. None were sold to an American airline for over three years. Some airlines did not have enough passengers to fly the 747. Therefore, they replaced them with the McDonnell Douglas DC-10 and Lockheed L-1011 TriStar. American Airlines eventually only used its 747s to carry cargo. In 1983, AA gave its 747s to Pan Am. Pan Am gave American Airlines some smaller planes. Delta Air Lines also stopped using its 747s after many years. Delta would later merge with Northwest Airlines, which operates 747s.
Flights which landed in smaller cities became quite usual in the 1980s. This was bad for the 747. However, many airlines still used the 747 to fly across the Pacific.
The first type of 747 was called the 747-100. After this, Boeing made the , which has a higher MTOW (maximum takeoff weight), and the (Short Range). The -100SR could carry more passengers. A higher MTOW means that the plane can carry more fuel and fly further. In 1971, Boeing made the . It had better engines and a higher MTOW. Airliner and cargo versions of the were made. The 747SP (special performance) was also made. It began being used in 1976.
In 1980, Boeing made the 747-300. The first 747-300 was made in 1983. Its upper deck was longer, it flew faster and it could hold more passengers. The −300 was first called the 747SUD for "stretched upper deck". Then it was called the 747-200 SUD, then the 747EUD, and finally it was called the 747-300.
In 1985, Boeing began to design the 747-400. This type has a glass cockpit. This meant that only two people were needed in the cockpit. It also had new engines and a new cabin. The workers who made the 747-400 were not very experienced and Boeing wanted them to work for longer than they needed to. This meant that there were some problems with the first 747-400s. The −400 began being used by airlines in 1989.
In 1991, 1,087 passengers were taken to Israel on a 747. This was a part of Operation Solomon. The Antonov An-225 cargo transport is the world's biggest plane. The Hughes H-4 Hercules has the biggest wingspan, but it only flew once.
Since the 747-400 was made, many more types of 747 have been suggested. Boeing said that they would make the 747-500X and in 1996. These new planes would have cost more than US$5 billion to design and make. Airlines did not like it enough, so Boeing decided not to make the planes. In 2000, Boeing said it would make a 747X to rival the Airbus A3XX. However, airlines did not like the 747X enough, so it was cancelled. A year later, Boeing began concentrating on the Sonic Cruiser. The Sonic Cruiser was stopped, so Boeing then focused on the Boeing 787 Dreamliner. Some of the ideas that Boeing had for the 747X were used on the 747-400ER.
In 2004, Boeing said that it might work on the 747 Advanced. Boeing decided to go ahead with this. The 747 Advanced used some things from the 787 to make the 747's design more modern. The 747 was the world's biggest passenger plane until the Airbus A380 was finished in 2007.
On November 14, 2005, Boeing said it had changed the name of the 747 Advanced to the Boeing 747-8. The last 747-400s were made in 2009. On February 8, 2010, the 747-8 Freighter made its first flight. Cargolux got the first 747-8 in 2011. Eventually, the 747 will be replaced by "Y3".
The Boeing 747 is a big, wide-body airliner. It has four engines on the wings, and the wings are swept at 37.5 degrees, so the 747 can fly very fast. The sweep also means that the 747 does not need any special hangars.
Since the cockpit is above the main deck, it makes a "hump", and because it is so high, the plane can have a cargo door installed at the front.
The 747-100 can fly for 5,300 nautical miles (6,100 mi, 9,800 km), and the 747-8i can fly for 8,000 nmi (9,200 mi, 14,815 km).
The 747 has special flaps, which allow the 747 to fly slowly and land on normal runways. A 747 can carry a fifth engine on the wing, but it cannot be used.
The 747-100 was the very first type of 747, which was made in 1966. The 747-200, the next version, was made in 1968. The 747-300 was made in 1980 and the 747-400 was made in 1985. The newest version, the 747-8, was announced in 2005. These types also have smaller sub-types. The International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) names these planes by combining the model number of the plane with its type number. For example, the 747-100 is "B741" and the 747-400 is "B744".
The first 747-100s had six windows on the upper deck. Later, airlines began to use the upper deck to hold more people instead of using it as a lounge. Boeing then made an upper deck with ten windows. Some −100s had the new ten-window upper deck installed after the plane was made (retrofitted). The −100 had Pratt & Whitney JT9D-3A engines. Boeing did not make a freighter version of the 747-100, but some airlines have turned some 747-100s into freighters. 167 747-100s were made.
After Japanese airlines requested an aircraft to fly routes between major cities in Japan, Boeing produced the -100SR. This model flies shorter distances, but is able to carry more passengers. The first -100SR started flying with Japan Air Lines (JAL) on October 7, 1973. The -100SR had four General Electric CF6-45A2 or Pratt & Whitney JT9D-7A engines. A total of 7 -100SR were produced.
Later, Boeing designed a type of -100SR with the ability of taking off with greater weight. This was the -100BSR. It was first delivered to All Nippon Airways (ANA) on 21 December 1978. 20 -100BSR were delivered to JAL and ANA.
In 1986, 2 -100BSR with stretched upper deck (SUD) from the -300 series were delivered to JAL. It was the last -100SR/BSR ever built. The last delivery was to JAL, in September 1986. There were a total of 29 -100SR/BSR made.
The 747SP (SP means special performance) is designed as Pan Am and Iran Air both wanted a wide-body plane that can fly long distances; from New York to the Middle East (for Pan Am) and Tehran to New York (for Iran Air). The first 747SP was produced on 19 May 1975. Its first flight was on 4 July. On this flight, it flew at a top speed of Mach 0.92 (). It started flying people on 25 April 1976, after being delivered on 5 March. Now, it is not often used.
A total of 45 747SP were made and used by airlines like Qantas, China Airlines, Air China and South African Airways.
After the -100 were made, Boeing started making -200. The -200 has a longer range, but still carries the same number of people. This is because airlines said the -100 could not fly long distances. The -200 is made in passenger type (-200B), freighter type (-200F), Combi type (A plane that carries both cargo and people; -200M) and convertible type (a plane that can be easily changed to carry cargo; -200C).
The first -200B was finished on 10th September, 1970 before its first flight on 11th October and finally, it started being used by KLM. Boeing then started making the other types of -200. The -200F first flight was on November 30, 1971, 7 days after it was finished. It was then delivered to Lufthansa.
The -200C first flew on March 23,1973 before being delivered to World Airways in May the same year. Finally, the -200M had its first flight on November 11, 1974 before being delivered to Air Canada.
There was a total of 393 -200 series ever made,which includes 225 -200B, 78 -200M, 73 -200F, 13 -200C and 4 military.

</doc>
<doc id="24108" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24108" title="1081">
1081


</doc>
<doc id="24109" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24109" title="Richard Trevithick">
Richard Trevithick

Richard Trevithick (April 13,1771 - April 22, 1833) was a Cornish inventor and engineer. He is best known for making the first working steam locomotive. However, it was designed to be a road vehicle, not a railroad one.
Trevithick was from the heart of a big mining area in Cornwall, U.K. His parents were Richard Trevithick (1735-1797) and Ann Teague (d. 1810.) In 1797, Trevithick married Jane Harvey. He died of pneumonia in 1833.

</doc>
<doc id="24110" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24110" title="Wasilla, Alaska">
Wasilla, Alaska

Wasilla is a small city in the U.S. state of Alaska, about 43 miles from Anchorage. It is one of the ten largest cities in Alaska. Sarah Palin was once mayor and owns a house with her family there.

</doc>
<doc id="24111" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24111" title="Rantoul, Illinois">
Rantoul, Illinois

Rantoul is a village in Champaign County, Illinois, United States. Almost 13,000 people were living in Rantoul as of 2000. Rantoul has an area of 7.4 square miles.

</doc>
<doc id="24112" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24112" title="Winter Springs, Florida">
Winter Springs, Florida

Winter Springs is a city in Florida. It is sometimes considered a suburb of Orlando.

</doc>
<doc id="24113" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24113" title="Fredericton, New Brunswick">
Fredericton, New Brunswick

Frederiction is the capital city of New Brunswick, Canada. It is filled with rich history. Fredericton is on the Saint John River. There is a playhouse. There are scenic walking trails. Frederiction is the capital of New Brunswick. The population of Fredericton was 1,886 at the 2011 census.
Fredericton is known as a cultural and artistic city in New Brunswick. The city hosts an annual Harvest Jazz & Blues Festival which attracts both regional as well as international jazz, blues, rock, and world musicians.

</doc>
<doc id="24115" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24115" title="Clearwater, Florida">
Clearwater, Florida

Clearwater is a city in Florida, it is in the Tampa Bay area.
The first Hooters restaurant opened here in 1984. The Church of Scientology's international headquarters is also in the city.

</doc>
<doc id="24125" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24125" title="Jordanhill railway station">
Jordanhill railway station

Jordanhill railway station is in a suburb of Glasgow, Scotland. It is a station where passenger trains stop on the First ScotRail railway line. The station opened on August 1, 1887 as part of a different railway line.
On March 2, 2006, a new article on the Jordanhill railway station became English Wikipedia's one-millionth article.

</doc>
<doc id="24137" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24137" title="Googolplex">
Googolplex

A googolplex is the number 10(10).
Like the number "googol", "googolplex" was thought of by Milton Sirotta, the nephew of mathematician Edward Kasner.
The company Google named their headquarters, the Googleplex, after the number.

</doc>
<doc id="24141" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24141" title="Flint">
Flint

Flint, or flintstone, is a kind of sedimentary rock, made of silica. 
Bands of flint are found in chalk, which is an Upper Cretaceous rock laid down in the continental shelves of a tropical sea.
When the chalk is eroded, the hard flint nodules survive as pebbles on a shingle beach. It may happen that the pebbles later get cemented into another rock, such as a puddingstone. In this way, they make up a sedimentary rock for the second time.
Flint is a cryptocrystalline (means you can't see the crystals) form of the mineral quartz. It is a variety of chert. It occurs as a line of knobbly masses in chalk and some limestones. Inside the nodule, flint is usually translucent, and can be various colours. A thin layer on the outside of the nodules is usually different in colour, typically white and rough in texture.
Flintstones often have a rough lumpy surface but when they are broken, they look like dark glass. It has been one of the most useful types of stone to humankind.
Flint was often used in prehistoric times to make stone tools. Flint handaxes were used by early man for about two million years. When flintstones are broken, they have a sharp edge which could be used as a knife, or a scraper. 
When two flintstones are hit together, they can make a spark. For many centuries, flint was one of the main ways for people in many countries to make fire. People would carry a little box called a "tinder box" which had some flintstones and tinder. The tinder was used to catch the spark and start a fire. Tinder could be sawdust, cloth, grass or bark. Flints were used to make a spark to fire a gun. A gun that used flint was called a "flint-lock" gun.
Flintstones are used in some countries for building. In England the flintstones used for building were often "knapped" which means they were broken to show the inside, like the stones used for the tower of Long Melford Church (below). This gave a better finish to the building that the dull knobbly stones would have made. 

</doc>
<doc id="24147" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24147" title="Valley Center, California">
Valley Center, California

Valley Center is a census-designated place in San Diego County, California. It has a population of 9,277 people.

</doc>
<doc id="24148" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24148" title="Newbridge, County Kildare">
Newbridge, County Kildare

Newbridge (Droichead Nua in Gaelic) is a town in County Kildare, Republic of Ireland. It is the second largest town in Kildare

</doc>
<doc id="24149" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24149" title="Anaheim, California">
Anaheim, California

Anaheim is a city in the United States. It was founded by German immigrants in 1857. It is the home of Disneyland, and two professional sports teams, The Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim (baseball) and the Anaheim Ducks (ice hockey). In 2012, there was a riot following a police officer shooting a man.

</doc>
<doc id="24150" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24150" title="Chair">
Chair

A chair is a piece of furniture. It is used for sitting on. They usually have four legs to support the weight. Some types of chairs, such as the barstool, have only one leg in the center. Those chairs are usually able to spin. Sometimes chairs have armrests. These chairs may be called armchairs. There are many types of chairs such as Windsor chairs and rocking chairs. There is another type of chair called a sofa or settee. This is often used for comfort and can fit more than one person on it.

</doc>
<doc id="24151" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24151" title="1163">
1163


</doc>
<doc id="24153" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24153" title="Hercules">
Hercules

Hercules is a hero in Roman mythology. He is a mortal son of Alcmene and Zeus. Hercules is known for his great strength. In Greek mythology he is named Herakles, but he has some different stories.
In one of the more well known stories of Hercules, he had to complete twelve tasks. These tasks were: 
Hercules is also a character in Marvel Comics. He was an ally of the mighty Thor. He is the leader and a founding member of the super team the Champions. He was created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby in 1962.

</doc>
<doc id="24154" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24154" title="Navigation">
Navigation

Navigation is how ships or aircraft find their way from one place to another. The word navigation came from the word ""navgatih"" from the Sanskrit language. The Latin word "navis" means ship; navigation is literally "art of ship mastery". The word is also used as a metaphor for 'finding one's way'. Today it also means knowing where to go when traveling.
One type of navigation was made by the Polynesians and is called Polynesian navigation. Polynesians used different things found all around them to find their way across large areas of open ocean. Other early people also learned how to travel large distances using the natural world. For example:
An example of people who used the stars were the Vikings. They knew that the star called Polaris (the North Star) does not change location and points to the north. They would then know the latitude (distance from the equator), by measuring the angle between Polaris and the horizon. They also used animals, especially birds, to know if land was nearby. They also knew that specific kind of clouds form near land and that waves are different near land than at high seas.
As time went by better methods of navigation were invented or discovered. Some of these methods are:

</doc>
<doc id="24155" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24155" title="Hercules (1997 movie)">
Hercules (1997 movie)

Hercules is a 1997 American animated musical movie. It was produced by Walt Disney Feature Animation and released by Walt Disney Pictures. It is the 35th animated movie in the Walt Disney Animated Classics series. The movie was directed by Ron Clements and John Musker. The movie is based on the legendary Greek mythology hero Heracles (known in the movie by his Roman name, Hercules), the son of Zeus, in Greek mythology.
"Go the Distance" was nominated for both the Academy Award for Best Original Song and the Golden Globe Award for Best Original Song. It lost both to Celine Dion's hit "My Heart Will Go On" from "Titanic".

</doc>
<doc id="24157" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24157" title="The Karate Kid">
The Karate Kid

The Karate Kid is a 1984 American drama movie starring Ralph Macchio and Pat Morita. It tells the story of a boy named Daniel (Macchio) who moves with his mother from New Jersey to Los Angeles, California. Daniel has trouble adjusting and is victimized by a gang of bullies at his school. Mr. Miyagi (Morita), the handyman from the apartment building Daniel lives in, teaches Daniel martial arts, so he can fight the bullies in a . In the song "You're the Best", the Roland Juno-106 patch "Brass" was heard. The movie was very successful and was compared to the boxing movie "Rocky". It was followed by three sequels: "The Karate Kid, Part II", "The Karate Kid, Part III" "The Karate Kid 4" and a remake in 2010.

</doc>
<doc id="24159" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24159" title="533">
533


</doc>
<doc id="24161" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24161" title="Crazy Horse">
Crazy Horse

Crazy Horse (born about 1838 – died September 5, 1877) was an Oglala Sioux Native American chief. There is a huge sculpture being carved of him in South Dakota, United States. 
When Crazy Horse was first born he was given the name 'Curly'. When he was young, he had a vision when he was not supposed to and his family did not know where he was. His father found him and was very unhappy at what young Curly had done.
As Crazy Horse grew into a man, he was given his father's name Crazy Horse. His father then changed his own name to Worm. 
Crazy Horse had good medicine, so he was never killed when he went into battle. He led his people to the Little Bighorn river in northern Montana to join forces with other Sioux bands like the Hunkpapa and Miniconjou, and with other tribes like the Cheyennes and Arapahos. There they fought General George Armstrong Custer, killing and defeating him and his many horsemen.
Eventually Crazy Horse made a tough decision to lead his people, the Oglalas, to a reservation because they were starving. Game was scarce and the bison (buffalo) were nearly gone. He had no choice but to leave the Black Hills. When he arrived at Fort Robinson, he was forced to give up his weapons and horses. This made him very unhappy. One day, even though he was granted time to go on a hunt, he was lied to and, trying to get away, he was stabbed in his liver and died later that night, thus ending the Great Sioux War.
"Once I moved about like the wind. Now I surrender to you and that is all"
Quote by Geronimo, Chief of the Apaches .
The Sioux Royal Family, the House of Thasunke Witko, are descendants of Crazy Horse. A queen, Queen Wakiyan, was elected Queen of the Kingdom of Lakota (in Sioux, "Oglala Oyanke") and of the Oglala Sioux, and tried to improve the economy at the Pine Ridge Reservation with creativity and imagination, and to bring the Sioux forward into modern times;however, a conspiracy of jealous chieftains who were both male chauvinists opposed to having a female leader and also a corrupt group of men jealous of their own power and who prefer to preside over the poverty of the Sioux People, ruthlessly trumped up false allegations in order to depose this good queen.
According to Frederick Hoxie's 'Encyclopedia of North American Indians' Crazy Horse was the third in his male line of descent to bear the name of Crazy Horse, which in Oglala is Tasunke Witko. Tasunke Witko III was the son of Rattling Blanket Woman and Tasunke Witko II. He married three times: 1st to Black Buffalo Woman, 2nd to Black Shawl, and 3rd to Nellie Larrabee (Laravie). Only his second wife, Black Shawl, bore him any children: a daughter named They Are Afraid of Her, who died aged three.

</doc>
<doc id="24162" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24162" title="1185">
1185


</doc>
<doc id="24163" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24163" title="1377">
1377


</doc>
<doc id="24164" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24164" title="He-Man and the Masters of the Universe">
He-Man and the Masters of the Universe

He-Man and the Masters of the Universe was a cartoon series, that first came out in 1983. It aired in first run syndication. It was based on a popular toy line and told the story of Adam, who was prince of the planet, Eternia. Prince Adam had a magic sword that could turn him into He-Man, the most powerful man in the universe. He-Man along with, Battle Cat, Teela, Man-At-Arms, and Orko, fought Skeletor, who wanted to take over the universe. It was very popular and inspired 2 more shows, one made in the early 1990s and another in 2002. There was also a spin-off called "", which was about He-Man's sister.

</doc>
<doc id="24165" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24165" title="Fantasia Barrino">
Fantasia Barrino

Fantasia Barrino (born June 30, 1984) is an American singer. She was the winner of the third season on "American Idol".

</doc>
<doc id="24174" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24174" title="Cabrillo Beach">
Cabrillo Beach

Cabrillo Beach is a historic beach in San Pedro, California. 
Cabrillo has two separate beach areas.
Los Angeles City and Los Angeles County Lifeguards are responsible for the beach and ocean safety in and around the Cabrillo Beach area. 
Cabrillo Beach is next to the Los Angeles Harbor and is only a short boat ride away from Catalina Island.
Cabrillo Beach is a popular destination for those interested in water sports, such as windsurfing, kayaking and SCUBA diving. 
Cabrillo Beach is known by windsurfers as "Hurricane Gulch" because of its predictably strong winds.
It is also home to a few famous landmarks, namely the 1.75 mile Los Angeles Breakwater which ends at the Angeles Gate Lighthouse, the recently restored Cabrillo Beach Bathhouse, and the Cabrillo Marine Aquarium. The Angels Gate Lighthouse is home to the annual Angel's Gate Lighthouse Swim competition, held by Lifeguards and San Pedro residents each summer.

</doc>
<doc id="24176" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24176" title="Chulalongkorn University">
Chulalongkorn University

Chulalongkorn University () is the oldest university in Thailand. It has been ranked as the number 1 university in Thailand. It is in Bangkok (the capital city of Thailand). It was founded in 1917. Currently, there are about 30,000 students. The name of the university comes from the name of one of the kings of Thailand, (Rama V).
Chulalongkorn University begins the term include Science and Technology, Applied science, Social Science, Humanities. In 2006, begins the term with 492 normal courses including 118 Bachelor's Degrees, 217 Master's Degrees, 93 Doctor's Degrees and 64 others. 
QS World University Ranking by Subject 2016
27 subjects that CU tops in the country's list includes:
Arts & Humanities
Engineering & Technology
Life Sciences & Medicine
Natural Sciences
Social Sciences & Management
9 subjects that CU comes in second on the country's list includes:
Arts & Humanities
Engineering & Technology
Life Sciences & Medicine
Social Sciences & Management
3 subjects that CU ranks third in the country's list includes:
Arts & Humanities
Social Sciences & Management
Other Rankings
International Programs offered at Chulalongkorn University
for more details see Graduate School, Chulalongkorn University.
Normally, this university spends 4 years for studying the same as other universities but Faculty of Education, and Faculty of Architecture spends 5 years for studying. While Faculty of Veterinary Science, Faculty of Medicine, Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences and Faculty of Dentistry spends 6 years.

</doc>
<doc id="24184" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24184" title="Khartoum">
Khartoum

Khartoum is the capital of North Sudan. This big city has over three million people. It is where the Blue Nile and main Nile come together. Its name means "elephant tusk". Two other big cities nearby are Omdurman and Khartoum North.

</doc>
<doc id="24188" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24188" title="Konkani language">
Konkani language

Konkani is a language from India. Konkani belongs to Indo-Aryan family of languages. It is the official language of Goa, a state in India. 
Some people from the part of India known as Konkan speak Konkani language. Konkan is on the west coast of India.
The name "Konkani" means "from the Konkan". The word "Konkan" means corner (kona) and piece/part of earth (kana). The name of the language comes from the place where it is spoken.
People write Konkani in many different scripts(writing systems or alphabets). People from different regions use different scripts. Konkani people from Goa and Maharashtra use Devanagari script. Konkani people from Karnataka use Kannada script. People in Goa use Roman script. Konkani Muslims use Arabic script. Konkani people from Kerala use Malayalam script. Devanagari is the official script.

</doc>
<doc id="24191" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24191" title="Trench">
Trench

A trench is a long, narrow ditch. It is like a tiny valley.
Trench warfare was used in World War I. It was supposed to be a short term barrier so that soldiers would be safe from enemy fire when they could no longer advance. However they ended up as a long term shelter throughout the war as they were easy to defend and neither side could successfully commandeer their oppositions trenches. The trench coat got its name from there. 
Trenches were built as a temporary shield. When armies had more time to prepare, the built more permanent fortifications such as castles. 
Several kinds exist:

</doc>
<doc id="24194" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24194" title="Trench coat">
Trench coat

A trench coat (or trenchcoat) is a type of outdoor clothing. Trenchcoats are long coats made from stiff material, like heavy-duty cotton. They were invented for soldiers to wear in The First World War to keep them warm. Most trench coats also protect the wearer against rain.
In the 1950s, trench coats became a popular fashion item. In the 1980s and 1990s, trench coats were worn by punk rock musicians and gothic rock musicians. 

</doc>
<doc id="24195" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24195" title="Trumpet">
Trumpet

A trumpet is a brass instrument used mainly in Classical music and jazz music. The most common type of trumpet is a B"b" trumpet, meaning that if the player plays a C, it will sound like a B"b" in concert pitch. The trumpet is played by blowing into the mouthpiece and making a "buzzing" sound. There are three keys called valves that the player can press to change the pitch.
The trumpet has been around for about 3000 years. An early example of a brass instrument like a trumpet is called a shofar, which is still used in religious ceremonies. Eventually people started making trumpet-like instruments with wood (for example, the cornetto), and later, with brass.
Many years ago, when the use of instrumental music was growing, trumpets became very important. Trumpets were long and without valves. This meant a player had to control the pitch of the sound with only his mouth, which was very difficult. Everyone respected trumpet players because trumpets were just so difficult to play.
The chromatic trumpet was developed in the late 18th century. Later on, valves were developed, and it became easier to play notes on the trumpet. Still, trumpet is a difficult instrument to master.
Classical music is written for solo trumpet, and trumpets are included in orchestras. Trumpets play an important part in Jazz music, and other various popular genres. Sometimes, they also play short parts to emphasize sections in rock songs.
Some famous classical trumpet players are Adolph Herseth, Sergei Nakariakov and Maurice Andre.
Some famous jazz trumpet players are Miles Davis, Louis Armstrong, Arturo Sandoval, Wynton Marsalis, Dizzy Gillepsie, and Maynard Ferguson.

</doc>
<doc id="24196" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24196" title="Microwave">
Microwave

A microwave is a kind of high-frequency radio wave. It is often used to heat food in a microwave oven.
When something moves, it almost always has a wave pattern to its movement - this can be seen in water most easily, with ripples and ocean waves. A very common type of wave in the universe is electromagnetic waves. Light is an example of an electromagnetic wave, and so is a microwave. We can only see electromagnetic radiation in the visible light spectrum (which is why it's called the visible light spectrum), so microwaves are invisible. 
Radio telescopes and radar mostly use microwaves. 
Microwave ovens work because microwaves make polar molecules (that is, molecules that act like tiny magnets) all face the same direction - to visualize it, imagine that the microwave oven is telling all of the molecules to face left. Then, the microwave oven reverses the waves, so that all of the molecules have to face the other direction - right, in this case. 
Heat is just the movement of molecules, so when the microwave oven tells the molecules to turn left, then right, then left, over and over again, this makes them get hotter. 
Water is the most common polar molecule in food, which is why dry foods don't tend to heat as well, or at all, in microwaves. Microwaves get absorbed by these polar molecules, but are ignored by non-polar molecules, and this is why microwaves can penetrate deep into certain kinds of food faster than regular heat. This is also why microwaves don't heat many plastics - those plastics that are non-polar get ignored, so the microwaves go straight through to the food. 
Metals tend to spark in microwaves, rather than heating. The reason why is that metals like to give away electrons, so when the microwaves "push" at their magnet-like electrons, instead of turning, they just give the electrons away. A bunch of electrons running off on metal is called electricity, and we see it in the form of sparks.

</doc>
<doc id="24198" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24198" title="Microwave oven">
Microwave oven

A microwave oven (commonly called a microwave) is a machine that cooks food using microwaves, a type of radio wave. The idea was invented when a scientist who was experimenting with radio waves saw his chocolate bar, which he was holding at that time, melt. He then knew that radio waves could cook food and invented the microwave oven. 
Food is placed inside the oven, and buttons on the screen are pressed to set how long the food should be cooked. A microwave oven is one of the fastest ways of cooking.
The microwave oven uses a magnetron. This is similar to a radio transmitter. It makes very short radio waves which go into the food to a depth of about 2.5cm (one inch). This makes water molecules swing to and fro at about 2.5 billion times a second. This heats up the molecules around it. As they heat up the heat goes to the inside of the food. This process is called conduction. This also happens in a normal oven, but microwave energy goes deeper so that the food cooks much faster. In an ordinary oven the energy stays mostly near the surface
Apart from this the oven has a wave guide, turntable, and a timer switch. When we place the food inside the chamber and turn the timer switch on, it sends a command to the magnetron to send microwaves as well as to the turn table to start turning. The microwaves mostly heat food which has water molecules. (Two atoms of Hydrogen and one atom of oxygen make water. H2O). When the oven is started it sends microwaves. These waves go and touch the water molecules. Then the water molecules start vibrating against each other at a very high speed this generates heat. Fats and sugars are heated less than water, and other foods much less. The turntable moves so that the food is heated evenly. 
Microwaves can go through fine China Bone, Glass or special plastic materials. Metal such as aluminum foil cannot pass the radiation because when the waves come to it they reflect from it and go away. The microwave oven can be used to cook food or only heat it up. 

</doc>
<doc id="24200" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24200" title="Cobalt">
Cobalt

Cobalt (chemical symbol Co) is a chemical element. It has an atomic number of 27 and an atomic mass of about 59. It is a metal.
Cobalt is a transition metal. It is shiny and conducts electricity. It is magnetic. It is a hard metal. It is moderately reactive. Iron is more reactive and copper is less reactive. It dissolves slowly in acids. This reaction makes hydrogen and a salt of cobalt. Cobalt is normally in its +2 oxidation state as an ion. Some chemical compounds contain cobalt ions in its +4 oxidation state. Cobalt(II) chloride is one of the most common cobalt compounds. Many cobalt compounds are blue or pink. One of them is black.
Cobalt comes in two oxidation states, +2 and +3. Most soluble cobalt compounds are red. They can also be green, blue, brown, and black.
Cobalt is too reactive to occur as a pure element in the earth. It is found in certain minerals. It is found with copper and nickel deposits. Normally the three metals are bonded to arsenic and sulfur. It is found as a byproduct (left over substance) when copper and nickel are produced. It is made by reaction with the sludge from copper and nickel processing.
Cobalt is used in some types of steel. It hardens the steel. It is also used to make very strong tough alloys. These alloys are known as superalloys. Some cobalt compounds are used in the lithium-ion battery. Cobalt compounds were used as an artificial food coloring until 1971. It was discovered that it has harmful effects. It is used to make glass blue. It is also used as a catalyst. It is also used in some medicines.
The human body needs small amounts of cobalt for certain vitamins. Cobalt compounds are used to stop cyanide from poisoning the body.
People need cobalt compounds in small amounts, but cobalt is toxic in large quantities. Sometimes cobalt compounds were added to beer, and people that drank it were poisoned. It can cause skin irritation when touched.

</doc>
<doc id="24206" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24206" title="Canidae">
Canidae

Canidae is a family of carnivorous and omnivorous mammals of the order Carnivora. Animals that belong to the family Canidae are called canids. The family Canidae is divided into two tribes: Vulpini ("true foxes"), and Canini ("true dogs").
Canids of the tribe Vulpini (foxes) are called "vulpines". Canids of the tribe Canini (wolves, dogs, coyotes and others) are called "canines". Some people call all these canids "canines", but this is wrong.
Examples of canids are dogs, wolves, foxes, coyotes, and jackals.

</doc>
<doc id="24207" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24207" title="Nickel">
Nickel

Nickel (chemical symbol Ni) is a chemical element. It has an atomic number of 28 and an atomic mass of about 58.69amu. It has 28 protons. It is a transition metal. 
Nickel is a silver-white metal. It is a little golden colored. It is easily polished (made shiny). It is magnetic. It is not magnetic when heated above . It is not soft like many other metals. It can be stretched into wires easily. It is not radioactive.
Nickel is not a reactive metal. It dissolves slowly in acids. It does not rust like iron. It makes a thin coating of nickel(II) oxide which stops more corrosion. Aluminium does a similar thing. 
Nickel is found in two oxidation states: +2, nickel(II); and +3, nickel(III). Nickel(II) is more common. Nickel(III) also is common. Nickel in its +2 oxidation state is green. Nickel(II) chloride is a common +2 oxidation state compound. Nickel(II) oxide is normally dark green, but sometimes it is gray. This is because some of the nickel is in the +3 oxidation state (nickel(III). Nickel(III) compounds are oxidizing agents. They also are grayish. Nickel compounds can be green, blue, gray, or black.
Nickel(II) compounds are not reactive. They are normally green or blue. They are toxic and irritate skin. Some of them are carcinogens.
Nickel(III) compounds are not well characterized (people don't know the properties of them). Some are black or gray.
Nickel is not normally found as a metal in the ground. Sometimes meteorites have nickel and iron metal in them. Normally nickel is in minerals. Nickel hydroxides, sulfides, and silicates are common ores. Russia makes the most nickel.
Nickel was found when a copper-colored ore did not make copper metal. Later it was found out that the ore was actually a nickel ore. Nickel was isolated as a metal in 1751. At first, the copper colored nickel ore was the only source. Later, it was made as a byproduct of cobalt blue making.
Nickel is made from sulfide ores. They are heated to melt them and concentrate them. They are also separated by oils. Nickel is made from its sulfide by heating it in air. This oxidizes the sulfide to sulfur dioxide, leaving liquid nickel behind. This nickel is not pure. Only about 75% of it is nickel.
Nickel can be made purer. It can react with carbon monoxide to make nickel carbonyl, a gas when warm. All the impurities are left behind. The nickel carbonyl is blown into nickel pellets, where it coats the pellets with pure nickel and puts out carbon monoxide. The carbon monoxide is reused (used again). 
Another way to make the nickel pure is by dissolving it in an acid. Then it is electrolyzed to make nickel at the cathode.
Nickel is used in metal alloys. Stainless steel contains nickel. Nickel is also used in nichrome, a name for a nickel-chromium alloy. Nickel is used in coins such as nickels. It is used in magnets. Nickel is used in special expensive alloys called superalloys.
It is used in rechargeable batteries. They are also used to electroplate nickel on items. Nickel and some of its compounds are also used as a catalyst.
Nickel can irritate skin. That is why nickel jewelry is bad for some people. Some nickel salts are carcinogens. Nickel is not as toxic as other metals such as lead or mercury but it is still toxic.

</doc>
<doc id="24208" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24208" title="Fox">
Fox

A fox is a small mammalian carnivore. They hunt and eat live prey, mostly rabbits and rodents (rats and mice). They may also eat grasshoppers, birds' eggs, and even fruit and berries. Sometimes they eat carrion. 
Foxes are the smallest members of the dog family Canidae. There are 27 species of fox. They are swift and agile runners, and live in family groups. A female fox is called a "vixen", and the male is called a "dog". 
Foxes' tails are multi-purpose organs. Their bushy tail helps them keep warm while they are sleeping in cold weather. It is also part of the animal's food store for wintertime. Foxes' plump bushy tail is easily seen, and is used for sending signals to its family members. The tail is also used for balance while running. 
Foxes are found on all continents (except Antarctica), mostly living in forest, shrubland, and desert regions. They were not native to Australia, but were introduced in some way. In the United Kingdom, it was a common sport for people to hunt foxes with horses and dogs. This is now banned.
The informal term 'true fox' refers to members of the Vulpes genus. 
There are 11 species of "Vulpus". They are:
Sometimes the arctic fox ("Alopex lagopus") is included in this genus (as "Vulpes lagopus"). This is because of the way it looks. There is also genetic evidence that shows that the arctic fox is probably a true fox.
Some species of true fox are extinct. Fossils have been found of:

</doc>
<doc id="24213" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24213" title="Food pyramid">
Food pyramid

A food pyramid is a chart that can be used to see how many servings of each food should be eaten each day. It is for having good health.
Grains give carbohydrates and some vitamins and minerals. Vegetables and fruits give a lot of vitamins, some minerals, and few fats, but fruits often have more calories and sugar. Dairy products (like milk, cheese, yogurt, etc.) have protein, some fat, and a lot of calcium, an element that helps build strong bones. Meat have protein, some fat, and B vitamins. Fats, oils, and sweets give calories, fats, and sugars but not a lot of nutrition.

</doc>
<doc id="24215" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24215" title="Torso">
Torso

The torso is the part of the human body where the limbs are attached. Some people also call it the trunk. It is made of chest, back, and abdomen.

</doc>
<doc id="24216" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24216" title="Trunk">
Trunk

Trunk may be:

</doc>
<doc id="24218" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24218" title="Age of Mythology">
Age of Mythology

Age of Mythology is a real-time strategy computer game made by Ensemble Studios. The game has an expansion to it named "". "Age of Mythology" is a spinoff of the "Age of Empires" game series.

</doc>
<doc id="24219" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24219" title="Mississauga, Ontario">
Mississauga, Ontario

Mississauga, Ontario is the sixth-largest city in Canada. It is near the largest city in Canada, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. In fact, it is a part of the Greater Toronto Area. 
On August 2, 1805, Toronto Township was formed when officials from York (what is now the City of Toronto) purchased 84,000 acres (340 km²) of land from the Mississaugas. In January 2010, the Mississaugas and the federal government settled a land claim. The aboriginal people received $145,000,000 from that.
After the land was surveyed, much of it was given in the form of land grants to United Empire Loyalists. They emigrated from the Thirteen Colonies during and after the American Revolution, as well as loyalists from New Brunswick. A group of settlers from New York City arrived in the 1830s. In 1820, the government purchased additional land from the Mississaugas. Additional settlements were established, including: Barbertown, Britannia, Burnhamthorpe, Derry West, Elmbank, Malton, Meadowvale Village, Mount Charles, and Streetsville. European-Canadian growth led to the eventual displacement of the Mississaugas. In 1847, the government relocated them to a reserve in the Grand River Valley, near present-day Hagersville.
In 1873, the Toronto Township Council was formed to oversee the events of the various villages that were unincorporated at that time. The Council's responsibilities included road maintenance, and a police force. Most of present-day Mississauga was agricultural land: including fruit orchards, through much of the 19th and first half of the 20th century. Exceptions included small villages, some gristmills and brickworks served by railway lines, 
In the 1920s, cottages were constructed along the shores of Lake Ontario for people who lived in the city. 17 years later in 1937, 1,410.8 acres of land was sold to build the Malton Airport (later known as the Pearson Airport). It became Canada's busiest airport which also put the end to the community of Elmank.
The township settlements of Lakeview, Cooksville, Lorne Park, Clarkson, Erindale, Sheridan, Dixie, Meadowvale Village, and Malton were combined in 1968 to form the Town of Mississauga. At the time, both Port Credit and Streetsville were left out and remained separate. The town name was chosen by voting. In 1974, Port Credit and Streetsville became part of Mississauga. In that same year, the Square One Shopping Centre opened.
On November 10, 1979, a freight train left its tracks on the Canadian Pacific rail line while carrying explosive and poisonous chemicals just north of the intersection of Mavis Road and Dundas Street. One of the tank cars carrying propane exploded. Since other tank cars were carrying chlorine, the decision was made to evacuate nearby residents. With the possibility of a deadly cloud of chlorine gas spreading through Mississauga, 218,000 people were evacuated. Residents were allowed to return home, once the area was safe. It was one of the largest evacuations in North American history.
Mississauga covers of land, with of shoreline on Lake Ontario.
Mississauga is a quickly growing and multicultural city. Statistics Canada estimates that Mississauga now has 704,000 people, an increase of 150,000 from the previous decade and the population has almost doubled in the past twenty years.
Mississauga has only had three mayors in its past and it was created in 1974. This is because the mayor right now, Hazel McCallion, 93, has been mayor from 1978.
Mississauga is split into 11 wards (parts) each of them having their own councillor.
Also, Mississauga is the largest city in Canada where there are more women in the council than men. 
Mississauga has six legislative (government) ridings that are the same for the Canadian government and the Ontario government. The Canadian government has people in charge of those ridings called M.P.'s (Member of Parliament) and the Ontario government has M.P.P.'s (Member of Provincial Parliament) in charge of them.

</doc>
<doc id="24220" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24220" title="Cambridge, Massachusetts">
Cambridge, Massachusetts

Cambridge is a city in the U.S. state of Massachusetts, just outside of Boston. 
It is the home of Harvard University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT).
The second Wikimania was hosted in this city in 2006.

</doc>
<doc id="24221" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24221" title="1280s">
1280s


</doc>
<doc id="24222" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24222" title="1087">
1087


</doc>
<doc id="24223" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24223" title="1672">
1672


</doc>
<doc id="24224" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24224" title="1684">
1684

Year 1684 was a leap year that started on Saturday when using the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="24225" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24225" title="1713">
1713


</doc>
<doc id="24226" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24226" title="1743">
1743


</doc>
<doc id="24227" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24227" title="Coyote">
Coyote

Coyote ("Canis latrans") is an animal of the Canidae family. The word "coyote" comes from the Náhuatl (Aztec) word cóyotl.
The color of the coyote's fur is a grayish brown to yellowish gray on the upper parts, while the throat and underside are a more white color. The forelegs, sides of the head, muzzle and feet are reddish brown.
Coyotes live only in North America and some areas of Central America. They live in the countryside, but also in cities too. The coyote is found throughout North America from California up to as far as Alaska. They normally live in dens about 6 feet wide and four feet tall.
The coyote is an omnivore and can eat many kinds of food: fruits, grasses, and vegetables in the autumn and winter months along with small animals, for example rabbits, mice, shrews, voles, and foxes. They also eat birds, deer, snakes, and lizards. In the city, coyotes find food easily. They dig up plants in gardens and eat food out of garbage cans. 
Sometimes, they join small packs (groups), but normally hunt alone. Coyotes live in dens. They dig a tunnel under the ground and then dig out a larger area at the end of the tunnel where they sleep and have their babies or pups. They can have six pups at a time. Often a coyote den will have two entrances, with one that is hidden. Sometimes they dig more than one den, so they can move if an enemy finds the den.
Coyotes do not have many enemies. Wolves used to eat coyotes, but there are not many wolves left in North America compared to the number of coyotes. The biggest enemy of the coyote is people. They do not usually attack people, but sometimes eat small pets such as cats.
The coyote is a character of many myths from Native American peoples. The coyote is often portrayed as a joker, and stories are told to explain things he does. For example, why he barks at the moon.

</doc>
<doc id="24229" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24229" title="Vole">
Vole

A vole is a small mouse-like mammal. It is a rodent from a subfamily called the Arvicolinae. They live in woodlands and grasslands.
There are about 155 species of voles. There are species in Europe, Asia, North Africa and North America. The closest relatives of voles are the lemmings and muskrats, which are in the same subfamily.
Adult voles, depending on the species, are 7.5 to 17.5 centimetres (three to seven inches) long. They eat seeds, grass or other plants, and insects.
Many animals hunt voles, for example owls, hawks, coyotes, foxes, weasels, cats and snakes.
The average life of the smaller vole species is three to six months. These voles rarely live longer than 12 months. Larger species, such as the European water vole "Arvicola", live longer. They usually die during their second winter. As many as 88% of voles die during the first month of life.

</doc>
<doc id="24230" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24230" title="Isthmus">
Isthmus

An isthmus is a narrow strip of land, with water on either side, that connects two bigger landmasses. For example, the Isthmus of Panama connects the continents of The Americas (but some people say it has not been a true isthmus since the Panama Canal was built).

</doc>
<doc id="24244" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24244" title="Rodent">
Rodent

Rodents are a very successful group of mammals. They form the order Rodentia. 
They have four incisors. These keep growing, and must be kept worn down by gnawing (eroding teeth by grinding them on something hard); this is the origin of the name, from the Latin "rodere", "to gnaw", and "dent", "tooth".
Most rodents are small. Examples of commonly known rodents are mice, rats, chipmunks, and squirrels. Some other small rodents sometimes kept as pets are Guinea pigs, hamsters, and gerbils.
Examples of larger rodents are porcupines, beavers, and the largest living rodent, the capybara, which can grow to between 105 and 135 cm (40-55 in) in length, and weigh 35 to 65 kg (75-140 lbs).
Almost half of all mammal species are rodents. More examples of rodents are voles, prairie dogs, groundhogs, and chinchillas.
Rabbits, hares, and pikas are sometimes called rodents, because they also have teeth that keep growing. But in 1912 biologists decided to put them in a new, separate order, Lagomorpha, because they have two extra incisors in their upper jaw.
Shrews are sometimes called rodents, because they look like mice, but that is not correct. They are in the order Insectivora.
There are more families than these. The list includes the more common families.

</doc>
<doc id="24265" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24265" title="Titan (moon)">
Titan (moon)

Titan (Ancient Greek: "Τῑτάν") is one of Saturn's moons. It was found by Christiaan Huygens on 25 March 1655. 
Titan is the largest moon of Saturn and the second largest in the Solar System. Titan is larger than the planet Mercury. Its equatorial diameter (wideness at the equator) is 5,150 km. It orbits 1,221,865 km away from Saturn. 
Titan has the most atmosphere of any moon, more than Earth. But humans could not breathe it as it's very cold, and also poisonous. The air is made of nitrogen and methane. Titan is the only place in the Solar System, except Earth, that has lakes and much liquid on its surface. But the liquid is methane, not water.
Titan was discovered on 25 March 1655 by Christiaan Huygens, an astronomer from The Netherlands. Earlier, in 1610, Galileo Galilei had discovered four of Jupiter's moons. This inspired Huygens: he also wanted to discover new moons. Because Huygens had also improved the telescopes of the time, making them a lot better, he thought he might be able to discover a new moon.
Christiaan and his brother, Constantijn, started to build their own telescopes in 1650. Using the first telescope he ever built, Christiaan Huygens was able to see Titan. At first he called it "Luna Saturni", which means "Saturn's moon" (he did not know there was more than one). Through the years, lots of other moons have been discovered and today the moon is known as "Titan" or as "Saturn VI". The name "Titan", and all the names of Saturn's other moons, are from the Greek legends.
Titan is the only moon in the Solar System that has a thick atmosphere (the gases that surround a planet or moon). After the spacecraft Voyager I visited the moon on 12 November 1979, it showed that Titan's surface (the ground level) is hidden under an atmosphere that is 900 km thick. Before this, everyone thought that Titan was the biggest moon in the Solar System. Now we know that it is the second biggest, after Ganymede, one of Jupiter's moons.
Even though it is smaller, Titan is close in size to Ganymede. It is also close in size to the slightly smaller Callisto, another of Jupiter's moons. Not only is Titan a big moon, it is even bigger than the planet Mercury, but it only has half as much mass (it is much lighter). Because Titan does not have a lot of mass, scientist think that Titan is made of matter that is not very heavy, specifically frozen water and ammonia. Some scientists think that there is a lot of liquid water and ammonia underneath the surface, enough to fill an entire ocean. These scientists think that there might be a form of life inside this ocean.
At its centre, Titan has a rocky core that is about 3400 km thick. This core is made up of silicates and metals. The gravity (the force that keeps everything attached to the ground) is a lot weaker than here on earth. If you could jump 1m high on the Earth, you would be able to jump 7m high on Titan.
It takes Titan 15 days and 22 hours to orbit (travel) around Saturn. This is almost the same time it takes Saturn to rotate or spin around its own axis - one full spin. This is known as "synchronous rotation", which means that the same side of Titan is always pointed to Saturn.
The path in which Titan moves, its orbit, is very close to a circle, but not quite. We use the word "eccentricity" to describe the path that a moon or planet travels in. An image with an eccentricity of 0 (zero) has a path that is a perfect circle. If the eccentricity is more than 0, the path is less round (see image below). Titan's eccentricity is 0.028, very close to zero.
On July 1, 2004, the Cassini-Huygens probe entered into orbit around Saturn. On December 25, 2004, the Huygens probe separated from the Cassini probe and started to move towards Titan. It landed on Titan's surface on January 14, 2005. It landed on a dry surface, but it confirmed that large bodies of liquid exist on the moon. The Cassini probe continued to gain data of Titan and a number of the icy moons. It found evidence that the moon Enceladus had water erupting from its geysers. Cassini also proved in July, 2006 that Titan contained hydrocarbon lakes, located near its north pole. In March, 2007, it discovered a large hydrocarbon lake the size of the Caspian Sea near its north pole. The lake of liquid methane has been named Kraken Mare. In 2009, Nasa showed a photograph showing the sunlight reflecting off the surface of the lake. This was the first ever picture of liquid on another world.
In 2012 researchers at NASA discovered that Titan is giving off a faint glow of light. This is believed to be caused by complex chemical reactions occurring in Titan's atmosphere. This kind of light is called an airglow.

</doc>
<doc id="24266" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24266" title="Computer numbering formats">
Computer numbering formats

Computer numbering formats are the ways that computers and calculators represent numbers. Most computers use a system of binary which is composed of ones and zeros.
Other systems in use are the octal (0,1-7) or the hexadecimal (0,1-9,A,B,C,D,E,F) systems.
So we can use codes, which the computer understands only, as well as other number systems.

</doc>
<doc id="24273" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24273" title="1550">
1550


</doc>
<doc id="24274" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24274" title="Columbus, Georgia">
Columbus, Georgia

Columbus is the third largest town, in the U.S. state of Georgia. Coca-Cola and RC Cola (Royal Crown Cola) were first made here. It is south of Atlanta. It is about one hour and thirty minutes to two hours away from Atlanta. 

</doc>
<doc id="24275" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24275" title="Carthage">
Carthage

Carthage is an ancient city-state in what is now Tunisia. It began as a Phoenician colony. In the "Aeneid", an old story by Vergil, Aeneas visited Carthage. He made the Queen of Carthage, Dido, angry and she killed herself as she loved him but he was going to leave her. Carthage at the height of its power was the foremost power in the Mediterranean Sea, controlling parts of Spain, Sicily, North Africa, Sardinia, and the Balearic islands. 
Carthage was a rival for Mediterranean Sea power for the Roman Republic, who wanted to take over the whole western Mediterranean Sea. Carthage was a large obstacle to that. So, in 264 BC, the Romans responded to a plea for help by some rebels in Messina, and landed an army in Sicily. This started the First Punic War. The Romans then invaded the Carthaginian holdings in Sicily, and the Carthaginian generals could not stop them. Even at sea, the Romans were able to copy the Carthaginian bireme ships and win several major victories on the sea, even though the Carthaginians had long fought at sea and the Romans were new to this. 
Finally, a general named Hamilcar Barca took up the Carthaginian defense in place of the decidedly older, less energetic Hanno. Hamilcar immediately realized the futility of meeting the superior roman army in open battle, so he decided to use hit-and-run raids to wear down the Romans. This tactic was slightly more effective against the slow, heavily armored roman troops. Eventually, however the Romans were able to take lilybaeum, the Carthaginian's main stronghold in Sicily, effectively ending Carthage's power in Sicily and ending the First Punic War. 
In the Second Punic War, Hannibal Barca led the Carthaginian army through Spain, southern Gaul, and across the Alps, into Italy in 218 BC. There he clashed with the Roman Republic in 3 major battles: the battle of the River Trebia, the battle of lake Trasmine, and The battle of Cannae. Hannibal defeated the Romans in stunning victories in each of these battles. He failed, however, to take Rome, and eventually had to retreat back to Carthage, where he was defeated by Scipio Africanis in the battle of Zama. The Romans destroyed Carthage in 146 BC, in the third Punic war. The Carthaginians who survived, numbering about 50,000, were sold into slavery.

</doc>
<doc id="24276" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24276" title="1102">
1102


</doc>
<doc id="24278" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24278" title="1569">
1569


</doc>
<doc id="24279" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24279" title="1302">
1302


</doc>
<doc id="24280" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24280" title="Brockton, Massachusetts">
Brockton, Massachusetts

Brockton is a town in Plymouth County in the U.S. state of Massachusetts. It and the town of Plymouth are the county seats of Plymouth County.
Brockton is also called the city of champions because world boxing champs Rocky Marciano n Marvin Hagler came from there.

</doc>
<doc id="24281" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24281" title="Rabat">
Rabat

Rabat (, transliterated ar-Rabāṭ or ar-Ribāṭ, literally "Fortified Place"), population 627 000 hab. ("2005 estimate"), is the capital of the Kingdom of Morocco. It is also the capital of the Rabat-Salé-Kénitra region.
The city is on the Atlantic Ocean at the mouth of the river Bou Regreg. On the other side of the river is Rabat's bedroom community. Together the two cities with Temara have a population of 1.8 million. Silting problems have lowered the city's role as a port. However, Rabat and Salé still maintain somewhat important textile, food processing and construction industries. Some are from sweatshop labor by major businesses.
In addition, tourism and being home to all foreign embassies in Morocco help to make Rabat the second most important city in the country after the larger and economically more significant Casablanca.
Rabat's history began with a settlement, known as Chellah on the banks of the Oued Bou Regreg in the third century BC. In 40 AD, Romans took over Chellah and changed it to the Roman settlement of Sala Colonia. Rome held the colony until 250 AD. They gave it up to local rulers. In 1146, the berber Almohad ruler Abd al-Mu'min turned Rabat's ribat into a full scale fortress. It was used as a starting point for attacks on Spain. In 1170, due to its military importance, Rabat acquired the title "Ribatu l-Fath", meaning "stronghold of victory," from which it gets its current name. 
Yaqub al-Mansur (known as Moulay Yacoub in Morocco), another Almohad Caliph, moved the capital of his empire to Rabat. He built Rabat's city walls, the Kasbah of the Udayas and began construction on what would have been the world's largest mosque. However, Yaqub died and construction stopped. The ruins of the unfinished mosque, along with the Hassan Tower, still stand today.
Yaqub's death a period of decline at first. The Almohad empire lost control of its land in Spain and much of its African territory. Eventually this led to its total collapse. In the 13th century, much of Rabat's economic power shifted to Fez. In 1515 a Moorish explorer, El Wassan, reported that Rabat had declined so much that only 100 houses remained with people living in them. An increase of Moriscos, who had been removed from Spain, in the early 17th century helped boost Rabat's growth.
Rabat and neighboring Salé united to form the Republic of Bou Regreg in 1627. The republic was run by Barbary pirates who used the two cities as base ports for starting attacks on shipping. The pirates did not have to fight with any central authority until the Alaouite Dynasty united Morocco in 1666. They attempted to establish control over the pirates, but failed. European and Muslims authorities continued to attempt to control the pirates over many years. The Republic of Bou Regreg did not collapse until 1818. Even after the republic's collapse, pirates continued to use the port of Rabat. This led to the attack of the city by Austria in 1829 after an Austrian ship had been lost to a pirate attack.
The French invaded Morocco in 1912 and established a protectorate. The French administrator of Morocco, General Hubert Lyautey, decided to move the country's capital from Fez to Rabat. Among other factors, citizens had made Fez an unstable place because of their desire to rebel. Sultan Moulay Youssef followed the decision of the French and moved his home to Rabat. In 1913, Gen. Lyautey hired Henri Prost who designed the Ville Nouvelle (Rabat's modern quarter) as an administrative sector. When Morocco became independent in 1956, Mohammed V, the then King of Morocco, chose to have the capital remain at Rabat.
After World War II, the United States created a military presence in Rabat at the former French air base. By the early 1950s, Rabat Salé Air Base was a U.S. Air Force based hosting the 17th Air Force and the 5th Air Division. These divisions oversaw forward basing for Strategic Air Command (SAC) B-47 Stratojet aircraft in the country. With the destabilization of French government in Morocco, and Moroccan independence in 1956, the government of Mohammed V wanted the U.S. Air Force to pull out of the SAC bases in Morocco. He insisted on such action after Americans became involved in Lebanon in 1958. The United States agreed to leave as of December 1959. They were fully out of Morocco by 1963. SAC felt the Moroccan bases were much less critical with the long range capability of the B-52 Stratofortresses that were replacing the B-47s. It also had completed USAF bases in Spain in 1959. 
With the USAF leaving Rabat-Salé in the 1960s, the facility became a primary facility for the Royal Moroccan Air Force known as Air Base Nº 1, a status it continues to hold.
The biggest place for theatre is the Theatre Mohamed V in the centre of the town. The city also has a few official galleries and an archeological museum. Many organisations are active in cultural and social issues. Orient-Occident Foundation and ONA Foundation are the biggest of these. An independent art scene is active in the city. L'appartement 22, which is the first independent space for visual arts created by Abdellah Karroum, opened in 2002. 
Rabat was selected as a filming location for the war film "Black Hawk Down" (2001).
Rabat will bid to host the 2020 Summer Olympic Games.
Rabat is twinned with:
Rabat features a Mediterranean climate. Along the Atlantic Ocean, Rabat has a mild, temperate climate. It moves from cool in winter to warm days in the summer months. The nights are always cool (or colder in winter) Daytime temperatures generally always rise about +9/10 C° (+15/18 F°) every day. The winter highs usually reach only in December-January ("see weather-table below").

</doc>
<doc id="24283" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24283" title="1222">
1222


</doc>
<doc id="24284" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24284" title="Duke Kahanamoku">
Duke Kahanamoku

Duke Kahanamoku (August 24, 1890 – January 22, 1968), was a Hawaiian athlete who is called the inventor of modern surfing. He was also on the United States Olympic team as a swimmer, and won several silver and gold medals.
Contrary to some misinformation on the internet, Duke is not known as the Big Kahuna. He himself rejected that term, because he knew its meaning. The Big Kahuna is a character in the Gidget story, which is based on a portrayal of Tube Steak Tracy, a famous surfer of the '40s & '50s in Malibu.

</doc>
<doc id="24285" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24285" title="Overland Park, Kansas">
Overland Park, Kansas

Overland Park is a city in the U.S. state of Kansas. It's a suburb of Kansas City. 

</doc>
<doc id="24286" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24286" title="Bedford">
Bedford

Bedford is a markettown of Bedfordshire, England. It has a population of more than 79,000 people (100,000 if the people living in Kempston are included). It is formed of multiple districts, such as Putnoe, Goldington, Brickhill and Woodside. Many people also live in the smaller villages surrounding Bedford, such as Sandy, Willington, Cople and Cardington. It has many outstanding schools, both State and Public. It is one of only two places nationally that has a three tear school system, although it is currently undergoing the transition to two-tear. There are academies, Bedford Free School, community and an SEN schools. It is also a place with a large diversity of nationalities, such as Italians and Polish, stemming from the Brick works that used to stand in ...
The town of Bedford is about 1000 years old. There was a castle there, but it was destroyed in 1224. A small hill with a tower now stands in the place of the castle. It overlooks the river Great Ouse which flows through the town. Every four years a River Festival is held there, with stalls, a fair and dragon boat races. Bedford was a market town from the early Middle Ages. It was given its borough charter in 1166 by Henry II.
During the last century many people moved to Bedford because there were good schools there. There are four public schools which are governed by the Harpur Trust: Bedford Boys School, Bedford Girls School, Bedford Modern and Pilgrims Pre-Preparatory School. There are also some smaller private schools. 
Bedford also has various local authority schools. Bedford Borough operates a three-tier education system in some of the area, arranged into lower, middle and upper schools, as recommended in the Plowden Report of 1967. Many students study at the University of Bedfordshire, which is based in Bedford and Luton. Bedford College offers further education. Also, Stella Mann College is a private college which offers a range of further education courses for the performing arts.
Hundreds of school children can take part in Bedfordshire Youth Music courses during the holidays, have music lessons in school and participate in the orchestra. There is also a Bedfordshire Youth Theatre that runs activities for all age groups.
The town of Bedford has scenic routes to walk along the banks of the River Great Ouse. The banks of the river by the town centre are called The Embankment. There are nice gardens there and two bridges for pedestrians, one of which is called The Butterfly Bridge. The newer of these bridges is known as the “Butterfly Bridge” because it is shaped like a butterfly.
Every two years, an event called Bedford River Festival is held near the river in Bedford during early July. The event lasts for two days. About 250,000 people go there to enjoy all the events, the sports, food, funfairs and live music.
The big church in the centre of the town is called St Paul’s Church. It stands in St Paul’s Square. It has a tall spire which can be seen from a long way away. There was a church there in 1066. The present church was started in the early 13th century and gradually more parts were added. The tower and spire were completely rebuilt in the 1860s. John Bunyan and John Wesley both preached in the church. There is a stained glass window dedicated to Sir William Harpur who gave his money to charity in the 16th century allowing almshouses and schools to be built in Bedford.
There are museums in Bedford. The Cecil Higgins Art Gallery is in the Victorian home of the Higgins family who used to be brewers. A modern building next to it has paintings, ceramics, glass and lace. The Bedford Museum is next door and has things from Bedford’s history. Just round the corner is the John Bunyan museum showing things about Bedford’s most famous writer.
Bedford Hospital is split between two sites in the town. It serves people from the whole of Mid Bedford. Many discussions are still taking place about the future of the hospital and how it should be organized.
There are many shops in the town centre, as well as out-of-town shopping areas. The Aspects Leisure Centre has cinemas and other amusements. It is near the opposite end of the Embankment from the town centre.
There is a lot of opportunity to hear music in Bedford. Many local musicians play in the Bedfordshire Symphony Orchestra and the Bedford Sinfonia. They give their concerts in the Corn Exchange in St Paul’s Square, where one can also hear concerts given by the famous professional Philharmonia Orchestra who give a series of concerts during the year. There are several amateur choirs including the large Bedford Choral Society and the chamber choirs Cantamus and Concord Singers. The Bedford Music Club organizes chamber concerts on Thursdays during the year, and there are many other musical events including lunch hour concerts at St Paul’s Church. In August the 'Proms In The Park' takes place in Bedford Park. It is given by the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra and attracts thousands of people who take rugs and food and sit on the grass to listen to the music.
Although Bedford has no large theatre there are many amateur groups such as the Bedford Dramatic Club, Swan Theatre Company, Bedford Marianettes who perform in several places such as the Bowen West Theatre and Civic Theatre. There are also several local bands.
As Bedford has a river there is a lot of opportunity for rowing. Bedford has two rugby union teams called Bedford Blues and Bedford Athletic. Bedford Blues are now in the second tier of English rugby, although they have previously been in the top division. Bedford has an athletic stadium, home to many famous sports personalities and trains youth.
Bedford’s main railway station is in Midland Road. Capital Connect run trains from Bedford to Brighton passing through London, and Midland Main Line have trains that go from London, passing through Bedford on their way to Leeds. There are also trains to Bletchley in Milton Keynes, and the Marston Vale Line which also stops at Bedford St Johns railway station.
There is a lot of traffic in Bedford as several roads spread out from the centre of the town in all directions. The M1 is 8 miles to the west, and the Al is about the same distance to the east. Bedford now has a by-pass between Milton Keynes and the Black Cat Round About near St. Neots. 
Buses from Bedford travel to Northampton, Milton Keynes, Cambridge, Oxford and other towns in the region. Most of these services depart from the main bus station in the town. This bus station is currently undergoing renevation as part of a scheme to upgrade facilities in the town centre, including free car parking for two hours on Saturday.
There are many Italian people living in Bedford. Many of them came from the 1950s onwards to work at the brickworks of the London Brick Company. There are many Italian bars and restaurants and social clubs as well as a church and a vice-consulate. Many of the people who came in the 1950s now have grandchildren growing up in Bedford, and many of them have married people from other cultures. More recently many people have immigrated from other parts of the world such as South Asia and Eastern Europe (particularly in the last few years), Greece, Cyprus, the Middle East and Africa. Many languages are spoken in Bedford including Italian, Punjabi, Turkish, Polish, Portuguese, Cantonese and Mandarin Chinese. There is a big, new Sikh temple in the district known as Queen’s Park.
Bedford is twinned with:
The town of Kempston has now grown to be part of Bedford. The villages in the Borough of Bedford with populations of more than 2,000 are Biddenham, Bromham, Clapham, Elstow, Oakley, Sharnbrook, Shortstown, Wilstead, and Wootton. There are also many smaller villages in the borough. The villages in the borough are popular with commuters to Bedford, and also with people who commute to Milton Keynes, which is a bigger employment centre than Bedford, and to London.
The most famous person from Bedford was John Bunyan, the author of "The Pilgrim's Progress". He was born in Harrowden, near Elstow which is just outside Bedford. Later he lived in St Cuthbert Street, which is the next street east parallel to the High Street, but was still just at the edge of Bedford at that time. Bunyan Meeting is a church on the site where Bunyan, at the end of his life, was allowed to have a barn to preach. It is joined to the Bunyan Museum. There is a statue of Bunyan on the corner of the High Street by Bedford School. 
Other famous Bedfordians include Sir William Harpur, the philanthropist, John Howard, the prison reformer, Charles Wells, founder of Charles Wells Brewery, a company which is still in the town, Ronnie Barker the comedian, Media Personality and former 'Countdown' Co-host Carol Vorderman and John Le Mesurier, actor and comedian. People who went to school in Bedford include the politician Paddy Ashdown, the cricketer Alastair Cook, the playwright Christopher Fry and the athlete Paula Radcliffe.Also cricketer Monty Panesar and comedian Al Murray.

</doc>
<doc id="24287" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24287" title="Pentomino">
Pentomino

A pentomino is a 2D shape made out of 5 side-by-side equal-sized squares. They can be found in the books "Chasing Vermeer" and "The Wright 3". It was created by Solomon W. Golomb.
These are the 12 pentominos:

</doc>
<doc id="24288" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24288" title="Ejaculation">
Ejaculation

Ejaculation is when a male person (or other male mammal) shoots out fluid from his erect penis after it has been aroused or stimulated (excited sexually). It happens when he has an orgasm. This article is about ejaculation in human beings. 
When a man is stimulated, his penis becomes erect. When he has an orgasm, semen comes out from the end of his penis. Semen contains sperm and other substances. How long a man can be stimulated before ejaculating, how long the ejaculation lasts, the strength of the ejaculation, and the amount of semen that comes out, all vary from one man to another. When a man ejaculates, he has a very good feeling in his penis and his groin area (the part of his body where his torso joins the top of his legs). A man can ejaculate after he masturbates, is touched by someone else sexually and even if he is not touched (for example, if he looks at sexy pictures, watches sexy videos or thinks about sex). Ejaculation can also happen without control when a man is sleeping. Boys do not ejaculate until they reach puberty.
In a man, ejaculation is what happens when semen shoots out of the end of the penis. Slang terms for ejaculation are "blowing a load" or "blowing a wad", "busting a nut", "creaming", "cumming", "jizzing", "jazzing", "spurting", "squirting" and "skeeting". Ejaculation takes place when the man has an orgasm (the height of sexual excitement), usually after his genitals have been physically stimulated in some way. However, ejaculation can also happen if a man has not been touched, for instance if he becomes aroused or stimulated (made sexually excited) by looking at sexy pictures, watching sexy videos, or thinking about sex. When a man ejaculates while sleeping, it is called nocturnal emission.
Before a man can ejaculate, his penis needs to be stimulated. The penis is usually soft, quite short and hangs down. When a man is stimulated, for example by seeing another naked person, masturbating or being touched by someone else sexually, the inside of his penis fills with blood. This causes it to become longer, thicker, harder and to stand upright, and is called having an erection. Men can be stimulated for different amounts of time before they ejaculate.
Ejaculation takes place in two stages.
After a man has ejaculated, his penis usually becomes soft and shorter again. He may also have an enjoyable and relaxing feeling in his groin area. It takes some time before he can have another erection and ejaculation. This time is called the refractory period. The average refractory period is about half an hour. Younger men normally have a shorter refractory period than older men. Men who are 18 years old have a refractory period of about 15 minutes, while men in their 70s have one of about 20 hours. Some men's penises remain hard after one ejaculation, and they are able to have another ejaculation after some time without losing their erection. Most young and middle-aged men can probably have about two to three ejaculations in a few hours, but it has been said that some men are able to have up to nine ejaculations a day.
When a man ejaculates before he wants to, this is called premature ejaculation. If a man cannot ejaculate after having been aroused for a long time, even though he wants to, this is called delayed ejaculation or anorgasmia. A man who is unable to ejaculate at all is said to have anejaculation. Some men are able to have an orgasm without ejaculating. This is called a dry orgasm.
Apart from giving a man pleasure, ejaculation may help a man stay healthy. A study carried out in Australia seemed to show that men who ejaculate often have less chance of getting prostate cancer.
Semen is known informally as "cum", "jism" or "jizz". Men ejaculate different amounts of semen. Normally, an ejaculation makes between 1.5 and 5 millilitres (up to one teaspoonful) of semen. More semen tends to come out if a man has not ejaculated for many days, or if he has been stimulated for a long time. Older men produce less semen. If a man ejaculates an unusually small amount of semen, this is a medical condition called hypospermia.
Semen is usually a white or yellowish fluid. It starts off being slightly thick and sticky, then after a while it becomes more watery. Semen contains many chemicals. These include citric acid, fructose (a type of sugar), enzymes that speed up chemical reactions in the body, lipids (substances that fat is made of), and slippery fluids that help the semen to move through the urethra.
The number of sperm in an ejaculation of semen depends on many things. There may be more sperm if:
If there are an unusually low number of sperm in an ejaculation, this is called oligospermia. If there are no sperm at all, this is called azoospermia. A man with oligospermia or azoospermia is usually infertile, and cannot or finds it very hard to make a woman pregnant by having sex with her.
If a man has a sexually transmitted infection or STI (an infection that is passed from one person to another by sex), the germs that cause the disease can appear in his semen. If the person that the man has sex with touches the semen, he or she can become infected by the germs and pick up the disease. AIDS, gonorrhea, hepatitis B, herpes and syphillis are examples of STIs. One of the ways for a man to lower the chance of passing on an STI to his sexual partner is to wear a condom on his penis when having sex.
When a man has sexual intercourse with a woman, he places his penis within her vagina and moves his penis back and forth, typically in a thrusting motion, while the woman moves her hips. The vagina is warm and somewhat moist, and it places pressure on the man's penis. These sensations, combined with the friction caused by the in-and-out movements, stimulates the penis, which causes the man to have an orgasm and to ejaculate. If the woman is using birth control this will usually not cause her to become pregnant. Otherwise, the sperm in the semen can travel into the woman's uterus and Fallopian tubes. If there happens to be an ovum or egg cell in a Fallopian tube, a sperm may fuse with the ovum. This is called fertilization, and makes the woman pregnant.
However, before a man ejaculates, a clear, colourless, sticky fluid called pre-ejaculate (also known as pre-ejaculate fluid or informally as pre-cum) can come out of his penis. Pre-ejaculate is produced by the bulbourethral or Cowper's glands. Some tests have shown that pre-ejaculate does not contain any sperm. However, some sperm may have been left behind in the urethra from an earlier ejaculation and the pre-ejaculate may carry this sperm out of the penis. That is why a woman can become pregnant even if the man pulls his penis out of her vagina before he ejaculates. Also, if a man ejaculates near the woman's vagina and semen falls on her body, sperm can accidentally enter the vagina and cause a pregnancy. To avoid the woman becoming pregnant when she does not want to, the man and the woman can use methods of contraception or birth control. For example, the man can wear a condom on his penis, or the woman can take birth control pills.
Young boys cannot ejaculate. A boy's first ejaculation usually happens about one year after he begins puberty, which is when his body starts changing into a man's body. Most boys go through puberty in their teens. The first time a boy ejaculates usually happens when he is asleep. This is called a nocturnal emission (which means "an emission happening at night") or a wet dream. It happens without the boy's control, often when he is having a dream about sex. Scientists believe that wet dreams are the body's way of removing too much semen. When a boy begins masturbating, wet dreams usually stop happening.
When a boy starts to ejaculate, he usually produces only a small amount of semen. The semen is different from what an adult man produces. It is usually clear and stays sticky. It either has no sperm in it, or sperm that do not move properly or do not move at all. A boy's semen only becomes like an adult man's semen about two years after his first ejaculation.

</doc>
<doc id="24289" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24289" title="Team">
Team

A team is a group of people who have a certain task to complete. In order to meet their target, the members of the group must work well with each other.
Successful team - a group of people who tend to meet their target despite barriers. The group members cooperate with each other and take other members' ideas into consideration.
Unsuccessful team - a group of people who have a very difficult time when attempting to complete a certain task. This may be because the members of the group think of only themselves and create an uncomfortable environment for other members of the team.

</doc>
<doc id="24294" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24294" title="Emperor Shōwa">
Emperor Shōwa

, also known as , was the 124th emperor of Japan according to the traditional order of succession. His reign started on December 25, 1926 and ended with his death in 1989. 
The name "Shōwa" was given to Hirohito after he died. Emperors of Japan are normally renamed in this way; and people started using the new name in 1990. During his long reign, many people outside Japan call him Emperor Hirohito, or just Hirohito.
Prince Hirohito was named regent for his father in 1921. He became emperor after his father's death.
Hirohito was the emperor of Japan during the Second Sino-Japanese War which became World War 2. (1931 to 1945). His role in this period is very controversial.
After Japan's defeat in the war, the role of emperor changed. The emperor became a symbol of the state.
Hirohito was the first emperor to travel outside Japan. He visited Europe in 1971 and he traveled to the United States in 1975.
Emperor Showa died of small intestine cancer and was succeeded by his son, Prince Akihito. 
The state funeral for the late emperor was an international event. World leaders attending the funeral included U.S. President George H. W. Bush, French President François Mitterrand, the Duke of Edinburgh. 
Emperor Shōwa is buried in the Imperial Mausoleum in Hachiōji, along with Emperor Taishō.
In an overview of writings by and about Hirohito, OCLC/WorldCat includes roughly 900+ works in 1,500 publications in 15 languages and 31,000 library holdings . 

</doc>
<doc id="24297" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24297" title="Human evolution">
Human evolution

Human evolution is about the origin of human beings. All humans belong to the same species, which has spread from its birthplace in Africa to almost all parts of the world. Its origin in Africa is proved by the fossils which have been found there.
The term 'human' in this context means the genus "Homo". However, studies of human evolution usually include other hominids, such as the Australopithecines, from which the genus "Homo" had diverged (split) by about 2.3 to 2.4 million years ago in Africa. The first "Homo sapiens", the ancestors of today's humans, evolved around 200,000 years ago.
It was known for centuries that man and the apes were related. At heart, their anatomy is similar, despite many superficial differences. This was the reason why Buffon and Linnaeus, in the 18th century, put them together in one family. Charles Darwin's theory of evolution says that such basic structural similarity comes from the common origin of the group. The apes and man are close relatives, and are primates: the order of mammals which includes monkeys, apes, lemurs and tarsiers. 
The great apes live in tropical rainforests. It is thought that human evolution started when a group of apes began to live more in the savannah. Savannah is more open, with trees, shrubs and grass. This group, the australopithecines, started walking on two legs. They began to use their hands to carry things. Life in the open was different, and there was a big advantage in having better brains. Their brains grew larger, and they began to make simple tools. This began at least 5 million years ago. We have fossils of two or three different groups of walking apes, and one was the ancestor of humans.
The biological name for "human" or "man" is "Homo". The modern human species is called "Homo sapiens". "Sapiens" means "thought". "Homo sapiens" means "the thinking man". 
Paleoanthropology looks at ancient human fossils, tools, and other signs of early human life. It began in the 19th century with the discovery of a skull of "Neanderthal man" in 1856.
By 1859, zoologists had known for a long time that humans are, in their anatomy, similar to the great apes. There are also differences: humans can speak, for example. But the similarities are more basic than the differences. Humans also have features with a much older history, from early in the life of vertebrates. 
The idea that species are the result of evolution had been proposed before Darwin, but his book gave much evidence, and many were persuaded by it. The book was "On the Origin of Species by means of Natural Selection", published in November 1859. In this book, Darwin wrote about the idea of evolution in general, rather than the evolution of humans. "Light will be thrown on the origin of man and his history", was all Darwin wrote on the subject. Nevertheless, the implication of the theory was clear to readers at the time.
Several people discussed the evolution of humans. Among them were Thomas Huxley and Charles Lyell. Huxley convincingly illustrated many of the similarities and differences between humans and apes in his 1863 book "Evidence as to Man's Place in Nature". When Darwin published his own book on the subject, "The Descent of Man, and selection in relation to sex", the idea of human evolution was already well-known. The theory was controversial. Even some of Darwin's supporters (such as Alfred Russel Wallace and Charles Lyell) did not like the idea that human beings have evolved their impressive mental capacities and moral sensibilities through natural selection.
Since the 18th century, scientists thought the great apes to be closely related to human beings. In the 19th century, they speculated that the closest living relatives of humans were either chimpanzees or gorillas. Both live in central Africa in tropical rainforests. It turns out that the chimpanzee species are closest to us. Biologists believed that humans share a "common ancestor" with other African great apes and that fossils of these ancestors would be found in Africa, which they have been. It is now accepted by virtually all biologists that humans are not only similar to the great apes, but actually are great apes.
The issue was finally settled in modern times by studies on the sequences of proteins and genes in apes and man. These studies showed that man shares about 98/99% of these structures with chimpanzees. This is a much closer relationship than with any other type of animal, and fully supports the ideas put forward in the 19th century by Darwin and Huxley.
Primates have diversified in habitats such as trees and bushes. They have many features which are adaptations to this environment. Here are some of those traits:
Not all primates have these anatomical traits, nor is every trait unique to primates. Primates are frequently highly social, live in groups with 'flexible dominance hierarchies'.
Closely related animals almost always have closely related parasites. This usually comes about because parasites evolve with their hosts, and when host populations split, their parasites split also. It is also possible for parasites to get from one species to another. Two of the most serious parasitic infections of humans in Africa have originated in apes. Each may have been transferred to humans by a single cross-species event. 
There are several species of mosquito, and several species of the malarial parasite "Plasmodium". The most serious type, "P. falciparum", which kills many millions of people each year, originated in gorillas. It is now virtually certain that chimpanzees are the source of HIV-1, the major cause of AIDS. This information is got by the sequence analysis of ape and human viruses.
The relevance of this to evolution is that our physiology is so close to the apes that their parasites were able to transfer to humans with great success. Humans have much less resistance to these parasites, which are ancient in origin, but comparatively new to our species.
It was not until the 1920s that hominid fossils were discovered in Africa. In 1924, Raymond Dart described "Australopithecus africanus". The specimen was called the Taung Child, an australopithecine infant discovered in a cave deposit being mined for concrete at Taung, South Africa. The remains were a remarkably well-preserved tiny skull and a cast of the inside of the individual's skull. Although the brain was small (410 cm³), its shape was rounded, unlike that of chimpanzees and gorillas, and more like a modern human brain. Also, the specimen had short canine teeth, and the position of the foramen magnum was evidence of bipedal locomotion. All of these traits convinced Dart that the Taung baby was a bipedal human ancestor, a transitional form between apes and humans. 
It took another 20 years before Dart's claims were taken seriously. This was after other similar skeletons had been found. The most common view of the time was that a large brain evolved "before" bipedality, the ability to walk on two feet more or less upright. It was thought that intelligence similar to that of modern humans was necessary for bipedalism. This turned out to be wrong: bipedality came first.
The australopithecines are now thought to be immediate ancestors of the genus "Homo", the group to which modern humans belong. Both australopithecines and "Homo sapiens" are part of the tribe Hominini, but recent data has brought into doubt the position of "A. africanus" as a direct ancestor of modern humans; it may well have been a cousin. The australopithecines were originally classified as either gracile or robust. The robust variety of "Australopithecus" has since been reclassified as "Paranthropus", although it is still regarded as a subgenus of "Australopithecus" by some authors.
In the 1930s, when the robust specimens were first described, the "Paranthropus" genus was used. During the 1960s, the robust variety was moved into "Australopithecus". The recent trend has been back to the original classification as a separate genus.
It was Carolus Linnaeus who chose the name "Homo". Today, there is only one species in the genus: "Homo sapiens". There were other species, but they became extinct. 
The figure shows where some of them lived and at what time. Some of the other species might have been ancestors of "H. sapiens". Many were likely our "cousins", they developed away from our ancestral line. 
Anthropologists are still investigating the exact line of descent. A consensus on which should count as separate species and which as subspecies has not been reached yet. In some cases this is because there are very few fossils, in other cases it is due to the slight differences used to classify species in the "Homo" genus.
The evolution of the genus "Homo" took place mostly in the Pleistocene. The whole genus is characterised by its use of stone tools, initially crude, and becoming ever more sophisticated. So much so that in archaeology and anthropology the Pleistocene is usually referred to as the Palaeolithic, or the Stone Age.
"Homo habilils" was likely the first species of Homo. It developed from the Australopithecus, about 2.5 million years ago. It lived until about 1.4 million years ago. It had smaller molars (back teeth) and larger brains than the Australopithecines.
There are two proposed species that lived from 1.9 to 1.6 million years ago. Their relation has not been clarified. One of them is called "Homo rudolfensis". It is known from a single incomplete skull from Kenya. Scientists have suggested that this was just another habilis, but this has not been confirmed. The other is currently called "Homo georgicus". It is from Georgia and may be an intermediate form between "H. habilis" and "H. erectus", or a sub-species of "H. erectus".
"Homo erectus" was first discovered on the island of Java in Indonesia, in 1891. The discoverer, Eugene Dubois originally called it "Pithecanthropus erectus" based on its morphology that he considered to be intermediate between that of humans and apes. Homo erectus lived lived from about 1.8 million to 70,000 years ago. The earlier specimens (from 1.8 to 1.2 million years ago) are sometimes seen as a different species, or a subspecies. called "Homo ergaster", or "Homo erectus ergaster'. 
In the Early Pleistocene, 1.5–1 mya, in Africa, Asia, and Europe, presumably, some populations of "Homo habilis" evolved larger brains and made more elaborate stone tools; these differences and others are sufficient for anthropologists to classify them as a new species, "H. erectus". In addition "H. erectus" was the first human ancestor to walk truly upright. This was made possible by the evolution of locking knees and a different location of the foramen magnum (the hole in the skull where the spine enters). They may have used fire to cook their meat.
A famous example of "Homo erectus" is Peking Man; others were found in Asia (notably in Indonesia), Africa, and Europe. Many paleoanthropologists are now using the term "Homo ergaster" for the non-Asian forms of this group. They reserve "H. erectus" only for those fossils found in the Asian region that meet certain requirements (as to skeleton and skull) which differ slightly from ergaster.
"Homo neaderthalensis" (usually called Neanderthal man) lived from about 250,000 to about 30,000 years ago. Also, less usual, as "Homo sapiens neanderthalensis": there is still some discussion if it was a separate species "Homo neanderthalensis", or a subspecies of "H. sapiens". While the debate remains unsettled, evidence from mitochondrial DNA and Y-chromosomal DNA sequencing indicates that little or no gene flow occurred between "H. neanderthalensis" and "H. sapiens", and, therefore, the two were separate species. In 1997, Dr. Mark Stoneking, then an associate professor of anthropology at Pennsylvania State University, stated: 
More investigation of a second source of Neanderthal DNA supported these findings.
A genetic analysis of a piece of finger bone found in Siberia has produced a surprise result. It dates to about 40,000 years ago, at a time when Neanderthals and modern man were living in the area. German researchers found its mitochondrial DNA did not match either that of our species or that of Neanderthals. If this result is correct, the bone belongs to a previously unknown species. The degree of difference in the DNA suggests this species split off from our family tree about a million years ago, well before the split between our species and Neanderthals.
"Homo floresiensis", which lived about 100,000–12,000 years ago has been nicknamed "hobbit" for its small size. Its size may be a result of island dwarfism, the tendency for large mammals to evolve smaller forms on islands. "H. floresiensis" is intriguing both for its size and its age. It is a concrete example of a recent species of the genus "Homo" that shows derived traits not shared with modern humans. In other words, "H. floresiensis" share a common ancestor with modern humans, but split from the modern human lineage and followed a different evolutionary path. The main find was a skeleton believed to be a woman of about 30 years of age. Found in 2003 it has been dated to approximately 18,000 years old. The living woman was estimated to be one meter in height, with a brain volume of just 380 cm This is small for a chimpanzee and less than a third of the "H. sapiens" average of 1400 cm.
There is an ongoing debate over whether "H. floresiensis" is indeed a separate species. Some scientists believe that "H. floresiensis" was a modern "H. sapiens" suffering from pathological dwarfism. Modern humans who live on Flores, the island where the skeleton was found, are pygmies. This fact is consistent with either theory. One line of attack on "H. floresiensis" is that it was found with tools only associated with "H. sapiens".
Stone artefacts have now been found on Flores which can be dated to a million years ago. These artefacts are "proxies"; which means there were no skeletons of humans, but only a species of "Homo" could have made the artefacts. The artefacts are flakes and other implements, 48 in all, some of which show signs of being worked to produce a cutting edge. This means that humans were present on Flores by that date, but it does not tell us which species that was.
"Homo sapiens" has lived from about 250,000 years ago to the present. Between 400,000 years ago and the second warm period in the Middle Pleistocene, around 250,000 years ago, its skull grew and more sophisticated technologies based on stone tools developed. One possibility is that a transition between "H. erectus" to "H. sapiens" occurred. The evidence of Java Man suggests there was an initial migration of "H. erectus" out of Africa. Then, much later, a further development of "H. sapiens" from "H. erectus" in Africa. Then a subsequent migration within and out of Africa eventually replaced the earlier "H. erectus". 
Studies of the human genome, especially the Y-chromosome DNA and mitochondrial DNA, have supported a recent African origin. Evidence from autosomal DNA also supports the recent African origin. The details of this great saga are not fully established yet, but by about 90,000 years ago they had moved into Eurasia and the Middle East. This was the area where Neanderthals, "Homo neanderthalensis", had been living for a long time (at least 500,000 years in western Europe).
By about 42 to 44,000 years ago "Homo sapiens" had reached western Europe, including Britain. In Europe and western Asia, "Homo sapiens" replaced the Neanderthals by about 35,000 years ago. The details of how this happened are not known.
At roughly the same time "Homo sapiens" arrived in Australia. Their arrival in the Americas was much later, about 15,000 years ago. All these earlier groups of modern man were hunter-gatherers.
Current research has established that human beings are genetically rather homogenous (similar). The DNA of individuals is more alike than usual for most species. This may have resulted from their relatively recent evolution or from the Toba catastrophe. Distinctive genetic have arisen as a result of small groups of people moving into new environmental circumstances. These adapted traits are a very small component of the "Homo sapiens" genome and include such outward 'racial' characteristics as skin color and nose shape, and internal characteristics such as the ability to breathe more efficiently at high altitudes.
"H. sapiens idaltu", from Ethiopia, about 160,000 years ago, is a proposed subspecies. It is the oldest known anatomically modern human.
This list is in chronological order by genus.

</doc>
<doc id="24298" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24298" title="Ancient Rome">
Ancient Rome

Ancient Rome is the name for a civilization. It began as a small farming community in Italy in the 8th century BC. It grew to become the largest empire in the ancient world. It started as a monarchy, then became a republic, then an empire.
The Roman Empire was so big that there were problems ruling a territory which stretched from Britain to the Middle East. In 293 AD, Diocletian split the empire into two parts. A century later, in 395 AD, it was permanently split into the Western Roman Empire and the Eastern Roman Empire.
The Western Empire ended because of the Germanic tribe, the Visigoths in 476 AD. In the 5th century AD, the western part of the empire split up into different kingdoms. The eastern Roman Empire stayed together as the Byzantine Empire. The Byzantine Empire was defeated by the Ottoman Empire in 1453.
Roman culture spread to Western Europe and the area around the Mediterranean Sea. Its history still has a big influence on the world today. For example, Roman ideas about laws, government, art, literature, and language are important to European culture. The Roman language, Latin, slowly evolved, becoming modern French, Spanish, Italian, and Romanian. Latin also influenced many other languages like English.
Beginning with Emperor Nero in the first century AD, the Roman government did not like Christianity. At certain points in history, people could be put to death because they were Christians. Under Emperor Diocletian, the persecution of Christians became the strongest. However, Christianity became an officially supported religion in the Roman Empire under Constantine I, who was the next Emperor. With the signing of the Edict of Milan in 313, it quickly became the biggest religion. Then in 391 AD by an edict of Emperor Theodosius I made Christianity Rome's official religion.
The Byzantines were threatened by the rise of Islam, whose followers took over the territories of Syria, Armenia and Egypt and soon threatened to take over Constantinople. In the next century, the Arabs also captured southern Italy and Sicily.
The Byzantines survived during the 8th century and, beginning in the 9th century, took back parts of the conquered lands. In 1000 AD, the Eastern Empire was at its largest point, and culture and trade flourished. However, the expansion was suddenly stopped in 1071 at the Battle of Manzikert. This finally made the empire start becoming weaker. After centuries of fighting and Turkic invasions, Emperor Alexius I Comnenus called for help from the West in 1095.
The West responded with the Crusades, eventually resulting in the Fourth Crusade which conquered Constantinople in 1204. New countries including Nicaea took pieces of the now smaller empire. After the recapture of Constantinople by Imperial forces, the empire was little more than a Greek state confined to the Aegean coast. The Eastern Empire came to an end when Mehmed II conquered Constantinople on 29 May 1453.
Remains of Roman work and architecture have been found in the furthest corners of the late Empire.

</doc>
<doc id="24300" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24300" title="Globalization">
Globalization

Globalization is the way that local or national ways of doing things become global, that is, done together around the world. It is about economics or trade, technology, politics, and culture. People feel differently about globalization: some think it helps everyone while others think it hurts some people.
It describes the way countries and people of the world interact and integrate. Globalization has many sides and can be economic, political and/or cultural.
Economic globalization is how countries are coming together as one big global economy, making international trade easier. In the late 20th century, many countries agreed to lower tariffs, or taxes on goods that are imported from other countries. The way Internet and other communication technologies makes it easier for people to buy and sell products from around the world is an example of globalization. Herman E. Daly has said that there is an important difference between internationalization and globalization. Internationalization is about nations working together for the same goals. These are things like treaties, alliances, and other international agreements. Globalization is about international trade being less obstructed by national borders.
Political globalization is how institutions and countries can influence the whole world. The United Nations are an example of globalization because most countries of the world are members of its General Assembly. This international organization can make countries follow rules and apply economic sanctions to a country that doesn't. This means the countries in the U.N will punish them by not talking or trading with them so they don't benefit from globalization. 
Cultural globalization is how culture is becoming homogeneous, which means that people from all over the world act in similar way. For example, many people around the world write with the Latin alphabet, wear T-shirts and jeans and watch Hollywood movies and other media.
Some people, like Noam Chomsky, do not like globalization because they feel it only helps rich people get richer by making poor people poorer. Offshore outsourcing, where companies hire workers in cheaper countries, is often a part of globalization. This sometimes means that some people lose their jobs. Joseph Stiglitz said that international groups like the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) have made it harder for poorer nations to get richer. Globalization also means that problems from other countries will affect your country. For example the Global Financial Crisis of 2008 started in the United States but ended up affecting the entire world.
Many countries also dislike it when international organizations tell them what to do. However they have to do so because of sanctions. Many people also criticize the fact that globalization means that fewer people are deciding what happens to everyone when they don't always represent the people they're acting for.
Some critics of globalization also feel that it leads to global brands, like Coca-Cola and McDonald's, taking over smaller, local shops and businesses. They criticize the fact that powerful countries have bigger influence on world culture than others. For example, the United States is the biggest cultural exporter, which means that countries around the world are becoming like the United States. However, this hurts local cultures. Jean Baudrillard believes that globalization hurts local cultures and is the cause of most terrorism. He also believes that most supporters of globalization just want to stay in power.
Others, like Thomas Friedman, believe that globalization can bring people together and make everyone richer without getting rid of local cultures. People who support globalization also believe that it makes war less likely because it is bad for business. Francis Fukuyama also argued that globalization would eventually lead to a system of world governance which would cause wars to end.
Many believe that globalization helps out poorer nations by bringing them business. A report by the World Bank said that poverty in India and Indonesia was cut in half because of globalization. The report also said that people in poorer nations are living longer and better because they were making more money.

</doc>
<doc id="24301" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24301" title="North Holland">
North Holland

North Holland is a province (area with a local government) of the Netherlands. It is in the northwest. The capital is called Haarlem. Other cities in the province are Amsterdam, Hilversum, Alkmaar, Zaandam, and Hoorn.

</doc>
<doc id="24302" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24302" title="Folk music">
Folk music

Folk music is music that is played or sung by ordinary people (not professional musicians). It is traditional music that people learn by listening to other people playing it and then copying them. We say that the tradition is “orally transmitted” or “handed down orally”, meaning that the music is not written down but taught by speaking (“oral” means “belonging to the mouth”). Every country has its own traditional music. Folk song is part of folk music. A folksinger is a person who sings folk songs.
In the 1960s a new type of music was started by a book Bob Dylan who mixed traditional folk song with rock and roll. This music is sometimes called “folk rock” . 
Folk music is music for everybody to play and listen to. In this way it is different from classical music which is mainly developed by professional musicians for a smaller group of people. Folk music is part of a popular culture, although the term “popular music” or “pop music” today refers to a kind of music which people can hear through television, radio and other means of recording.
In many parts of the world nearly all music is folk music. The term “folk music” is usually used for European and American music which is part of an oral tradition. Folk music as an oral tradition, is much less important than before, in part because of new technology (radio, television etc, and recordings of music ). Folk tunes are now often written down, and they have influenced other kinds of music, so that the differences between various types of music are harder to see.
In older times folk music was part of “communal recreation”. This means that small communities such as villages or families would relax by playing and singing music together. People would often make up a new song or new piece of music, or make changes to music that they already knew. In this way music was always changing. People would get musical ideas from other groups nearby. This is why folk music from neighbouring countries often sound similar.
Ballads were a popular kind of folk music. These were folk songs which told a story (they were “narrative”). Sometimes they had a refrain after each verse so that everybody could join in. Ballads told stories of love, myths or folklore. This is how stories were handed down from one generation to another.
Instrumental folk music was used for dancing. Some of the instruments may have been very simple, such as a pair of sticks, rattle or a simple drum. Other instruments may include fiddle (the folk word for “violin”), bagpipes, harp, zither, or various wind instruments, depending on the time of history and the country.
Some singing was polyphonic, i.e. there were two or more parts (voices). Very often two voices would sing in parallel (going up and down together). In countries such as Russia people sang in three or four parts, e.g. in the tradition of “podgolosnaya” (“underneath the voice”). In countries such as Britain this polyphonic tradition did not exist. Folk songs there were sung by one singer, unaccompanied.
Folk music used different scales. These are called modes. The Ionian mode (like our major scale) was the most common in Western Europe. In some parts of Eastern Europe modes with several semitones were used, but for the most part, half steps were avoided. This results is the tunes being described as tetratonic (four notes per octave) or pentatonic (five notes per octave).
Folk music also includes simple children’s songs and lullabies.
Folk music was sung by people as they worked. In the early days of European immigration in America the pioneers sang as they travelled, cowboys sang as they worked, slaves sang in the cottonfields.
In the 18th century folk music started to have an influence on classical music (or “art music”). People from the higher classes started to be interested in folk music because they were conscious of being part of a tradition. Composers such as Mozart and Schubert wrote folk dances for orchestras or small groups of instruments.
Folk music was used by many composers in the Romantic period. Gustav Mahler used folk song in a lot of his music. In the early twentieth century some composers travelled around collecting folk music which was being played or sung by people in the country. They often used some of these ideas in their music. Bartok did this in Hungary as well as in Bulgaria and in the United States, and people such as Cecil Sharp and the composer Ralph Vaughan Williams collected folk music in England. In the United States the influence of jazz on classical music is all part of the story of folk music.

</doc>
<doc id="24304" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24304" title="Abraham">
Abraham

Abraham (originally Abram) is a man in the Book of Genesis and the Qu'ran. There, he is said to be the father of all Jews. This is because he is their ancestor. Abraham is part of the Jewish, Christian and Islamic religions. Abraham is considered the father of these three religions, which are called Abrahamic religions.
Abraham is the father of Isaac with his wife Sarah. He also has Ishmael with Hagar, Sarah's handmaid, and he has other children with Keturah, whom he marries after Sarah's death. He is the grandfather of Jacob and Esau. Abraham is believed to be the founding patriarch of the Israelites, Ishmaelites and Edomites. Abraham was the third son of Terah and the grandson of Nahor. Abraham's older brothers were named Nahor and Haran.

</doc>
<doc id="24305" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24305" title="Tao Te Ching">
Tao Te Ching

Tao Te Ching ( <nowiki>[</nowiki><nowiki>]</nowiki>) is the Chinese name of a book by a man named Laozi (or Lao Tzu, which literally means "old master"). Laozi was a sage (a wise man) and he was a record-keeper. The title can mean "The Book of the Way and its Virtue." People believe the book was written around 600 BC.
It is an important text to Chinese culture. It is very important in Chinese philosophy (way of thinking) and religion. It is the main book for Taoism, which is both a philosophy and part of Chinese folk religion. It also influenced other philosophies in and around China.
There are many ways to translate the book's title, because each Chinese word has a few meanings:
The book is constructed of a series of poems, each containing a rule, way or belief to becoming successful.
The Tao Te Ching is a short book of about 5,000 Chinese characters. It has 81 short chapters. It has two parts: Part One is the Tao Ching (道經), which is chapters 1–37; Part Two is the Te Ching (德經), which is chapters 38–81.
The Tao Te Ching is one of the most translated books in history, alongside the Bible and the Quran. Why are there thousands of translations? The text is short, the meaning is difficult. There are many interpretations, or ways to understand what the book says.

</doc>
<doc id="24306" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24306" title="Bacon">
Bacon

Bacon is a type of meat that comes from pigs. It is taken from the sides, back, or belly of the pig. It is often cut in thin slices, unlike other cured or smoked pork products. It is usually fried or grilled. It can also be microwaved.
In the USA, back bacon and smoked ham is sometimes called Canadian bacon.
Bacon has lots of fat. Because bacon comes from pigs, some religions will not eat it. In some cultures and religions (such as Islam and Judaism), eating pork may be considered "unclean." Because of this, other varieties of bacon are also made out of turkey or chicken instead. Turkey bacon and chicken bacon usually contain half of the fat of pork-based bacon.

</doc>
<doc id="24308" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24308" title="Molotov-Ribbentrop pact">
Molotov-Ribbentrop pact

The Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact was signed by Vyacheslav Molotov (Russian foreign minister) and Joachim von Ribbentropp (German foreign minister) on 23 August, 1939. The pact promised that neither Russia nor Germany would attack the other. It also divided Poland between them.
However, after the pact (treaty) was signed, Hitler broke it in 1941. This was part of a series of conflicts in World War II.

</doc>
<doc id="24311" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24311" title="Vyacheslav Molotov">
Vyacheslav Molotov

Vyacheslav Mikhailovich Molotov (; – November 8, 1986) was a Soviet politician and diplomat. He was a leading figure in the Soviet government from the 1920s, when he came to power. He was a protégé of Joseph Stalin, until the 1950s. Nikita Khrushchev dismissed him from office. He was the main Soviet signatory of the Molotov-Ribbentrop pact of 1939. This pact was signed between Germany and the USSR, and it was a promise not to attack each other. The pact lasted about two years, until Germany started the invasion of the Soviet Union on June 22, 1941. The Molotov Cocktail, which was invented by Finns fighting against the Soviet invasion of Finland, is named after him.

</doc>
<doc id="24322" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24322" title="Babylonia">
Babylonia

Babylonia was a city state in Mesopotamia in the 2nd millennium BC, over 3000 years ago. Its capital city was Babylon, which meant "The Gate of the Gods". They built an empire out of the lands of the former Akkadian empire.
Mesopotamia is the region of the two rivers, Euphrates and Tigris. At that time the region also included the city states of Assyria to the north, and Elam to the south-east. It is part of the Fertile Crescent in the Middle East. It was there people first lived together in a civilization, with farming, cities and writing. 
The Babylonians had a written language that they used for trade and communication. They got it from the Sumerians, who invented it. The Babylonians used the same cuneiform system of pressing triangular shapes into soft clay. They wrote in two different languages: the Sumerian for religious purposes and Akkadian for official purposes.
Hammurabi was a king of Babylon who fought wars and made Babylonia into an empire by putting Assyria under a vassal (puppet) king. He created the earliest written set of laws, called the "Code of Hammurabi". It has 280 judgments and can be seen today in the Louvre, a museum in Paris. Whereas the earlier Sumerian punishments had not been harsh, Babylonian law was quite severe. The death penalty was given for theft, murder, and other crimes.
The houses in Babylon had open roofs, so that on hot nights, the family could sleep there. The living rooms, dining rooms, and the kitchens were, of course, downstairs. Lamps burned with olive oil, and every house had a chapel for burial and worship ceremonies. Since Mesopotamia had only clay for use in building, the strong wooden supports for the houses were imported from Lebanon. Eventually, people began baking their bricks and improved the strength of their buildings.
Later, Babylon was sacked by the Hittite king Musilis I, which led to the so-called 'Dark Ages' of the Bronze Age, where there is little evidence in writing. The date of the sacking of Babylon is debated by archaeologists, who have proposed no fewer than four chronologies. Possible dates for the sack of Babylon are:
The difficulty is to line up the Mesopotamian dates with the Ancient Egyptian dates.
After the Hittite destruction, Babylon was ruled by Kassites for 576 years. Next it was ruled by Elam, and then regained its independence for about three centuries. They were then conquered by the Neo-Assyrians. A century later they again became free, to form the Neo-Babylonian or Chaldean Empire. This constant conquest and re-conquest is partly due to geography. There are no natural boundaries except the rivers, and it is easy to get at the cities from north or south.
The king Nebuchadnezzar II, whose reign of 43 years made Babylon once more the mistress of the civilized world, conquered Phoenicia in 585 BC. 
The Babylonian empire was finally brought to an end by Cyrus the Great of Persia. 
It was in 549 BC that Cyrus put an end to the empire of the Medes. Three years later Cyrus had become king of the Achaemenid Empire (Persia), and was engaged in a campaign in northern Mesopotamia. 
In 539 BC Cyrus invaded Babylonia. A battle was fought at Opis in the month of June, where the Babylonians were defeated; and immediately afterwards Sippara surrendered to the invader. Two days after the capture of Sippara, "the soldiers of Cyrus entered Babylon without fighting". Cyrus did not arrive until the 3rd of "Marchesvan" (October), Gobryas having acted for him in his absence. Gobryas was now made governor of the province of Babylon.
Cyrus now claimed to be the legitimate successor of the ancient Babylonian kings and the avenger of their god Bel-Marduk. The invasion of Babylonia by Cyrus was doubtless helped by the presence of foreign forced exiles like the Jews, who had been planted in the midst of the country.
One of the first acts of Cyrus was to allow these exiles to return to their own homes, carrying with them the images of their god and their sacred vessels. The permission to do so was embodied in a proclamation, whereby the conqueror endeavored to justify his claim to the Babylonian throne. The feeling was still strong that none had a right to rule over western Asia until he had been consecrated to the office by Bel and his priests; and accordingly, Cyrus henceforth assumed the imperial title of "King of Babylon."
Like the Sumerians, the Babylonians ate vegetables, fruits, meat, and fish. They also ate bread and enjoyed toasting and eating the pesky but crunchy locusts which destroyed their precious crops.
The Babylonians loved art. Beautiful vessels ornamented with sparkling gold were buried with the kings. In those days books dealt with floods which were thought to be caused by sin, or about the journey of Abraham. 
Science, too, improved well: they invented the first calendar, the 60-minute hour, and the advance multiplication table.
Life was rich, full, and usually peaceful. People rarely thought about war or how to protect the city. As a result, Babylon was conquered in 730 BC by the Assyrians and Kassites. This great civilization then ended.

</doc>
<doc id="24323" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24323" title="Joachim von Ribbentrop">
Joachim von Ribbentrop

Ulrich Friedrich Wilhelm Joachim von Ribbentrop (born Ulrich Friedrich Wilhelm Joachim Ribbentrop, 30 April 1893–16 October 1946) was Foreign Minister of Germany from 1938 until 1945. He was executed by hanging for war crimes after the Nuremberg trials.

</doc>
<doc id="24326" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24326" title="Noise">
Noise

Noise is another word for sound. It usually means it is not wanted. Noise is perceived by our ears. They can be damaged by noise. Noise is created through any object, which produces vibration unnecessarily. 
Noise can also mean data (information) that typically does not have a meaning, like "white noise". Loudspeaker measurements can use white noise for measuring loudspeakers frequency response.
Noise can also refer to some math that makes random numbers. Click here to learn about it.
In electronics, heat produces noise in resistors. Depending on the type of resistor, the amount of noise may differ. Most audio devices are designed not to produce noise.

</doc>
<doc id="24328" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24328" title="Karma">
Karma

Karma (car-ma) is a word meaning the result of a person's actions as well as the actions themselves. It is a term about the cycle of cause and effect. According to the theory of Karma, what happens to a person, happens because they caused it with their actions. It is an important part of many religions such as Hinduism and Buddhism.
Karma is about all that a person has done, is doing and will do. Karma is not about punishment or reward. It makes a person responsible for their own life, and how they treat other people.
The "Theory of Karma" is a major belief in Hinduism, Ayyavazhi, Sikhism, Buddhism, and Jainism. All living creatures are responsible for their karma - their actions and the effects of their actions.
 Karma is the universal principle of cause and effect. Our actions, both good and bad, come back to us in the future, helping us to learn from life’s lessons and become better people. In religions that include reincarnation, karma extends through one's present life and all past and future lives as well.
Karma is basically energy. One person throws out energy through thoughts, words and actions, and it comes back, in time, through other people. Karma is the best teacher, forcing people to face the consequences of their actions and thus improve and refine their behavior, or suffer if they do not. Even harsh karma, when faced in wisdom, can be the greatest spark for spiritual growth. The conquest of karma lies in intelligent action and unemotional response.
The process of action and reaction on all levels—physical, mental and spiritual—is karma. One must pay attention to thoughts, because thought can make karmas—good, bad and mixed.
“I say kind words to you, and you feel peaceful and happy. I say harsh words to you, and you become ruffled and upset. The kindness and the harshness will return to me, through others, at a later time.Finally, what I give is what I get back.”
“An architect thinks creative, productive thoughts while drawing plans for a new building. But were he to think destructive, unproductive thoughts, he would soon not be able to accomplish any kind of positive task even if he desired to do so.”
Hindus look at time as a circle, as things cycle around again. Karma is a very just law which, like gravity, treats everyone the same. The law of karma puts man at the center of responsibility for everything he does and everything that is done to him. Understanding the way karma works, Hindus try to live a virtuous life. This is called dharma.
There are three types of karma in Hinduism:
Karma is considered one of the natural laws of the mind, just as gravity is a law of matter. Just as God created gravity to bring order to the physical world, He created karma as a divine system of justice that is self-governing and infinitely fair. It automatically creates the appropriate future experience in response to the current action.
Several different views exist in Hinduism regarding the role of divine beings. In Hinduism, many see the deities or devas as playing some kind of role. Other Hindus, such as the Mimamsakas, reject such notions and see karma as acting independently, considering the natural laws of causation sufficient to explain the effects of karma.
Some interpretations of the Bhagavad Gita suggest an intermediate view, that karma is a law of cause and effect yet God can mitigate karma for His devotees. It is said in Bhagavad Gita that only the karma that is done with a sense of doership and with attachment to the karma could cause good or bad reactions. Karma that is done with an attitude of duty and without attachment to the results will not create any effect and will move one closer to God.
Another view holds that a Satguru, acting on God's behalf, can mitigate or work out some of the karma of the disciple.

</doc>
<doc id="24338" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24338" title="Western hemisphere">
Western hemisphere

The western hemisphere is a geographical term for the half of the Earth that is west of the Prime Meridian. Pretend that the earth is cut in half, from the North Pole, through England, to the South Pole. The Western Hemisphere is the half to the west. The other half is called the Eastern Hemisphere.

</doc>
<doc id="24346" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24346" title="Molotov cocktail">
Molotov cocktail

A Molotov cocktail is the term for a simple incendiary weapon. It is also known as a petrol bomb, fire bomb, or benzine torch. They are relatively easy to make, and may be used by irregular paramilitary forces and rioters. These bombs are also used to commit arson (set fire to buildings).
They were used for the first time in the Spanish Civil War between July 1936 and April 1939, before they became known as "Molotov cocktails".
A Molotov cocktail consists of a glass bottle partly filled with a flammable liquid. The liquid will typically be gasoline, alcohol, methanol or ethanol. The mouth of the bottle is closed with a cork or other type of tight sealing made of rubber, glass, or plastic, and a cloth rag is fixed securely around the mouth. The weapon is used by first soaking the rag in a flammable liquid immediately before using it, lighting the rag, and throwing the bottle at the target. The bottle breaks when it lands, spilling the flammable liquid over the target, which is then ignited by the burning rag.
Many substances may be added to the basic Molotov cocktail to enhance its use as a weapon. These include:
Molotov cocktails are similar to napalm bombs in principle. Napalm was originally made by combining flammable naphthalene and petrol with a thickening agent palmitic acid. The latter two are the main ingredients of Molotov cocktails. When gasoline is used as the main ingredient, motor oil is commonly added to help the gasoline cling to the target.
The name "Molotov cocktail" is derived from Vyacheslav Mikhailovich Molotov, a Soviet politician. He was the People's Commissar for Foreign Affairs, or the Foreign Minister, of the Soviet Union.
During the early part of World War II, when Finland refused to surrender some land to the Soviet Union, the Soviets invaded. The poorly equipped and heavily-outnumbered Finnish Army faced Red Army tanks in what came to be known as the Winter War. The army borrowed an improvised incendiary device from the 1936–39 Spanish Civil War. In that conflict, the Spanish Nationalists under the orders of General Francisco Franco had used the weapon against Soviet T-26 tanks. Those tanks helped the Spanish Republicans in a failed 1936 Soviet assault near Toledo, 30 km from Madrid.
When Molotov claimed in radio broadcasts that the Soviet Union was not dropping bombs but rather delivering food to the starving Finns, the Finns started to call the air bombs satirically "Molotov bread baskets". Soon they responded by saluting the advancing tanks with "Molotov cocktails." At first the term was used to describe only the burning mixture itself, but the term was soon applied to the combination of both the bottle and its contents. This Finnish use of the hand- or sling-thrown explosive against Soviet tanks was repeated in the subsequent Continuation War. Molotov cocktails were eventually mass-produced by the Finnish military, bundled with matches to light them.
These weapons saw widespread use by all sides in World War II. They were very effective against light tanks, and very bad for enemy morale. The following is a first-hand description of their effects, written during the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising in 1943:
During the 1948 Arab–Israeli War, members of the Israeli Kibbutz Degania managed to stop a Syrian tank assault by using Molotov cocktails. They were frequently used against Soviet tanks with great efficiency in the Hungarian Revolution of 1956.
The weapon has been used against tanks effectively because of the conformation of parts of tanks, particularly around the undersides and fuel tank "entrances". A Molotov cocktail could blow up the fuel tank, destroying the machine, particularly for older (before 1940) tank models. Molotov cocktails are much more effective against gasoline engines than diesel engines' tanks. This is because diesel has a high flashpoint of 64 °C – making it more difficult to ignite compared to petrol. Some Soviet tanks actually had an entry to the gas tank on the side of the vehicle, which could be opened by combatants in close quarters, letting out the highly flammable liquid and making destruction of the tank even easier. Note that these tactics were only effective due to the advantage guerrillas had in close quarters; tanks can barely maneuver in such conditions and are not able to counter quick-moving enemies armed with incendiary bombs.
Petrol bombs were widely used throughout the Troubles in Northern Ireland in riot situations, directed towards the RUC or the British Army. As well as occasional situations where they continue to be used against the PSNI and army, they are frequently used in sectarian attacks on homes and businesses by both communities. Fireworks and homemade grenades, known as blast bombs now commonly accompany petrol bomb attacks on the security forces.
As such things can cause a lot of damage, and actually kill people, it is illegal in most countries to make or possess them. When they are used against property, this usually counts as "arson". When they are used against people, the charges range from manslaughter to murder.
Given the recent terrorism laws, such things could also fall under anti-terror legislation.
Molotov cocktails were put to use recently during the riotous 2005 civil unrest in France. Another situation with popularity for them is the Palestinian Intifada.
In Sydney, during the Cronulla Riots, rioters carrying Molotov cocktails were apprehended when they carried open bottles in a bus. The resulting smell of petrol alerted the driver, who in turn alerted the police.
During the Columbine High School massacre, the two gunmen built and threw several Molotov cocktails; however, none of them exploded. It is presumed that this was due to bottles being overfilled.

</doc>
<doc id="24347" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24347" title="Flammability">
Flammability

Flammability or inflammability means that something can be set on fire easily. It will burn easily. The words come from Latin. The word at the base is "in-flammare" (late Latin). It means something like "to put fire to a thing".
"Inflammable" and "flammable" are used to mean the same thing. People sometimes get confused and think that "inflammable" means "not flammable" because the prefix "in" is often used to mean "not". For example, something that is inhuman is not human. Since many people do not know that "inflammable" means "burns easily", "flammable" is used more often in public places as a warning.
Flammability can be tested. Paper, for example, is more flammable than wood, and less flammable natural gas.

</doc>
<doc id="24357" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24357" title="Arson">
Arson

Arson is a crime. When someone deliberately sets fire to a building, vehicle, etc. they do not own and they want to cause damage, it is called arson. A person who commits arson is an arsonist. Arsonists usually use gasoline or kerosene to start a fire. 

</doc>
<doc id="24358" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24358" title="Cocktail">
Cocktail

A cocktail is a kind of mixed drink. Usually, it is made with alcoholic drinks such as vodka, gin or rum. Since such spirits do not have much taste of their own (at around 40% alcohol), other ingredients are added. Common ingredients are fruits, fruit juice, sugar, crushed ice, and ice cubes. If the cocktail is served in a bar or nightclub, it often comes with a piece of fruit on top. For example, a gin and tonic could have a lemon, a Piña Colada could have a pineapple and a cherry.
Most cocktails were invented in the late 19th or early 20th centuries. People began drinking a lot of cocktails in the United States in the 1920s due to Prohibition. Around that time, cocktails from Cuba, such as the mojito, became popular around the world.
Cocktails made without alcohol are also made.
Because all the ingredients give their flavor to the finished drink, a cocktail is only as good as the worst ingredient.
There are many kinds of cocktails. They include:
There is a group called the IBA that determines what common cocktails are, and how they should be made

</doc>
<doc id="24359" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24359" title="1103">
1103


</doc>
<doc id="24361" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24361" title="Sneeze">
Sneeze

A sneeze is a reaction in the nose in which air and mucus (the liquid found in the nose) are forced out quickly. It often happens after breathing dust or other small things into the nose. When people sneeze, their eyes close. This is a natural reflex which keeps the eyes from being bulged by the great pressure of air which is being released through the sinus cavity (the area the nostrils lead into). 
A common thing to say to people when they sneeze is "Bless you!" or in the United States sometimes "Gesundheit!" (from German, meaning "Good health"). There is a story that the blessing started with Pope Gregory VII (540–604 AD). He said a blessing might stop people from getting the bubonic plague which was killing people in Rome at the time. When people sneeze the speed is about 150 kilometers per hour or more.
There is a myth that when you sneeze your heart and all internal organs stop functioning.

</doc>
<doc id="24365" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24365" title="Puma">
Puma

Pumas ("Puma concolor"), also called cougars or mountain lions, are large wild cats that live on the west coast of Canada, in the western half of the United States, and Florida, and most of Central and South America. Pumas are mainly tan-coloured, and can be up to 9 feet long although average length is 6 – 8 feet. They can weigh from 29 kilograms to 90 kilograms. (The males are larger.) Most pumas live 21 years. Although pumas are very large and some are larger than humans, the puma is classified is a small cat. That means that, in scientific terms, the puma is more closely related to the domestic cat than they are to lions. Unlike the big cats in the genus "Panthera", the puma cannot roar. Instead, it can growl, hiss, screech, and purr. Since pumas are, in the biological sense, small cats, they are capable of purring continuously. The big cats can only purr while breathing out. 
Pumas are carnivores because they eat only meat. They hunt deer, raccoons, squirrels, foxes, rabbits and skunks. They can also eat mice, beavers, coyotes, birds and porcupines. They hunt at night. Cougars can see better at night than people can. They can hear well too. Pumas stalk their prey. That is, they walk slowly and quietly, they hide and then when close, they jump or run fast to catch their prey. They live and hunt alone. Female cougars take care of their babies until they are old enough to fend for themselves. Baby cougars are called cubs or kittens.
Cougars live in the mountains and forests far from people. However, encounters with humans do happen sometimes. Cougars have been known to attack humans. 26 people have been killed by cougars in North America in the last 30 years. However, what cougars have done to people is nothing compared to what people have done to cougars. Cougars used to be found all over eastern North America. However, they were hunted to extinction there by the beginning of the 1900's. However, recent sightings of cougars have been reported from Michigan, New Brunswick, southern Indiana, Kentucky, and Vermont. For now, the only confirmed, unambiguous population of cougars east of the Mississippi River is in Florida, where a subspecies of the cougar called the Florida Panther lives.
Schools that have a cougar for a mascot include:

</doc>
<doc id="24370" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24370" title="Google Talk">
Google Talk

Google Talk is a Windows application for Voice over IP and instant messaging, offered by Google. It is built on the XMPP platform. A web-based version is also available online.

</doc>
<doc id="24372" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24372" title="Armour">
Armour

Armour is a protective covering or clothing used to try to prevent injury when being attacked. Armour can be worn by a person, or it can be used to protect machines, animals, even buildings. Armour has always been made from the strongest materials available at the time, but weight has always been a problem. Early body armour was made from leather, then later metals were used (e.g. mail or plate armour). Some modern armour, like bullet-proof vests, are made from plastics that do not stretch or break, such as Kevlar. These plastics may be woven into a cloth and used in layers, which makes them even stronger.
Armour put on vehicles is usually made of metal and can include one layer over another with open spaces in between (spaced armour) or multiple layers of metal; ceramics (baked clay), and other materials. Another type of armour uses blocks of explosive that explode when another explosion goes off near it. This explosive armour protects by pushing against the other explosion. Vehicle armor is often angled to increase the amount of armour that must be shot through to get inside and to make the shot bounce off rather than piercing the armour.
Tanks have the heaviest armour of all land vehicles. Other military vehicles have armour, but not as much as a tank. 
Sometimes armour is put in non-military vehicles, such as limousines used by leaders of a country or by anyone who thinks they might be attacked, e.g. film stars or presidents of major companies.
In the past, armour has also been used in wars to protect animals such as dogs, elephants, and horses. Today, police dogs and horses sometimes wear woven plastic bullet-proof vests.
Many sports involve violent physical contact and may be highly dangerous if the players are unprotected. Such sports include ice hockey, American football and kendo. Sports armour is usually made from hard plastic.

</doc>
<doc id="24374" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24374" title="North Star Computers">
North Star Computers

North Star Computers was one of the earliest manufacturers of microcomputers. Before they started making their first computer, the "North Star Horizon", they made floppy disk drives for S-100 bus computers. They included a disk operating system called "North Star DOS" (or "N*DOS"). The Horizon used the North Star disk controller and operating system. It was one of the first microcomputers that had multi-user features.
Their second computer, called the "North Star Advantage", ran CP/M, and had the keyboard and monitor built-in. The graphics were very powerful for their time. When the IBM PC came out, North Star made an MS-DOS compatible processor card that could be added to the "Advantage".
Their third computer, the "North Star Dimension", was multi-user like the "Horizon", but MS-DOS based.
Because their products in the early 1980s were only MS-DOS compatible, not fully PC compatible, they never sold very many, and the company went out of business.

</doc>
<doc id="24377" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24377" title="Mario Bros.">
Mario Bros.

Mario Bros. is a video game made in 1983. In the game, Mario and/or Luigi must defeat enemies by jumping on them from below and then kicking them, when they are knocked down. It is not only the first game to feature Luigi as a playable character, it also is the first game in which Mario is named Mario. It was later remade for other game consoles at the time. "Mario Bros." was also included with the four "Super Mario Advance" games.

</doc>
<doc id="24379" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24379" title="Oval">
Oval

An oval is a shape. It is round but a bit longer in one direction. 

</doc>
<doc id="24382" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24382" title="Focus">
Focus

Focus is a Latin word for hearth. In English it means many things.

</doc>
<doc id="24403" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24403" title="Pipe organ">
Pipe organ

The pipe organ is a keyboard instrument in which the sound is made by air blowing through pipes. A person who plays the organ is called an organist. The organist plays the instrument using both the hands and the feet. The hands play the keyboards (called manuals), while the feet play pedals which also make notes.
Organs have been made for many centuries. They are usually found in places for Christian worship such as churches and cathedrals, although they may also be found in places like town halls and concert halls or even large private houses. Very small organs can be called “chamber organs”. Organs in large churches, cathedrals or halls are very large instruments indeed, and are built especially for the building they are in. They are called “pipe organs” to distinguish them from modern “electronic organs”.
No two organs are ever quite the same, and they vary greatly from one country to another and one historical period to another. The information here is about organs from Europe, Great Britain and America.
In a pipe organ, the musical notes are made by blowing air through pipes. Every organ must have pipes, something to blow the air and a way of controlling which pipes are played.
The pipes are made of metal or wood. They are lined up in rows in the "organ case" which can be as big as a room. The metal pipes are round tubes. They can be made of different types of metal, but the most common type is an alloy (or mixture of metals) of tin and lead called "spotted metal" because it has round shiny spots on it. This alloy makes pipes sound good as the harder tin provides clarity and definition while the softer lead produces tonal warmth. Very small pipes can sometimes be made of silver, like flutes. Some organs also have some pipes made of brass that sound like trumpets. Most organs have a lot of wooden pipes. The wooden pipes have four flat sides and make a sound different from that of the "spotted metal" pipes. They are not usually seen; they are neatly lined up behind the large metal pipes at the front of the organ which are sometimes painted with colours and patterns. All the pipes have to be made with an end that tapers at the bottom where the air blows in.
Each pipe can play only one note which depends on its size. The small pipes play high notes and the large pipes play low notes. Each pipe has its own special sound which depends on the material it is made from (whether it is wood or brass or spotted metal) and on the shape of the pipe. The pipes are arranged in "ranks" so that all the pipes of the same shape and material can be controlled to play a tune together, without all the others.
To blow air through the organ, there are boxes called "wind chests". When the organist is playing, he/she can see a little gauge that tells whether there is enough air. The wind chests can be kept full in two ways. The old-fashioned way is to have an enormous set of "bellows" which are pumped up and down by a person using a large handle. This sucks in air and fills the wind chest. Pumping the bellows of a large pipe organ is heavy work. For this reason, most organs nowadays have an electric motor and a large fan which fills the wind chest.
The organist uses keyboards like those on a piano to play the organ. A small organ may have just one keyboard, but many organs have two keyboards and a very big one may even have five. Organists do not call them keyboards; they call them "manuals". An organist will talk about "a four-manual organ" (which means it is a large one). The manuals are arranged on the organ "console", and the organist sits on a bench in front of the console to play. Apart from the manuals there are two other important parts of the console. There are a set of long wooden pedals which the organist can play with his/her feet. Each pedal plays a different note.
On either side of the manuals there are rows of "stops" which look like knobs. The stops can be pulled out or pushed in. When a stop is pulled out, it turns on some sets of pipes. The organist can choose whether to play loud pipes or soft pipes, flute-sounding pipes or brassy pipes, sweet pipes or harsh-sounding pipes. As the organist plays, he/she does not just have to think about the right notes. He/she also has to think about the sort of "voice" that the organ should play in. He/she can play different ranks of pipes together by pulling out several stops. Some pipes, usually the biggest decorated pipes at the very front of the organ, are used only for the grandest music. By tradition, these pipes are the symbol of the "Voice of God".
When the organist presses the keys of the organ, the sound comes from the air blowing through the pipes. This is because a valve (an opening with a one-way door) opens up to let the air into the pipe, and closes again when the organist stops pressing that key. This can happen in several ways. Traditional organs have what is called a "tracker action". The trackers are thin wooden rods and wires which move backwards and forwards, opening and shutting all the valves. They are worked by levers under the keyboard. A tracker action organ has to have the console right near the organ, usually under the big front pipes.
A more modern development was to have a "tubular pneumatic" action, in which the console could be away from the organ, but connected to it by tubes through which air could be pushed to open the valves. In the most modern pipe organs, the manual is connected to the organ pipes by electric wires. The power to open and shut the valves is controlled by electro-magnetic switches. The console does not have to be close to the organ. This makes it possible for the organist to sit in a position where he/she has good contact with the people in the church, or with other musicians.
A very small organ may only have one manual (keyboard). Most organs have at least two. In English and American Organs the lower manual is the main one and is called the "Great". The upper manual is called the "Swell" because it operates pipes which are inside a “swell box” which has that can be opened or closed. This makes the music get louder or quieter (crescendo or diminuendo). The organist operates the swell box with a pedal which (rocks to and fro). It is in the centre just above the pedal board. On old English organs the swell box is operated by a lever at the side. This is quite difficult to use. Most of these have now been replaced by central swell boxes.
If there is a third manual, it is called the "Choir" in English-speaking countries. Originally the English called them “chair organs” because they were a separate instrument. The organist had to turn round and face the other way to play it. It is thought that the word "chair" gradually changed to "choir" because it was often used to accompany the choir. In German organs the third manual was called the “Positiv”. The name “Rückpositiv” (“back positive”) was used because the pipes were behind the organist’s back as he/she sat facing the main organ. These started to become popular again with organ builders in the 1950s when it was felt that the Romantic organ was not suitable for old music, and some organ builders started using Baroque principles again so that the music of composers such as Bach could sound like it used to. The Choir manual is nearest to the player, the Great is in the middle and the Swell is farthest away. The Choir or Positiv often contains soft stops which are suitable for accompanying the choir. On French organs from the late 19th century onwards, the three manuals are arranged differently: the Great (“Grande Orgue”) is nearest to the player, the “Positif” is the middle manual and is like a smaller version of the Great, and the Swell (“Recit”) is the top manual. This makes it easy for the organist to build up the music, getting louder gradually, by starting at the top and gradually coming down.
The fourth manual is called the "Solo" because the stops on this manual are used to play out the tune as a solo. This manual is even farther away from the player than the Swell. Large cathedral organs usually have four manuals. The Solo will probably have a very loud stop indeed called the “Tuba” or “Tuba Mirabilis”.
If there is a fifth manual it may be called the "Echo" because it has very quiet stops that echo. Alternatively, especially on American organs, it might be a "Bombarde". The Bombarde usually contains loud, bold reed stops, including stops called 'Bombarde'. For instance: a State Trumpet or Pontifical Trumpet might be placed on this manual which can be heard above all the other stops playing. The Bombarde is borrowed from French Organs where it is a standard stop on nearly all the manuals and pedals. Having a Bombarde Manual is something of a luxury for an organist. It can be found, for example, on the organ of Westminster Abbey.
It is extremely unusual to have more than five manuals, but in America there are a few very large organs. The Wanamaker organ at Macy's store in Philadelphia has six manuals. The world’s largest organ is in the Atlantic City Convention Hall. It has seven manuals and over 33,000 pipes. However, the largest organ in the world does not work since it would be too expensive to run it.
Having two or three manuals makes it possible to have quick changes of sound during a piece. The player can also play on two manuals at once: one with the left hand and one with the right. This is particularly useful to make a tune louder than the accompaniment (on a piano this can be done by pressing harder). The manuals can also be coupled together, for example, pulling out the “Swell to Great” stop will make all the sounds from the Swell come out on the Great as well. On an organ with mechanical action the keys of the Swell will be seen “playing by themselves” like a pianola, but on some older organs it can be hard work for the organist’s fingers when the manuals are coupled as it makes the action very heavy.
The notes on the pedals are arranged like the notes on a keyboard, but are obviously much bigger. The player needs to learn to play by 'feel', otherwise he will have to spend all his time looking at his feet. He plays each note, either with the toe or the heel and either on the inside of the foot or the outside. The American and British Standard organ contains 30 notes giving a range of nearly 2 ½ octaves (C to F, or sometimes C to G: 32 notes). They are not quite in a straight line but fan out a little to make it easier to play (it is called a ", pedalboard"). In German and French organs and organs built before 1920, the pedalboard will be straight without any fan curvature to it. Many organists find that this makes it more difficult to play. Organists need a good pair of shoes: ones which have good narrow heels and preferably pointed toes. The soles need to be fairly slippery, but not too much, so that the player can slide the foot from one pedal to another. Organists usually like to keep a pair of shoes which are worn only for playing the organ so that the soles do not have grit or dirt from the street.
The stops on an organ console give different sounds, like the instruments of an orchestra, and have names which tell the organist what kind of sound they will produce. The stops are usually to the left and right of the organist and they are pulled out (“drawstops” or “pulls” because they are “drawn” i.e. pulled). Some organs have “tab stops” or “rocker stops” which are in front of the player and can be rocked forwards and backwards for on/off.
The stops of an organ can be divided into families.
The "chorus" stops are the foundation stops, the basic ones which are good for building up the big, solid sound. A "diapason" or "principal" is a chorus stop.
The "flute" stops sound like flutes in an orchestra. They are gentler than the diapasons and sound good for very quick and light music.
The "reeds" are stops like the "oboe", "clarinet", "trumpet", "fagotto", "trombone". Each pipe has a reed inside. Their sound is very strong and nasal (like speaking through the nose).
The "strings" are quiet stops which sound like string instruments. These are stops like the "violone" and "gamba".
There is another way of grouping the stops. Each stop will have a number underneath the name. The number may be 16, 8, 4, 2, 1 or even 2 2/3 or 1 3/5. If the number is 8 this is called an “eight foot stop”. This is the normal pitch: the note will sound as it is written, e.g. when playing Middle C the sound will be Middle C. A 4 foot stop will sound an octave higher than written, a 2 foot stop will be two octaves higher. A 16 foot stop will sound an octave lower than an 8 foot stop. 8 foot is therefore the normal pitch, and the others are added to it to make a larger, brighter sound. 16 foot stops are normal in pedal parts.
Mutation stops are stops in which a note does not sound a whole number of octaves above the normal pitch. Examples are the Tierce 1 3/5 (which sounds 2 octaves and a third above) and the Nazard or Twelfth 2 2/3 (one octave and a fifth).
An organist needs to learn which combinations of stops sound good together and how to balance them well. Each organ is different and has its own character.
The combination of stops that an organist chooses for a particular piece of music is called the “registration”. The list of all the stops that a particular organ has is called the “specification”. The specification of an organ shows the names of the stops for each of the manuals and for the pedals, as well as the list of couplers.
Organs also have buttons called “pistons” which help to change the registration in the middle of a piece. There are “toe pistons” operated by the feet, and “thumb pistons” which are placed just below each manual so that they can be pushed by the thumb while the fingers keep playing. Large organs often have “general pistons” which change any combination of stops across the organ. These are often be computerised so that players can set them up differently depending on the music they are going to play. If several players regularly use the instrument they can each have their own personal settings for the pistons which they can lock so that no one else can change them.
Each stop controls a row of pipes, called a “rank”. Each rank makes a different sound (one row for the “diapason” sound, another row for the “flute”, another for the “trumpet” and so on). The stops control the air flow through the ranks. Some stops may control more than one rank. For instance, a Mixture stop of three ranks will have 182 pipes (3 ranks of 61 pipes each) and in some organs the Celeste is a 2 rank stop. The celeste pipes are tuned slightly sharper than the rest of the organ so that, when played together with another quiet stop such as the Salicional, there will be a pleasant throbbing beat because two pipes are slightly out of tune with one another. Organ Pipes are normally made of metal or wood. High quality metal organ pipes usually contain 75 percent tin or more, and the rest is lead. The Pipes are placed on windchests inside an "organ case" in a special room called an Organ chamber. A windchest is a box-like device which contains pallets that are opened and closed to admit air to a pipe so that it sounds. The pallets are operated by pull wires and rollers in the case of a tracker instrument but may also be operated by pneumatics or direct electric action using magnets.
There is always air being pumped into the windchest when the organ is switched on. In the days before electricity someone (an organ blower) had to pump the air into the windchest using bellows. This was hard work. Large organs would have needed more than one organ blower to do this job.
No other instrument has developed in such a wide variety of ways as the organ. If Bach, who lived in the early 18th century, had gone from his home in Germany to France, he would have found it impossible to play his music properly on French organs. If Couperin, who lived at the same time, had gone from his home in France to Germany, he would not have been able to play his music on the organs that Bach was using. Neither of them could possibly have played on an organ in England at the time. For one thing, English organs in the 18th century still had no pedals. This means that organists need to know a lot about what organs were like in other countries in other centuries in order to know what registrations to use when playing music by composers of the past.
The earliest organs were water organs invented in Ancient Greece. The Romans used them in circuses and gladiator combats because they were loud. They were still popular in some countries a few hundred years ago, for example, in pleasure gardens.
In the Middle Ages large organs were built in the huge Gothic cathedrals in Britain. These instruments did not have different stops: all the ranks sounded at once. They were played by a slider mechanism. Only in the 11th, 12th and 13th centuries did they start to use a keyboard. The so-called "Mixture Organ" (or "Blockwerk") still sounded several pitches at once. Very small organs called "portatives" (because they could be carried) were used in . "Positives" were a bit bigger and were used to accompany singing in the church. The "Regal" was like a portative but it had reeds and no pipes. It could be put on a table. The world's oldest organ is generally agreed to be the one built at Sion, Switzerland in the 15th century.
By about 1450, the organs that were being built in Germany and the Netherlands had two or three manuals and pedals. There were stops so that the player could choose which ranks he wanted to sound. The collection of pieces called the "Buxheimer Orgelbuch" (about 1470), is one of the first collections we have of organ music. French organs, too, were developing. In England, organs were quite small. Composers like John Bull, William Byrd and Orlando Gibbons wrote music for chamber organs. In the Netherlands Jan Pieterszoon Sweelinck was a very famous organist and teacher.
The Baroque period was a great period for organ music in Germany. Organs there were built on the "Werkprinzip" (literally: "work principle") which meant that each keyboard with its pipes was built separately, like two or three different organs, although they were played from the same console. Organs like these were built by the famous Arp Schnitger (1648-1719). Many famous German composers wrote organ music, especially Johann Pachelbel (1653-1709) in South Germany and (Dietrich Buxtehude) (1637-1707) in North Germany. The great composer Johann Sebastian Bach (1685-1750) learnt from these composers and wrote some of the most famous organ music of all times. The great organ builder Gottfried Silbermann (1683-1753) lived during this time and built organs with a very beautiful tone. Instead of a keyboard called a Choir (or Chair Organ) he built an "Oberwerk" which was above the "Hauptwerk" (Great).
French organ builders at this time were very interested in colour (meaning: different sounds). Many stops had names like Cornet, Tierce and Prestant. When all the stops of the Principal chorus played together it was called the "Plein jeux". This was like the medieval Blockwerk. All the reed chorus together was called "Grand jeux". This would have sounded very loud and was used for dialogues and fugues. Composers included Nicolas de Grigny (1672-1703), Louis Marchand (1669-1732), Louis Nicolas Clérambault (1676-1749), Louis Claude Daquin (1694-1772) and François Couperin (1683-1733).
In England there was not much interest in developing the organ. It was used for accompanying the choir. There were no pedals. Pieces for organ were called voluntaries. Henry Purcell wrote a few organ pieces.
Organ composition reached a great peak in the work of J.S.Bach, but then people started to lose interest. Not many developments took place in organ-building during the Classical music period. Although Mozart played the organ and called it the “King of Instruments” he did not often write music for it. Among the organ builders at this time were Joseph and Claude-Ignace Callinet who built the organ at Notre-Dame's (St. Etienne, Loire) in 1837.
The organ in 19th century Germany started to be used for imitating the sound of an orchestra. People also started to be interested in playing the music of J.S. Bach. Many Classical organs were re-built and sometimes they lost their original character. Organs in different countries started to sound the same.
Gradually, composers started writing for the organ again. Felix Mendelssohn (1809-1847) wrote some excellent sonatas and preludes and fugues which were inspired by Bach’s music and made other composers want to write organ music. Robert Schumann (1810-1856) and Franz Liszt (1811-1886) wrote for the organ and later in the century Max Reger (1873-1916) and Sigfrid Karg-Elert (1877-1933).
In France, the organ builder Aristide Cavaillé-Coll (1811-1899) was a real genius. His organs had lots of new ideas including the Barker lever (which made it easier to play on coupled manuals) and placing families of stops on to separate chests. Organists could change their registrations quickly, pushing in or pulling out the stops that they needed. Composers included César Franck (1822-1890), Charles-Marie Widor (1845-1937) and Louis Vierne (1870-1937). The last two wrote long works in several movements which they called Symphonies because they were full of colourful sounds like those in a symphony orchestra. There were usually three manuals called "Grand", "Positif" and "Récit" placed in that order (with Grand nearest to the player). The Grand had warm foundation stops and big reeds (it was like combining the classical plein jeux and grand jeux). The Positif had string stops as well as a solo reed, and the Récit had lighter reeds.
In England, Samuel Wesley (1766-1837) wrote some important organ music inspired by J.S. Bach, and his son Samuel Sebastian Wesley (1810-1876) was influenced by Continental Romantic composers such as Mendelssohn. In 1851, the organ builder Henry Willis built a large organ for Crystal Palace Exhibition. It had three manuals and a pedal board. This set the standard in English organ building for the future.
During the 20th century organ builders became more and more interested in returning to some of the ideas of the Baroque and Classical periods. Many organs now have electric action, but a good mechanical action has the advantage that the player feels more close to the instrument that he is playing. Some large 20th century organs are able to play many kinds of organ music. Other 20th century organs were built as copies of Baroque or Classical instruments, but this means these instruments are mainly suitable for Baroque or Classical music, and are not well suited for music of the 19th and 20th centuries.
In the 19th century, many organs in England and America were placed in corners of churches where they could not be heard very well. In the 20th century, organ builders thought more about the best position for the organ, so that the sound would fill the main part of the church, the nave. 
Among the most famous 20th century organ composers are Marcel Dupré (1886-1971), Jehan Alain (1911-1940) and Olivier Messiaen (1908-1992) in France, Paul Hindemith (1895-1963) in Germany, and Edward Elgar (1857-1934) and Herbert Howells (1892-1983) in England. The Czech composer Petr Eben (1929-2007) was one of the most important organ composers at the end of the 20th century, writing in an individual style.
As well as the obvious use of the organ for accompanying church choirs and singing the organ has often been used to accompany instruments. In the Baroque period small organs were used to accompany solo instruments or small groups of instruments or orchestras. This kind of accompaniment was called continuo. Occasionally composers have written organ concertos in which the organ is the solo instrument and the orchestra accompanies. Handel wrote several of these. In modern times Francis Poulenc wrote an organ concerto. There is an important organ solo in Symphony no 3 by Saint-Saëns. Other orchestral works sometimes have organ parts. Organists have often made organ “transcriptions”, i.e. arranged music written for other instruments so that it can be played on the organ.

</doc>
<doc id="24413" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24413" title="Celtic">
Celtic

The words Celt and Celtic can have many meanings. 
Pronounced /kel-(tik)/:
The following should only be pronounced /selt(ik)/:

</doc>
<doc id="24416" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24416" title="Manx language">
Manx language

The Manx language, (known in Manx as "Gaelg" or "Gailck"), is a language spoken in the Isle of Man. 
It is a Celtic language of the Goidelic language family. It is in the same family as Scottish and Irish.
Manx is spoken mainly by people who learn it through interest. It died out as a natural community language in the 20th century. The last of the old native speakers died in 1974.
Manx is protected under the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages.
Manx was beginning to differ from Middle Irish in about 900–1600 AD, and it is called Yn Ghaelg / Yn Ghailck by Manx speakers. There became fewer and fewer Manx speakers during the 19th century and the language was replaced by English. In 1901, 9% of the people in the Isle of Man were said to speak Manx but in 1921 the number dropped to only 1%. 
Today, Manx is used as the only language taught at five of the Isle of Man’s pre-schools. Manx is taught as a 2nd language at all of the Island's primary and secondary schools.
There is now a school that teaches all of its lessons in Manx. The census of 2001 said that 2.2% of the population of the island could speak the language. There are currently 54,000 second language Manx speakers, mainly in the Isle of Man.

</doc>
<doc id="24417" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24417" title="Goidelic languages">
Goidelic languages

The Goidelic languages or Gaelic languages are a language family of the Celtic languages. They are spoken in Scotland, Ireland and the Isle of Man.
There are three Goidelic languages:

</doc>
<doc id="24418" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24418" title="Manx (cat)">
Manx (cat)

The Manx is a breed of domestic cat. It either has no tail at all, a "rumpy", or it has a very short tail, a "stumpy". This is because of a natural difference in spine length. The back legs are also longer than the front legs. The breed comes from the Isle of Man, where it was found as early as three hundred years ago.
The Manx's character is nervous. The Manx's appearance is round on the whole. They are skilled hunters.

</doc>
<doc id="24428" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24428" title="Horn">
Horn

Horn can mean several things:

</doc>
<doc id="24429" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24429" title="Agave">
Agave

Agaves are succulent plants. Succulent plants store water in their leaves. Cacti (more than one cactus) are one kind of succulents; agaves are another kind. There are quite a few such kinds of succulent plants.
Agaves grow mainly in Mexico. The agave plants have their leaves in a rosetta arrangement. They flower only once, produce seeds and die off.
Tequila is made from agaves. Pulque is beer made from agave juice.

</doc>
<doc id="24431" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24431" title="Applesauce">
Applesauce

Applesauce (or apple sauce) is a sauce that is made from stewed and mashed apples. Peeled or unpeeled apples can be used and different spices or additives like cinnamon can be used. Sugar or high fructose corn syrup is sometimes added to the applesauce to sweeten it. Applesauce can be fine or coarse textured, and can include large pieces of apple. It is easy to make at home, and it is also sold already made in supermarkets as a common food or as a snack for children and people who have false teeth or other problems with eating solid food. Parents often feed it to their babies because teeth are not needed to eat it. It is sometimes recommended to fight diarrhoea, since it is high in dietary fibre.
In the United Kingdom, apple sauce is normally used as a sauce for ham, pork, and gammon.

</doc>
<doc id="24432" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24432" title="Charles Richter">
Charles Richter

Charles Francis Richter (April 26, 1900 – September 30, 1985) was an American seismologist (someone who studies earthquakes) and a physicist. He is known for creating the Richter scale of magnitude, which says how big an earthquake is.

</doc>
<doc id="24433" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24433" title="1104">
1104


</doc>
<doc id="24437" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24437" title="Charles II of England">
Charles II of England

Charles II (29 May 1630 –6 February 1685), was king of England, Ireland, and Scotland, from 1649 to 1685. His father was Charles I of England, who was executed after losing a war with Parliament. 
Prince Charles was the King's eldest son. As a little boy, he was made Prince of Wales as a sign that he would one day be king. By the time he grew into a young man, his father was already at war with Parliament in the English Civil War. Prince Charles did not take much part in the fighting. His mother, Henrietta Maria, was French, and she took her children to France when the war broke out, to keep them safe. Prince Charles was only eighteen when he heard that his father was dead. This made him King, and he started calling himself King Charles II immediately, but Parliament was still in control of Britain and would not let him take his throne.
In 1651, Charles II returned to Britain and fought Parliament at the Battle of Worcester. He was defeated, but he was not caught by the enemy because he hid in an oak tree. Later, he was forced to disguise himself as a servant. A young lady called Jane Lane helped him to escape, and he sailed to Holland where his supporters were. He kept his own royal court there until 1660.
While Charles was in Holland, Britain was being ruled by Oliver Cromwell, an ordinary man who had been chosen as leader of the country by Parliament. Cromwell was very strict, so the people soon grew tired of him. When Cromwell died in 1658, his son Richard was chosen to be the next leader. Richard Cromwell was ineffective, and King Charles II was asked to come back and rule Britain.
In 1660, Charles II was brought back to Britain and took his throne. This was the English Restoration. Many of his enemies were punished for having executed his father and fought against him, but Richard Cromwell was allowed to go and live quietly away from London. Charles was popular and was called "The Merry Monarch" because he changed many laws that Cromwell had made and allowed people more freedom to enjoy themselves. He liked to go to the theatre, play cards and enjoy sports such as horse racing. Some people thought that a king should be more serious and not spend so much time and money on fun.
There were also some people who did not like King Charles II because of his religious beliefs. He had been brought up by his mother, who was Roman Catholic, while most people in the country were Protestant. He married a princess from Portugal, Catherine of Braganza. They did not have any children, but Charles refused to divorce Catherine. Before he was married, he had several girlfriends and lovers, and even after he was married he went on having lovers, who were called "mistresses". The most famous was an actress called Nell Gwyn. Several of Charles's lovers had babies, but none of these children were allowed to follow Charles as king, because they were "bastards", meaning that they had been born to parents who were not married to each other.
The most popular of Charles II's children was James Scott. Charles gave him the title Duke of Monmouth. James's mother had been Charles's girlfriend when he was living in Holland, and some people said that they had been secretly married. If this had been true, then James would have been allowed to be king when Charles died. There were many who wanted this to happen, because they did not like the thought of Charles's younger brother being the next king. This brother, who was also called James, was a Roman Catholic and was not popular.
Charles II died quite suddenly, and his son James, Duke of Monmouth, started a rebellion in the hope of becoming the next king. He was defeated by the royal army, which supported Charles's brother James. The Duke of Monmouth was executed by having his head chopped off, and Charles's brother became the next ruler, King James II.
By Marguerite or Margaret de Carteret
By Lucy Walter (c.1630–1658)
By Elizabeth Killigrew (1622–1680), daughter of Sir Robert Killigrew, married Francis Boyle, 1st Viscount Shannon in 1660
By Catherine Pegge
By Barbara Villiers Palmer (1641–1709), wife of Roger Palmer, 1st Earl of Castlemaine created Duchess of Cleveland in her own right
By Nell Gwyn (1650–1687)
By Louise Renée de Penancoet de Kérouaille (1649–1734), created Duchess of Portsmouth in her own right (1673)
By Mary 'Moll' Davis, courtesan and actress of repute
Other probable mistresses:

</doc>
<doc id="24438" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24438" title="Crunk">
Crunk

Crunk is a type of hip hop music. It started in the Southern United States. It can also be used as an adjective.
it is a mixture of Miami bass, Southern rap, and electronica. It became popular in the mid-2000s and was made famous by rapper and producer Lil Jon. Crunk is a mixture of the words: crazy and drunk.

</doc>
<doc id="24439" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24439" title="Pimp">
Pimp

A pimp is a person who makes money from other people prostituting themselves. Usually, the prostitutes make money for themselves, but the pimp takes a percentage of the money in exchange for providing them with security and other services.

</doc>
<doc id="24447" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24447" title="Allan Kardec">
Allan Kardec

Allan Kardec (Hippolyte Léon Denizard Rivail 3 October 1804 31 March 1869) was a French philosopher and teacher. He dedicated the last 15 years of his life to organise a philosophical doctrine called Spiritism. He spread the educational ideas of Pestalozzi in the 19th century. He published books on grammar, mathematics and suggestions for the improvement of public education in France. He was a teacher of physiology, astronomy, physics and chemistry. The classes were at his home in Paris.
In 1854, Kardec started studying phenomena which some people call "paranormal" or "supernatural". This were quite common at that time.
In his philosophy the spiritual manifestations were useful to the social and moral improvement of men.

</doc>
<doc id="24451" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24451" title="Hyves">
Hyves

Hyves is a website where people can have contact with friends online. It can be used to make new friends or to stay in touch with old friends. It was started in 2004 and has over 9 million users; most of them are Dutch. That is the reason why it is very popular in the Netherlands.
Pictures and videos can be put and shared on it. Hyves is similar to Facebook or the German VZ Networks.

</doc>
<doc id="24453" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24453" title="Sex organ">
Sex organ

The sex organs, which scientists call the genitalia or genitals, are the parts of the body that allow sexual reproduction (the making of young) to take place. They are also for urination (peeing), to remove waste products from the body. While all animals have sex organs, this article is about the sex organs of human beings.
The genitals are the main parts of the human body that make men and women different. Some parts of the genitals are outside the body, while other parts are inside. In a man, his external genitals are the penis and the scrotum (a bag that contains the testicles). Inside his body the testicles produce sperm and a substance called testosterone which makes a person grow into a man and to feel like a man. Other glands produce a fluid called semen. The part of a woman's genitals that is outside her body is called the vulva. Inside her body are the vagina, which holds the penis during sexual intercourse; the uterus (womb), in which a baby grows when the woman is pregnant; the ovaries, which produce ova (egg cells) and a substance called estrogen which makes a person grow into a woman and to feel like a woman; and the Fallopian tubes, which connect the ovaries to the uterus.
Many human societies are prudish about genitals. This prudery has resulted in public indecency laws which makes it a crime for genitals to be left uncovered in public.
If a man and a woman want to reproduce sexually, they have to engage in sexual intercourse. This involves placing the man's erect penis into the woman's vagina. The vagina rubs and puts pressure on the penis, which makes the man have an orgasm. During his orgasm the man ejaculates, and his semen flows into the woman. If a sperm in the semen reaches the woman's Fallopian tubes and fuses with an ovum, this causes the woman to become pregnant. A man and woman can also have sexual intercourse for pleasure, without wishing to have a baby. Men and women, and gay couples (two women or two men) can also use their sex organs in other ways for pleasure.
The sex organs are the parts of the body that allow sexual reproduction (the making of young) to take place. They are also for urination (peeing), to remove waste products from the body. All animals have some kind of sex organs. This article is about the sex organs of human beings. In humans, the sex organs are in the lower abdomen, at the part of the body where the legs join the torso.
The scientific name for the sex organs is "genitalia" or "genitals". They are also commonly called the reproductive organs. The genitals include both organs that can be seen on the outside of the body (the primary genitalia or external genitalia), as well as internal organs (the secondary genitalia or internal genitalia). Sometimes, however, the words "genitalia" or "genitals" are used to refer only to the external sex organs. The sex organs are informally referred to as the private parts or privates.
Males and females have different sex organs. In fact, the genitals are the main parts of the human body that make men and women different.
A man's genitals are made up of many parts. The parts that can be seen on the outside of a man's body are his penis, which is shaped like a banana or a sausage; and his scrotum, which is a bag that hangs beneath the penis and contains the two testicles.
Inside a man's body, the testicles make tiny cells called sperm, which are needed for sexual reproduction. The testicles also make a hormone called testosterone. This is a chemical that makes a person grow into a man and feel like a man. The testicles are glands, which are special parts of the body that make chemicals. Other glands that make up the genitals are the prostate, seminal vesicles and bulbourethral glands (also called the Cowper's glands). Together, these glands make a white, sticky fluid called semen that sperm float in. Finally, a man's body contains ducts (tubes) such as the two vasa deferentia or ducta deferentia, which carry sperm out of the testicles; and the urethra, which carries semen through the penis and out of the body. The urethra also carries urine away from the bladder.
In reproduction the job of the penis is to carry sperm from the testicles into a woman's body so that a sperm can join together with the woman's ovum (egg cell) to form a new cell that will grow into a baby. The process of fusion of a sperm and an ovum is called fertilization. A man's penis is usually soft, quite short and hangs down. When a man becomes aroused (sexually excited), the inside of his penis fills with blood. This causes the penis to become bigger, thicker and harder and to stand upright, and is called having an erection. When a man has an erection, he is able to have sexual intercourse by putting his penis into a woman's vagina. During an erection, a valve stops urine from entering the urethra so that only semen flows along it. This is why it is very difficult for a man to urinate when he is having an erection.
Young boys can have erections, but their bodies do not start producing sperm until they have reached puberty. This usually happens when they are in their teens.
The part of a woman's genitals that is on the outside of her body is called the vulva. The main parts of the vulva are two sets of fleshy "lips" called the labia. The outer labia can be seen at the front of the woman's body. On an adult woman, they are generally covered with some hair. Between the outer labia are the inner labia which do not have hair and are very sensitive. At the front of the inner labia is the outside part of the clitoris which is covered by the clitoral hood. During sexual intercourse, the clitoris gives feelings of pleasure to the woman.
Most of a woman's genitals are tucked inside her body. Behind the labia is a tube called the vagina, which cannot be seen on the outside of the body. (People often incorrectly use the word "vagina" to refer to the vulva.) When a man and a woman have sexual intercourse, the man's penis is placed into the woman's vagina. When a woman menstruates (has her menstrual period), blood and other fluid from the uterus pass out from her body through the vagina. If a woman uses a tampon (a specially-made wad of material) to absorb this fluid, she puts it into her vagina. The vagina is also called the birth canal, because when a pregnant woman has a baby, it passes through the vagina.
Like a man, a woman has a tube called the urethra connecting the bladder to the vulva through which urine is removed from the body. The opening of the urethra is between the clitoris and the opening to the vagina.
In many women, the opening of the vagina is partly or completely blocked by a thin tissue called the hymen. Some women are born without a hymen. The hymen usually breaks when a woman has sexual intercourse for the first time, that may cause or not some bleeding depending particularly on each woman. In some cultures, a broken hymen is taken as a sign that a girl has had sex. However, a broken hymen is not a clear sign of sexual intercourse because other activities such as exercise can also cause the hymen to break. In some women, the hymen may remain unbroken even after sex.
At the top of the vagina is the cervix which is a ring of muscle separating the vagina from the uterus or womb. The cervix allows menstrual fluid to flow from the uterus into the vagina, and during sexual intercourse it allows semen from a man's penis to flow from the vagina into the uterus. The uterus is a very muscular and stretchy organ in which babies grow during pregnancy. When a woman is not pregnant, each month the lining of the uterus grows thicker, then breaks down, causing her to menstruate. Connected to the top of the uterus are two Fallopian tubes, on the left and right. These tubes join the uterus to the two ovaries. The ovaries produce ova, or egg cells, that are needed for reproduction. Each month, an ovum travels from one of the ovaries into a Fallopian tube. If, after the woman has had sexual intercourse with a man, the ovum fuses with a sperm and implants in the wall of the uterus, the woman will become pregnant. The ovaries also produce the female hormone estrogen which causes a person to grow into a woman and to feel like a woman.
Young girls do not start producing ova and menstruating until they have reached puberty. Like boys, this usually happens in their teens. Once a woman starts menstruating, she is capable of becoming pregnant.
The sex organs or genitals are used for sexual reproduction and for sexual intercourse. For sexual reproduction to happen, a man and a woman need to have sexual intercourse with each other. A man's penis becomes erect when he is aroused, for example when he sees a naked woman or is touched by her. When a woman is aroused, her clitoris and vulva also swell, and the inside of her vagina produces mucus, a substance that makes it slippery. To reproduce, the man places his penis inside the woman's vagina and moves it backwards and forwards. The woman may also move her hips back and forth, or in a circular motion. The friction caused by this movement, together with the warmth and pressure of the vagina, causes the man to have pleasurable feelings in the penis, which grow stronger and stronger. When the feelings are at their strongest, the man is said to be having an orgasm. At this point, muscles in the man's body contract strongly again and again to push semen through the urethra. The semen then ejaculates or shoots out from the end of the penis into the woman's vagina. The woman may also have an orgasm, which causes the vagina to tense up and relax repeatedly. Scientists are not sure why women have orgasms. Some believe that the orgasm helps the sperm in the man's semen to swim up the vagina into the cervix, so that it is more likely that a sperm cell will fuse with an egg cell. Others think that the female orgasm causes the vagina to hold on to the penis more tightly, which makes sex more exciting for the man and causes him to ejaculate more quickly or to produce more semen; or that it encourages a woman to have sex more often as it feels good. Both of these events would make pregnancy more likely to happen. After the man has ejaculated, the blood flows out of his penis and it becomes smaller and soft again.
Sometimes, a man and a woman may have sexual intercourse because it gives them pleasure, without wishing for the woman to become pregnant. They may try to stop fertilization from happening by using methods of contraception or birth control. Common methods of birth control include the man wearing a condom on his penis, and the woman taking birth control pills that stop her ovaries from releasing egg cells.
Apart from the man putting his penis into the woman's vagina, the sex organs can be used in other ways in sexual intercourse. The man and woman can rub each other's sex organs with their hands. They can use sex toys such as dildos or vibrators. They can also engage in oral sex. When a person uses his or her mouth, lips and tongue to touch a woman's clitoris and vulva, this is called cunnilingus. When a person uses his or her mouth, lips, and/or tongue to touch a man's penis, this is called fellatio. A man or a woman (using an strap-on dildo or harness) can also put the sexual organ into a person's anus, this is called anal sex.
People who are gay or homosexual also use their genitals to have sexual intercourse with each other. Two women can rub each other's sex organs, put sex toys into them, or perform oral sex on each other. Two men can also rub each other's sex organs, or perform oral or anal sex on each other.
When a man strokes his own penis or a woman rubs her clitoris and vulva in order to feel good or to reach orgasm, this is called masturbation.
The sex organs are also used for urination, which is one of the ways in which the body removes waste products. Both men and women have a bladder, which is an organ that stores urine. In a man, a thin tube called the urethra passes from his bladder right through his penis. In a woman, the urethra opens into the vulva. When a person urinates, urine flows from the bladder through the urethra and out of the body.

</doc>
<doc id="24459" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24459" title="Laurence Olivier">
Laurence Olivier

Laurence Kerr Olivier, Baron Olivier, OM (22 May 1907 – 11 July 1989) was an English actor. He was one of the most famous and revered actors of the 20th century. He was the youngest actor to be knighted and the first to be raised to the peerage. Olivier married English actresses Jill Esmond, Vivien Leigh and Joan Plowright.
Actor Spencer Tracy said that Olivier was 'the greatest actor in the English-speaking world'. In 1999, the American Film Institute named Olivier among the Greatest Male Stars of All Time, at number 14 on the list.
Olivier had many awards: twelve Oscar nominations, with two wins (for Best Actor and Best Picture for the 1948 film "Hamlet"), plus two honorary awards including a statuette and certificate. He was awarded five Emmy Awards. He was a three-time Golden Globe and BAFTA winner. In 1976 he received the BAFTA Academy Fellowship Award, a lifetime achievement award.
Olivier's ashes are buried in Westminster Abbey.

</doc>
<doc id="24462" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24462" title="Spiritism">
Spiritism

Spiritism is a doctrine promoted by the French professor Allan Kardec. His first two books were:
Other characteristics ideas of his were:
Although Kardec claimed it was distinct, spiritism is similar to spiritualism. Kardec's books were based on reporting séances in which he claimed to observe phenomena which he attributed to incorporeal intelligence (spirits). Arthur Conan Doyle included a chapter about Spiritism in his book "History of Spiritualism". This said that Spiritism is Spiritualist (but not vice-versa). As a consequence, many Spiritualist works are widely accepted in Spiritism, particularly the works of scientists Sir William Crookes and Oliver Lodge.

</doc>
<doc id="24488" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24488" title="Alexa">
Alexa

Alexa is an Internet service that measures how many Internet users visit a website. At Alexa.com, people can enter a website address and Alexa will show them how well-visited the website is. It can also tell them how its popularity has changed over time.
Alexa has 6 million unique visits monthly.
Alexa was created in 1996 by American businessman Brewster Kahle and Bruce Gilliat.
In 1999, Alexa was bought by Amazon.com for about US$250 million in Amazon stock.
Alexa provides a free API that is used by services and toolbars all around the world to easily display Alexa Rating.
Some virus companies mark Alexa toolbar as adware (McAfee), trackware (Symantec) and potentially unwanted Program.

</doc>
<doc id="24489" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24489" title="Poodle">
Poodle

A poodle is a breed of dog. Toy poodles are made to be one of the smartest dogs of all. A toy poodle is extremely smart. If you do praise it, it will start liking you even more, and doing things for you. Many people own them or show them at dog shows. Poodles were once used as hunting and sporting dogs, but now they are mostly pets. Poodles do not shed their fur as some dogs do, so they are good pets for people who are allergic to dogs.
Poodles are also popular because they come in many different colors and sizes. Their coats are most often white or black; but can be apricot, dark gray, called "blue"; and other colors. There are also some rare colors, such as chocolate brown, and brindle. In Japan, appricot color is the most liked.
Poodles are bred in many different sizes. The four main sizes from largest to smallest are Standard, Miniature, Medium and Toy. There are also other sizes, like the very small Teacup, that are not official. This means that these other sizes cannot be part of professional dog shows.
Poodles have been used as working dogs in the military for several centuries. During World War II, it was thought that this breed of dog could become helpers during the war. So, poodles went through training by the United States Army for special tasks. In 1942, the poodle was one of 32 breeds officially ranked as war dogs by the Army.
It is the poodles main style to left hair of the chest and ancles in order to protect heart and joints from cold waters and cut others in order to reduce the resistance of the water. Now, poodles hair styles have more variations. In Japan, "teddy bear cut" is most popular. This style lets the whole body have roundness like the teddy bear.

</doc>
<doc id="24492" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24492" title="Irish language">
Irish language

Irish, "Irish Gaelic", or "Gaeilge" is a language spoken in Ireland. Irish is a Celtic language. This means that Irish is similar to Scottish Gaelic, Breton, Cornish, Manx and Welsh. Many people who speak Irish can understand some Scottish Gaelic, but not Welsh. This is because the Celtic languages are divided into two groups. One group is called the p-Celtic languages and the other is called the q-Celtic languages. Irish and Scottish Gaelic are q-Celtic languages and Welsh is a p-Celtic language. Irish has no "yes" or "no" words. There were great poets who wrote in Irish. Their poems became the songs of the people. People told stories about the heroes of old times. Many of the poems were about them. At one point Queen Elizabeth I of England and Ireland promoted Irish with a view to using it to translate the Bible into that language and tried to learn it herself. Christopher Nugent, ninth Baron of Delvin gave her a primer about it.
Until the nineteenth century, most people in Ireland spoke Irish, this changed after 1801 because after Ireland joined the United Kingdom, its state schools were incorporated into the British system and required to only teach or even allow English speaking. The Roman Catholic Church also began to discourage Irish and Daniel O'Connell, though a nationalist and an Irish speaker himself, discouraged it, because most job opportunities were in the USA and the British Empire.
Today, Irish is the first official language of the Republic of Ireland, although in practice English retains a dominant position in government. It is not spoken by most Irish people outside the Gaeltacht for day to day life, but a lot of people speak it daily also or when among friends or family. It has to be taught in all schools in Ireland.
The newest Gaeltacht in Ireland is on the Falls Road in Belfast City where the whole community has been making Irish their first language for several years. This area is called the Gaeltacht Quarter.
There are around 1.5 million speakers. The places where Irish is spoken a lot are called Gaeltachts or, in Irish, "Gaeltachtaí". Around 70% of the people in these areas can speak Irish. 

</doc>
<doc id="24493" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24493" title="Irish">
Irish

Irish could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="24495" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24495" title="Max and Ruby">
Max and Ruby

Max and Ruby is a 2002 animated television series. It is aimed at a preschool children. The series was created by children's book author / illustrator Rosemary Wells. It is based on the fictional world of her "Max and Ruby" books. The episodes show stories about three year old Max, an anthropomorphised toddler bunny, and his big sister, seven year old Ruby, a patient young lady. The show has a good message for its audience by showing Max and Ruby playing together and using respect and love in solving their problems. 
Max gets into trouble in almost every episode, but Ruby gives him a helping hand.
in 2001,a pilot episode aired and appeared as a regular episode in 2002.

</doc>
<doc id="24507" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24507" title="1716">
1716


</doc>
<doc id="24508" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24508" title="400">
400


</doc>
<doc id="24509" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24509" title="1147">
1147


</doc>
<doc id="24510" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24510" title="Apollo program">
Apollo program

The Apollo program (or Project Apollo) was a project by the United States' National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA). The goal was to send a human to explore the Moon and bring him home to earth safely. It was started by U.S. President John F. Kennedy in 1961. The first person to walk on the Moon was Neil Armstrong of Apollo 11 on July 20, 1969.
One reason the program started was that the Soviet Union was the first country to send a person into outer space. Since this was during the Cold War, many in the U.S. thought that the U.S. needed to stay ahead of the USSR in space exploration.
The Apollo program ended in 1972. After that, NASA began to work on the Space Shuttle program, the International Space Station, and many unmanned space exploration projects.
There was a movie made about the problems that happened on the Apollo 13 mission.
In September 1967, Owen Maynard of the Manned Spacecraft Center in Houston, Texas came up with a series of Apollo missions that would lead to landing a person on the Moon. There were seven types of mission, each testing a specific set of parts and tasks. Each step would need to be completed successfully before the next mission type could begin. These were:
The first manned Lunar Module, LM-3, was not ready for the December 1968 launch date of Apollo 8. It was flown as a lunar orbital mission using just the CSM and the E mission was cancelled.
The first landing would be followed by more advanced lunar missions:
The Apollo flights were carried into space by the huge Saturn V rockets. Details of the flights are:

</doc>
<doc id="24512" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24512" title="NASA">
NASA

NASA or the National Aeronautics and Space Administration is the part of the United States government that deals with space exploration and aeronautics, the operating and designing of planes. NASA has had many successful missions including the ISS and Apollo 11 which put the first man on the Moon in 1969. NASA started on July 29, 1958. NASA's motto is: "For the benefit of all".
NASA was preceded by the "National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics" (NACA). NACA was a U.S. federal agency founded on March 3, 1915 to undertake, promote, and institutionalize aeronautical research. On October 1, 1958 the agency was dissolved, and its assets and personnel transferred to the newly created National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA).
NASA was founded to compete with the Soviet Union in the space race. In the 1950s and 1960s there was a space race between the USA and the Soviet Union - now called Russia. The Soviets started first launching Sputnik 1, the first object made by people to go into orbit, in October 1957. The Americans were worried by this. It caused a crisis known as the Sputnik Crisis as the Americans feared the Russians might start building weapons in space. This all happened at a time called the Cold War when the USA and the Soviet Union were always very close to war.
Originally NASA was very small with only four laboratories and around eighty people working there. German engineers and scientists led by Wernher von Braun helped them build rockets. They had helped build the V-2 missile in Germany during World War II and the Redstone missile for the US Arny afterwards. 
In 1960 they set up the Mercury project. The Mercury Project space missions were designed by NASA, mostly to test if humans could survive in space. After they proved it was possible for people to live in space they moved on. 
On May 15th 1961 astronaut Alan Shepard became the first American in space. Less than a year later, John Glenn became the first American to orbit or circle the Earth. He did so in a spacecraft called Friendship 7. Once the Mercury Project proved that humans could live in space, the Gemini Project was started. Less than a year after it began, the Apollo Program also began.
After the success of Mercury, NASA realized it had to start planning for its missions to the Moon. The Gemini spacecraft was built for two men. It was still small and cramped like the Mercury capsule, but allowed for more freedom of movement. Project Gemini proved that two spacecraft could meet and dock in space. Neil Armstrong, the first man on the Moon, was also on the first Gemini flight to dock with another spacecraft in outer space. The Gemini spaceship did not dock with another spaceship with people in it. Instead, it docked with a rocket called "Agena target vehicle". The last few Gemini missions were science experiments and spacewalks designed to prepare for the Apollo Program, which would land human beings on the Moon.
The Apollo program was started by President John F Kennedy in the 1960s. The program was made of 16 missions designed to send a man to the Moon and return him safely back to Earth. The first Apollo mission, Apollo 1, ended in disaster when a fire in the command module killed all the astronauts onboard. 
The Apollo 8 and 10 missions went to the moon. They tested equipment and took photos but did not land. The project's main success came in 1969 when Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin landed on the Moon as part of Apollo 11. The mission was a big success for NASA and over six million people watched it worldwide.
After Apollo 11, six more Apollo flights went to the moon. Five of them landed. The one that did not land, Apollo 13, had to abort its mission when an oxygen tank exploded in the spaceship. Apollo 17 was the last mission to land on the Moon.
The Apollo spaceship was made up of two parts. There was a space capsule and the Lunar Lander. These two spacecraft docked on the way to the Moon. Mercury and Gemini spaceships were very small and cramped, but Apollo spaceships were much bigger. Astronauts could move around and not have to stay in their seats. The Lunar Lander was also very big on the inside. The only part of the Apollo spaceship to come back to Earth was the capsule, the Lunar Lander was left behind.
After Congress stopped the Moon landings, NASA needed a new direction. Using a leftover Saturn V rocket, the giant rocket that sent men to the Moon, they created a space station that orbited above the Earth. This space station was called Skylab. Skylab was very big on the inside, even bigger than a small house. Skylab was visited by Apollo spaceships. There were three missions to Skylab. Each of them carried important experiments. Skylab was eventually abandoned. It had served its purpose. It broke up in the atmosphere in 1979.
During the Space Race, the Russians had designed their own spaceship to fly to the Moon. Their spaceship was called Soyuz. The Russians never landed on the Moon, they had too many problems. Instead, they started creating small space stations. The Soyuz spaceship is what they used to go to these space stations. America and Russia were part of the Cold War. In order to make peace between Russia and America, they decided they would dock an Apollo spaceship to a Soyuz spaceship in space. After docking, the crews performed experiments and learned about each others' cultures. 
Apollo-Soyuz was the last flight of the Apollo spaceship. It has never been used since, and never will be.
In the 1980s and 1990s NASA began to concentrate on building Space Shuttles. Four Shuttles were built by 1985. The first to launch was the space shuttle Columbia in October 1981. At this time the public began to lose interest in the space program and NASA faced budget cuts. They had planned for the space shuttles to cost less as they could be used more than once. But eventually it turned out the Space Shuttles were more expensive as building them in the first place cost more money than normal. There was further problems for NASA after the Space Shuttle Challenger disintegrated while in mid-air over the Atlantic Ocean, near Florida. All seven astronauts on board died in the disaster. The incident is known as the Challenger Disaster.
The Challenger Disaster forced NASA to think about the way they worked. The entire Space Shuttle fleet was suspended for a year after the disaster. It was also around this time that NASA launched the Hubble Space Telescope into orbit. Hubble became one of NASA's greatest achievements when it took a photo known as the Hubble Deep Field. The HDF is sometimes called by scientists 'the most important image ever taken'
NASA also now works with the Russian Space Agency quite often. When the Space Shuttle fleet was grounded after the Columbia disaster in 2003, Russian rockets continued to take up parts to the International Space Station. The Soyuz spaceship also helped take Americans to the station. The International Space Station, along with most of NASA, lost a lot of public interest. But it has been gaining it back recently, with its big plans for the future.
In 2010 NASA shut down the Space Shuttle program. They had done their job, but were too dangerous and expensive to keep flying.
NASA is now creating Orion (spacecraft). It will launch on a gigantic rocket called the Space Launch System. NASA is building this rocket as well.
NASA's continuing operations include missions to the planets Mars, Saturn and Pluto. Missions to Jupiter are also planned for the near future. The New Horizons spacecraft flew past Jupiter in February 2007, studying some of the planet's moons. On July 14, 2015 the craft will fly by Pluto, take high resolution pictures of the planet's surface and analyse the chemical properties of its atmosphere or air. 
NASA announced in 2004 that they plan to have a permanent Moon base by 2020. A senior NASA administrator also stated in 2007 that NASA aims ""to put a man on Mars by 2037"".
However in early 2010, President Barack Obama cancelled the Constellation project that was aiming to have humans return to the moon's surface by 2020. He said the project was 'behind schedule and lacking in innovation' At the same time he cut back the amount of money NASA will be getting from the government in 2011.
When President Barack Obama did this, he also worked with NASA to create the Space Launch System. This will take humans to an asteroid and then to Mars. The reason we are not going back to the Moon is because there is nothing there for NASA. We learned this with the Apollo missions. There are metals and other things worth mining on the Moon, but NASA is not allowed to do that. Private businesses will have to. In 2012, the company Planetary Resources said they would be mining asteroids. It is reasonable to assume they might also want to mine the Moon.
NASA has launched over 500 missions in its 50-year history. Over 150 missions had humans onboard. Such "manned" missions are the most expensive and make the most news but the majority of launches are for space exploration, science, and other purposes that do not need people. NASA spacecraft such as Cassini-Huygens and the Voyager program have visited every planet in the Solar System. Four NASA spacecraft have left the Solar System, Voyager 1, Voyager 2, Pioneer 10 and Pioneer 11. As of 2010 Voyager 2 is 113.46 AU or around 17,000,000,000 kilometers away from Earth.

</doc>
<doc id="24517" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24517" title="Advaita Vedanta">
Advaita Vedanta

Advaita Vedanta is a type of Hinduism. People who believe in Advaita believe that their soul is never really different from God. The Sanskrit word for soul is "Atman" and the Sanskrit word for God is "Brahman". The most famous Hindu philosopher who taught about Advaita Vedanta was Adi Shankara who lived in India more than a thousand years ago. Adi Sankara learned the sacred texts of Hinduism, like Vedas and Upanishads under his teacher Govinda Bhagavadpada and later wrote extensive commentaries of Hindu sacred texts called Upanishads. In these commentaries, he proposed the theory of Advaita, saying that the Upanishad actually teach that the individual soul (called Atman) is not different from God (called Brahman). He also taught that there is only one essential principle called Brahman (means God) and everything else is a kind of expression of that one Brahman. Because of this theory of one being, his teachings became popular as the "Advaita" ("a" = not, "dvaita" = two, means no-two or non-dual). The way he said this to people was ""Atman is Brahman."" 
Adi Shankara was very smart and knew that people would wonder how he could say such an odd thing. He realized that many people would ask him, "If a person's soul is really one with God all along, then what makes a person feel so separate from God?" His answer to this was that we are ignorant of our real self being God because we see through a kind of filter—like looking through a dirty piece of glass—and he called this filter we look through, "maya", which means "illusion" in Sanskrit. Shankara said that our ignorance makes us feel very separate from God, and even from everything around us. Shankara suggested that the best way people can find the truth is for them to try to clear their thinking of all ignorant thoughts, be very good, and think very hard about who they really are. He said that if a person did all these things he would realize that God was himself all along. 
This is a very different idea from some other religions where we are told we are separate from God and need to go to Him. In Advaita, the idea is that people never really were separate from God, but their ignorance made them see it that way.
Not all Hindus believe in Advaita Vedanta. Many others believe there is a difference between a person's soul and God, just like in many other religions. 

</doc>
<doc id="24520" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24520" title="Parthenon">
Parthenon

The Parthenon is a temple in the middle of the Acropolis in Athens, Greece (Europe). It was a temple to Athena for nearly 2000 years and originally had a huge idol to her. The name "Parthenon" means "the virgin's place" in Greek. It was built between 447 BC and 432 BC during the reign of Pericles. It is considered one of ancient Greece's greatest architecture accomplishments. 
The building was constructed using limestone foundations and 22,000 tons of marble. The building was designed by the architects Ictinus and Callicrates. It has 46 Doric columns which support the roof, with 8 across the front and back, and 17 on each side. Thomas Bruce, 7th Earl of Elgin took the some of the sculptures, now called the Elgin Marbles, from the Parthenon in 1759. They have been on display in the British Museum since 1816.

</doc>
<doc id="24532" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24532" title="Neutral">
Neutral

The word neutrality can have different meanings too:

</doc>
<doc id="24544" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24544" title="Physical anthropology">
Physical anthropology

Physical anthropology deals mainly with looking at how the anatomy of the human body has changed over the course of time. It compares the human body to that of other primates. Studies of physical anthropology often include looking at the evolution of mankind.
Some areas of physical anthropology are paleoanthropology and primatology. When physical anthropology is joined to other branches of biology it becomes biological anthropology. Biological anthropology puts together information from the fossil record, the human skeleton, genetics, our primate relatives, human adaptations and behaviour. 

</doc>
<doc id="24550" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24550" title="Jackal">
Jackal

Jackals are canids found in Africa and Asia. They are nocturnal carnivorous and eat small mammals, birds and reptiles. To hunt, they can run at speeds of 16km/h (10mph).
Jackals are monogamous (each male live with only a female), and a pair defends its territory from other pairs. They mark the territory with urine and feces. The territory may be large enough to hold some young adults who live with their parents until they have their own territory. Sometimes, jackals join small packs (groups), for example to hunt a big animal, but normally hunt alone or as a pair.
Today they are very common on safaris, and are also found next to human settlements (villages).
There are four species of jackals:
A canid from Ethiopia and Eritrea, the Ethiopian Wolf ("Canis simensis"), is sometimes called Simian Jackal, but it is really a wolf. The Ethiopian Wolf is one of the rarest and most endangered of all canids.

</doc>
<doc id="24556" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24556" title="Milwaukee">
Milwaukee

Milwaukee is the largest city in the state of Wisconsin. Milwaukee is also the 22nd-largest in the United States. The city is the county seat of Milwaukee County. It is on the southwestern shore of Lake Michigan, and is about 90 miles (145 kilometers) north of Chicago. As of 2009, about 604,133 people lived in Milwaukee. Part of Milwaukee is in Washington County.
The city got its name from the Indian word "millioke", which is thought to mean "the good land" or "gathering place by the water".

</doc>
<doc id="24559" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24559" title="Diogenes syndrome">
Diogenes syndrome

Diogenes syndrome is a behavioral disorder. It is not a disease, it is a psychological condition. People who have it do not look after themselves enough any more, this is called self-neglect. They do not wash, perhaps do not shave, etc. So they develop a strong odor (scent). Since they neglect their hygiene, other diseases related to poor hygiene usually accompany the disorder.
Very often this disorder affects old people who live alone.
Diogenes Syndrome is named after the behavior (but not necessarily the ideals) of Diogenes of Sinope. It is thought to be the end stage of personality disorder.

</doc>
<doc id="24560" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24560" title="Marx and Engels Internet Archive">
Marx and Engels Internet Archive

The Marxists Internet Archive (also known as MIA or Marxists.org) is a volunteer based non-profit organization that has an Internet archive of Marxist writers and other similar authors (socialists, etc.) on their website . The texts are available in many different languages.

</doc>
<doc id="24563" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24563" title="NATO">
NATO

The North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), or North Atlantic Alliance, the Atlantic Alliance, the Western Alliance, is a military alliance. It was established in 1949, by the North Atlantic Treaty signed in Washington, D.C., USA, on April 4, 1949. Its headquarters are in Brussels, Belgium. Its other official name is the same name in French, "Organisation du Traité de l'Atlantique Nord" ("OTAN").
NATO has two official languages, English and French, defined in Article 14 of the North Atlantic Treaty.
Its members in 1949 were: The United States, Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, France, the United Kingdom, Canada, Portugal, Italy, Norway, Denmark and Iceland. Three years later, on 18 February 1952, Greece and Turkey also joined.
When West Germany joined the organization on 9 May 1955 it was described as "a decisive turning point in the history of our continent" by Halvard Lange, Foreign Minister of Norway at the time. Indeed, the result was the Warsaw Pact, signed on 14 May 1955 by the Soviet Union and its satellite states as response to NATO.
After the Cold War in 1999 three former communist countries, Hungary, the Czech Republic, and Poland joined the NATO. On 29 March 2004 seven more Northern European and Eastern European countries joined NATO: Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania and also Slovenia, Slovakia, Bulgaria, and Romania. 
Croatia and Albania received NATO membership invitation on 3 April 2008. Republic of Macedonia received only conditional invitation because it was vetoed by Greece due to Republic of Macedonia's name dispute with Greece.

</doc>
<doc id="24573" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24573" title="Felidae">
Felidae

Felidae is a family of mammals, in the order Carnivora. Animals that belong to Felidae are called "felids". 
The family is of quite recent origin: the first fossils are from the Oligocene, 25 million years ago (mya). There are 41 living species, including the domestic cat, and they are monophyletic: all descended from the same ancestor.
Felids tend to have lithe and flexible bodies with muscular limbs. In most species, the tail is a third or a half the length of the body, with some exceptions (the bobcat and margay). The limbs are digitigrade, meaning they walk on their toes. The paws have with soft toe pads and retractible claws (usually). The tongue of felids is covered with horny papillae, which rasp meat from prey and aid in grooming.
The Felidae has three subfamilies:
More examples of felines are the big cats – the lion, tiger, leopard, jaguar, snow leopard, clouded leopard, puma, and cheetah - and other wild cats, for example the lynx, caracal, and bobcat. All felines, also the small pet cat, are predators that can hunt many animals.
The felids evolved in Asia and spread across continents by crossing land bridges. DNA sequence analysis shows that ancient cats evolved into eight main lines. There were at least 10 migrations (in both directions) from continent to continent via the Bering land bridge and Isthmus of Panama. The "Panthera" genus is the oldest and the "Felis" genus is the youngest. 60 percent of the modern species of cats developed within the last million years. 
The felids' closest relatives are the linsangs, and at one remove the group of civets, hyenas, mongooses, and Madagascar carnivores, with whom they share the Suborder Feliformia. All felid species share a genetic anomaly that prevents them from tasting sweetness.
Genetic research has provided a basis for a more concise classification for the living members of the cat family based on genotypical groupings. Specifically, eight genetic lineages have been identified:
The last four lineages (5, 6, 7, 8) are more related to each other than to any of the first four (1, 2, 3, 4), and so form a clade within the Felinae subfamily of family Felidae.

</doc>
<doc id="24582" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24582" title="1668">
1668


</doc>
<doc id="24583" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24583" title="Andrei Sakharov">
Andrei Sakharov

Andrei Dmitrievich Sakharov (Russian: Андре́й Дми́триевич Са́харов, May 21 1921 – December 14 1989), was a Soviet nuclear physicist. He was also a well-known dissident and human rights activist. Sakharov was an advocate of civil liberties and reforms in the Soviet Union.
Sakharov was a very clever scientist. He graduated from college during World War II but was kept out of the army to do scientific research for the government. Sakharov helped the Soviets develop the hydrogen bomb in the 1950s. But he also made many peaceful uses of nuclear power.
The bomb he had helped make started Sakharov to be a dissident. He argued with Nikita Khrushchev against unneeded nuclear tests. He was afraid that these tests put people's lives and healths in danger without need. He began asking, too, for more freedom of speech. The government removed him from his secret work and his special job as a scientist. Sakharov began to see what unhappy lives most Soviet citizens led.
Persecution only made him speak out more. He asked for more freedom of religion and defended others who had spoken out and been put into jail. The secret police began to watch him and to make files of information against him. After Sakharov criticized activities of the USSR's Arab allies, Arab terrorists came to his apartment and held him, his wife, and his stepson hostage for an hour. "Do you want to kill us?" cried Sakharov's wife. "We can do worse things than kill you," they replied. After the terrorists left without doing anything, Sakharov tried to tell the police about it. The police did not really care.
The only thing that protected Sakharov was many people knew about him outside the Soviet Union. The Communists were afraid that if something happened to him, it would give the world a bad image of the USSR. But when Sakharov criticized the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in 1979, they became very angry and took him to the city of Gorky. There he was watched by the police outside his apartment. He tried to go on a hunger strike, not eating anything. The Soviet Union was afraid he might die, so they force-fed him (forcing him to eat).
Sakharov kept on asking for "glasnost" (openness). In 1986, Mikhail Gorbachev, who agreed with Sakharov and thought there should be "glasnost", let the dissident scientist return home. Sakharov continued to call for reform, and in December 1989, he died, at the age of 68. . But two years later his wish became true with the dissolution of the Soviet Union. .

</doc>
<doc id="24587" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24587" title="1686">
1686

Year 1686 was a common year that started on a Tuesday when using the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="24588" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24588" title="1149">
1149


</doc>
<doc id="24589" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24589" title="1st century">
1st century

The 1st century was the century that lasted from 1 to 100.
During this period Europe, North Africa and the Near East fell under increasing domination by the Roman Empire. It continued expanding under the emperor Claudius (43). The reforms introduced by Augustus during his long reign stabilized the empire. Later in the century the Julio-Claudian Dynasty, which had been founded by Augustus came to an end with the death of Nero in 68. There followed the famous Year of Four Emperors, a brief period of civil war and instability, which was finally brought to an end by Vespasian, 9th Roman emperor, and founder of the Flavian Dynasty.
China continued to be dominated by the Han Dynasty, despite a 14-year interruption by the Xin dynasty under Wang Mang. Han rule was restored in 23. Wang Mang's rule represents the watershed between the Western/Former Han and the Eastern/Later Han. The capital was also moved from Chang'an to Luoyang.
According to the New Testament, during the reign of Tiberius, Jesus, a Jewish religious leader from Galilee, was crucified in Jerusalem on the charge of blasphemy for claiming to be the Son of God. But "God raised him from the dead" three days later, see Resurrection of Jesus. Over the next few decades his followers, following the Great Commission, including the apostle Paul, carried his message throughout the Greek-speaking regions of Asia Minor, eventually introducing it to Rome itself. Roman rulers began to persecute the new sect almost immediately (the emperor Nero accused the Christians of starting the fires that destroyed much of Rome in 64 AD), and would continue to do so for centuries, sometimes vigorously, and other times passively. Christian tradition records that all of Christ's apostles except John the Evangelist suffered martyrdom.
In the 4th century, Christianity was eventually taken up by the emperor Constantine. One of his successors Julian the Apostate renounced it for paganism and again persecuted the Church. However, by the end of the 4th century, Emperor Theodosius I proclaimed Christianity as the state religion of the Roman Empire.
Note: years before or after the 1st century are in "italics".

</doc>
<doc id="24596" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24596" title="Equidae">
Equidae

Equidae is a family of odd-toed ungulate mammals. The family has only one surviving genus: "Equus". Horses, donkeys and zebras belong in this genus.
Animals of the "Equus" genus can have hybrid offspring, but they are usually sterile.
They can have many different colours.

</doc>
<doc id="24632" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24632" title="Lynx">
Lynx

The Lynx is a small cat. It is a genus with four species. The four species are in Eurasia, Spain, Canada and America, and do not overlap much.
"Lynx" have short tails, and usually some hair on the ears. They have large paws (feet) padded for walking on snow, and long whiskers on the face. The colour of the body is from light brown to grey and is sometimes marked with dark brown spots, especially on the legs. They weigh about 5 kg or about 11 pounds (approximately the size of a large domestic cat) and can weigh up to about 30 kg (66 pounds).
"Lynx" are similar to a regular house cat, but larger. They have a powerful body on short, furry legs attached to hefty feet, and a bobbed, black-tipped tail. The fur is spotted and yellowish-brown to grey. It has a collar of fur around the face, giving a triangular shape. They also have long black ear tufts.
"Lynx" live in the high altitude forests with many shrubs, reeds and grass. They hunt only on the ground, but can climb trees and swim. 
They can be found in the some places in northern Scandinavia, in North America and also in the Himalayas. Since the 1990s people try to move part of the population of the Eurasian lynx to Germany. They can also be found in Białowieża Forest (northeastern Poland), and southern Spain.
The Colorado Division of Wildlife tried to move other wild "Lynx" populations from Canada back to the United States.
"Lynx" are usually solitary, although a small group may travel and hunt together occasionally. Mating takes place in the late winter and once a year the female gives birth to between two and four kittens. The young stay with the mother for one more winter, a total of around nine months, before moving out to live on their own as young adults.
"Lynx" make their dens in crevices or under ledges. They feed on a wide range of animals from white-tailed deer, reindeer, roe deer, small red deer, and chamois, to smaller, more usual prey: snowshoe hares, fish, foxes, sheep, squirrels, mice, turkeys and other birds, and goats. They also eat ptarmigans, voles, and grouse.
The Iberian lynx is the most endangered feline in the world. There are only two populations (together, 300 animals), in the southern Spain.
Hunting lynxes is illegal in many countries.

</doc>
<doc id="24641" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24641" title="Shania Twain">
Shania Twain

Shania Twain OC (born Eilleen Regina Edwards; August 28, 1965 in Timmins, Ontario, Canada) is a Canadian singer-songwriter. She was married a long time to music producer Mutt Lange. She is a very successful singer/songwriter in the country and pop music genres. She is starting a musical show in Las Vegas, Nevada in late 2012.
Her 1995 album "The Woman in Me" brought her fame. Her 1997 album "Come On Over" became the best-selling album of all time by a female musician in any genre, and the best-selling country album of all time. It has sold more than 40 million copies worldwide.
Twain married music producer Robert John "Mutt" Lange on December 28, 1993. They have a son, Eja (pronounced "Asia") D'Angelo, who was born on August 12, 2001. On May 15, 2008, a spokesperson for Mercury Nashville said that Twain and Lange were separating. This was after Lange allegedly had an affair with Twain's best friend, Marie-Anne Thiébaud. Their divorce was finalized on June 9, 2010. On December 20, 2010, Twain's manager said that Twain was engaged to Swiss Frédéric Thiébaud (the ex-husband of her former best friend), an executive at Nestlé. They married on January 1, 2011 in Rincón, Puerto Rico.
Twain is a long-time vegetarian. In 2001 she was voted PETA's very first Sexiest Vegetarian Alive.
In September 2010, it was confirmed that Twain was to release her first biography, "From This Moment On", on May 3, 2011. The cover work for the book was released on March 2, 2011.
In addition to the awards for her singles and albums, Twain has a number of personal honours:
Twain has released thirty-five singles from four studio albums, one greatest hits album, and one soundtrack album.

</doc>
<doc id="24642" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24642" title="The Grass Roots">
The Grass Roots

The Grass Roots are an American rock music group. Their peak in popularity was in the 1960s and 1970s. They formed in Los Angeles, California in 1966. Their biggest hit was the song "Midnight Confessions" which charted in the US at #5 in 1968. Their 1969 song "I'd Wait a Million Years" was #15 in the U.S..

</doc>
<doc id="24643" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24643" title="Dionne Warwick">
Dionne Warwick

Dionne Warwick (born December 12, 1940) is an American R&B singer. She was born in East Orange, New Jersey.
Warwick sang many songs written by Burt Bacharach and Hal David. Many of these songs were hits.
In 1990, Warwick hosted and executive produced a talk show, "Dionne and Friends". She was a contestant in the 2011 season of "The Apprentice".
Warwick's sister Dee Dee Warwick (1942-2008), their aunt Cissy Houston (born 1933) and cousin Whitney Houston (1963-2012) were singers.

</doc>
<doc id="24644" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24644" title="Barenaked Ladies">
Barenaked Ladies

Barenaked Ladies are a Canadian band. They formed in Toronto, Canada in 1988. The band is made up of four men. In 1991, the band was taken off the program for a New Year's Eve concert in Toronto because someone thought the name was bad. The band started as a duo with Ed Roberstson and Steven Page. Lead singer Page left the band in 2009 to begin a solo career. He was also arrested in 2008 for having the illegal drug cocaine.
The current band members are:
Ed Robertson is also the host of a television programme, called "Ed's Up". On the programme, he travels around Canada by airplane. A plane he was flying crashed into trees in 2008. Roberston and the other passengers were not hurt.
The theme song to the television series "The Big Bang Theory" is performed by Barenaked Ladies.
The band have made 14 albums:

</doc>
<doc id="24645" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24645" title="Paul Revere &amp; the Raiders">
Paul Revere &amp; the Raiders

Paul Revere & the Raiders were an American pop group who were popular in the 1960s. They started in Portland, Oregon in 1960.

</doc>
<doc id="24696" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24696" title="Nintendogs">
Nintendogs

Nintendogs is a video game for the Nintendo DS. In "Nintendogs", the player has dogs. They give the dogs food and drinks if a dog is good one might get to feed them a dog biscuit or a jerky treat but be careful, do not feed them too many of these wonder treats because then the dog would not want to walk anymore. The dogs can be washed, taken for a walk, taught to do tricks and put into contests. The contests are: agility trial, disc competition and obedience trial. One can find out how to compete in these contests by looking at their care books, under Supplies. At the start of the game one can choose a type of dog and give it a name. One can pat another player's dog to get trainer points, if a player gets 4,000 trainer points he might get a present.
There are four versions of the game each with different breeds.
They are: "Dalmatian and Friends", "Chihuahua and Friends", "Labrador and Friends" and "Dachshund and Friends". All breeds are unlockable in every version and a player can unlock dogs by increasing his trainer points. However, he can only have three dogs at home. To get more the player must drop off one at the Dog Hotel. Every player can only drop off five dogs at a time.
If the player does not play the game for a long period of time, the dog may run away. So players need to play with their dogs daily. 
A sequel, "Nintendogs + Cats", was released for the Nintendo 3DS in 2011.

</doc>
<doc id="24698" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24698" title="Luigi">
Luigi

Luigi is a video game character made by Nintendo. The famous game designer, Shigeru Miyamoto, made him. Luigi is the little bit younger but taller fraternal twin brother of the Nintendo mascot, Mario. He is in many games all over the "Mario" series, almost always as an assistant to his brother Mario.
Luigi first popped up in the 1983 arcade game "Mario Bros. "as the character ran by the second player, it was also done in "Super Mario Bros.", "Super Mario Bros. 3", "Super Mario World", and other games. The first game where he was present as the first character was "Super Mario Bros. 2". In current games, the role of Luigi became small. He is only in spinoffs such as the "Mario Party" and "Mario Kart" series, though he was the top character three times before. First in the education game "Mario Is Missing! "in 1991, in "Luigi's Mansion" for the Nintendo GameCube in 2001, and in "" for the Nintendo 3DS. In all of these games, he is called upon to be the brave person to save Mario. Luigi has also popped up in every show of the three DiC TV series based on the Nintendo Entertainment System and Super Nintendo Entertainment System games.
At first he was made as a palette swap of Mario with a green color instead of red. Luigi has since gotten a character and manner of his own. As his part in the "Mario" series progressed, Luigi became taller and thinner than his brother. Nintendo called 2013 "The Year of Luigi" to mark the thirty years of the existence of the character. Similarly, games being released in 2013 bring attention to Luigi, such as, "", "Dr. Luigi", and the level pack "New Super Luigi U" for "New Super Mario Bros. U". In "Super Mario 3D World "a Luigi take of "Mario Bros." called "Luigi Bros." is able to be unlocked.
The events leading to the creation of Luigi began in 1982, during the making of "Donkey Kong". The Nintendo designer Shigeru Miyamoto had created Mario (who used to be "Jumpman") hoping that he would be able to present the character in many different pars in future games. Miyamoto had been given ideas by the game "Joust" to create a game where two players can play at the same time. This was the cause of his development of the game "Mario Bros." in 1983, with Luigi as the brother of Mario and the second playable character. The name Luigi is said to have been inspired by a pizza business near the head office of Nintendo of America in Redmond, Washington, called "Mario & Luigi's". Miyamoto noticed that the word "ruiji" means "similar" in the Japanese language, and that Luigi was designed to have the same size, shape and gameplay of Mario.
At first in "Donkey Kong, "Mario was a carpenter. In "Mario Bros.", Mario and Luigi were designed as Italian plumbers by Miyamoto, on the suggestion of a partner. Software limits at the time—almost the same as those that gave Mario his special look in "Donkey Kong"—meant the first appearance of Luigi was limited to a simple palette swap of Mario designed to be the second player. The characters were in every way the same, other than their colors. The green color for Luigi would last as one of his physical characteristics in future releases.
After the success of "Mario Bros.", Luigi was presented to a wider market in 1985 with the release of the console game "Super Mario Bros. "Once again his part was limited to a palette swap of Mario, acting as the second-player in almost the same way as "Mario Bros. "The Japan-only form of "Super Mario Bros. 2" in 1986 (released in the west as " "in the future) marked the start of the development of Luigi becoming a separate character. As with his last appearances, Luigi was still a palette swap of Mario. However, his moves were not the same. Luigi could now jump high up and a great distance more than his brother, at the cost of motion reaction and exactness.
While this form of "Super Mario Bros. 2" was released in Japan, it was thought to be too hard for the American public at the time. In 1988, as a result, an alternative release was developed to be good enough as "Super Mario Bros. 2" for western players (and in the future released in Japan as "Super Mario USA"). This would play a key part in forming the current look of Luigi. The game was a conversion of "", with the art changed to be characters and places from the "Mario" series. In this release, the character of "Mama", who had the high jump among the first cast, was good enough for the model for Luigi, resulting in his taller, thinner look, combined with his Mario-design outfit and green color. There were appearances of Luigi being taller than Mario before. In the 1988 Famicom Disk System game "" and before that, in a very limited 1986 anime "" (though in the anime he put on a yellow shirt and the color of his hat and overalls were blue). Licensed art for "Super Mario Bros. 3" and "Super Mario World "presents Luigi with this new look. Nintendo of Japan would not change his art differences to his look within the game until the 1992 game "Super Mario Kart". The appearance of Luigi from the "Yume Kōjō: Doki Doki Panic" version of "Super Mario Bros. 2" has been used ever since, even for games made again in which he was a palette swap to start with.
Much like his appearance, the voice portrayal of Luigi has changed over the years. In "Mario Kart 64", which voiced many characters for the first time, some characters had two different voices in relation to the region of the game. North American and European forms present a deep voice for Luigi, by Charles Martinet, who also voices Mario, Wario, Waluigi, and Toadsworth. The Japanese form uses a high, falsetto voice, by (then French translator at Nintendo) Julien Bardakoff. All forms of "Mario Party" present the high-pitched clips of Bardakoff from "Mario Kart 64". Luigi kept this higher voice in "Mario Party 2". In "Mario Golf", "Mario Tennis", and "Mario Party 3" his voice returned to normal. Since then, in all games but "" and "Super Smash Bros. Melee", Luigi has always had a medium-pitched voice. In "", Luigi's voice was the same high voice from the Japanese "Mario Kart 64". In "Super Smash Bros." and "Super Smash Bros. Melee", the voice of Luigi is made up of clips from the voice of Mario taken from "Super Mario 64", with raised pitches. In "Super Smash Bros. Brawl", he has his own voice (which is medium-pitched) instead of the Mario pitched-up form.
Luigi is portrayed as the taller, younger brother of Mario, and he is usually seen dressed in green with overalls.
Playable only in two-player:
Playable in one-player or two-player:

</doc>
<doc id="24700" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24700" title="RAID">
RAID

RAID is an acronym that stands for Redundant Array of Inexpensive Disks or Redundant Array of Independent Disks. RAID is a term used in computing. With RAID, several hard disks are made into one logical disk. There are different ways this can be done. Each of the methods that puts the hard disks together has some benefits and drawbacks over using the drives as single disks, independent of each other. The main reasons why RAID is used are:
It is not possible to achieve all of these goals at the same time, so choices need to be made.
There are also some bad things:
Most of the work on RAID is based on a paper written in 1988.
Companies have used RAID systems to store their data since the technology was made. There are different ways in which RAID systems can be made. Since its discovery, the cost of building a RAID system has come down a lot. For this reason, even some computers and appliances that are used at home have some RAID functions. Such systems can be used to store music or movies, for example.
A hard disk is a part of a computer. Normal hard disks use magnetism to store information. When hard disks are used, they are available to the operating system. In Microsoft Windows, each hard disk will get a drive letter (starting with C:, A: or B: are reserved for floppy drives). Unix and Linux-like operating systems have a single-rooted directory tree. This means that people who use the computers sometimes do not know where the information is stored.
In computing, the hard disks (which are hardware, and can be touched) are sometimes called "physical drives" or "physical disks". What the operating system shows the user is sometimes called "logical disk". A physical drive can be split into different sections, called disk partitions. Usually, each disk partition contains one file system. The operating system will show each partition like a logical disk.
Therefore, to the user, both the setup with many physical disks and the setup with many logical disks will look the same. The user cannot decide if a "logical disk" is the same as a physical disk, or if it simply is a part of the disk. Storage Area Networks (SANs) completely change this view. All that is visible of a SAN is a number of logical disks.
In the computer, data is organised in the form of bits and bytes. In most systems, 8 bits make up a byte. Computer memory uses electricity to store the data, hard disks use magnetism. Therefore when data is "written" on a disk, the electric signal is converted into a magnetic one. When data is read from disk, the conversion is done in the other direction: An electrical signal is made from the polarity of a magnetic field.
A RAID array joins two or more hard disks so that they make a logical disk. There are different reasons why this is done. The most common ones are:
RAID is done by using special hardware or software on the computer. The joined hard disks will then look like one hard disk to the user. Most RAID levels increase the redundancy. This means that they store the data more often, or they store information on how to reconstruct the data. This allows for a number of disks to fail without the data being lost. When the failed disk is replaced, the data it should contain will be copied or rebuilt from the other disks of the system. This can take a long time. The time it takes depends on different factors, like the size of the array.
One of the reasons why many companies are using RAID is that the data in the array can simply be used. Those using the data need not be aware they are using RAID at all. When a failure occurred and the array is recovering, access to the data will be slower. Accessing the data during this time will also slow down the recovery process, but this is still much faster than not being able to work with the data at all. 
Depending on the RAID level however, disks may not fail while the new disk is being prepared for use. A disk failing at that time will result in losing all the data in the array.
The different ways to join disks are called "RAID levels". A bigger number for the level is not necessarily better. Different RAID levels have different purposes. Some RAID levels need special disks and special controllers.
In 1978, a man called Norman Ken Ouchi, who worked at IBM, made a suggestion describing the plans for what would later become RAID 5. The plans also described something similar to RAID 1, as well as the protection of a part of RAID 4.
Workers at the University of Berkeley helped to plan out research in 1987. They were trying to make it possible for RAID technology to recognize two hard drives instead of one. They found that when RAID technology had two hard drives, it had much better storage than with only one hard drive. However, it crashed much more often.
In 1988, the different types of RAID (1 to 5), were written about by David Patterson, Garth Gibson and Randy Katz in their article, called "A Case for Redundant Arrays of Inexpensive Disks (RAID)". This article was the first to call the new technology RAID and the name became official.
RAID uses a few basic ideas, which were described in the article "RAID: High-Performance, Reliable Secondary Storage" by Peter Chen and others, published in 1994.
Caching is a technology that also has its uses in RAID systems. There are different kinds of caches that are used in RAID systems:
In modern systems, a write request is shown as done when the data has been written to the cache. This does not mean that the data has been written to the disk. Requests from the cache are not necessarily handled in the same order than they were written to the cache. This makes it possible that, if the system fails, sometimes some data has not been written to the disk involved. For this reason, many systems have a cache that is backed by a battery.
When talking about a mirror, this is a very simple idea. Instead of the data being in only one place, there are several copies of the data. These copies usually are on different hard disks (or disk partitions). If there are two copies, one of them can fail without the data being affected (as it still is on the other copy). Mirroring can also give a boost when reading data. It will always be taken from the fastest disk that responds. Writing data is slower though, because all disks need to be updated.
With striping, the data is split into different parts. These parts then end up on different disks (or disk partitions). This means that writing data is faster, as it can be done in parallel. This does not mean that there will not be faults, as each block of data is only found on one disk.
It is possible to calculate different kinds of checksums. Some methods of calculating checksums allow finding a mistake. Most RAID levels that use redundancy can do this. Some methods are more difficult to do, but they allow to not only detect the error, but to fix it.
Many of the ways to have RAID support something is called a "hot spare". A hot spare is an empty disk that is not used in normal operation. When a disk fails, data can directly be copied onto the hot spare disk. That way, the failed disk needs to be replaced by a new empty drive to become the hot spare.
RAID works by spreading the data over several disks. Two of the terms often used in this context are "stripe size" and "chunk size".
The "chunk size" is the smallest data block that is written to a single disk of the array. The "stripe size" is the size of a block of data that will be spread over all disks. That way, with four disks, and a stripe size of 64 kilobytes (kB), 16 kB will be written to each disk. The chunk size in this example is therefore 16 kB. Making the stripe size bigger will mean a faster data transfer rate, but also a bigger maximum latency. In this case, this is the time needed to get a block of data.
Many controllers (and also software) can put disks together in the following way: Take the first disk, till it ends, then they take the second, and so on. In that way, several smaller disks look like a larger one. This is not really RAID, as there is no redundancy. Also, spanning can combine disks where RAID 0 cannot do anything. Generally, this is called "just a bunch of disks" (JBOD).
This is like a distant relative of RAID because the logical drive is made of different physical drives. Concatenation is sometimes used to turn several small drives into one larger useful drive. This can not be done with RAID 0. For example, JBOD could combine 3 GB, 15 GB, 5.5 GB, and 12 GB drives into a logical drive at 35.5 GB, which is often more useful than the drives alone.
In the diagram to the right, data are concatenated from the end of disk 0 (block A63) to the beginning of disk 1 (block A64); end of disk 1 (block A91) to the beginning of disk 2 (block A92).
If RAID 0 were used, then disk 0 and disk 2 would be truncated to 28 blocks, the size of the smallest disk in the array (disk 1) for a total size of 84 blocks.
Some RAID controllers use JBOD to talk about working on drives without RAID features. Each drive shows up separately in the operating system. This JBOD is not the same as concatenation.
Many Linux systems use the terms "linear mode" or "append mode". The Mac OS X 10.4 implementation — called a "Concatenated Disk Set" — does not leave the user with any usable data on the remaining drives if one drive fails in a concatenated disk set, although the disks otherwise operate as described above.
Concatenation is one of the uses of the Logical Volume Manager in Linux. It can be used to create virtual drives.
Most modern hard disks have a standard called Self-Monitoring, Analysis and Reporting Technology (S.M.A.R.T). SMART allows to monitor certain things on a hard disk drive. Certain controllers allow to replace a single hard disk even before it fails, for example because S.M.A.R.T or another disk test reports too many correctable errors. To do this, the controller will copy all the data onto a hot spare drive. After this, the disk can be replaced by another (which will simply be a hot spare).
The setup of the disks and how they use the techniques above affects the performance and reliability of the system. When more disks are used, one of the disks is more likely to fail. Because of this, mechanisms have to be built to be able to find and fix errors. This makes the whole system more reliable, as it is able to survive and repair the failure.
RAID 0 is not really RAID because it is not redundant. With RAID 0, disks are simply put together to make a large disk. This is called "striping". When one disk fails, the whole array fails. Therefore, RAID 0 is rarely used for important data, but reading and writing data from the disk can be faster with striping because each disk reads part of the file at the same time.
With RAID 0, disk blocks that come after one another are usually placed on different disks. For this reason, all disks used by a RAID 0 should be the same size.
RAID 0 is often used for Swapspace on Linux or Unix-like operating systems.
With RAID 1, two disks are put together. Both hold the same data, one is "mirroring" the other. This is easy, fast configuration whether implemented with a hardware controller or by software.
RAID Level 5 is what is probably used most of the time. At least three hard disks are needed to build a RAID 5 storage array. Each block of data will be stored in three different places. Two of these places will store the block as it is, the third will store a checksum. This checksum is a special case of a Reed-Solomon code that only uses bitwise addition. Usually, it is calculated using the XOR method. Since this method is symmetric, one lost data block can be rebuilt from the other data block and the checksum. For each block, a different disk will hold the parity block which holds the checksum. This is done to increase redundancy. Any disk can fail. Overall, there will be one disk holding the checksums, so the total usable capacity will be that of all disks except for one. The size of the resulting logical disk will be the size of all disks together, except for one disk which holds parity information.
Of course this is slower than RAID level 1, since on every write, all disks need to be read to calculate and update the parity information. The read performance of RAID 5 is almost as good as RAID 0 for the same number of disks. Except for the parity blocks, the distribution of data over the drives follows the same pattern as RAID 0. The reason RAID 5 is slightly slower is that the disks must skip over the parity blocks.
A RAID 5 with a failed disk will continue to work. It is in "degraded mode". A degraded RAID 5 can be very slow. For this reason an additional disk is often added. This is called "hot spare" disk. If a disk fails, the data can be directly rebuilt onto the extra disk. RAID 5 can also be done in software quite easily.
Mainly because of performance problems of failed RAID 5 arrays, some database experts have formed a group called BAARF—the "Battle Against Any Raid Five".
If the system fails while there are active writes, the parity of a stripe may become inconsistent with the data. If this is not repaired before a disk or block fails, data loss may occur. An incorrect parity will be used to reconstruct the missing block in that stripe. This problem is sometimes known as the "write hole". Battery-backed caches and similar techniques are commonly used to reduce the chance for this to occur.
This was used with very large computers. Special expensive disks and a special controller are needed to use RAID Level 2. The data is distributed at the bit-level (all other levels use byte-level actions). Special calculations are done. Data is split up into static sequences of bits. 8 data bits and 2 parity bits are put together. Then a Hamming code is calculated. The fragments of the Hamming code are then distributed over the different disks.
RAID 2 is the only RAID level that can "repair" errors, the other RAID levels can only detect them. When they find that the information needed does not make sense, they will simply rebuild it. This is done with calculations, using information on the other disks. If that information is missing or wrong, they cannot do much. Because it uses Hamming codes, RAID 2 can find out which piece of the information is wrong, and correct only that piece.
RAID 2 needs at least 10 disks to work. Because of its complexity and its need for very expensive and special hardware RAID 2 is no longer used very much.
Raid Level 3 is much like RAID Level 0. An additional disk is added to store parity information. This is done by bitwise addition of the value of a block on the other disks. The parity information is stored on a separate (dedicated) disk. This is not good, because if the parity disk crashes, the parity information is lost.
RAID Level 3 is usually done with at least 3 disks. A two-disk setup is identical to a RAID Level 0.
This is very similar to RAID 3, except that the parity information is calculated over larger blocks, and not single bytes. This is like RAID 5. At least three disks are needed for a RAID 4 array.
RAID level 6 was not an original RAID level. It adds an additional parity block to a RAID 5 array. It needs at least four disks (two disks for the capacity, two disks for redundancy). RAID 5 can be seen as a special case of a Reed-Solomon code. RAID 5 is a special case, though, it only needs addition in the Galois field "GF(2)". This is easy to do with XORs. RAID 6 extends these calculations. It is no longer a special case, and all of the calculations need to be done. With RAID 6, an extra checksum (called polynomial) is used, usually of "GF (2)". With this approach it is possible to protect against any number of failed disks. RAID 6 is for the case of using two checksums to protect against the loss of two disks.
Like with RAID 5, parity and data are on different disks, for each block. The two parity blocks are also located on different disks.
There are different ways to do RAID 6. They are different in their write performance, and in how much calculations are needed. Being able to do faster writes usually means more calculations are needed.
RAID 6 is slower than RAID 5, but it allows the RAID to continue with any two disks failed. RAID 6 is becoming popular because it allows an array to be rebuilt after a single-drive failure even if one of the remaining disks has one or more bad sectors.
RAID 6 uses two parity blocks. These are calculated in a special way over a polynomial. "Double parity" RAID (also called "diagonal parity" RAID) uses a different polynomial for each of these parity blocks. Recently, the industry association that defined RAID said that double parity RAID is a different form of RAID 6.
RAID-DP is another way of having double parity.
RAID 1.5 (not to be confused with RAID 15, which is different) is a proprietary RAID implementation. Like RAID 1, it only uses two disks, but it does both striping and mirroring (similar to RAID 10). Most things are done in hardware.
RAID 5E, RAID 5EE and RAID 6E (with the added "E" for "Enhanced") generally refer to different types of RAID 5 or RAID 6 with a hot spare. With these implementations, the hot spare drive is not a physical drive. Rather, it exists in the form of free space on the disks. This increases performance, but it means that a hot spare cannot be shared between different arrays. The scheme was introduced by IBM ServeRAID around 2001.
This is a proprietary implementation. It adds caching to a RAID 3 or RAID 4 array.
Some Intel main boards have RAID chip that have this feature. It uses two or three disks, and then partitions them equally to form a combination of RAID 0, RAID 1, RAID 5 or RAID 1+0 levels.
This is the name for the driver that allows to do software RAID with Linux. In addition to the normal RAID levels 0-6, it also has a RAID 10 implementation. Since Kernel 2.6.9, RAID 10 is a single level. The implementation has some non-standard features.
Sun has implemented a file system called ZFS. This file system is optimised for handling large amounts of data. It includes a Logical Volume Manager. It also includes a feature called RAID-Z. It avoids the problem called "RAID 5 write hole" because it has a copy-on-write policy: It does not overwrite the data directly, but writes new data in a new location on the disk. When the write was successful, the old data is deleted. It avoids the need for read-modify-write operations for small writes, because it only writes full-stripes. Small blocks are mirrored instead of parity protected, which is possible because the file system knows the way the storage is organised. It can therefore allocate extra space if necessary. There is also "RAID-Z2" which uses two forms of parity to achieve results similar to RAID 6: the ability to survive up to two drive failures without losing data.
With RAID different disks can be put together to get a logical disk.The user will only see the logical disk. Each one of the RAID levels mentioned above has good and bad points. But RAID can also work with logical disks. That way one of the RAID levels above can be used with a set of logical disks. Many people note it by writing the numbers together. Sometimes, they write a '+' or an '&' in between. Common combinations (using two levels) are the following:
With six disks of 300 GB each, a total capacity of 1.8TB, it is possible to make a RAID 5, with 1.5 TB usable space. In that array, one disk can fail without data loss. With RAID 50, the space is reduced to 1.2 TB, but one disk of each RAID 5 can fail, plus there is a noticeable increase in performance. RAID 51 reduces the usable size to 900 GB, but allows any three drives to fail.
There are different ways to make a RAID. It can either be done with software, or with hardware.
A RAID can be made with software in two different ways. In the case of Software RAID, the disks are connected like normal hard disks. It is the computer that makes the RAID work. This means that for each access the CPU also needs to do the calculations for the RAID. The calculations for RAID 0 or RAID 1 are simple. However, the calculations for RAID 5, RAID 6, or one of the combined RAID levels can be a lot of work. In a software RAID, automatically booting from an array that failed may be a difficult thing to do. Finally, the way RAID is done in software depends on the operating system used; it is generally not possible to re-build a Software RAID array with a different operating system. Operating systems usually use hard disk partitions rather than whole hard disks to make RAID arrays.
A RAID can also be made with hardware. In this case, a special disk controller is used; this controller card hides the fact that it is doing RAID from the operating system and the user. The calculations of checksum information, and other RAID-related calculations are done on a special microchip in that controller. This makes the RAID independent of the operating system. The operating system will not see the RAID, it will see a single disk. Different manufacturers do RAID in different ways. This means that a RAID built with one hardware RAID controller cannot be rebuilt by another RAID controller of a different manufacturer. Hardware RAID controllers are often expensive to buy.
This is a mix between hardware RAID and software RAID. Hardware-assisted RAID uses a special controller chip (like hardware RAID), but this chip can not do many operations. It is only active when the system is started; as soon as the operating system is fully loaded, this configuration is like software RAID. Some motherboards have RAID functions for the disks attached; most often, these RAID functions are done as "hardware-assisted RAID". This means that special software is needed to be able to use these RAID functions and to be able to recover from a failed disk.
There are different terms that are used when talking about hardware failures:
The failure rate is how often a system fails. The "mean time to failure" (MTTF) or "mean time between failures" (MTBF) of a RAID system is the same as that of its components. A RAID system cannot protect against failures of its individual hard drives, after all. The more complicated types of RAID (anything beyond "striping" or "concatenation") can help keep the data intact even if an individual hard drive fails, though.
The "mean time to data loss" (MTTDL) gives the average time before a loss of data happens in a given array. Mean time to data loss of a given RAID may be higher or lower than that of its hard disks. This depends on the type of RAID used.
Arrays that have redundancy can recover from some failures. The "mean time to recovery" shows how long it takes until a failed array is back to its normal state. This adds both the time to replace a failed disk mechanism as well as time to re-build the array (i.e. to replicate data for redundancy).
The "unrecoverable bit error rate" (UBE) tells how long a disk drive will be unable to recover data after using cyclic redundancy check (CRC) codes and multiple retries.
There are also certain problems with the ideas or the technology behind RAID:
Certain RAID levels allow to extend the array by simply adding hard disks, at a later time. Information such as parity blocks is often scattered on several disks. Adding a disk to the array means that a reorganisation becomes necessary. Such a reorganisation is like a re-build of the array, it can take a long time. When this is done, the additional space may not be available yet, because both the file system on the array, and the operating system need to be told about it. Some file systems do not support to be grown after they have been created. In such a case, all the data needs to be backed up, the array needs be re-created with the new layout, and the data needs to be restored onto it.
Another option to add storage is to create a new array, and to let a logical volume manager handle the situation. This allows to grow almost any RAID system, even RAID1 (which by itself is limited to two disks).
The error correction mechanism in RAID assumes that failures of drives are independent. It is possible to calculate how often a piece of equipment can fail and to arrange the array to make data loss very improbable.
In practice, however, the drives were often bought together. They have roughly the same age, and have been used similarly (called "wear"). Many drives fail because of mechanical problems. The older a drive is, the more worn are its mechanical parts. Mechanical parts that are old are more likely to fail than those that are younger. This means that drive failures are no longer statistically independent. In practice, there is a chance that a second disk will also fail before the first has been recovered. This means that data loss can occur at significant rates, in practice.
Another problem that also occurs with RAID systems is that applications expect what is called "Atomicity": Either all of the data is written, or none is. Writing the data is known as a "transaction".
In RAID arrays, the new data is usually written in the place where the old data was. This has become known as "update in-place". Jim Gray, a database researcher wrote a paper in 1981 where he described this problem.
Very few storage systems allow "atomic write semantics". When an object is written to disk, a RAID storage device will usually be writing all copies of the object in parallel. Very often, there is only one processor responsible for writing the data. In such a case, the writes of data to the different drives will overlap. This is known as "overlapped write" or "staggered write". An error that occurs during the process of writing may therefore leave the redundant copies in different states. What is worse, it may leave the copies in neither the old nor the new state. Logging relies on the original data being either in the old or the new state, though. This permits backing out the logical change, but few storage systems provide an atomic write semantic on a RAID disk.
Using a battery-backed write cache can solve this problem, but only in a power failure scenario.
Transactional support is not present in all hardware RAID controllers. Therefore many operating systems include it to protect against data loss during an interrupted write. Novell Netware, starting with version 3.x, included a transaction tracking system. Microsoft introduced transaction tracking via the journaling feature in NTFS. NetApp WAFL file system solves it by never updating the data in place, as does ZFS.
Some sectors on a hard disk may have become unreadable because of a mistake. Some RAID implementations can deal with this situation by moving the data elsewhere and marking the sector on the disk as bad. This happens at about 1 bit in 10 in enterprise-class disk drives, and 1 bit in 10 in ordinary disk drives. Disk capacities are steadily increasing. This may mean that sometimes, a RAID cannot be rebuilt, because such an error is found when the array is rebuilt after a disk failure. Certain technologies such as RAID 6 try to address this issue, but they suffer from a very high write penalty, in other words writing data becomes very slow.
The disk system can acknowledge the write operation as soon as the data is in the cache. It does not need to wait until the data has been physically written. However, any power outage can then mean a significant data loss of any data queued in such a cache.
With hardware RAID, a battery can be used to protect this cache. This often solves the problem. When the power fails, the controller can finish writing the cache when the power is back. This solution can still fail, though: the battery may have worn out, the power may have been off for too long, the disks could be moved to another controller, the controller itself could fail. Certain systems can do periodic battery checks, but these use the battery itself, and leave it in a state where it is not fully charged.
The disk formats on different RAID controllers are not necessarily compatible. Therefore, it may not be possible to read a RAID array on different hardware. Consequently a non-disk hardware failure may require using identical hardware, or a backup, to recover the data.
This guide was taken from a thread in a RAID-related forum. This was done to help point out the advantages and disadvantages of choosing RAID. It is directed at people who want to choose RAID for either increases in performance or redundancy. It contains links to other threads in its forum containing user-generated anecdotal reviews of their RAID experiences.
The RAID levels used most often are RAID 0, RAID 1, and RAID 5. Suppose there is a 3 disk setup, with 3 identical disks of 1 TB each, and the probability of failure of a drive for a given timespan is 1%. 

</doc>
<doc id="24703" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24703" title="Leonid Brezhnev">
Leonid Brezhnev

Leonid Brezhnev (19 December 1906 - 10 November 1982) was a leader of the Soviet Union. Born in 1906, Brezhnev was First Secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, effectively the dictator of the Soviet Union from 1964 until his death in 1982. During the Second World War, Brezhnev was a Political Commissar, supervising various military units. There, he became a friend of Nikita Khrushchev. 
Unlike Khrushchev, the leader of the Soviet Union before him, Brezhnev did not agree with the process of destalinization, and did not support reform. Under Brezhnev, the Soviet economy mostly consisted of military spending. Because the country's resources were going to the armed forces, as they had under Joseph Stalin in wartime, consumer wants were ignored. The standard of living began to fall.
Brezhnev died of a heart attack on November 10, 1982.

</doc>
<doc id="24722" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24722" title="Approximation">
Approximation

An approximation is a version of a piece of information that does not describe it exactly, but is close enough to be used. An approximation may be used either when the exact piece of information is not known, or when it's too long or complicated and people need something simpler.
For example, if you wanted to add 2.0002 and 2.0003, you can add 2 and 2, and it would be an approximation.
If you are left with a balance of Dollar 78.23 you might want to say you are left with 80 dollars.
Archimedes used polygons to approximate a circle, and to calculate an approximation for formula_1 as shown below:

</doc>
<doc id="24731" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24731" title="PhpBB">
PhpBB

phpBB is a commonly used, free computer software for forums. As the name suggests, phpBB is written in PHP, with the use of one of SQL compatible databases. 

</doc>
<doc id="24773" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24773" title="World Health Organization">
World Health Organization

The World Health Organization (WHO) is part of the United Nations (UN), working on international public health, with headquarters in Geneva, Switzerland. The WHO was established by the UN on April 7, 1948. World Health Day is celebrated on April 7.

</doc>
<doc id="24782" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24782" title="Jerboa">
Jerboa

A jerboa is a small desert rodent of Asia and northern Africa. It looks like a mouse, but it has a long tail and very long back legs. The jerboa moves by jumping.

</doc>
<doc id="24810" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24810" title="Aesop">
Aesop

Aesop, or Æsop (from the Greek "Αἴσωπος" "Aisopos"), known only for his fables, was by tradition a slave of African descent who lived from about 620 to 560 BC in Ancient Greece. Aesop's Fables are still taught as moral lessons and used as subjects for various entertainments, especially children's plays and cartoons.
Nothing was known about Aesop from credible records. The tradition was that he was at one point freed from slavery and that he eventually died at the hands of Delphians. In fact, the obscurity shrouding his life has led some scholars to deny his existence altogether.
His most famous fable in America is a parable of the tortoise and the hare. In this story, a rabbit challenges a tortoise to a race. The rabbit is sure of its victory and as a result, depending on the version of the story, in some way completes the race slower than the turtle. Often, the hare takes a nap or takes too many breaks. The persistent tortoise, despite being slower, wins because it persevered.
"Aesop's Fables" or "Aesopica" refers to a collection of fables credited to Aesop. Aesop's Fables has also become a blanket term for collections of brief fables, usually involving personified animals.
The fables remain a popular choice for moral education of children today. Many stories included in Aesop's Fables, such as "The Fox and the Grapes" (from which the idiom "sour grapes" was derived), "The Tortoise and the Hare" and "The Shepherd Boy and the Wolf" (also known as "The Boy Who Cried Wolf"), are well-known throughout the world.

</doc>
<doc id="24823" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24823" title="Smell">
Smell

The term smell may refer to one of the following articles:

</doc>
<doc id="24824" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24824" title="Olfaction">
Olfaction

Olfaction is the sense of smell. The sense of smell is how a human or animal notices a smell (or odour or odor) by using the nose. Many animals have better noses than people. Some animals can detect small particles in the air or sometimes water that people cannot. 
People have special cells in the nose that can detect some chemicals. These are special nerve cells attached to the olfactory epithelium. All vertebrates have these cells. The smell is first processed by the olfactory system. The information is given to the olfactory bulb in the front of the forebrain. 
In insects, smells are sensed by sensilia on the antennae and first processed by the antennal lobe.
The olfactory reception (OR) cells are neurons (nerve cells). Many tiny hair-like cilia stick out of these cells into the mucus covering the surface of the epithelium. The surface of these cilia is covered with olfactory receptors, a kind of protein. 
There are about 1000 different genes which code for the ORs, though only about a third are functional. The rest are pseudogenes. The OR genes are the largest gene family. An odor molecule dissolves into the mucus of the olfactory epithelium and then binds to an OR. Various odor molecules bind to various ORs. The basis of the sense of smell is that different groups of scent molecules bind to different receptor cells and so fire different groups of neurons. Inside the olfactory region of the brain, the firing of neurons produces the perceived smell. 
When the OR is activated, changes start in the cells. Positive ions come in and negative ions go out of the cells. This causes the neuron to fire an impulse (generate an action potential).

</doc>
<doc id="24827" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24827" title="Teaspoon">
Teaspoon

A teaspoon is a spoon used for stirring tea, measuring sugar, and playing games such as spoons. They are also called flatspoons in American English. Longer teaspoons can be used to eat ice cream and other desserts, too. It is usually covered with silver or stainless steel.
It is also a unit of measurement, now equal to 5 millilitres, but the original customary measure was 4.93 ml.

</doc>
<doc id="24840" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24840" title="Camembert">
Camembert

Camembert is a village in France. It is in Normandy. It is in the Orne "département" of the Lower Normandy region in France. It is most famous as the place where Camembert cheese originated. In 1999, 199 people lived there.

</doc>
<doc id="24842" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24842" title="Camembert cheese">
Camembert cheese

Camembert cheese, more generally known as Camembert, is a French soft cheese. It originated in the village of Camembert in Normandy. Since 1983, the name "Camembert de Normandie" has been protected as Appellation d'Origine controlée (AOC).
Camembert is made from unpasteurized cow's milk, and is ripened by the moulds "Penicillium candida" and "Penicillium camemberti" for at least three weeks. It is produced in small rounds, about 250 grams in weight, which are wrapped in paper and boxed in thin wooden boxes.
When fresh, it is quite crumbly and relatively hard, but it characteristically ripens and becomes more runny and strongly flavoured as it ages.
Camembert can be used in many dishes, but it is popularly eaten uncooked on bread or with wine or meat, to enjoy the subtle flavour and texture which do not survive heating. 
Camembert was reputedly invented in 1791 by Marie Harel, a farmer from Normandy. However, the origin of the cheese we know today as camembert is more likely to rest with the beginnings of the industrialisation of the cheese-making process at the end of the 19th century. In 1890, an engineer, M. Ridel invented the wooden box which was used to carry the cheese and helped to send it for longer distances, in particular to America where it became very popular. These boxes are still used today.
Before fungi were properly understood, the colour of Camembert rind was a matter of chance, most commonly blue-grey, with brown spots. From the early 20th century onwards the rind has been more commonly pure white, but it was not until the mid-1970s that pure white became standard.
The cheese was famously issued to French troops in the First World War, becoming firmly fixed in the French popular culture as a result. It has many other roles in French culture, literature and history. It is now internationally known, and many local varieties are made around the world.
The cheese is said to have inspired Salvador Dalí to create his famous painting, "The Persistence of Memory". Its "melting" watches were inspired by the sight of a melting wheel of over-ripe Camembert.
The Camembert de Normandie was granted a protected designation of origin in 1992 after the original AOC in 1983.
"Camembert: A National Myth" by Pierre Boisard ISBN 0-520-22550-3 claims that Camembert was one of the first globalised, homogenised and standardised foods.

</doc>
<doc id="24886" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24886" title="Shiva">
Shiva

Shiva is one of the three main gods in Hinduism. Shiva is known as the destroyer god because he removes all evil from the world. His wife is the goddess Parvati. He has a blue neck because, according to Hindu legend, he swallowed a poison in order to save the universe. He has three eyes, the third eye is on his forehead. Shiva is one third of the Hindu trinity including Brahma and Vishnu. Lord Shiva lives in the Himalayas. Ganesha and Kartikeya are his sons.

</doc>
<doc id="24895" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24895" title="ASCII art">
ASCII art

ASCII art is art made out of ASCII characters. This can be simple art like "<3" (it looks almost like a heart if you turn your head sideways), or it can be more complex, with characters carefully placed out, containing many lines of characters. 
ASCII art was originally used to "draw" pictures on computers that only allowed ASCII characters. 
Smilies are considered ASCII art. 

</doc>
<doc id="24896" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24896" title="Riddle">
Riddle

A riddle can be classed as a statement with a solution. This solution, however, need not be logical. Solving riddles usually involve thinking about the question and putting it into context. 

</doc>
<doc id="24907" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24907" title="Novalis">
Novalis

Novalis is the pseudonym of Georg Philipp Friedrich Freiherr von Hardenberg (May 2, 1772 - March 25, 1801), who was a writer and philosopher of the early German Romanticism.

</doc>
<doc id="24908" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24908" title="Body piercing">
Body piercing

Body piercing or just piercing is a form of body modification, where humans of either gender pierce their skin to put jewellery through the hole later. There are many different reasons some people have piercings, such as religious or other cultural purposes. Many people, especially in North America and Europe, choose to be pierced for ornamental, or sexual pleasure.
In early records, it was not common to discuss the use of piercings or their meanings. However, body adornment and modification are estimated have been around for more than 5000 years, found in mummies like Ötzi the Iceman, Europe's oldest natural mummy estimated to be about 5,300 years old. Piercing of the ears, nose, and tongue have a long history in many ancient cultures, and lip piercing and stretching were more common in African tribes, especially for cultural identification.
Body piercings of any kind were not popular in Western cultures in the beginning of the 20th century. After World War II, the gay subculture used piercings as a fashion statement. 

</doc>
<doc id="24909" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24909" title="Physical">
Physical

Physical can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="24910" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24910" title="Elonka Dunin">
Elonka Dunin

Elonka Dunin (born in 1958) is an American video game developer. Her job is to make computer games at Simutronics Corporation, in Missouri. She also knows a lot about famous puzzles, especially a puzzle called Kryptos, which no one knows all the answers to yet.
In 2006, she wrote a book with hundreds of puzzles in it, called "The Mammoth Book of Secret Codes and Cryptograms".

</doc>
<doc id="24914" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24914" title="Supernova">
Supernova

A supernova is when a huge star explodes. It usually happens when its nuclear fusion cannot hold the core against its own gravity. The core collapses, and explodes. 
The biggest supernovae are called hypergiants and smaller ones are called supergiants. They are massive: because of gravity they use up their energy very quickly. Normally they only live for a few million years. 
During the explosion, the total energy radiated by supernovae may briefly outshine the entire output of a galaxy. They emit energy equal to that of the whole lifetime of a solar-like star. The explosion blows of its stellar material away from the star, at velocities up to 30,000 km/s or 10% of the speed of light. This drives a shock wave into the surrounding interstellar medium. This sweeps up an expanding shell of gas and dust, which we see as a supernova remnant. After exploding, what is left becomes a black hole or a neutron star. 
Most stars are small and do not explode. They become colder and smaller, and they become white dwarf stars.
Supernova explosions happen rarely. In our own galaxy, the Milky Way, the last supernova happened in the year 1604. We can see supernovas in other galaxies too. Every year we see 300 supernovas in other galaxies, because there are so many galaxies. Sometimes they are brighter than the whole rest of the galaxy. </onlyinclude>
Supernovas are usually sorted into Type I and Type II supernovas.
Type I supernovas have absorption lines that show they do not have hydrogen in them. Type Ia supernovas are very bright for a short amount of time. Then they get less bright very quickly. Type Ia supernovas happen when a white dwarf star is orbiting a big star. Sometimes, the white dwarf star sucks matter off of the big star. When the white dwarf gets to be about 1.4 times the mass of the sun, it collapses. This makes lots of energy and light, which is why supernovas are very bright. Type 1a have mostly the same brightness. This allows them to be used as a secondary standard candle to measure the distance to their host galaxies.
Type II supernovas have absorption lines that show they do have hydrogen in them. A star must have at least 8 times, and no more than 40–50 times, the mass of the Sun to undergo this type of explosion.
In a star like the Sun, nuclear fusion turns hydrogen into helium. In very large stars, helium gets turned into oxygen, and so on. The star fuses increasingly higher mass elements, up through the periodic table until a core of iron and nickel is produced. Fusion of iron or nickel produces no net energy output, so no more fusion can take place. But, the collapse of the core is so rapid (about 23% of the speed of light) that a huge shock wave is produced. The extremely high temperature and pressure lasts long enough for a brief moment when the elements heavier than iron are produced. Depending on initial size of the star, the remnants of the core form a neutron star or a black hole.
Without supernovas there would be no life on Earth. This is because many of the chemical elements were made in supernova explosions. These are called "heavy elements". Heavy elements are needed to make living things. The supernova is the only way heavy elements can be made. Other elements were made by fusion in stars. Heavy elements need very high temperature and pressure to form. In a macho supernova explosion the temperature and pressure are so high that heavy elements can be made. Scientists call this "supernova nucleosynthesis".
It could be dangerous if a supernova explosion happened very close to the Earth. The explosion is very big and many kinds of dangerous radiation are formed. But we do not have to be afraid. Only very big stars can explode as supernovas. There are no stars big enough near the Earth and if there was it would take millions of years for it to happen.
SN 1572 was seen by Tycho Brahe. This supernova helped astronomers learn that things in space could change. SN 1604 was seen by Johannes Kepler. It was the last supernova close enough to be seen from Earth's northern hemisphere without a telescope. SN 1987A is the only supernova so close that scientists could find neutrinos from it. SN 1987A was also bright enough to see without a telescope. People in the southern hemisphere saw it.
The Earth does have traces of past supernovae. Traces of radioactive iron-60, a strong indicator of supernova debris, is buried in the sea floor right across the globe. 
The "local bubble" is a ballooning region of hot gas, 600 light-years across. It surrounds the Solar System and dominates our stellar neighbourhood. It was formed by over a dozen supernovae blowing up in a nearby moving clump of stars. This happened between 2.3 million and 1.5 million years ago. This roughly corresponds with the start of the Pleistocene ice ages. The connection may be accidental.

</doc>
<doc id="24915" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24915" title="Folk">
Folk

Folk can mean:
In music:

</doc>
<doc id="24916" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24916" title="Victorian">
Victorian

Victorian may mean:

</doc>
<doc id="24917" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24917" title="Bethlehem">
Bethlehem

Bethlehem is a city on the West Bank in Palestine. It is most famous as the place where Jesus was born. (See Gospel of Matthew chapter 2.) It is five miles from Jerusalem in Israel.

</doc>
<doc id="24920" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24920" title="Disco">
Disco

Disco is a style of music that was most popular from the mid-1970s to the early 1980s. People usually dance to disco music at bars called disco clubs. The word "disco" is also used to refer to the style of dancing that people do to disco music, or to the style of clothes that people wear to go disco dancing. Disco music was an up-tempo form of music which included elements of soul, funk and Latin music. It had a strong beat meant for dancing, a steady four-on-the-floor rhythm, and a big bass line, and orchestral instrumentation often included string sections. Disco is dance music too.
Disco was at its most popular in the United States and Europe in the late 1970s and early 1980s. Disco was brought into the mainstream by the hit movie "Saturday Night Fever," which was released in 1977. This movie, which starred John Travolta, showed people doing disco dancing. Many radio stations played disco in the late 1970s. By the early 1980s, disco had started to fall out of popularity, and other genres, such as dance, Hi-NRG and post-disco grew in popularity. Nevertheless, disco still exerts an influence on modern day dance music, and still has occasional moments of popularity. Additionally, a different form of disco arose in Europe, known as Euro disco, which obtained some popularity.
Disco music blends R&B with funk, soul and dance music. Disco music usually consists of a singer, electric guitars, synthesizer keyboards, electric bass guitar, and a drummer or electronic drum machine. Disco music is often very simple music, with a strong beat and a strong "bass line". Disco music often has many electronic effects.
Disco dancing is often sexually suggestive. When people go disco dancing, they usually wear tight trousers, leather shoes or boots, and glittery clothes. Women going disco dancing often wore tight clothes that revealed body parts such as their thighs or the upper part of their chest. Men going disco dancing often opened up the buttons of their shirts to show the upper part of their chest.
Disco music is played at disco clubs. In the late 1970s, there were famous disco clubs such as Studio 54 in New York City. Disco clubs have a large dance floor and a large pa system. A Disk Jockey (or "DJ") plays records of disco music through powerful amplifiers with a number of high wattage speakers. Disco music was usually played very loud, with lots of low bass frequencies. Disco clubs usually had coloured lights that flashed with the music called scanners, and mirror balls with hundreds of small mirrors, that reflect light onto the dancers and all corners of the room.
Most people who went disco dancing at disco clubs drank alcohol such as champagne and rum. Many people consumed illegal drugs such as cocaine or marijuana, so that they would become intoxicated. People who went disco dancing often had sex with people that they would meet at the disco club.

</doc>
<doc id="24921" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24921" title="Albert II, Prince of Monaco">
Albert II, Prince of Monaco

His Serene Highness Prince Albert II of Monaco (born 14 March 1958) is the ruler of Monaco. He became ruler after his father Rainier III died in April 2005. He is the only son and the middle of three children of Rainer and his wife Grace Kelly.
Albert has held two positions:
Prince Albert and his wife Charlene had twins:

</doc>
<doc id="24922" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24922" title="Rex Warner">
Rex Warner

Reginald Ernest Warner or Rex Warner (9 March 1905-24 June 1986) was a classical English writer and translator.

</doc>
<doc id="24923" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24923" title="Hugh Cook">
Hugh Cook

Hugh Cook (born 1942) is a Canadian writer.

</doc>
<doc id="24924" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24924" title="Franz Boas">
Franz Boas

Franz Boas (July 9, 1858 – December 21, 1942) was a German-born American anthropologist.

</doc>
<doc id="24925" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24925" title="Zapotec people">
Zapotec people

The Zapotec are a native tribe of people from Mexico. People think there are between 300.000 and 400.000 people. Most of them live in the state of Oaxaca. Most of them speak either Zapotec dialect continuum or the Chatino language. Before Christopher Columbus came to America, the Zapotec civilisation was highly developed. It also included a system of writing. 

</doc>
<doc id="24926" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24926" title="IMAX">
IMAX

IMAX is a kind of movie projection system, which shows movies on a very large screen. It was first introduced in Japan in 1970.

</doc>
<doc id="24930" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24930" title="Esotericism">
Esotericism

Esotericism is about secret knowledge for a small group of people. Esotericism also describes mystical, spiritual or occult viewpoints (point of view). Esotericism studies Gnosticism, Yoga, Alchemy, Magic, Spiritualism, Hypnosis, Astrology, Meditation, Mysticism, and Occultism. Many followers of Abrahamic faiths, particularly Christianity and Islam, have criticized Esotericism as black magic. Esotericism in religion is called "obscurantism".
Esotericism can also be about understanding symbolism and hidden meanings of many different books. They include religious books, philosophical books and books about history. They use these books as their texts.

</doc>
<doc id="24931" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24931" title="Hugh Cook (science fiction author)">
Hugh Cook (science fiction author)

Hugh Walter Gilbert Cook (9 August 1956 – 8 November 2008) is a science fiction author. Cook was born in Essex, England, and moved to New Zealand. Then in 1997 he moved to Japan.

</doc>
<doc id="24932" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24932" title="Jainism">
Jainism

Jainism is a South Asian religion that teaches non-violence towards all living beings. Jain philosophy is the oldest philosophy of India that distinguishes body (matter) from the soul (consciousness) completely. It rests on the principle of Nonviolence (ahimsa) and Non-possessiveness (non-attachment to possessions). It teaches that the universe is eternal and that every living being has a soul which has the power to become God. A soul which has won over its inner enemies like attachment, greed, pride, etc. is called "jina" which means conqueror or victor. Such great souls are considered God. Self-control is considered the means to obtain liberation or Godhood.
Jainism is also called "Shraman (self-reliant) Dharma" or the religion of Nigrantha (who does not have attachments and aversions) by ancient texts. It is referred to in Hindi:जैन धर्म (Jain Dharma), and in Tamil சமணம் (Samanam).
Jainism teaches that 24 great souls called tirthankaras (Teaching gods) are born from time to time to revive Jaina faith. In present age it begin with first "tirthankara" Rishabhadeva with Parshva (9th century BC) and Mahavira (6th century BC) being the 23rd and 24th tirthankara respectively. In the modern world, it is a small but influential religious group with about 4.2 million followers in India,
and growing immigrant communities in North America, Western Europe, the Far East, Australia and elsewhere.
Jains successfully sustained this ancient religion to this era and have significantly influenced and contributed to ethical, political and economic spheres in India. Jains have an ancient tradition of scholarship and have the highest degree of literacy in India; Jain libraries are the oldest in the country. Tamil Jains and Tulu Jains who are native to their region residing in places of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka early since 1st century BC. Even though South Indian Jains are distinguishable in some of their routines and practices from North Indian Jains, the core philosophies and belief systems are the same for both cultures.
According to Jain philosophy, a soul in its pure form is God.
The following are three posts that any soul can attain-
Tīrthaṅkara is a human being who has win over the cycle of birth and death. Tirthankaras shows the path to liberation to other living beings. After their death they become Siddha i.e. soul at its purest form.
Following are the 24 tirthankaras of present time cycle-
According to Jainism, universe has no beginning or end. The Jain wheel of time is divided into two parts, Utsarpinī or ascending time cycle and Avasarpinī, the descending time cycle, occurring continuously after each other.
Jains believe that their religion is eternal, having no origin and end.
"Suṣama-suṣamā (read as Sukhma-sukhma)"
"Suṣamā (read as Sukhma)"
"Suṣama-duḥṣamā (read as Sukhma-dukhma)"
"Duḥṣama-suṣamā (read as Dukhma-sukhma)"
"Duḥṣama (read as Dukhma)"
"Duḥṣama - duḥṣama (read as Dukhma-dukhma)"
This trend will start reversing with the start of "utsarpiṇī kāl".

</doc>
<doc id="24941" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24941" title="Sect">
Sect

A sect is a small religious or political group that separates from a larger group. Sects have many of the same beliefs and practices as the original group, but often have some different doctrines. In contrast, a denomination is a large religious group. 

</doc>
<doc id="24951" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24951" title="Caracal">
Caracal

The Caracal, also called Persian lynx or African lynx, is a wild cat. Caracals are similar to lynxes, but are more related to the Serval. Caracals are the fastest of the small cats.
The Caracal is 65 cm in length (about 2 feet), plus 30 cm tail (about 1 foot). It has longer legs and a look very similar to a lynx. The colour of its fur may be wine-red, grey, black, or sand-coloured (a type of yellow). Young caracals have red spots on the fur, but the only markings adults have are black spots above the eyes. A special part of the caracal body are its long black ears - the word "caracal" come from the Turkish word "karakulak" ("black ear"). Their ears are controlled by 20 different muscles, to help them find the animals they hunt.
Caracals live in Africa and Western Asia. Their habitat is dry steppes (areas without trees, covered with grass or shrubs) and semi-deserts, but also can live in places similar to woodlands, savannas, and scrub forests. They live alone or with a mate in a territory. 
A caracal may live without drinking for a long time - they get the water from the body of the animals they eat. It hunts at night (but in winter they also hunt in the daytime) for rodents, birds, and hares. It is not usual, but sometimes they hunt small antelopes or young ostriches. They prefer to eat only the external meat of the mammals they hunt, and do not eat the internal organs, and they also do not like eating fur. But they eat the feathers of small birds and rotten meat. 
They can hunt birds very well; a caracal is able to snatch a bird in flight, sometimes more than one at a time. Caracals can jump and climb every well, which enables them to catch hyraxes better than any other carnivore.
Because they can learn tricks and get accustomed to live with humans, caracals are sometimes kept as pets (especially in the United States and some European countries). Farmers in Africa do not like them, because sometimes they enter in farms and eat chickens and other animals. So they make their dog chase the caracal.
It is not easy to see caracals in nature because they hide very well. Drivers in countries where caracals live, for example, Kenya and Botswana, see many animals next to roads, but it is very rare a sighting of a caracal. 
There are many species of caracals. See them and where they live:

</doc>
<doc id="24953" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24953" title="Eel">
Eel

True eels are teleost fish. They have long and narrow bodies like snake. Adult eels can be as short as 10 cm or as long as 3 m. It depends on their species. The large eels can weigh up to 65 kg.
Eels have fewer fins than other fish. They do not have all the belly and chest fins. The back and anal fins are long and usually connected to the tail fin. The fins do not have spines.
The shoulder bones are separate from the skull. The scales have smooth edges or are absent.
Eels hatch from eggs. Baby (larval) eels are flat and transparent (clear). They are called "leptocephalus" (Greek for "thin head"). A young eel is called an elver. For a long time people did not know where eels came from, because baby eels look very different from adults. They thought the babies were a different species.
Most eels prefer to live in the shallowest parts of the ocean. They live at the bottom of the ocean, sometimes in holes. Eels in the "Anguillidae" family come to fresh water to live there. Eels in the "Nemichthyidae" family swim about 500 m below the ocean surface. Eels in the "Synaphobranchidae" family live as deep as 4000 m below the surface.
Hand netting (catching with nets) is the only legal way of catching eels in England. It has been done for thousands of years on the River Parrett and River Severn.
Most eels are predators. They hunt their prey.
True eels belong to the order (group) Anguilliformes (Latin for "eel-shaped").
This order has 4 suborders (smaller groups) called "Anguilloidei", "Nemichthyoidei", "Congroidei", and "Synaphobranchoidei".
The suborders are separated into 19 families. The families are divided into 110 genera. The genera are then divided into species.
There are 400 species of eels in all.
Freshwater eels ("unagi") and marine eels (Conger eel, "anago") are used in Japanese food. Eels are used in Cantonese (Hong Kong) food and Shanghai food.
Some people eat the European eel and other eels that live in lakes all around the world. A traditional London food is "jellied eels." The Spanish meal, "angulas", consists of deep-fried elvers.
Eel skins are used to make some wallets and purses.

</doc>
<doc id="24957" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24957" title="Easter egg">
Easter egg

An Easter egg is an egg, eaten and used for decoration during the Easter holidays. The egg was a symbol of the earth to celebrate spring. It was used by early Christians as a sign of the resurrection (rising from the dead) of Jesus.
The use of painted and decorated Easter eggs was first recorded in the 13th century. The church did not let people eat eggs during Holy Week, but chickens still laid eggs during that week. Because there was nothing else to do with the eggs, they were used for Easter decoration.
In modern times, chocolate eggs with a colorful wrapping are given to children to be eaten. In the United Kingdom, children receive on average 8.8 chocolate Easter eggs every year. It is unclear where this tradition comes from. Most likely, it comes from a pagan fertility ritual during spring. Sometimes on Easter, children go on egg hunts to look for Easter eggs. They can look for them indoors or outdoors.
An easter egg is also the name of something secret added in computer programs, such as a joke, a picture, or a message that can be uncovered.
Although there have been claims that Easter eggs came from the pagan symbols, there is no solid evidence for this. At the Passover, a hard-boiled egg dipped in salt water is a symbol of both new life and the Passover sacrifice offered at the Temple in Jerusalem. In Christian times, the egg was a symbol of new life just as a chick might hatch from the egg. The Easter egg tradition may have celebrated the end of the privations of Lent. In the Medieval Europe, people were not allowed to eat eggs on fast days. It was traditional to use up all of the eggs that they had before Lent began, and this also made the tradition of Pancake Day. Eggs were viewed as symbols of new life and fertility through the ages. It is believed that for this reason many ancient cultures, including the Ancient Egyptians, Persians, and Romans, used eggs during their spring festivals. In Eastern Christianity, both meat and dairy are still not allowed to be eaten during the fast, and eggs are seen as "dairy" too.
It was during Easter that everybody was trying to get rid of the eggs before the fast. Eggs were given as gifts for children and servants, and used for decoration. And this is probably the reason why eggs came to be associated with Easter.

</doc>
<doc id="24958" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24958" title="Lemur">
Lemur

Lemurs are primates and prosimians (not monkeys). The word "lemur" comes from the Latin word "lemures", which means "ghosts". This name refers to many of the nocturnal lemur species and their large eyes.
Lemur may be any member of the four lemuriform families, but it is also the genus of one of the lemuriform species. There are two so-called "flying lemurs", but they are not real lemurs.
Lemurs live "only" on the island of Madagascar and some smaller islands next to it, for example the Comoros. They weigh from 30g to the 10kg. Larger species have all become extinct since human groups moved to Madagascar. Usually, the smaller lemurs are active at night (nocturnal), and the larger ones are active during the day (diurnal).
Lemurs are white and black with a ring tail. They are about 1.5 meters tall and weigh about 2 to 3.5 kilograms. They move quietly, usually at night, sometimes letting out eerie wailing cries, which some people think is the reason why they got their names.
Lemurs mostly eat fruit, leaves, and other plant parts. They live in family groups of 5 to 42 members which is called a troop. Females are dominant and remain in the same troop for life. Males move between troops. The female's gestation period lasts four to five months, and they usually have between one and two babies. Lemur mothers nurse their babies until they are about four months old. Then they begin to feed the babies solid food such as fruit. Lemurs spend most of their time in the trees. Some are fantastic leapers, flinging themselves from tree to tree. Lemurs live for about 27 years. 
Lemurs communicate with a variety of hoots. They will also send messages with scents (smells). When a male lemur wants to scare another male away, he first rubs its tail on the smelly glands under its arms and then waves the tail in the other male's face. These are called "stink fights".
Today, there are about 32-35 living lemur species. All lemurs are endangered species, because people destroy their habitat and hunt them.

</doc>
<doc id="24959" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24959" title="Good Friday">
Good Friday

Good Friday is a religious holiday usually observed by Christians. It is also called Holy Friday, Black Friday, or Great Friday. It is observed to remember the crucifixion of Jesus Christ, his death, and his rising from the dead. The holiday is often at the same time as the Jewish holiday of Passover.
The estimated year of Good Friday is AD 33, by two different groups, and at first as AD 34 by Isaac Newton by the differences between the Biblical and Julian calendars.
According to the Gospels, Jesus was arrested in the Garden of Gethsemane by the Temple Guards. This was done through the help of his disciple Judas Iscariot. Judas received money (30 pieces of silver) () for betraying Jesus. He had told the guards that whomever he kisses was the one they were to arrest. Jesus was brought to the house of Annas. Annas was the father-in-law of the high priest at that time, Caiaphas. There he was questioned. However, it was with little result. Tied up, he was sent to Caiaphas the high priest, where the Sanhedrin had come together ().
Lots of people came and said conflicting things about Jesus to make him look bad. As he heard these, Jesus said nothing. At last, the high priest tells Jesus, "I you, by the Living God, to tell us, are you the Anointed One, the Son of God?" Jesus said yes: "You have said it, and in time you will see the Son of Man seated at the right hand of the Almighty, coming on the clouds of Heaven." The high priest ripped his clothes, crying out that Jesus had blasphemed God. The trial ended with a sentence of death (). While they were questioning Jesus, Peter was waiting in the courtyard. He also said that he did not know Jesus three times to people standing by. According to the Bible, Jesus already knew that Peter would say this.
In the morning, the people brought Jesus to the Roman governor Pontius Pilate. They said he was troubling the nation. They also said he tried to stop people from paying taxes to Caesar, and wanted to make himself a king (). Pilate questioned Jesus. He told the people that Jesus had nothing to be sentenced for. When he learned that Jesus was from Galilee, Pilate said that Jesus should be judged by the ruler of Galilee, King Herod. At that time, Herod was in Jerusalem for the Passover Feast. Herod questioned Jesus, but Jesus did not answer. Herod sent Jesus back to Pilate. Pilate told the people that neither he nor Herod have found Jesus guilty. Pilate wished to have Jesus whipped, then let him go ().
It was a custom during the feast of Passover for the Romans to let one prisoner go free as requested by the Jews. Pilate asked the crowd whom they would like to go free. The crowd asked for Barabbas, another prisoner. He had gone to prison for murdering people. Pilate asked what they would have him do with Jesus. At this, and they demanded, "Crucify him!" (). Pilate's wife warned Pilate to "have nothing to do with this man" (). She had had a dream about him earlier that day.
Pilate had Jesus whipped, then tried to let him go. The chief priests demanded that Jesus be sentenced to death "because he claimed to be God's son." This filled Pilate with fear. He brought Jesus back inside the palace and demanded to know from where he came ().
Coming before the crowd one last time, Pilate declared Jesus innocent. He washed his own hands in water to show he has no part in this. However, Pilate handed Jesus over to be crucified so that the crowd would not get angry () and that he could keep his job.
Jesus carried his cross a place of the Skull, or "Golgotha" in Hebrew. In Latin it is called "Calvary". There he was crucified with two criminals ().
Jesus is hung on the cross for six hours in extreme pain. During his last 3 hours on the cross there is darkness over the whole land (; ; ). At last, Jesus cried, "It is finished". He then "gave up his spirit". There is an earthquake. Tombs break open, and the curtain in the Temple is torn from top to bottom. The centurion on guard at the crucifixion declares, "Truly this was God's Son!" () 
Joseph of Arimathea, a member of the Sanhedrin and secret follower of Jesus, who had not said yes to his death, went to Pilate. He asked for the body of Jesus (). Another secret follower of Jesus and member of the Sanhedrin named Nicodemus brought a mix of spices and helped wrap the body of Christ (). Pilate asked the centurion to make sure that Jesus is dead (). A soldier pierced the side of Jesus, causing blood and water to flow out (). At this, the centurion told Pilate that Jesus was dead ().
Joseph of Arimathea took the body of Jesus, wrapped it in a clean linen shroud, and placed it in his own new tomb that had been carved in the rock (). The tomb was in a garden. Nicodemus () also came bringing 75 pounds of myrrh and aloes, and placed them in the linen with the body of Jesus, according to Jewish burial customs (). They rolled a large rock over the entrance of the tomb (). Then they went back home and rested, because at sunset began Shabbat (). According to the Bible, on the third day, Sunday, which is now known as Easter Sunday (or "Pascha"), Jesus rose from the dead.
Special prayer services are usually held on this day with readings from the Gospel accounts of the events leading up to the crucifixion. Major Christian churches say that Christ's crucifixion as a voluntary act, which he did for everyone who believed in him, and also one by which, together with resurrection on the third day, death itself was crushed.

</doc>
<doc id="24960" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24960" title="Archaea">
Archaea

The Archaea (or "Archea") are a group of single-celled organisms. The name comes from Greek αρχαία, "old ones". They are a major division of living organisms.
Archaea are tiny, simple organisms. They were originally discovered in extreme environments (extremophiles), but are now thought to be common to more average conditions. Many can survive at very high (over 80 °C) or very low temperatures, or highly salty, acidic or alkaline water. Some have been found in geysers, black smokers, oil wells, and hot vents in the deep ocean. Recent research has found ammonia-eating archaea in soil and seawater. 
In the past they had been classed with bacteria as prokaryotes (or Kingdom Monera) and named archaebacteria, but this classification is a mistake. The Archaea have an independent evolutionary history and show many differences in their biochemistry from other forms of life. They are now classified as a separate domain in the three-domain system. In this system, the three distinct branches of evolutionary descent are the Archaea, Bacteria and Eukaryota.
Archaea are, like bacteria, prokaryotes: single-celled organisms that do not have nuclei and cell organelles of the eukaryote type.
Interesting facts about archaea:

</doc>
<doc id="24963" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24963" title="Jared Diamond">
Jared Diamond

Jared Mason Diamond (born September 10, 1937) is an American author and biologist. His book "Guns, Germs, and Steel" won a Pulitzer Prize in 1997.
Diamond was born in Boston, Massachusetts. His father was a doctor and his mother was a teacher. He received his college degree from Harvard University in 1958, and then he received a doctorate degree from the University of Cambridge in 1961.
In 1966, he became a teacher at UCLA, a university in Los Angeles, California. He has also traveled to some islands called New Guinea, which are far away from the United States, in the South Pacific Ocean. Diamond is famous for knowing a lot about the birds that lived on that island, and he has traveled there many times.
Diamond writes about science in ways that people can understand, and he has written many articles for magazines like "Discover" in the United States. 
He also writes books. One of his first books was called "The Third Chimpanzee", which talked about the way that people evolved from monkeys, and how many things are the same between humans and monkeys.
His most famous book is "Guns, Germs, and Steel". In his book, Diamond explained why he thought that different parts of the Earth had people on them at different times, and why some people in some parts of the world had more science or farming than people in other parts of the world. The book went over thousands of years of human history.
In 2004, he wrote another book, called, "Collapse: How Societies Choose to Fail or Succeed." In this book, Diamond wrote about why he thought that some groups of people from many hundreds of years ago were able to have their groups get very big and strong, while other groups fell apart. His book talked about what people today can maybe learn from the studying the problems from history.

</doc>
<doc id="24964" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24964" title="Iglesia ni Cristo">
Iglesia ni Cristo

The (IPA: ; Filipino for Church of Christ), or INC, is a church which was made in the Philippines by Felix Manalo in 1914. The INC says it was made by Jesus Christ. The church does not believe in the religious teachings of the Trinity, including the teaching that Jesus is God.
Felix Manalo joined many religious organizations as a young adult. He said that God gave him a mission to teach the gospel and to bring back the first church made by Jesus. The INC began with a handful of followers on July 27, 1914 in Punta, Santa Ana, Manila, with Manalo as highest minister. It has now spread to many different countries.
Some of the teachings INC believes in are:

</doc>
<doc id="24966" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24966" title="State court (United States)">
State court (United States)

In some countries, a municipal court is a court with limited jurisdiction, both in people and laws. Most commonly, municipal courts only deal with the laws and citizens of one city or town. But in some places they make decisions for an entire county, and may be involved with early hearings of cases that will be tried in a higher court. Some things that often involve municipal courts are traffic tickets, leash laws, and building code violations and death.
Municipal courts in Mississippi are "Judge Alone" courts. This means that judges alone hear the presented cases and offenders(and alleged offenders)have no right to jury trials. In felony cases in Mississippi, the Municipal court holds a preliminary hearing and then sends the case to the grand jury of the state. The Municipal court is not a court of record and its cases are summarized by docket.
There are no municipal court facilities in the state. All courthouses are done at the county level. For example if a speeding ticket violation occurred, it automatically goes to the county seat in which the violation occurs whether it is in a municipality or unincorporated. In the case of some elongated counties like Chatham County, there is an alternate courtroom in Siler City as well as Pittsboro, the county seat. In other cases where there are multiple large population centers like in Guilford County, court cases are handled in Greensboro and High Point. Although a federal issue, traffic violations occurring in military bases are not subject to civilian courts.

</doc>
<doc id="24968" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24968" title="Emma Goldman">
Emma Goldman

Emma Goldman (June 27, 1869 – May 14, 1940) was one of the most well-known anarchists from the late 1800s and early to mid 1900s. 
Emma Goldman was an anarcho-communist who was an early supporter of atheism, gay rights and feminism.
She was born in modern-day Lithuania (at the time it was part of Russia). She moved to Rochester, New York with her sister when she was 17. 
At first she worked in a textile factory and married her co-worker Jacob Kersner. Their marriage was short and Goldman moved to New York City and became a member of the anarchist community. She became good friends with Alexander Berkman (another anarchist) and helped him plan the attempted-assassination of Henry Clay Frick, a rich man who treated his workers badly. Berkman was unsuccessful and spent fourteen years in prison, but Goldman was not punished. 
Goldman did face many legal troubles though. In 1893 she was convicted of starting a riot and spent a year in prison. She was arrested in 1901 for allegedly conspiring in the assassination of President McKinley, but was never found guilty.
In 1916 she was spent time in prison for giving out information on birth control (which was a crime at the time). In 1917 she was arrested and spent two years in prison for not supporting World War I. 
In 1919, Goldman and Berkman were deported (sent back) to Russia because the American government thought they were too dangerous. The Russian Revolution had just happened and Goldman was hopeful that Russia might end up being a good place. She ended up deciding that the revolution in Russia was not as good as she thought and that the Bolsheviks tricked many of the people in Russia. She thought the Bolsheviks were too controlling and were too powerful. She also did not like that the Soviet Union put lots of anarchists in jail for not agreeing with them.
She and Berkman left after two years and Goldman lived in many places in Europe, including England and France. In 1936 she moved to Spain to help the anarchists fight the fascists during the Spanish Civil War.
She died in Toronto May 14, 1940 of a stroke. She is buried near Chicago.

</doc>
<doc id="24970" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24970" title="Computer engineering">
Computer engineering

Computer engineering is the practice of making computers and their parts. Computer engineers are always trying to make new parts smaller and better. They can also work on software, especially software for embedded systems (specialized electronics like cell-phones and satellite receivers, not a general-purpose computer).
Computers are electrical machines that run programs. So Computer engineering has parts of both electrical engineering and computer science/software engineering. In Computer engineering classes, students learn about the hardware and software of computers. This starts with learning how transistors and computer chips are made and how they work (which uses quantum mechanics). Then the student learns how the chips talk to each other and how to make a complete printed circuit board (PCB). This is the electrical part. They also learn how to program the ROM or Flash memory so the computer can do something useful.
Because Computer engineering is closely related to electrical engineering and computer science, the fields are found in the same department at many universities. Students also need to learn fundamental science subjects and mathematics, such as calculus and differential equations.
Computer engineering is difficult to learn, but computer engineers are needed. Software engineering companies, telecommunications firms, designers of digital hardware, and many other companies hire computer engineering majors right out of college and pay them well.

</doc>
<doc id="24971" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24971" title="Spanish Civil War">
Spanish Civil War

The Spanish Civil War (18 July 1936 – 1 April 1939) was a war in which the Spanish General Francisco Franco and his troops successfully took control of Spain. A lot of different groups worked together with the Spanish Republic (the government of the time) to stop him, including socialists, communists, anarchists, and other leftist groups. The fascist governments of Germany and Italy provided troops and supplies for Franco, while the communist Soviet Union sold the Republican forces weapons. Lots of people from other countries volunteered to fight against Franco (sometimes against the orders of their own countries), including people from the United States, Britain, France, Belgium, Germany, Italy, and many other countries. These groups were known as the International Brigades. The war ended on 1 April 1939 when the last of the Republican troops gave up. Franco became the ruler of Spain until he died in 1975. 
Half a million people died in the war, and many atrocities were committed by both sides. The most famous was the bombing of Guernica. On April 26, 1937, Guernica was bombed by Legion Condor, supported by Hitler's Nazi regime. It was the first time that large civilian casualties resulted, the destruction received wide media coverage and created a public perception of German involvement which persists to this day. 

</doc>
<doc id="24975" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24975" title="Fyodor Tyutchev">
Fyodor Tyutchev

Fyodor Ivanovich Tyutchev (rus: "Фёдор Иванович Тютчев", fyô'dər ēvä'nəvĭch tyū'chĭf) (December 5 1803 – July 27, 1873) was one of the most significant Russian poets. Almost 20 years of his life he spent in Munich and Turin. Tyutchev was a good friend of Heinrich Heine, knew Schelling as well. Tyutchev didn’t want people to know him as a poet. He didn’t take any part in a literary life.
We know about 400 of his poems. Russian people quote them very often. His early poems are made in Russian poetic tradition of the XVIII century. In the 1830s we can find an influence of European (especially German) romanticism on Tyutchev’s lyrics. He writes philosophic poems about the universe, nature and human being. In 1840s Tyutchev wrote several articles about relations between Russia and Occidental civilization. In 1850s Tyutchev created several heartfelt poems, in which we can see love as a tragedy. These poems are combined into one cycle, named “Denisievsky”. “Denisievsky” means dedicated to a mistress of Tyutchev – Elena Alexandrovna Denisieva. In 1860s–1870s Tyutchev wrote mainly political poems.
The most famous Tyutchev's poem is “Silentium!”. This is a hard appeal to be silent. Because a man never can understand another person. A line “A word once uttered is untrue” is one of the most popular aphorisms of Tyutchev. As well as “We can’t understand Russia by the reason” and “We are not know, what will be the respond for our word”. 

</doc>
<doc id="24989" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24989" title="Erythropoietin">
Erythropoietin

Erythropoietin, or Erythropoetin (EPO) is a hormone produced by the kidneys. Epoetin is a synthetic version.
Erythropoietin makes more red blood cells grow. It is used to treat anemia. Anemia can come from kidney failure, or from chemotherapy to fix cancer. The man-made hormone is made with cell cultures. The hormone is also used for blood doping in endurance sports although this is illegal in all athletic competitions.

</doc>
<doc id="24993" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24993" title="Anarcho-punk">
Anarcho-punk

Anarcho-punk is a subculture that combines punk music and anarchist politics. Some important anarcho-punk bands include Crass, Conflict, Chumbawamba, and Subhumans. Common ideas that many anarcho-punks support are anti-war, animal rights, feminism, environmentalism, equality, anti-capitalism and other common anarchist causes.

</doc>
<doc id="24996" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24996" title="Household hardware">
Household hardware

Hardware describes things people use.
They can be equipment such as fasteners, keys, locks, hinges, latches, handles, wire, chains, tools, screws and machine parts, especially when they are made of metal.
In slang, hardware can be military equipment, or electronic equipment, or computer equipment.

</doc>
<doc id="25000" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25000" title="Breton">
Breton

Breton can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="25001" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25001" title="Slavic peoples">
Slavic peoples

Slavs are the people who live in Central Europe, Eastern Europe, Southeast Europe, Central Asia and North Asia. Present-day Slavic peoples are classified into West Slavs (mainly Poles, Czechs and Slovaks), East Slavs (mainly Russians, Belarusians, and Ukrainians), and South Slavs (mainly Serbs, Bulgarians, Croats, Bosniaks, Macedonians, Slovenes, and Montenegrins)
Albanians, Austrians, Germans, Hungarians, Romanians, Lithuanians, and Latvians live near the Slavic nations, but they are not Slavs themselves. There are more Slavic peoples than any other ethnic group in Europe. Russians make up the most Slavs, followed by Poles and Ukrainians.
There are many small historic Slavic nations like Lusatia, Rusin, Kashubia and others. Russia is now the most powerful and populated Slavic country, but in the 10th century the Czechs were powerful, and in the 16th century Poland was the strongest nation in the area.
The Slavic languages are closely related. The largest similarities can be found within the same group (e.g. Polish and Slovak, both West Slavic languages), but similarities exist even between Slavic languages from other different subgroups (e.g. Bulgarian and Russian). However, the greatest similarities exist between Serbian, Bosnian and Croatian - these South Slavic languages are considered separate by the Bosnian and Croatian governments, but most linguists say they are one language called Serbo-Croatian. Slavic languages are spoken natively by 400 million people, and as second or third languages by many more people in countries as far apart as Germany and China.

</doc>
<doc id="25004" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25004" title="Maharbal">
Maharbal

Maharbal was Hannibal's cavalry-leader during the Second Punic War. Many times he was important in Carthage's successes over Rome. In his Italian campaign, Hannibal always was able to have more cavalry than Rome, and so relied on them and Maharbal to give himself a big advantage.
Maharbal is most famous for what he said to Hannibal after the Battle of Cannae. According to Livy, a Roman historian, the conversation went like this after Maharbal said he wanted to go with the army to Rome immediately:
"I commend your zeal", Hannibal said to Maharbal; "but I need time to weigh the plan that you propose." "Assuredly", Maharbal replied, "no one man has been blessed with all God's gifts. You know, Hannibal, how to gain a victory; you do not know how to use it." -Livy, The History of Rome 22.51
"In Simple English:"
"I like your enthusiasm", Hannibal said to Maharbal; "but I need time to think about what you want to do." Maharbal said back, "It is true that no one is perfect. You know how to win, Hannibal; you do not know what to do after."
Livy wrote this in Latin, so Maharbal's reply is often quoted in Latin, and is a famous phrase: "Vincere scis, Hannibal; victoria uti nescis."

</doc>
<doc id="25005" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25005" title="Hannibal">
Hannibal

Hannibal (Hǎnnibal Barca, 247 BC – ? 183/2/1 BC), was a Carthaginian statesman and general. He was the greatest enemy of the Roman Republic. 
Hannibal is most famous for what he did in the Second Punic War. He marched an army from Iberia over the Pyrenees mountains and the Alps mountains into northern Italy and defeated the Romans in a series of battles. At the Battle of Cannae he defeated the largest army Rome had ever put together. The Roman army is reckoned at 16 legions and a total of 86,000 men. Over 80% of this army was killed or captured, including its commander.
He kept an army in Italy for many years. Eventually, a Roman invasion of North Africa made him return to Carthage. He lost, and the Romans made him leave Carthage. He lived at the Seleucid court, and convinced its Emperor to fight Rome. When he lost a naval battle, Hannibal fled to the Bithynian court. When the Romans told him to give up, he killed himself.
Hannibal is listed as one of the greatest military commanders in history. Military historian Theodore Ayrault Dodge once called Hannibal the ""father of strategy"" because even his greatest enemy, Rome, copied his military ideas.
Hannibal's father Hamilcar was commander of the Carthaginian forces at the end of the First Punic War (264–241 BC). After Carthage lost the war, Hamilcar crossed to Hispania to conquer the tribes of what is now Spain. Carthage at the time was in a poor condition. Its navy could not carry its army to Iberia (Hispania). Hamilcar had to march towards the Pillars of Hercules and go across the Strait of Gibraltar. According to a story in Livy, Hamilcar made Hannibal promise that he would never be a friend of Rome. Hannibal told his father 
In return, Hamilcar agreed to take Hannibal with him to Hispania. He spent two years finishing the conquest of Iberia south of the river Ebro. He died in 229/228 in battle, most likely drowning in the Jucar River. His son-in-law Hasdrubal took command, but was assassinated in 221 BC.
So, in 221 BC, Hannibal became the leader of the army. Rome feared the growing strength of Hannibal. They made an alliance with the city of Saguntum and claimed to be protecting the city. Saguntum was South of the river Ebro. Hannibal attacked the city because of this. It was captured after eight months. Rome wanted justice from Carthage. The Carthaginian government saw nothing wrong with Hannibal's actions. The war Hannibal wanted was declared at the end of the year. 
Hannibal's army was made up of as many as 75,000 foot soldiers and 9,000 horsemen. Hannibal left "New Carthage" in late spring of 218 BC. He fought his way north to the Pyrenees. He defeated the tribes through clever mountain tactics and stubborn fighting. After marching 290 miles and reaching the Ebro river, Hannibal chose the most trustworthy and loyal parts of his army of Libyan and Iberian mercenaries to keep going with him. He left 11,000 troops to keep watch over the newly conquered region. At the Pyrenees, he let go of another 11,000 Iberian troops. Hannibal entered Gaul with 50,000 foot soldiers and 9,000 horsemen. 
Hannibal needed to cross the Pyrenees, the Alps, and many important rivers. starting in the Spring of 218 BC, he fought his way to the Pyrenees. He made peace deals with the Gaulish leaders and reached the Rhône River. Arriving at the Rhône in September, Hannibal's army numbered 38,000 infantry, 8,000 horsemen, and thirty-seven war elephants.
Hannibal got away from a Roman force sent to fight him in Gaul. He then went up the valley of one of the streams of the Rhône River. By Autumn, he reached the foot of the Alps. His journey over the mountains is one of the most famous achievements of any military force. After this journey, Hannibal came down from the foothills into northern Italy. He had arrived with only half the forces he had started with and only a few elephants. Hannibal had lost as many as 20,000 men crossing over the mountains.
Publius Cornelius Scipio commanded the Roman force sent to stop Hannibal. He did not expect Hannibal to cross the Alps. He expected to fight Hannibal in Spain. With a small army still in Gaul, Scipio tried to stop Hannibal. He moved his army to Italy by sea in time to meet Hannibal. Hannibal made the area behind him safer by defeating the tribe of the Taurini (modern Turin). The opposing forces fought at Carthage. Here, Hannibal forced the Romans to get out of the plain of Lombardy. This victory did much to weaken Roman control over the Gauls. The Gauls decided to join the Carthaginians. Soon all of northern Italy was unofficially allied. Gallic and Ligurian troops soon raised his army back to 40,000 men. Hannibal’s army was ready to invade Italy. Scipio retreated across the River Trebia. He camped at the town of Placentia and waited for more troops. 
The Senate had ordered Sempronius Longus to bring his army from Sicily to meet Scipio and face Hannibal. Hannibal was in position to head him off. Sempronius avoided Hannibal and joined Scipio near the Trebbia River near Placentia. At Trebia, Hannibal defeated the Roman infantry by a surprise attack from an ambush on the flank.
Arriving in Etruria in the spring of 217 BC, Hannibal decided to lure the main Roman army led by Flaminius into battle. Hannibal found Flaminius camped at Arretium. He marched around his opponent’s left side and cut Flaminius off from Rome. Hannibal made Flaminius chase him. On the shore of Lake Trasimenus, Hannibal destroyed Flaminius's army in the waters or on the nearby slopes. He killed Flaminius as well. He had got rid of the only force that could stop him from getting to Rome. He realized that without siege engines he could not hope to take the capital. He decided to continue into central and southern Italy. He hoped this show of strength would create a revolt against the Roman government. After Lake Trasimene, Hannibal said, "“I have not come to fight Italians, but on behalf of the Italians against Rome.”"
Rome was put into an immense state of panic. They appointed a dictator named Quintus Fabius Maximus. He was an intelligent and careful general.
Fabius adopted the "Fabian strategy". He refused open battle with his enemy, and put several Roman armies near Hannibal to limit his movement. Fabius sent out small forces against Hannibal’s foraging parties. Residents of small northern villages were told to post lookouts. They could gather their livestock and possessions and go to fortified towns. This would wear down the invaders’ endurance. 
Hannibal decided to march through Samnium to Campania. He hoped that the destruction would draw Fabius into battle. Fabius refused to let himself be drawn into battle. His troops became irritated by his "“cowardly spirit”". His policies were not liked. Romans were used to facing their enemies in the field. The people wanted to see a quick end to the war. 
The rest of Autumn continued with frequent skirmishes. After six months, Fabius was removed from his position in accordance with the Roman law.
In the Spring of 216 BC Hannibal captured the large supply depot at Cannae in the Apulian plain. He had placed himself between the Romans and their source of supply. The Roman Senate resumed their Consular elections in 216. They chose Caius Terentius Varro and Lucius Aemilius Paullus as Consuls. The Romans raised a new army that was much larger than ever before. The total strength of the army which faced Hannibal is not known, but probably up to 80,000 men.
The Roman army marched southward to Apulia. After a two days’ march, they found Hannibal at the Audifus River. Roman consuls had to switch their command on a daily basis. Consul Varro was a reckless man full of pride. He was determined to defeat Hannibal. Hannibal drew him into a trap. The Roman army had no way to escape. With brilliant tactics, Hannibal surrounded and destroyed most of this force. 
It is estimated that 50,000-70,000 Romans were killed or captured at Cannae. Among the dead were eighty senators. The Roman Senate was no more than 300 men – this was 25%–30% of the governing body. The Battle of Cannae one of the worst defeats in the history of Ancient Rome. It is also one of the bloodiest battles in all of human history in terms of the number of lives lost in a single day. After Cannae, the Romans refused to fight Hannibal in battles. They tried instead to defeat him by wearing him down. They relied on their advantages of supply and manpower. 
Because of this victory most of southern Italy joined Hannibal's cause. During that same year, the Greek cities in Sicily revolted against Roman control. The Macedonian king, Philip V supported Hannibal. This started the First Macedonian War against Rome. Hannibal made his new base in Capua, the second largest city of Italy.
Without the resources from his allies or reinforcements from Carthage, Hannibal could not do much more. Hannibal began losing ground. He continued defeating the Romans whenever he could bring them into battle but was never able to complete another decisive victory.
In 212 BC conspirators in Tarentum let Hannibal into the city. They then blew the alarm with some Roman trumpets. This let Hannibal's troops pick off the Romans as they stumbled into the streets. Hannibal told the Tarentines to mark every house where Tarentines lived. The houses not marked were looted. The citadel held out. This stopped Hannibal from using the harbor and Rome was slowly gaining ground over Hannibal. In the same year, he lost Campania.
In 211 BC the city of Capua fell. In summer of that year, the Romans destroyed the Carthaginian army in Sicily. Meanwhile, Hannibal had defeated Fulvius at Herdonea in Apulia, but lost Tarentum. With the loss of Tarentum in 209 BC and the Romans capturing of Samnium and Lucania, his hold on south Italy was almost lost. 
In 207 BC he retired into Bruttium. These events marked the end to Hannibal's success in Italy. In 203 BC, Hannibal was recalled to Carthage to lead the defence of his homeland against a Roman invasion.
Both Scipio and Hannibal met on the field of Zama. Hannibal had about 50,000 infantry and 4,000 cavalry. Scipio had 34,000 infantry and 8,700 cavalry. For years, Hannibal had won victories with his experienced army. He now faced the best of the Roman army, while he led a makeshift army. They did not do well against the Romans.
Hannibal was defeated. 20,000 men of Hannibal’s army were killed at Zama. The same number of men were taken as prisoners. The Romans lost as few as 500 dead and 4,000 wounded. With their best general defeated, the Carthaginians accepted defeat and surrendered to Rome.
Seven years after the victory of Zama, the Romans demanded Hannibal's surrender. Hannibal went into voluntary exile. He journeyed to Tyre, the mother-city of Carthage, and then to Ephesus and Syria.
In 190 BC he was placed in command of a Phoenician fleet but was defeated in a battle off the Eurymedon River. Hannibal went to Crete, but he soon returned to the Asia Minor. At Libyssa on the eastern shore of the Sea of Marmora, he was going to be turned over to the Romans. Rather than letting himself be taken, he drank poison. The precise year of his death is not certain. It is believed to be 183 BC. He died in the same year as Scipio Africanus.

</doc>
<doc id="25021" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25021" title="Veganism">
Veganism

Veganism is a philosophy that says people should not use animals. There are vegans who choose not to eat animals, and vegans who choose not to use them in any other way either.
Vegans avoid food that comes from animals, including meat, eggs and dairy products (like milk, cheese, and yogurt). A vegan diet is sometimes called a strict vegetarian diet. Some vegans also do not eat honey. Many vegans try not to use any other animal products, such as leather, wool, feathers, bone, or pearl. They also try to avoid products that have been tested on animals. They may believe in animal rights, and may campaign for it.
Vegans eat fruits, vegetables, beans, grains, nuts, and seeds, and things made from them like vegan sweets, vegan cheese and vegan cakes.
Some people become vegan because they disagree with the treatment of animals in the modern animal farm industry. Other reasons to become vegan are for health, religious reasons, to protect the environment, or because of world hunger. Animals eat a lot and take up a lot of resources. By not producing meat, milk, or eggs, a lot of food, land (as of 2006, 30% of the earth's land mass is used raising animals for food) and water can be saved. For instance, it takes about 16 pounds of grain to make 1 pound of grain-fed meat, so eating plants directly takes fewer resources.
Some vegans only eat foods that have not been cooked. Their diet is called raw veganism. 
Another more restrictive type of veganism is fruitarianism. Fruitarians only eat foods that can be harvested without harming or killing a plant.
Vegans must make sure their intake of vitamin B is adequate, since it does not occur reliably in plant foods. Vitamin B deficiency can have serious consequences such as anemia and neurodegenerative disease. Vegan societies recommend that vegans either eat foods fortified with B or take a B supplement. Tempeh, seaweed, spirulina, organic produce, soil, and intestinal bacteria have not been shown to be reliable sources of B for the dietary needs of vegans. Vitamin D deficiency is possible in the absence of dairy products (which are normally fortified with vitamin D). It can be prevented by supplements, and time spent outdoors.
Many people think that it is not healthy to be vegan. However, a vegan diet can have all of the nutrients needed for health. It is just more difficult to get the nutrients because there are less foods to choose from.

</doc>
<doc id="25027" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25027" title="Necrophilia">
Necrophilia

Necrophilia is a paraphilia of being sexually attracted to dead bodies. Some necrophiliacs have sex with dead bodies. It is usually considered bad. It is illegal in many parts of the world, "but not all".

</doc>
<doc id="25035" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25035" title="Strait of Magellan">
Strait of Magellan

The Strait of Magellan is a passage way from the Atlantic Ocean to the Pacific. It is just south of mainland South America and goes through Argentina and Chile. For a long time the two countries argued over which one of them owned the land around it. Chile now owns it.
The strait is named after Ferdinand Magellan. It is very foggy and stormy.

</doc>
<doc id="25042" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25042" title="Fenerbahçe S.K.">
Fenerbahçe S.K.

Fenerbahçe is a sports club in Istanbul, Turkey. It was officially founded in 1907.
Fenerbahçe's home stadium is the Fenerbahce Sukru Saracoglu Stadium in Kadıkoy Istanbul.
They have won the Spor Toto Super League 19 times and Ziraat Turkish Cup 6 times.

</doc>
<doc id="25048" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25048" title="Homo sapiens">
Homo sapiens

Homo sapiens (Latin: "wise man") is the binomial nomenclature (also known as the scientific name) for the human species.
"Homo" is the human genus, which also includes Neanderthals and many other extinct species of hominid; "H. sapiens" is the only surviving species of the genus "Homo". Modern humans are sometimes called "anatomically modern humans". "Homo sapiens" considers itself the most influential species on the planet, but many species of life, mostly plants and protists, have had a much greater effect on the outside of Earth and its air.
The recent African origin of modern humans is the mainstream model describing the origin and dispersal of anatomically modern humans. The hypothesis that humans have a single origin was published in Charles Darwin's "The Descent of Man" (1871). The concept is supported by a study of present-day mitochondrial DNA, and with evidence based on physical anthropology of fossil humans. According to genetic and fossil evidence, older versions of "Homo sapiens" evolved only in Africa, between 200,000 and 100,000 years ago, with members of one branch leaving Africa by 60,000 years ago and over time replacing earlier human populations such as Neanderthals and "Homo erectus".
The recent single origin of modern humans in East Africa is the near-consensus position held within the scientific community. However, recent sequencing of the full Neanderthal genome suggests Neanderthals and some modern humans share some ancient genetic lineages. 
The authors of the study suggest that their findings are consistent with Neanderthal admixture of up to 4% in some populations. But the study also suggests that there may be other reasons why humans and Neanderthals share ancient genetic lineages. 
In August 2012, a study by scientists at the University of Cambridge has questioned this conclusion, hypothesising instead that the DNA overlap is a remnant of a common ancestor of both Neanderthals and modern humans.
The time frame for the evolution of the genus "Homo" out of the last common ancestor is roughly 10 to 2 million years ago, that of "H. sapiens" out of "Homo erectus" roughly 1.8 to 0.2 million years ago.
Scientific study of human evolution is mostly concerned with the development of the genus "Homo", but usually involves studying other hominids and hominines as well, such as "Australopithecus". 
"Modern humans" are defined as the "Homo sapiens" species, of which the only living subspecies is known as "Homo sapiens sapiens".
"Homo sapiens idaltu", the other known subspecies, is now extinct. "Homo neanderthalensis", which became extinct 30,000 years ago, has sometimes been classified as a subspecies, ""Homo sapiens neanderthalensis""; genetic studies now suggest that the functional DNA of modern humans and Neanderthals diverged 500,000 years ago.
Similarly, the discovered specimens of the "Homo rhodesiensis" species have been classified by some as a subspecies, but this classification is not widely accepted.
Anatomically modern humans first appear in the fossil record in Africa about 195,000 years ago, and studies of molecular biology give evidence that the approximate time of divergence from the common ancestor of all modern human populations was 200,000 years ago. The broad study of African genetic diversity found the ǂKhomani San people had the greatest genetic diversity among the 113 distinct populations sampled, making them one of 14 "ancestral population clusters". The research also placed the origin of modern human migration in south-western Africa, near the coastal border of Namibia and Angola.
The forces of natural selection have continued to operate on human populations, with evidence that certain regions of the genome show selection in the past 15,000 years.

</doc>
<doc id="25053" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25053" title="Lake Tanganyika">
Lake Tanganyika

Lake Tanganyika is large lake in the Great Rift Valley of central Africa. The lake is divided between four countries – Burundi, Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), Tanzania and Zambia. It is the longest fresh water lake in the world and the second deepest. 

</doc>
<doc id="25108" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25108" title="Pinocchio (1940 movie)">
Pinocchio (1940 movie)

Pinocchio is the second animated Disney movie, made by Walt Disney Productions and first released to movie theaters by RKO Radio Pictures on February 7, 1940. Based on the story "Pinocchio: Tale of a Puppet" by Carlo Collodi, it was made in response to the huge success of "Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs".
The movie tells the story of Pinocchio, a wooden puppet made by a man named Geppetto and brought to life by the Blue fairy, after Geppetto wishes he could have a son. She tells him he can become a real boy if he proves himself "brave, truthful, and unselfish." Pinocchio must try to be good so he can become a real boy, with the help of his friend, Jiminy Cricket. Thus begins the adventures of the puppet into a real boy, which involve many encounters with a series of unpleasant characters.
The movie was adapted by Aurelius Battaglia, William Cottrell, Otto Englander, Erdman Penner, Joseph Sabo, Ted Sears, and Webb Smith from Collodi's book. The production was supervised by Ben Sharpsteen and Hamilton Luske, and the film's sequences were directed by Norman Ferguson, T. Hee, Wilfred Jackson, Jack Kinney, and Bill Roberts.
It features the song, "When You Wish Upon A Star", which has been used at the start of most Disney movies since 1985.
A man called Gepetto makes a wood puppet called Pinocchio. He wishes that Pinocchio was a real boy, and the Blue Fairy makes Gepetto's wish come true. But to become a real boy instead of a live puppet, Pinocchio has to prove that he's good. The Blue Fairy assigns a cricket named Jiminy Cricket to guide him and keep him out of trouble. This is a hard job, and Pinocchio does a lot of things wrong.
On his first day of school, two crooks, a fox named Honest John and his mute sidekick named Gideon, trick Pinocchio to join Stromboli's puppet show instead. Pinocchio is popular in the show, but Stromboli is cruel to him and locks him in a bird cage. The Blue Fairy asks Pinocchio how this happened, but Pinocchio lies, and his nose grows longer. With the help of the Blue Fairy and Jiminy, Pinocchio escapes from the cage.
The crooks trick Pinocchio again, and tell him to go to Pleasure Island. He meets Lampwick, a bad boy who convinces him to gamble, smoke, drink, vandalize and other bad things. The island is magical, and the boys who act like "jackasses" (donkeys) "turn into" donkeys. These donkeys are sold to work in the local salt mines.
Lampwick becomes a donkey, but Pinocchio only changes part way, with donkey ears and a donkey tail. He escapes from Pleasure Island and returns to Geppetto's house. But Geppetto is not there. He has gone to sea, to search for Pinocchio.
Pinocchio and Jiminy go looking for Geppetto, but they are eaten by the huge whale Monstro. Monstro has also swallowed Geppetto. Pinocchio builds a fire to make Monstro sneeze, and this frees them all. But they are lost in the ocean and Geppetto is drowning. He tells Pinocchio to swim to shore and save himself, but Pinocchio grabs Geppetto and carries him to shore. Geppetto survives, but Pinocchio appears to be dead.
Geppetto and Jiminy are sad and return home with Pinocchio's body. The Blue Fairy decides that Pinocchio has proved that he is good enough, and brings him back to life... and also turns him into a real boy. Everyone is happy and they celebrate. The movie ends with Jiminy Cricket getting a badge of soild gold and a chorus sings a reprise of the song "When You Wish Upon A Star".
The original plan for the movie was very different from what they made. Many characters and events from the original book were used in early versions. Producer Walt Disney was unhappy with this version and had them change a lot of the story and characters.
At first, Pinocchio was going to look like a real wooden puppet, with a long pointed nose, a pointed hat, and bare wood hands. He was going to act more grown-up and do bad things on purpose, instead of being tricked into doing bad things. But Walt Disney did not think that people would like this character, so they changed his appearance and the way he acted. They made him look more like a real boy, with a small nose, a child's hat, and regular hands with gloves. The only parts of him that still looked like a puppet were his arms and legs.
Jiminy Cricket (voiced by Cliff "Ukelele Ike" Edwards) became a more important character. He was not included in the first version of the story. When they added him, he looked more like a real cricket, but Walt wanted more people to like him, so Ward Kimball changed him into "a little man with no ears. That was the only thing about him that was like an insect."
With the re-release of "Snow White and then Seven Dwarfs" in 1944 came the tradition of re-releasing Disney movies every seven to ten years. "Pinocchio" has been theatrically re-released in 1945, 1954, 1962, 1971, 1978, 1984, and 1992. The 1992 re-issue was digitally restored by cleaning and removing scratches from the original one scene at a time, getrting rid of blurry sound, and making the color lighter. The movie also received four video releases (and two DVD releases), being a big-seller in 1985 (this print was re-mastered and re-issued in 1986). Then the more complex digital restoration that was done for the 1992 re-issue was released on VHS, followed by the final VHS release (which was also the movie's first release on Disney DVD as well as the first in the Walt Disney Gold Classics Collection VHS/DVD line) in 1999. The second Disney DVD release (a 60th anniversary) premiered the following year in 2000. The third DVD release and first Blu-ray Disc release (the second Blu-ray in the Walt Disney Platinum Editions series) were released on March 10, 2009 (March 11, 2009 in Australia), and like the 2008 Sleeping Beauty release, the Blu-ray package featured two discs, and a bonus DVD of the movie also included.
"Pinocchio" was not successful at the box office when first released, and Disney only earned $1.9 million against a $2.6 million budget. The movie made some success at the American box office, but was not able to profit, due to its poor performance in Europe. The timing of the move's release was a reason, with World War II cutting off European markets. Although the United States had not yet gotten into the war, people's interests may have not have meant much among Americans in seeing fantasy stories as they were in the days of "Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs". It also lacked the romance element that had proven popular in "Snow White".
Nevertheless, there were positive reactions to the movie as well. Archer Winsten, who had criticized "Snow White", said that "The faults (mistakes) that were in "Snow White" no longer exist. In writing of "Pinocchio", you are limited only by your own power of expressing enthusiasm". Also, despite the poor timing of the release, the movie did do well both critically and at the box office in the United States. Jiminy Cricket's song, "When You Wish Upon a Star," became a major success and still is today, and is the fanfare for The Walt Disney Company. "Pinocchio" also won the Academy Award for Best Song and the Academy Award for Best Scoring of a Musical Picture. In 1994, "Pinocchio" was added to the United States National FilmRegistry as being very important in culture, history, or aesthetic. In 2001 Terry Gilliam picked it as one of the ten best animated movies of all time and in 2005 Time.com named it one of the 100 best movies of the last 80 years. Many movie historians consider this to be the movie that is the closest to technical perfection of all the Disney animated features.
Pinocchio earned $84,254,167 at the box office.
In June 2008, the American Film Institute revealed its "Ten top Ten"—the best ten movies in ten "classic" American movie genres. After polling over 1,500 people from the creative community, "Pinocchio" was acknowledged as the second best movie in the animation genre, after "Snow White".
The songs in "Pinocchio" were composed by Leigh Harline, Ned Washington and Frank Churchill. Paul J. Smith composed the incidental music score.
On , this includes "When You Wish upon a Star" on the , "Give a Little Whistle" on the , and "I've Got No Strings" on the .
And on Disney's Greatest Hits, this also includes "When You Wish upon a Star" on another blue disc, "I've Got No Strings" on the green disc, and "Give a Little Whistle" on the red disc.
Disney on ice "starring" Pinocchio, toured nationally & internationally from 1987 - 1992. A Shorter version of the story is also presented in the current Disney on ice production "100 Years of Magic"

</doc>
<doc id="25109" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25109" title="Lubbock, Texas">
Lubbock, Texas

Lubbock is a city in the United States. It is in the state of Texas. More than 212,000 people live there.
It is the home of Texas Tech University.

</doc>
<doc id="25111" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25111" title="Pearl">
Pearl

Pearls are made of a kind of material made by mollusks, like oysters. Pearls are small and often white but sometimes in pale colors or even black. They are often round, but sometimes half-round, oval, or in different shapes. Pearls are often used for jewelry. The pearl is the birthstone for the month June.
A natural pearl is formed when nacre-producing cells are displaced from the mantle tissue of an oyster. These cells are genetically programmed to produce nacre, the substance that lines the inner sides of an oyster's shell. When the cells become displaced, often by a boring parasite or damage to the outer shell, they continue to do what they are programmed to do -- produce nacre and form a pearl.
They can be very tiny (as tiny as a peppercorn) or quite big (as big as a human's fist). The world's largest pearl, found in 1934 and called the Pearl of Lao-tze, is about the size of a basketball.
There are two kinds of pearls: saltwater pearls and freshwater pearls. Saltwater pearls come from oysters that live in the oceans. Freshwater pearls are found in mussels that live in rivers, lakes, or ponds. 
There is also a "natural pearl" and a "cultured pearl." Natural pearls are made by oysters accidentally, and are very rare. Cultured pearls are made by inserting small and a piece of donor mantle tissue (in the case of saltwater pearls) into the reproductive organ of a saltwater oyster, or simply inserting a piece of donor mantle tissue (in the case of freshwater pearls) into a small incision in the mantle of a freshwater mussel.

</doc>
<doc id="25112" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25112" title="Warner Bros.">
Warner Bros.

Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc. (commonly called Warner Bros.) is a large entertainment group, movie studio and record label. It is owned by Time Warner. Warner Bros. is known for Looney Tunes. They own the copyrights to the Harry Potter movie series, the Batman movie series, and Superman movie series. They also produced Friends. Some of the current artists signed to Warner Bros. Records are Outasight, Birdy and Red Hot Chili Peppers.
Warner Bros. is a very large company. Warner Brothers was founded on April 04, 1918. Its founders were Jack L. Warner: Albert Warner: Harry Warner: and Sam Warner. It was founded in Hollywood, California. It has won several awards including the Academy Award for Best Picture. Linkin Park also has a contract with us.

</doc>
<doc id="25113" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25113" title="Star Wars Episode VI: Return of the Jedi">
Star Wars Episode VI: Return of the Jedi

Star Wars Episode VI: Return of the Jedi is the sixth film in the "Star Wars" film series. The movie was released in 1983 and is a mix from science fiction, action and drama.
The Empire constructs a new Death Star. Luke, Leia, and the droids rescue Han Solo from Jabba the Hutt, an evil slug-like gangster. Later, Luke learns that Leia is his sister and must confront his father (Darth Vader) and return him to the good side. The movie is also famous for introducing a group of little creatures called Ewoks who help fight the Empire's troopers.

</doc>
<doc id="25115" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25115" title="Quarter">
Quarter

Quarter might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="25122" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25122" title="Freedom of religion">
Freedom of religion

Freedom of religion, also called freedom of/to worship is one of the classical fundamental human rights. When people have the freedom of religion, they can either belong to any religion they choose, or belong to no religion; leave any religious group as well as join any religious group; take any peaceful religious actions their faith requires; and join with other people for religious purposes.
Many Muslim states such as Indonesia are cited by Human Rights Watch as 'failing to protect' religious minorities from growing intolerance and violence.
Communist countries such as Cuba, North Korea and China are also known to punish people for religious activities.

</doc>
<doc id="25137" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25137" title="MDC (band)">
MDC (band)

MDC are an anarcho-punk and hardcore punk band that started in Austin, Texas in 1979. They helped make hardcore punk popular in Austin, but in 1982 they moved to San Francisco, California, where they continued to become popular in the hardcore punk community. In 1993 the band stopped playing music, but they began again in 2000 and still play music today. 
Their lyrics were very political. They did not like the police, war, capitalism or racism. They did like gay people and thought that they should be treated fairly. 
The name MDC is an abbreviation and has meant many things. The band changes what it means a lot. It has meant "Millions of Dead Cops", "More Dead Cops", "Millions of Dead Children", "Multi Death Corporations", "Millions of Damn Christians", "Missile Destroyed Civilization" and "Magnus Dominus Corpus". 

</doc>
<doc id="25140" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25140" title="Optimus Prime">
Optimus Prime

Optimus Prime is a character from the "Transformers" franchise. Prime is the leader of the Autobots, a group of transforming robots from the planet of Cybertron. The Autobots are constantly at war with another group of transforming robots called Decepticons. According to Bob Budiansky, co-writer of the Transformers series, Dennis O'Neil made his name.

</doc>
<doc id="25142" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25142" title="Comic strip">
Comic strip

A comic strip is a series of panels with cartoon drawings in them that make a story. Sometimes comic strips are humorous, and sometimes they are serious. Famous examples of comic strips are:
There are comic strips in newspapers and on the web. Comic strips on the web are called webcomics. Penny Arcade and Xkcd are famous webcomics.

</doc>
<doc id="25145" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25145" title="Franz Ferdinand">
Franz Ferdinand

Franz Ferdinand could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="25147" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25147" title="ScotRail">
ScotRail

ScotRail is a train operating company in the United Kingdom owned by Abellio operating the ScotRail franchise.
National Express operated the ScotRail franchise from March 1997 until October 2004.
On 28 July 2003 Transport Scotland announced Arriva, First and National Express had been chosen to bid for the new franchise.
On 11 June 2004 Transport Scotland awarded the new franchise to First with the services operated by ScotRail moving to First ScotRail on 17 October 2004. It originally traded as "First ScotRail" before being rebranded as "ScotRail" in September 2008.
On 8 October 2014, Abellio were awarded the franchise beating First. They started running the trains in April 2015.

</doc>
<doc id="25150" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25150" title="Waste container">
Waste container

A waste container (known more commonly in British English as a dustbin, rubbish-bin or simply bin, and American English as a trash can) is a container, usually made of plastic or metal, used to store refuse.
Rubbish (trash) is usually kept in these until it is emptied by collecters, who will take it to a landfill or incinerator.
Some bins are used specifically for recycling.

</doc>
<doc id="25151" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25151" title="Vijayanagara Empire">
Vijayanagara Empire

The Vijayanagara empire was an Indian empire. From 1336 and afterwards, it was in the Deccan, in the peninsula and in southern India. It was founded by Harihara (Hakka) and his brother Bukka Raya. The empire is named after its capital city Vijayanagara, now Hampi in modern Karnataka, India. It began in 1336 and ended in 1660, though in its last century it began losing its power. Stories of the empire's creation and history are not certain, though tales of the empire's wealth and power were described by European travellers such as the Portuguese travelers Domingo Paes and Nuniz, and the Venetian traveler Niccolò Da Conti.
This list is based on the book by Robert Sewell (A Forgotten Empire).
Sangama Dynasty
Saluva Dynasty
Tuluva dynasty
Aravidu (dates are not known), includes these rulers. There is certainly more than one ruler under each name. 
simple:Vijayanagara Empire

</doc>
<doc id="25152" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25152" title="Delhi Sultanate">
Delhi Sultanate

The Delhi Sultanate (دلی سلطنت), or Sulthanath-e-Hind (سلطنتِ ہند) or Sulthanath-e-Dilli (سلطنتِ دلی) were the Persian-speaking dynasties of Turkic and Afghan origin, which were controlling India from 1210 to 1526. Many of these dynasties ruled from Delhi. This includes the Slave dynasty (1206-90), the Khilji dynasty (1290-1320), the Tughlaq dynasty (1320-1413), the Sayyid dynasty (1414-51), and the Lodi dynasty (1451-1526). Later on, after India fell to the Mughals, there was again a brief period when Humayun, son of the Mughal Babur and father of Akbar the Great, was deposed by the Pathan Suri dynasty who enjoyed a short rule then, before Humayun was reinstated in 1555.
1526-1540: Mughal rule after the First Battle of Panipat
1555: Return to Mughal Rule after brief interregnum

</doc>
<doc id="25153" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25153" title="Hoysala Empire">
Hoysala Empire

The Hoysala Empire (Kannada: ಹೊಯ್ಸಳ) was an Indian empire. It controlled part of southern India from 1000 to 1346 A.D. Belur, Karnataka was the empire's capital. The Hoysala Empire is remembered today mostly because of its architecture. The hundreds of temples found across Karnataka are good examples of temples that were in the cities of Belur, Halebid and Somnathpura. The Hoysala kings were affected by Jainism and Hinduism. King Vishnuvardhana and the kings after him believed in Vaishnavism.
In the beginning, the Hoysalas were a small part of the Chalukyas of Kalyani. However, they began to grow until they made their own empire in Karnataka. The Hoysala period is known as one of the best times in the history of Karnataka, next only to the Vijayanagara Empire. Some famous Hoysala kings were Vishnuvardhana, Veera Ballala II and Veera Ballala III. Kannada was the main language of the Hoysala kings. The Hoysalas helped to increase Kannada and Sanskrit writing.

</doc>
<doc id="25156" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25156" title="Macedonia (ancient kingdom)">
Macedonia (ancient kingdom)

Macedon or Macedonia (from Greek "Makedonίa") was an ancient kingdom in northern Greece. 
Near it was the kingdom of Epirus (which was west of it) and Thrace (which was east of it). A long time ago it was the most powerful kingdom in the Near East and present-day Pakistan after Alexander the Great conquered most of the world that was known in Europe. This was known as the Hellenistic period of Greek history. It was later conquered by the Roman Empire.

</doc>
<doc id="25161" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25161" title="Burger King">
Burger King

Burger King (often shorted as BK) is a fast food restaurant. It sells hamburgers, French fries, and soft drinks. In Australia it is known as Hungry Jack's. It was created in 1954 in Miami, Florida, United States by James McLamore and David Edgerton. They have many restaurants world-wide.

</doc>
<doc id="25162" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25162" title="Lech Kaczyński">
Lech Kaczyński


</doc>
<doc id="25163" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25163" title="Argead dynasty">
Argead dynasty

Argead dynasty was a dynasty of the Macedonian Empire, a kingdom in northern Greece. It began about 700 BC and ended about 309 BC. People of the Agread family were supposedly part of Heracles' family. Famous kings included Philip II of Macedon who joined the Greeks together and Alexander the Great who defeated the Persian Empire and created the Empire of Alexander. The Argead dynasty ended during the wars of the Diadochi when Alexander IV of Macedon and his mother Roxana were murdered.

</doc>
<doc id="25164" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25164" title="Antipatrid dynasty">
Antipatrid dynasty

The Antipatrid dynasty was a Macedonian dynasty. It was created by Cassander in 302 BC, who was the son of Antipater. However it was not a long dynasty. It ended in 294 BC when it was taken over by the Antigonid dynasty.

</doc>
<doc id="25165" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25165" title="Antigonid dynasty">
Antigonid dynasty

The Antigonid dynasty was a Macedonian dynasty. The kings were part of the family of Alexander the Great's general Antigonus I Monophthalmus ("the One-eyed"). The dynasty ended when the Roman Empire conquered the area after the Battle of Pydna in 168 BC. 

</doc>
<doc id="25167" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25167" title="Futurama">
Futurama

Futurama is an American animated science fiction sitcom created by Matt Groening and developed by Groening and David X. Cohen for the Fox Broadcasting Company. It is in "New" New York City during the 31st century. The shows were first shown on Fox Network on March 28, 1999, until August 10, 2003. 
In 2008 Comedy Central began airing episodes. Comedy Central later said that the seventh season would be the final season. The series finale aired on September 4, 2013, though Groening has said he will try to get it picked up by another network. Also, 4 DVD movies were made.
The series is about Philip J. Fry (Billy West), a lazy New York City pizza delivery boy, who froze himself by mistake on New Year's Eve, 1999. He wakes up one thousand years later on New Year's Eve, 2999, and finds himself in "New" New York City. Fry wants to get a new job, though in the end he is forced to be a delivery boy. Fry tries to escape from his job and afterwards goes to Planet Express, a small delivery company that goes around the galaxy owned by his distant nephew, where he becomes a delivery boy. The series then describes the adventures of Fry and the other workers as they go around the universe making deliveries.
The first episode begins in the year 3000, a time where there are many technological advancements, as well as a place where 21st century problems are treated as everyday situations. In a jab at segregation, for example, the series depicts the human prejudice against mutants as being so great that the latter have been forced to live underground in the sewers. The characters' home on Earth is the city of New New York, built over the ruins of present-day New York City, referred to as "Old New York".
There is a fictional religion named Robotology in the television show. It is similar to United States black churches.
Old episodes are now seen on Adult Swim (a part of Cartoon Network) and Too Funny To Sleep (a part of TBS) in the United States, on Teletoon in Canada, on Channel 4 in the United Kingdom plus Sky One, Sky Two, Sky Three and TV6 in the UK and Republic of Ireland, on Fox8 and Network Ten in Australia, on Pro 7 in Germany and on Canal Fox in Latin America, including Colombia, Argentina, Mexico, etc. 
 

</doc>
<doc id="25169" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25169" title="Radar">
Radar

Radar is a machine that uses radio waves for echolocation to find objects such as aircraft, ships, and rain. 
The basic parts of a radar are:
By doing this, the radar can locate the object. Radar is used in many different ways. It can measure the speed and number of cars on a road, the amount of water in the air, and many other things. 
Radar was first used in 1904 by Christian Hülsmeyer. He was given a patent for radar (Reichspatent Nr. 165546). It became commonplace during World War II.
The word "RADAR" was created in 1942 as an acronym for Radio Detection and Ranging. This acronym replaced the British initialism "RDF" ("Radio Direction Finding"). The word is now thought of by many people as a regular word, no longer as an acronym. 
The FAA (Federal Aviation Administration) use several kinds of radar:

</doc>
<doc id="25170" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25170" title="GameSpot">
GameSpot

GameSpot is a website that was created in June of 1996 by Pete Deemer, Vince Broady and Jon Epstein.
In the beginning the website was mainly about PC games. Another similar site, videogamespot.com was created in December of the same year to talk about console video game systems. In 1997, videogamespot.com became videogames.com for a short time. Afterward in 1998, videogames.com and GameSpot.com joined together to become a single site.
GameSpot makes video game and PC reviews, previews, downloads, news, and information. It is known as one of the biggest game websites on the Internet. ZDNet bought GameSpot later on. However ZDNet was later bought by CNET Networks, who were then bought by CBS Corporation in March 2008. CBS Interactive are the current owners of GameSpot.
On October 3, 2005, GameSpot changed how the website looked, making it similar to what TV.com looks like. .

</doc>
<doc id="25171" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25171" title="TV.com">
TV.com

TV.com is a popular website owned by the CNET Games & Entertainment family of websites, which also includes GameSpot, GameFAQs and MP3.com. The website replaced the popular TV Tome website.
The website has information about television (mostly English-language television in the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia and Ireland). Other than episode guides, TV.com also has news, reviews, photos, trailers and TV listings.
People can also get accounts on TV.com like other CNET websites. Users get a user page and can keep track of television shows. They can also add things like episode details and cast members.

</doc>
<doc id="25172" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25172" title="1159">
1159


</doc>
<doc id="25174" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25174" title="Olive (color)">
Olive (color)

Olive is a kind of muddy green color. In actuality, it is really a shade of dark yellow (when gray or black is added to yellow, the various shades of the color olive are produced). Some dark shades of olive can also be made by mixing a darker color (like brown) with green.
The color of old U.S. Army field uniforms is a shade of olive called olive drab (shown below) that was used because it was hard to see against trees and grass.
The most common place you will find the color olive is on an olive. It is the color of the outside of an olive. An olive's center is usually brown or sometimes orange or red.
There is a mineral called olivine that is colored a pale olive color. 

</doc>
<doc id="25176" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25176" title="400s">
400s


</doc>
<doc id="25177" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25177" title="South Asia">
South Asia

South Asia (or Southern Asia) is the south area of Asia. There are 13 countries of this region. Around it is (from west to east) West Asia, Central Asia, Eastern Asia, and Southeastern Asia. It includes these countries:
The natural resource most used by the people is the rich land. Most of the people living there are farmers. They make lots of cashews, millets, peanuts, sesame seeds, and tea. Lots of natural gas are there, but these resources are usually underdeveloped. Many people there raise cattle and sheep. The cattle are raised for their milk or to carry things in Hindu areas.
The climate of South Asia can be divided into three basic kinds: tropical, dry, and temperate. The northeast is from tropical to subtropical (temperate). Moving west the moisture and elevation change, causing a steppe and a desert climate that is like the Middle East. There is also a part of steppe climate in the center of the lower peninsula. Two parts of the South Asia climate especially affect the people. One is the "monsoons". These changing winds bring lots of the area's rain, so when they do not come early, the land becomes very dry. Hurricanes also happen every year and sometimes destroy many things. In the extreme north of India and Pakistan, the climate is affected by the mountains. There is a mild climate near the Indus river where farmers grow crops like rice and tea.

</doc>
<doc id="25178" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25178" title="Thermodynamics">
Thermodynamics

Thermodynamics is a branch of physics that studies the movement of heat between different objects. Thermodynamics also studies the change in pressure and volume of objects. A branch of math called statistics is often used in thermodynamics to look at the motion of particles. 
Thermodynamics is useful because it helps us understand how the world of the very small atoms connects to the large scale world we see everyday. 
Thermodynamics also has two main branches called classical thermodynamics and statistical thermodynamics. An important idea in thermodynamics is that of a thermodynamic system.
An example of a thermodynamic system is a stone brick. A brick is made up of many atoms which all have their own properties. All thermodynamic systems have two kinds of properties, extensive, and intensive. For the brick, the extensive properties are the ones you get by adding up all the atoms. Things like the volume, energy, mass, and charge are extensive because two of the same brick put together have twice as much mass as one brick. The intensive properties of the brick are the ones you get by looking at the average over all atoms. Things like temperature, pressure, and density are intensive because two of the same brick still has the same temperature as one brick alone.
There are four laws of thermodynamics that say how energy can be moved between two objects in the form of heat. 
Earlier, thermodynamics was studied to make steam engines work better. Now, ideas from thermodynamics are used in everything from making engines to studying black holes.
Scientists use thermodynamics for many reasons. One is to make better engines and refrigerators. Another is to understand the properties of everyday materials so that they can make them stronger in the future. Thermodynamics is also used in chemistry to explain which reactions will work and which will not. Thermodynamics is powerful because simple models for atoms work well in explaining the properties of large systems like bricks.

</doc>
<doc id="25182" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25182" title="Brookhurst, Wyoming">
Brookhurst, Wyoming

Brookhurst is a census-designated place in Natrona County, Wyoming, USA. About 192 people live there.

</doc>
<doc id="25183" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25183" title="Bollywood">
Bollywood

Bollywood is a word given by Indian Media, it refers to the Hindi language movie industry in India.
It is often used to describe Indian cinema as a whole, but that is not correct. Bollywood only refers to Hindi language movies. The term "Bollywood" combines Bombay and Hollywood (where most American movies are made).
Bollywood makes many movies each year. Many Bollywood movies are called "Masala" movies. In Hindi, "Masala" means spice. These movies usually have higher levels of emotions, songs, sex, revenge and differences between rich and poor in them.
The movies made in Bollywood are usually in Hindi. Hindustani, the part common to both Hindi and Urdu is probably a more correct description. Bollywood makes movies in the languages of Hindi, Urdu and English. Often, poetic Urdu words are used; see also Lollywood (Pakistan Cinema).
The number of dialogues and songs in English has increased lately. There are movies now where parts of the dialogue are in English. There is also a growing number of movies which are in English. Some movies are also made in more than one language. This is either done with subtitles, or by using several soundtracks.
In general, Bollywood movies are like musicals. The audience expects to hear music. There are usually song-and-dance numbers as a part of the script. Often, the success of a movie depends on the quality of these musical numbers. Very often, the movie music is released before the movie. It helps make the audience bigger.
A good entertainer is generally referred to as "paisa vasool". This means "money's worth". Songs and dances, love triangles, comedy and thrills are all mixed up. Such movies are called "masala" movies, after the Hindustani word for a spice mixture, "masala". Like "masalas", these movies are a mixture of many things.
Bollywood movies are often longer that those made in Hollywood. A normal Bollywood movie is about 3 hours long. Bollywood movies are movies made for the masses. Other Indian movies are made inside or outside of the Bollywood tradition. They sometimes try to set higher standards. They often lose out at the box office to movies with more mass appeal.
Bollywood plots are usually melodramatic. They often use common ideas such as star-crossed lovers and angry parents, love triangles, family ties, sacrifice, politicians, kidnappers, scheming villains, Hookers with a heart of gold, long-lost relatives and siblings separated by fate, dramatic reversals of fortune, and convenient coincidences.
Bollywood songs are called Hindi film songs or filmi songs. Most of the movies have songs in them. Bollywood songs along with dances are a characteristic part of Hindi cinema. They give these movies their popular appeal, cultural value and context. Songs are sung by playback singers which actors and actresses lip sync on screen.
Bollywood ways of doing things are changing, however. A large Indian diaspora in English speaking countries, and increased Western influence at home, have moved Bollywood movies closer to movies made in Hollywood. Kisses in the movies are now allowed. Plots now tend to show Westernised urbanites dating and dancing in discos instead of arranged marriages.
Movie critic Lata Khubchandani writes,""..our earliest movies...(had) liberal doses of sex and kissing scenes in them. Strangely, it was after Independence the censor board came into being and so did all the strictures.""
In 2001 five percent on Indian movies were shown in Britain.

</doc>
<doc id="25185" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25185" title="Dinah Washington">
Dinah Washington

Dinah Washington (born Ruth Lee Jones August 24, 1924 - December 14, 1963) was an American R&B and jazz singer. She was an African American who was born in Tuscaloosa, Alabama and raised in Chicago. She died of an accidental drug overdose in Detroit.

</doc>
<doc id="25186" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25186" title="Robin Ward">
Robin Ward

Robin Ward (born Jacqueline McDonnell in 1941) was an American singer. She had a hit with her song "Wonderful Summer" in 1963.

</doc>
<doc id="25187" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25187" title="Adrenal gland">
Adrenal gland

The adrenal gland is a gland in most mammals. It is near the kidneys. Its name tells its position ("ad" – "near", and "renes" – "kidneys"). 
The adrenal gland makes hormones which control stress. It is involved in the production of steroid hormones. Among these hormones are cortisol and adrenaline. The gland is made up of two types of tissues: the centrally located tissue is called the adrenal medulla and outside this lies the adrenal cortex.
The adrenal glands are known as "suprarenal glands" in humans. In many animals the glands are next to the kidneys, but they are cap-like structures on top of the kidneys in humans.
The hormones secreted from the cortex region are called adrenocorticosteroids or corticoids. These are the hormones it makes: 
The adrenal medulla, in the cente of the gland, makes: 

</doc>
<doc id="25188" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25188" title="Chiswick">
Chiswick

Chiswick is a district in the London Borough of Hounslow in West London. It is most famous as the home of the artist William Hogarth.

</doc>
<doc id="25189" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25189" title="The Golden Girls">
The Golden Girls

The Golden Girls was an American comedy television series. It ran from 1985 to 1992 on NBC. It was about a group of older women who lived in the same house in Miami, Florida.
The women were:

</doc>
<doc id="25191" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25191" title="Bark">
Bark

Bark is the covering of the stems of woody plants, like trees. Bark protects the tree. Bark of different plants and trees can look very different, it can be rough or smooth and can have different colors. It is the outer layer of tree trunks.
Most of the bark grows from the vascular cambium. Some outer parts of the bark sometimes come from a cork cambium.

</doc>
<doc id="25192" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25192" title="Tartar">
Tartar

Tartar could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="25195" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25195" title="Cowboy">
Cowboy

Cowboy is a broad term for people who work on ranches. The word cowboy comes from the Spanish word vaquero. They sometimes participate in rodeos. Movies about cowboys are often called western movies. Cowboys can be recognized by their big brown cowboy hats and lassos. Cowboys belong to America.

</doc>
<doc id="25196" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25196" title="Janet Reno">
Janet Reno

Janet Reno (born June 21, 1938) was the United States Attorney General from 1993 to 2001, under President Bill Clinton. She was the first woman to ever have this job.

</doc>
<doc id="25208" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25208" title="1493">
1493


</doc>
<doc id="25211" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25211" title="1285">
1285


</doc>
<doc id="25214" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25214" title="Alex Haley">
Alex Haley

Alexander Murray Palmer Haley (August 11, 1921 – February 10, 1992) was an African-American writer. He also had Irish and Cherokee ancestry. He was born in Ithaca, New York. He is best known for "The Autobiography of Malcolm X", which he helped Malcolm X write, and his book "", which was about his family history and inspired a television mini-series. He died of a heart attack in Seattle, Washington.

</doc>
<doc id="25215" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25215" title="Harold Robbins">
Harold Robbins

Harold Robbins (born Harold Rubin; May 21, 1916 – October 14, 1997) was an American author.

</doc>
<doc id="25219" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25219" title="Baptism">
Baptism

Baptism is a rite or ceremony performed by most Christian churches and denominations. It is done as a cleansing symbol; showing that the person being baptised has become a follower of Jesus.
Roman Catholicism baptize infants to mark their becoming members of the church. It is a sacrament usually performed by a priest. In most other churches, it is when the person is old enough to decide that they are ready.
Some churches sprinkle water on the person. Other churches use full immersion or dunking in the water.
In the Old Testament, a similar washing ceremony was done when priests were ordained. Jesus was baptized by John the Baptist before he began his ministry. The usual form of baptism among the earliest Christians was for the person to be immersed totally or partially. But sprinkling, or pouring, was also practiced at an early day with sick and dying persons when total or partial immersion was not practical.

</doc>
<doc id="25220" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25220" title="Nationalities of China">
Nationalities of China

There are many people in China, more than in any other country. They all have many different cultures, histories and beliefs. The Chinese government officially says there are 56 nationalities. They are called "zú" or "mínzú" in China. These nationalities are (listed from biggest number of people to the smallest): 

</doc>
<doc id="25221" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25221" title="Shang Dynasty">
Shang Dynasty

The Shang Dynasty (existed from 1600BC - 1046BC) was the second dynasty in China following the Xia dynasty. Most of what we know about the Shang Dynasty is from reading pictures on oracle bones and bronze objects. A dynasty is a series of rulers which are considered to be part of the same family because they are ruling a country(s) over generations. According to tradition, the last Shang king was overthrown in 1046 BC. The succeeding dynasty was called the Zhou Dynasty.

</doc>
<doc id="25223" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25223" title="King Tang of Shang of China">
King Tang of Shang of China

King Tang of Shang of China, in Chinese:"湯", born Zi Lu, in Chinese:"子履" (1617 BC - 1588 BC) was the first king of the Shang dynasty in Chinese history. He fought Jie, the last king of the Xia dynasty.
He was the leader of his "tribe", or group of people, for more than 17 years. While leader, he made many smart men officials to help fix his government. 
When he saw that the Xia Dynasty was starting to be weak, Tang started 16 wars fighting the Xia Dynasty, getting many lands. Tang finally defeated the dynasty in 1600.
Many people of his country thought he was a good leader. He made taxes smaller and did not force his people to be soldiers for a long time. He affected many people from foreign places.

</doc>
<doc id="25232" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25232" title="Bu Bing">
Bu Bing

King Bu Bing of Shang of China', in Chinese:"卜丙", born Zi Sheng, in Chinese:"子勝". He was the third king of the Shang Dynasty (1600 BC - 1046 BC). He was the second son of King Tang. 
In Records of the Grand Historian, he was recorded as the second king of the Shang Dynasty. In that book he is given the name "Wai Bing", in Chinese:"外丙". But in the oracle script, he was recorded as the third king of the Shang Dynasty. In these records his name is "Bu Bing",in Chinese:"卜丙".

</doc>
<doc id="25233" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25233" title="New Year's Eve">
New Year's Eve

New Year's Eve is the holiday before New Year's Day, on December 31, the last day of the current year. 
Today, Western countries usually celebrate this day with a party which ends with a group countdown to midnight. Party hats, noisemakers, fire crackers and drinking champagne are fairly common during this holiday.
Many towns also have fireworks shows or other noisy ways to start the new year. Places like Berlin, Chicago, Edinburgh, Los Angeles, London, New York, Paris, Rio de Janeiro, Sydney, Toronto, and Tokyo are well known for their New Year's Eve celebrations.
New Year's Eve is also a work holiday in some countries, such as Australia, Argentina, Brazil, France, Mexico, the Philippines, and Venezuela.

</doc>
<doc id="25234" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25234" title="Chen Dynasty">
Chen Dynasty

The Chen Dynasty 陳朝 (557-589) was the fourth and the last of the Southern dynasties in China. It was an ethnic Han dynasty.
Few records survive from the time of the Chen Dynasty. However, the records that exist say that the Dynasty was strong and very rich. Legend says that the Chen Dynasty had ten times more wealth than Europe at the time. The Chen Dynasty's rulers had a tax system and ruling system similar to the Kang-Qian Flourishing Age's. (The Kang-Qian Age was the last and richest Chinese feudal dynasty).
The Chen Dynasty took in an enormous amount of silver, which was used as money at the time. The records that still exist say that the Dynasty had as much as 30 million taels of silver in their reserves. (A silver tael weighed about 30 grams.) During the Chen Dynasty, there was also a huge demand for Chinese silk, spices, porcelain, artwork, and many other products.
In the year 589, the Sui Dynasty took over the Chen Dynasty after the last Chen Emperor abdicated (gave up his position as Emperor).

</doc>
<doc id="25235" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25235" title="Fighter aircraft">
Fighter aircraft

Fighter aircraft are small military airplanes that are made to fight other airplanes. They are often fast, having aerodynamic shapes (shapes that make them move through air easily) and very powerful engines for their size. They also usually are maneuverable (turn well). Fighters can carry many different kinds of weapons, including missiles, machine guns, and bombs. While fighters may be used as attack aircraft to attack vehicles, soldiers, or buildings on the ground, they are different from bombers because they are mainly designed to attack other airplanes.

</doc>
<doc id="25236" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25236" title="Aircraft carrier">
Aircraft carrier

Aircraft carriers are warships that carry airplanes and other aircraft like helicopters. They are used by navies to allow aircraft to fight along with naval warships. Aircraft carriers are usually very large, carrying hundreds or thousands of sailors and tens or hundreds of aircraft.
The top of an aircraft carrier is called the flight deck and looks like a very small airport. Old aircraft carriers carried airplanes that could takeoff and land in the short distance of the flight deck without help. Similarly, small modern aircraft carriers only carry helicopters or specially designed airplanes that can take off and land straight up and down or in the short distance of the flight deck. The flight deck of a large, modern aircraft carrier has a landing area and a take-off area. The landing area is in the back and has a short runway. Airplanes stop by using a hook on the back of the airplane to grab wires stretched across the runway. In the front, the flight deck has a steam-powered catapult that connects to the front wheel of an airplane. The catapult throws the airplane off the deck, helping it take off quickly. So, aircraft carriers are basically floating, mobile airports. 
Because they are so big, modern aircraft carriers often have on-board nuclear power plants. Other aircraft carriers are powered by diesel engines.
Except for their airplanes, aircraft carriers usually have few weapons, so other warships escort them. Together, the aircraft carrier and these warships form a carrier group.

</doc>
<doc id="25238" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25238" title="Edward Kasner">
Edward Kasner

Edward Kasner (1878–1955) is an American mathematician (person who studies math). He is famous for creating the word googol and the word googolplex.
Kasner went to Columbia University and received his Ph.D. (a degree (measure) of learning) in 1899.
Around 1920, Kasner decided to make a good, catchy name for a very big number (one, followed by a hundred zeros). While he was walking with his nephews Milton (c. 1911–1980) and Edwin Sirotta in New Jersey's Palisades, Kasner asked them to think of good names. Milton was the one who said "googol". 
In 1940, with James Roy Newman, Kasner made a book about math called "Mathematics and the Imagination" ISBN 0486417034. It was in this book that the name "googol" was first used. 
The website Google was named after Kasner's number googol.

</doc>
<doc id="25239" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25239" title="Bay of Bengal">
Bay of Bengal

The Bay of Bengal is a bay. It is in the northeastern part of the Indian Ocean. The bay is also east of the Malay Peninsula and west of India. It looks like a triangle. It is called the "Bay of Bengal", because to the north are the Indian state of West Bengal and the country of Bangladesh.

</doc>
<doc id="25240" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25240" title="Malay Peninsula">
Malay Peninsula

The Malay Peninsula (Malay: "Semenanjung Tanah Melayu") is a big peninsula in Southeast Asia. The place is divided into three political parts. This includes:

</doc>
<doc id="25247" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25247" title="Jubilee line">
Jubilee line

The Jubilee line is a line on the London Underground. It runs from Stanmore in north London to Stratford in east London. The colour of the Jubilee line on tube maps is grey.
The line opened on 1 May 1979, taking over one of the Bakerloo Line's two branches to relieve the main part of the line. To the Baker Street to Stanmore part a new four-kilometre part into central London was added, terminating at a new station at Charing Cross railway station.
The old Charing Cross station, on the Circle, District, Bakerloo and Northern lines, was renamed Embankment. The new Charing Cross tube station created a new interchange, from the stations of Strand on the Northern Line and Trafalgar Square on the Bakerloo.
The Jubilee Line of 1979 was to be the first part of the project, but because of the lack of money the line stayed the same until the late 1990s. Phase 2 would have extended the line along Fleet Street to stations at Aldwych, Ludgate Circus, Cannon Street, Fenchurch Street, St Katherine's Dock, Wapping and then under the River Thames to New Cross, terminating at Lewisham. An alternative plan was created in the late 1970s to extend the Jubilee Line in parallel with the River Thames, this would taken the Line from Wapping to Thamesmead Via Surrey Docks North, Canary Wharf, North Greenwich, Custom House, Silvertown, Woolwich Arsenal and to Thamesmead. However the 'river line' extension as it was called was too expensive and construction of the extension never started.
Changes in land use, particularly the new areas in the Docklands area, caused the project to change considerably in the 1990s. The Jubilee Line Extension, opened in three stages in 1999, split from the existing line at Green Park, creating a one-station branch to Charing Cross, which is now closed (although it is still sometimes opened for occasional use as a film set). With the extension, the Jubilee Line is the only line on the London Underground network that crosses all other lines.
When the Jubilee Line was opened, it was run with 1972 trains. In 1984 the 1972 trains were replaced by the new 1983 trains. The old 1972 Stock were used on the Northern Line. The 1983 trains proved to be unreliable in service, with their single doors making passenger loading and unloading slower than on other trains with wider doors. With the opening of the Jubilee Line Extension, the opportunity was taken to introduce new trains, and today the line is worked by 1996 trains.

</doc>
<doc id="25253" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25253" title="Medical emergency">
Medical emergency

A medical emergency is an injury or illness that poses an immediate threat to a person's long-term health or life. It needs to be treated immediately. Doctors that are trained in emergency medicine are taught how to react to medical emergencies, and how to resuscitate patients.
When there is a medical emergency, emergency medical services should be notified as soon as possible by calling for help using a local emergency telephone number, such as "911" in the United States or Canada, "112" in most of continental Europe and on GSM cell phones, "999" in the UK and most of its former colonies (112 works as well), "15" in France, "118" in Italy, "119" in South Korea and Japan, "000" in Australia, "101" in Israel and "111" in New Zealand. Calls to emergency services are usually free of charge; they can be made from any phone; in the case of a prepaid phone no credit is required. 
The people that answer emergency calls, emergency medical dispatchers, will ask questions about the person who needs immediate treatment; some of the questions are whether the person is conscious, how badly injured they are, their name if it is known, and if they have any other illnesses. They will also ask some basic information about the called, such as the name of the person calling. 
People that know first aid are expected to help as much as they can. Moving the victim to a safe place can sometimes do more harm than good, and should be left to people that know how to properly move injured people unless there is no alternative (for example, in wilderness first aid). Many states have laws that protect those helping.
If the victim is not breathing, or if a heartbeat cannot be felt, artificial respiration and cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) could be needed to keep a person's blood circulating long enough for medics to attempt revival. Emergency medical technicians, Outdoor Emergency Care technicians or paramedics can use airway management techniques to help a person who is not breathing.
While in a hospital environment, staff members that are on duty are trained to deal with emergency situations. Emergency medical physicians are trained to deal with many medical emergencies, and have up-to-date cardiopulmonary resuscitation and advanced cardiac life support certificates. In major incidents, most hospitals have protocols to have staff that are not at work at the hospital to go on duty as fast as they can.
Emergency departments follow basic advanced cardiac life support protocols, which include keeping a patient's blood pressure and blood saturation at acceptable levels. Possible exceptions include the clamping of arteries in severe haemorrhage.
Most emergencies are quite unspectacular. They will happen close to home.
Of all emergencies:

</doc>
<doc id="25254" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25254" title="Southeast Asia">
Southeast Asia

Southeast Asia or Southeastern Asia is the southeastern part of Asia. There are ten countries in this region. All the countries in Southeast Asia are a part of ASEAN. All of the countries in Southeast Asia are in the tropics except for the northernmost areas of Myanmar, which is in the subtropics. These are the countries in Southeast Asia:
The United Nations also includes the region of North-east India and Bangladesh traditionally, due to ethnicity similarities and culturally as part of Southeast Asia.

</doc>
<doc id="25266" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25266" title="Sprint">
Sprint

Sprints are short running races in athletics. They are events in which runners will not have to "pace themselves", but can run as fast as possible for the entire distance. These are often some of the more popular events in the Olympic Games. The most common distances are 60 meters, 100 meters, 200 meters ,400 meters and 1500 metres. 

</doc>
<doc id="25267" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25267" title="Boxer (dog)">
Boxer (dog)

The Boxer is a breed of dog. With good care, a Boxer can be an ideal pet and companion.
Boxers are good guard dogs. They are strong and like to run in open spaces. They can have a coat in various colors, such as fawn, brindle, fawn-brindle mix, white, white-fawn mix, and brindle-white mix. Males are 22-25 inches at the withers (tops of the shoulders) and the females are 21- 24 inches at the withers. These dogs can range from medium size (65 lbs) to medium large ( 75 lbs). Boxers are one of the most popular breeds of dogs in the US and over-breeding is a concern.
Boxers are loyal dogs and unlike certain breeds, are not "one-person" dogs. They can become loyal to a person, family or group of persons and family friends. They make friends by nature and are curious dogs who love to explore. They are well-suited to be with children and elderly persons, though they can knock people down playing. These dogs may be feared because of their fearsome stance that can look intimidating. They rarely bark without a reason.
They have a high energy level and require lots of exercise. They love to play and have fun. Owners note that they act "puppy-like" their entire lifetime. Their temperament is jovial. Mean Boxers are a rarity. Boxers love to chase, run, play tag and get any form of attention whenever possible. Boxers are easy to train to do tricks, especially for rewards including attention, love and recognition. They are clever dogs with a good memory. They love to ride in vehicles and are good "road trip" dogs. 
These dogs can have some neurotic behaviors and can become anxious if left alone. If they are left alone, "crate-training" is important. Dogs who are crate trained do not mind the practice and often feel secure in a den-like setting. But being in an open house may make the dog agoraphobic, causing them to destroy things. Boxers are easily trained and want to please. While not aggressive, they will show some protective behaviors over their owners and families, especially children. Boxers do well with other dogs and pets such as cats, if they are properly acquainted and socialized. Because Boxers are very bright dogs, they may challenge an owner mentally by being defiant or by being openly obstinate. This type of behavior requires training and patience.
Many veterinarians now refuse to crop (cut, bandage and splint to produce points) the Boxer's ears and many owners prefer the "naturally-floppy ears" to avoid painful and possibly cruel cosmetic surgery. Many owners like the cute appearance. Most Boxers have their tail cropped at birth. White Boxers, which were drowned at birth for much of the breed's span, are now sold or allowed to be distributed as pets, though most are neutered or spayed to prevent breeding. 
Medical issues common to Boxers include hereditary conditions such as hip dysplasia, certain forms of heart defects and certain forms of cancer. A reputable breeder vs. a "puppy-mill" Boxer is recommended. All dogs should get all necessary and regular vaccinations, have regular veterinarian checkups and teeth cleanings, along with a good diet and plenty of exercise. The average lifespan of a healthy Boxer is 9–11 years. Many people get a Boxer and then may give it to a rescue or pound because they are not ready or willing to devote the time that Boxers require for training and attention. A Boxer will not be ignored and will go to great lengths to draw attention to itself, good or even bad. Jumping on people is a common complaint, so positive reinforcement training is a must. They are affable, lovable, clown-like, yet dedicated dogs who adore their owner(s).
The Boxer was bred in Germany and was originally bred for bull-bating and dog fights, but when that was ruled out they were used as hunting dogs and farm dogs and just regular house pets. The Boxer breed was created from the brabanter and Bullenbeiser. Though originally bred to fight and later used as a military sentry or police dog, Boxer owners will confirm that this type of role is no longer suitable for Boxers, as many decades of breeding had produced a dog that is too docile for this type of duty.

</doc>
<doc id="25270" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25270" title="American Graffiti">
American Graffiti

American Graffiti is a 1973 American teen comedy-drama movie directed by George Lucas. This was Lucas' second movie and made him very well known. It is about what happens to a group of teenagers one night in August 1962 in Modesto, California while they are driving around town and listening to radio DJ Wolfman Jack.

</doc>
<doc id="25275" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25275" title="Lake Vostok">
Lake Vostok

Lake Vostok is the biggest of the seventy lakes in Antarctica that are under the ice. It is at 77° S 105° E. It is under Russia's Vostok Station. It is 4000 meters (13,000 feet) under Antarctica's surface. 
The lake was found by Russian and British scientists. They used radar to find it. 
The lake consists of fresh water. The temperature of the water is about -3°C. The freezing point of water is at 0 C, but the water in the lake remains liquid because of the high pressure of the ice. 
There are two separate basins in the lake. These are separated by a ridge. It has been suggested that the ecosystems of the two basins are different.
Lake Vostok is an oligotrophic extreme environment. It is supersaturated with oxygen. The levels of oxygen are fifty times higher than those typically found in ordinary freshwater lakes on Earth. 
The weight of the ice on top of lake Vostok is believed to add to the high concentration of oxygen. Oxygen from the ice gets dissolved into the water of the lake. Deposits of oxygen and other gases are trapped in the lake as well. The structure that traps them is called a clathrate. Gases trapped in clathrates are enclosed in ice, they look like packed snow. These structures form at the high-pressure depths of Lake Vostok; they would become unstable if brought to the surface.
No other natural environment on earth is as rich in oxygen. For this reason, if there are any forms of life in the lake, these would probably need to have adapted to the high levels of oxygen, to be able to survive there. Some adaptations might include high concentrations of protective enzymes.
The environment in the lake is very similar to that on Jupiter's moon Europa or Saturn's moon Enceladus. Finding life in the lake would therefore make it more probable that life has existed on one of these moons.

</doc>
<doc id="25277" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25277" title="Infrared">
Infrared

Infrared (IR) radiation is a type of electromagnetic radiation (a wave with electricity) . The wave is longer than light which humans can see and shorter than microwaves. The word "infrared" means "below red". It comes from the Latin word "infra" (meaning "below") and the English word "red". (Infrared light has a frequency "below" the frequency of red light.) Red light has the longest wavelength that human eyes can see. Infrared waves cannot be seen by the eye. The infrared wave is between 800 nm and 1 mm. People sense infrared as heat. 
Most remote controls use infrared to send the control signals. Many missiles for anti-aircraft warfare find their target by infrared.
Before Bluetooth was invented, some computers, personal digital assistants, and mobile phones were using the infrared technology to send files to other devices. Bluetooth replaced infrared in the early 2000's. Infrared is limited by the need to have both devices in a "line of sight" with each other.
Infrared lasers are used to provide the light for optical fiber communications systems. Infrared light with a wavelength around 1,330 nm (least dispersion) or 1,550 nm (best transmission) are the best choices for standard silica fibers.

</doc>
<doc id="25289" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25289" title="Municipalities of Republika Srpska">
Municipalities of Republika Srpska

In 1994, the "Law on Territorial Organization and Local Self-Government" was created. It made the Republika Srpska into 80 parts, called municipalities. However, because of the Dayton Peace Agreement in 1996, there are now 63 parts. 

</doc>
<doc id="25291" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25291" title="Republika Srpska">
Republika Srpska

Republika Srpska (RS) (Serbian/Bosnian/Croatian: Република Српска [РС]/Republika Srpska) is one of the two political parts that make Bosnia and Herzegovina. The other part is the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
The Republika Srpska has seven main parts (regions). They are:

</doc>
<doc id="25292" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25292" title="Kenneth Branagh">
Kenneth Branagh

Sir Kenneth Branagh (born 10 December 1960) is a British actor, movie director and television producer. He played Hamlet. He has directed and acted in many Shakespeare adaptations. He has acted alongside popular actors including: Emma Thompson, Keanu Reeves, Michael Keaton, Maggie Smith and Alan Rickman. Since Richard Attenborough's death in August 2014, Branagh has been the president of the Royal Academy of the Dramatic Arts in London.

</doc>
<doc id="25295" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25295" title="Sculpture">
Sculpture

Sculpture is a type of art. It must be three-dimensional (meaning it must have height, width, and depth like a cube). There are many kinds of sculptures from different parts of the world, like China and India, or from different time periods, like the renaissance and modern times. The pictures below are of sculptures:
 

</doc>
<doc id="25296" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25296" title="Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor">
Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor

Charles V (24 February 1500–21 September 1558) was Holy Roman Emperor, King of Spain, Naples, and Sicily, King of the Burgundian Netherlands and King of New Spain (Mexico).He was called Carlos I in Spain, though he is also commonly called Carlos V. His nickname was "El Dorado" or "the golden one" because of his good and impressive rule. 
Philip the Handsome and Joanna the Mad of Castile were his parents. His grandparents on his mother's side were Ferdinand II of Aragon and Isabella I of Castile. Their marriage made Spain into one kingdom. His grandparents on his father's side were Emperor Maximilian I and Marie, Duchess of Burgundy.
"His Majesty" or "His Imperial Majesty" was first used when he was king. His Empire became large and was known as "in which the sun does not set". He was also known as "The Emperor of Universal Dominion."

</doc>
<doc id="25297" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25297" title="Renaissance">
Renaissance

The Renaissance is a period in the history of Europe beginning in about 1400, and following the Medieval period.
"Renaissance" is a French word meaning "rebirth". The period is called by this name because at that time, people started taking an interest in the learning of ancient times, in particular the learning of Ancient Greece and Rome. The Renaissance was seen as a "rebirth" of that learning. The Renaissance is often said to be the start of the "modern age".
During the Renaissance, there were many famous artists, many writers and many philosophers. Many people studied mathematics and different sciences. A person who is clever at a great number of things is sometimes called a "Renaissance man". Leonardo da Vinci, who was a painter, a scientist, a musician and a philosopher, is the most famous "Renaissance Man".
The Renaissance started in Italy but soon spread across the whole of Europe. In Italy the time is divided into three periods:- 
Following the "Mannerist" period was the "Baroque" period which also spread across Europe from about 1600. Outside Italy, it can be hard to tell where the "Renaissance" period ends and "Baroque" begins.
In the Middle Ages, there were very few books. The books that existed nearly all belonged to churches, or universities, or to the upper class. They were written by hand and often had beautiful hand-painted pictures. They were so expensive that most people could not afford them.
Most books at that time were written in Latin, the language of the Ancient Romans that was used in the Catholic Church and only understood by priests and well-educated people. People were forbidden by law from copying the Bible into Italian, English, German, French or other "local" languages.
In 1423 the first printed books were made in Europe. The way of printing quickly improved so that large books like the Bible could be made and sold cheaply. It took 300 calf skins or 100 pig skins to print the Bible. The printers then began to print everything that they thought was interesting:- Ancient Greek and Roman writings, poetry, plays, lives of the saints, mathematics textbooks, medical textbooks, Christian stories, erotic stories, books about animals and monsters, advice to princes as to how to rule their people and maps of the world.
Before 1423, all this knowledge belonged to priests, monasteries and universities. Suddenly, all this wonderful knowledge was available to thousands of people who never had it before. 
The time of Ancient Greece and Rome, when there were many philosophers, writers, painters, sculptors, architects and mathematicians was seen by people as a Golden Age, a time when things were beautiful, well-organised and well-run. This time had lasted from about 400 BC to about 400 AD.
In the year 1400, in the city of Rome, people could wander around looking up at the ruins of a city that had once been great. Inside the broken walls that had been smashed in 410 AD were the remains of huge temples, sports arenas, public baths, apartment blocks and palaces. Nearly all of them were ruined and could not be used. Nearly all of them were half-buried in dirt. A lot of them were pulled down to use as building stone. But they showed people what great things could be done. Among the ruins of this once-great city, the people of Rome lived in cottages. They still went to church in the huge churches (basilicas) built by the first Christian Emperor, Constantine the Great, in the 4th century. They still held market day in the Ancient Roman market place of "Campo dei Fiori" ("Field of Flowers").
One day in 1402, into the middle of Rome, came a young man called Filippo Brunelleschi and a teenage boy called Donatello. They were fascinated by everything that they saw. They measured ancient ruined buildings, they drew things and they dug around for weeks looking for bits of broken statues and painted pottery that they could stick together. They were probably the world's first archaeologists. By the time they went back home to Florence, they knew more about Ancient Roman architecture and sculpture than anyone had known for about a thousand years. Brunelleschi became a very famous architect and Donatello became a very famous sculptor. They both used the ideas that they had, when they were studying the remains of ancient Rome.
The city of Florence is really where the "Renaissance" began. In those days, Italy was not one single country. It was lots of little states, all governed in different ways and all fighting or making allies with each other all the time.
Rome was politically powerful, because Rome had the Pope, the person in control of the Roman Catholic Church. Because of his very great importance as a spiritual leader, most people and most cities did not want to argue with the Pope, whichever Pope he might be. Because a new pope was elected when the old one died, everyone who was rich and powerful was always hoping it might be a member of their family. It was always a good idea to have several young men in the family trained as priests, just in case. It was also a good idea to be good friends with other rich families. One way to do this was to have lots of daughters and get them to marry rich powerful men from different cities. This was the way that politics worked.
Other cities that were powerful were Venice with its great big navy, Milan which controlled trade with Northern Europe and was very rich, Genoa which controlled trade with France and Spain and was very rich, and Florence, where many people say the Renaissance started.
The power of Florence was not founded on a strong army, on a strong fortress or a good position to control trade. It was founded on banking. The cleverness in business of one single family was very important in making Florence powerful and the centre of Renaissance learning. The family were called the Medici.
Giovanni Bicci de' Medici, (1360-1429), was the first important member of the family. He invested his money very wisely and became rich. He and his son, Cosimo de' Medici, (1389-1464), began the Medici Banking Company, which did so well that they soon had branches of the bank in large cities all over Europe, including London and Paris. Giovanni Bicci and Cosimo were the richest men in Europe. Medici family was politically powerful family all of families from Florence. Florence already had an industry, the cloth industry. Florentine merchants (traders) traded with Lombard traders from the north of Italy. They bought English wool and Chinese silk to be woven into the most magnificent cloth in Europe at the riverside factories of Florence. Florence was perfectly sited for making cloth. A lot of water is needed to make cloth. Other towns nearby are high on the tops of hills, but Florence is in a wide valley, with the broad Arno River flowing through it. There was a harbor on the coast near Pisa. The Pisans were not very friendly towards Florence, so Florence took them over. Then the rich traders of Florence could have their own ships and did not have to worry about the Lombard traders who brought their goods across Europe and over the mountains on the backs of donkeys.
Cosimo de' Medici was a patriot and a patron. He was a "patriot" because he acted like a father to his city. He became part of the town council. They were a group of men called the "signorina" (the seniors or elders). Cosimo made laws that adjusted the taxes. Some of the rich people did not like this at all and left the city, making Cosimo more powerful. He took good care of industry, of trade and of farming, because Florence needed all these things. He particularly needed the loyalty of all the farms and villages, because a city in a valley is easy for an army to attack. Cosimo built public buildings and when he had a palace built for himself, he had long stone seats built along the walls for the poor and the elderly to sit on.
He was a patron because he supported the church, and lots of writers, artists, architects and students. He founded a "Platonic Academy" where students could study the works of Ancient Greek writers and talk about politics, religion and new ideas. The head of the Academy was a philosopher called Marsillio Ficino. Cosimo encouraged architects to design buildings in the style of Ancient Rome. He collected a huge library of books and gave them to the monastery of San Lorenzo to be used by students. When he wanted some quiet time, he went to friary, (which is like a monastery), Sant Marco's, where he encouraged one of the "brothers", Fra Angelico, to paint beautiful sacred pictures.
After the death of Cosimo, his grandson Lorenzo de' Medici became even more famous. He was called Lorenzo il Magnifico (the Magnificent). It was during the time of Lorenzo that some of the most famous artists in world history were alive in Florence, and worked for the Medici:- Botticelli, Michelangelo and Leonardo da Vinci.

</doc>
<doc id="25307" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25307" title="Lava">
Lava

Lava is magma that flows onto the Earth's surface. Like magma, lava can be either viscous (~thick) or fluid (~thin). Blocky lava is so thick and slow that it barely moves along the ground. Other types of lava, like "pahoehoe", "aa", and "pillow lava", are thinner and flow faster.
"Blocky lava" is cool, stiff lava that cannot travel far from where it was erupted. Blocky lava usually out from a volcano only after an explosion has let out lots of the gas pressure from the place where there is magma. Blocky lava makes piles of sharp chunks.
Pronounced "pah HOY HOY", "pahoehoe" gets its name from the Hawaiian word for "ropy" because its surface looks like of rope. Pahoehoe lava flows slowly, like wax dripping down from a candle, making a glassy surface with round wrinkles.
"Aa" is a Hawaiian word that is about a type of lava that has a sharp, surface. This stiff lava pours out quickly and makes a crust that breaks easily. The crust is torn into sharp pieces as the hot lava underneath still moves.
Pillow lava is made when lava erupts underwater. It makes round lumps that are the size and shape of pillows. Pillow lava has a round shape because the lava cools very quickly when it touches water.
They occur wherever mafic or intermediate lavas push out under water. This happens along marine hotspot volcano chains and the constructive plate boundaries of mid-ocean ridges. Pillow lavas occur in the oldest preserved volcanic sequences on earth, the Isua and Barberton greenstone belts. This shows that large bodies of water were on the Earth's surface early in the Archaean. Pillow lavas are used generally to show volcanism occurred underwater in metamorphic belts. Pillow lavas are also found where volcanoes were under ice early before an eruption.

</doc>
<doc id="25308" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25308" title="Greenwich Village">
Greenwich Village

Greenwich Village is an area on the western part of southern/downtown Manhattan. It is sometimes called "The Village". The Village is mainly residential.
Greenwich Village is bordered by Broadway to the east, Hudson River to the west, Houston Street to the south and 14th Street to the north.
Originally, Greenwich Village was a hamlet separate to New York City. The grid plan for its streets is less orderly than in parts of Manhattan that were built later. 
The village is located on what used to be marshland. In the 16th century, Native Americans called it "Sapokanikan" which means "tobacco field". In the 1630s, it was turned into pasture by the Dutch, who called it "Noortwyck". In 1664, when the English captured the Dutch settlement of New Amsterdam, and Greenwich Village developed as a hamlet.
In 1712, it officially became a village, and was named Grin'wich in the 1713 Common Council records. Following a yellow fever epidemic in 1822, many New York residents moved to the healthier air of Greenwich; where many stayed. In the 19th century, it was known as Washington Square.

</doc>
<doc id="25353" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25353" title="Yoshiki">
Yoshiki

Yoshiki's solo career includes two classical studio albums: "Eternal Melody" (1993), and "Eternal Melody II" (2005). 

</doc>
<doc id="25359" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25359" title="Aragon">
Aragon

Aragon (; ; ) is an autonomous community in the northeast of Spain; it covers the area of the medieval Kingdom of Aragon. Aragon is named after the Aragón river, a tributary of the Ebro.
Aragon has three provinces (from north to south): Huesca, Zaragoza and Teruel. Its capital is Zaragoza (sometimes called "Saragossa" in English).
Aragon is one of the 17 Spanish autonomous communities. It has a surface area of , 9.4 percent of the territory of Spain. By area, it is the fourth largest Spanish autonomous community after Castile and León, Andalusia and Castile-La Mancha.
Aragon is bordered to the north by France (Midi-Pyrénées and Aquitaine regions). Within Spain, the community is bordered to the east by Catalonia (Lerida and Tarragona provinces), to the south by Valencian Community (Castellón and Valencia provinces) and Castile-La Mancha (Cuenca and Guadalajara provinces), and to the west by Castile and León (Soria province), La Rioja and Navarre.
Most of Aragon has an altitude of . The highest point is the Aneto peak with high; it is the highest mountain of the Pyrenees.
The lowest point in Aragon is on the Ebro river, close to Zaragoza, with an altitude of high.
The three main geographical regions of Aragon are:
Most of the Aragonese rivers are tributaries of the Ebro, Spain's largest river in volume and which divides Aragon into two. Some important tributaries on the left side of the river (rivers that come from the Pyrenees) are the Aragón, born in Huesca but flows into the community of Navarre, the Gállego and Cinca, which joins the Segre just before ending up in the Ebro. Right tributaries are the rivers Jalón, Huerva and Guadalupe.
On the Ebro, near the border with Catalonia, lies the Mequinenza Reservoir, with a length of about 110 km, and that is popularly known as the "Sea of Aragon".
Climatically, Aragon can be divided into three areas:
In the middle of Aragon, which is only above sea level, the annual average temperature is around . To the north and south of the Ebro valley, where the elevation rises to above sea level, the temperature drops by two degrees. In the mountains, between , the temperatures are between .
Aragon consists of three provinces named after their capitals: Huesca, Teruel and Zaragoza. Each province is divided in "comarcas" (a "comarca" is a local administrative division) and these are divided in municipalities.
Aragon has a population, in 2013, of 1,347,150, for a population density of inhabitants/km, one of the lowest in Spain. The most densely populated areas are around the valley of the Ebro river, particularly around Zaragoza, and in the Pyrenean s (the hills at the base of the Pyrenees), while the areas with the fewest inhabitants tend to be those that are higher up in the Pyrenean mountains, and in most of the southern province of Teruel.
The province of Zaragoza is the one with more inhabitants, with 978,638 people living there, representing % of the population of Aragon.
The city with more people living in it is the capital, Zaragoza (620,419). The other provincial capitals Huesca and Teruel have, respectively, 47,923 and 31,506 inhabitants.
The 10 most important cities in the department are:
Spanish is the native language in most of Aragón, and it is the only official language, understood and spoken by virtually everyone in the region. In addition to it, the Aragonese language continues to be spoken in several local varieties in the mountainous northern counties of the Pyrenees, particularly in western Ribagorza, Sobrarbe, Jacetania and Somontano. In the easternmost areas of Aragón, along the border with Catalonia, varieties of the Catalan language are spoken, including the comarcas of eastern Ribagorza, La Litera, Bajo Cinca, Bajo Aragón-Caspe, Bajo Aragón and Matarraña.

</doc>
<doc id="25360" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25360" title="Aragonese language">
Aragonese language

The Aragonese language is spoken in the north of Aragon. The Aragonese is similar to other near languages: Spanish language, Catalan and Occitan. Also there are a lot of words in Aragonese similar to Basque words. About 10,000 people speak Aragonese. Aragonese is a Romance language.

</doc>
<doc id="25362" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25362" title="1161">
1161


</doc>
<doc id="25363" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25363" title="1168">
1168


</doc>
<doc id="25364" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25364" title="1178">
1178


</doc>
<doc id="25365" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25365" title="251">
251


</doc>
<doc id="25366" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25366" title="1280">
1280

Year 1280 (MCCLXXX) was a leap year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="25368" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25368" title="675">
675


</doc>
<doc id="25369" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25369" title="1195">
1195


</doc>
<doc id="25371" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25371" title="1106">
1106


</doc>
<doc id="25372" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25372" title="525">
525


</doc>
<doc id="25373" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25373" title="1380">
1380


</doc>
<doc id="25374" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25374" title="303">
303

Year 303 (CCCIII) was a common year starting on Friday of the Julian calendar. 

</doc>
<doc id="25375" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25375" title="687">
687


</doc>
<doc id="25376" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25376" title="1221">
1221


</doc>
<doc id="25377" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25377" title="1304">
1304


</doc>
<doc id="25379" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25379" title="1156">
1156


</doc>
<doc id="25380" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25380" title="1226">
1226


</doc>
<doc id="25381" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25381" title="1181">
1181


</doc>
<doc id="25382" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25382" title="1219">
1219


</doc>
<doc id="25383" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25383" title="1711">
1711


</doc>
<doc id="25384" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25384" title="1765">
1765

Year 1765 (MDCCLXV) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Gregorian calendar and a common year starting on Saturday of the 11-day slower Julian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="25385" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25385" title="1590">
1590


</doc>
<doc id="25386" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25386" title="1628">
1628


</doc>
<doc id="25387" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25387" title="1105">
1105


</doc>
<doc id="25388" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25388" title="1618">
1618


</doc>
<doc id="25389" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25389" title="1622">
1622


</doc>
<doc id="25390" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25390" title="Levi Eshkol">
Levi Eshkol

Levi Eshkol (born Levi Shkolnik, October 25, 1895 – February 26, 1969) was the 3rd Prime Minister of Israel from 1963 until his death in 1969. He is buried in Mount Herzl in Jerusalem.

</doc>
<doc id="25391" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25391" title="1580">
1580


</doc>
<doc id="25392" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25392" title="Sidney Sheldon">
Sidney Sheldon

Sidney Sheldon (February 11, 1917 - January 30, 2007) was an American screenwriter and novelist. He wrote the screenplays for twenty-three motion pictures including "Easter Parade" and "Annie Get Your Gun". He also created four long-running television series. He is also included in the "Guinness Book of Records" as, "The Most Translated Author".
His novels include:

</doc>
<doc id="25393" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25393" title="Mackenzie Bowell">
Mackenzie Bowell

Sir Mackenzie Bowell, PC, KCMG (27 December 1823–10 December 1917) was the fifth Prime Minister of Canada from 21 December 1894 to 27 April 1896.
Bowell was born in Rickinghall, Suffolk, England to John Bowell and Elizabeth Marshall. In 1832 his family moved to Belleville, Ontario. He started work helping the printer at the town newspaper, "The Intelligencer". He became printer and editor with that newspaper, and later its owner. He was a Freemason and an Orangeman, becoming Grandmaster of the Orange Order of British North America, 1870 – 1878. In 1847 he married Harriet Moore (1829 – 1884). He had four sons and five daughters.
Bowell was elected to the House of Commons in 1867, as a Conservative, for North Hastings, Ontario. In 1878 he became Minister of Customs. In 1892 he became Minister of Militia and Defence. He was a skilled and hardworking administrator. He later became Minister of Trade and Commerce. He was elected to the Senate. His visit to Australia in 1893 led to the first meeting of British colonies and territories. It was held in Ottawa in 1894. He became Leader of the Government in the Senate on October 31 1893.
In December 1894 the Prime Minister Sir John Thompson died suddenly. Bowell was the most senior Cabinet minister and was appointed Prime Minister by the Governor General. Bowell was the second of two Canadian Prime Ministers to serve in the Senate rather than the House of Commons. (The first was John Abbott.)
As Prime Minister, Bowell faced the difficult Manitoba Schools Question. In 1890 Manitoba stopped giving money to Catholic schools. This was the opposite of an earlier law called in the Manitoba Act of 1870. Bowell other political leaders could not solve the problem. It had divided the country, the government, and even Bowell's own Cabinet. He could not make up his own mind on how to fix the problem. As a Senator he could not speak in the arguments in the House of Commons. Bowell supported a law that would have forced Manitoba to restore funding the Catholic schools. His Cabinet did not agree. Normal government activities stopped. His Cabinet decided he did not have the ability to be Prime Minister and he was forced to resign. Seven government ministers resigned and stopped new people from being appointed. Bowell called them "a nest of traitors". After ten days, the Governor General stepped in and the problem was solved. Six of the ministers went back to their jobs. Charles Tupper was the person who was seen as the real leader. Tupper had been Canadian High Commissioner to the United Kingdom. He had been asked to come back and taker over from Bowell. Bowell resigned at the end of the parliamentary session.
Bowell was the Conservative leader until 1906. He stayed in the Senate until his death. He died of pneumonia in Bellville, just before he turned 94. He was buried in the Belleville Cemetery. His funeral was attended by a full group of the Orange Order. 
Bowell's descendants live in Hertfordshire, England.

</doc>
<doc id="25397" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25397" title="Rugby World Cup">
Rugby World Cup

The Rugby World Cup is the most important tournament in the sport of rugby union. The first one was in 1987. The cup happens every four years. The competition is one of the biggest sporting events in the world (along with the FIFA World Cup and the Olympics).
There are only 20 spots available in a Rugby World Cup, so teams must compete for them in a qualifying competition. Teams that reached the knockout stages of the previous tournament automatically qualify for the next tournament.
The 2011 match was held in New Zealand, and the 2015 England. The 2019 competition will be held in Japan.
The current champions are New Zealand.
<br>

</doc>
<doc id="25410" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25410" title="1996 U.S. campaign finance scandal">
1996 U.S. campaign finance scandal

The 1996 United States campaign finance controversy was an alleged effort by the People's Republic of China to influence domestic United States politics during the 1996 federal elections. The Chinese government denied all accusations. Twenty-two people were eventually convicted of fraud or for funneling Asian funds into the United States elections, and others fled U.S. jurisdiction. 
In late 1996, the Justice Department opened a task force to investigate allegations of illegal donations to the Clinton/Gore re-election campaign and to Clinton's legal defense fund. Ultimately, Justice Department prosecutors secured the conviction of several fund-raisers for various offenses. John Huang served 500 hours of community service and paid a $10,000 fine. Johnny Chung served 3000 hours of community service. Charlie Trie served four months of in-home detention. Maria Hsia served 90 days of home detention and paid a $5,300 fine. Indonesian billionaire James Riady was fined $8.6 million. Ernest Green served three months home detention. Michael Brown served 150 hours of community service and paid a $5000 fine. In all, the Justice Department task force secured criminal convictions against 22 people by 2001.

</doc>
<doc id="25411" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25411" title="1008">
1008

1008 (MVIII) was a common year when the Julian calendar was used. It was the eighth year of the 2nd millennium and the 11th century.

</doc>
<doc id="25412" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25412" title="1045">
1045


</doc>
<doc id="25415" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25415" title="Kick">
Kick

In hand-to-hand combat, in martial arts and sports, a kick is a blow with the foot, the knee or the leg. It is used in combat as an attack. Generally, the kicks are slower than the punches although stronger than the blows with hands.
The kicks are a fundamental part in many martial arts. The examples are: wushu, karate, kickboxing, tangsudo or taekwondo; whereas other arts do not use any kick, as it is in the case of judo or of boxing. Other martial arts can use kicks, although they limit them to attacks to the legs and to the lower parts of the body of the opponent.
There exists a great number of kicks, and a lot of them have typical names for each one. Frequently the same movement has different names in different martial arts. This is obvious especially when comparisons are done between western arts and oriental arts. 
(1) The front kicks and side kicks, in "penetrating" form, on the lower member are entitled between the professionals especially for certain titles, but not in all the lands.
(2) There exist numerous hybrid kicks, such as the "side-front" que the "side kick" with the hips rather frontal what allows an instant connection of the techniques of fist much useful in active defense
Category of the straight-legged kicks, called stick kick:
(*) Certain techniques can be spinning and jumping at the same time.

</doc>
<doc id="25423" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25423" title="1644">
1644


</doc>
<doc id="25444" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25444" title="Islam and clothing">
Islam and clothing

Muslims have different dress codes for different contexts. Conservative ideas of "hijab" require people to dress modestly both for outside and religious contexts. Clothing for everyday wear, inside and outside the house is different, and very much depends on the family.
Muslim men also have many rules about clothing the most strict ones involve gold which there are over 160 rules 
A mans clothing usually consists of a…
Dishdasha, the dress,
Bisht, something worn over the dress, 
The Ghutra, the scarf on top of there head.
The Taqiyah, the hat to keep the Ghutra from falling off 
The Agal is the black cord to also keep the Ghutra
Islam says that women should dress in a very special way. This dress code applies to women and adolescent girls, but not to children. Usually, women who travel to Islamic countries should also wear such dress.
In the very least, the garment should cover the shoulders. Long-sleeved garments (and trousers) are preferred. Use a headscarf to cover the hair (especially when you enter a mosque or other place of worship).

</doc>
<doc id="25454" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25454" title="Charles I of England">
Charles I of England

Charles I of England (19 November 1600 – 30 January 1649), was the monarch of the three kingdoms of England, Scotland, and Ireland from 27 March 1625 until his execution in 1649. He was a son of James I of England. He was married to Henrietta Maria of France.
Charles was born at Fife, Scotland, before his father came to the throne of England. He had an elder brother, Henry, who was clever, handsome and popular, and who was next in line for the throne. Henry died suddenly in 1612, and his brother Charles was made Prince of Wales in his place, showing that he was now the heir to the throne. Charles was less suited to be king than Henry had been, because he was small and weak and not as clever. After his brother died, the person he was closest to was George Villiers, Duke of Buckingham, who was also his father's best friend. The Duke of Buckingham was very powerful and rich, but was not popular with most common gay people. He took Charles to Spain in the hope of finding him a Spanish princess as a bride, but they had a lot of problems on the journey and could not persuade the Spanish king to give them his daughter as a wife for Charles. On the way home, they went to France, and there Charles met the French royal family. The youngest of the French princesses was called Henrietta Maria of France, and Charles later chose her to be his wife.
When Charles became king, he needed money for a war with Spain, but Parliament wouldn't give it to him. Therefore, he dissolved parliament and did not call it again for eleven years, from 1629 to 1640. This made him very unpopular with the people, who did not like the different taxes they had to pay directly to the king, since Parliament could not vote to give him any budget. Many also did not like the King's closest adviser, William Laud, Archbishop of Canterbury, who was trying to force everyone in England to use the same Anglican Prayer Book and stop the many other Protestant denominations that were becoming popular at that time.
When the king and the Archbishop then tried to force a Prayer Book on Scotland, which was even more Protestant (Calvinist), armed rebellion broke out there. Now that the king was at war, he needed more money than ever, so he had no choice but to call Parliament again in 1640. The members of Parliament, angry at the things that had been going on for 11 years, did not want to give him money to fight his war, instead, they spent the session complaining about what had been going on in the country for the last 11 years. So after only three weeks, Charles dissolved Parliament again. For this reason, it was known as the Short Parliament.
Without enough money, Charles lost the war badly, and had to pay the Scots even more money that he did not have. This meant that once again he had to call a Parliament, much as he hated to do so. One of the first things they did was vote that the King had to call Parliament, and could not shut them down again. Charles had no choice but to agree. This Parliament is known as the Long Parliament, because it ended up lasting for twenty years, until 1660.
The Parliament and the King then began to quarrel about who was in control of the army. Each side ended up with their own army, and this led to the English Civil War that started in 1642. The army of Parliament got the upper hand in this war, and Charles, after a crushing defeat in 1646, went to the Scots for protection. But they decided to turn him over to Parliament in 1647. Charles escaped at one point and went to the governor of the Isle of Wight for protection, but this was also a bad move because he too was on the side of Parliament and only captured the king again. While he was being held in the castle, Charles made an agreement with the Scots who joined his side, and the fighting started again in 1648. Because he was still making trouble for them even while he was captured, Parliament voted to put the king on trial. This had never been done to a king of England before.
At the trial he was found guilty and was finally put to death by beheading in January 1649. Some of the members of Parliament who were opposed to killing king Charles were purged, and from this time on, what was left of the Long Parliament became known as the Rump Parliament. This Parliament took complete power in England, and there was no new king at all until 1660. 

</doc>
<doc id="25455" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25455" title="Pepin the Short">
Pepin the Short

Pepin the Short or Pippin (714 – September 24, 768), often known as Pepin the Younger or Pepin III, was King of the Franks from 751 to 768.
Pepin was the son of Charles Martel and Chrotrud (690 - 720), and was born in Jupille, Belgium.
In 740 Pepin married Bertrada of Laon. She was the daughter of Caribert of Laon. They had two sons and a daughter who lived long enough to become adults:
Pepin died at Saint Denis and is buried in the basilica with his wife, Bertrada of Laon. His sons, Charlemagne and Carloman, were each King of half the Kingdom of the Franks after him.

</doc>
<doc id="25457" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25457" title="Sense and Sensibility">
Sense and Sensibility

Sense and Sensibility is a novel by Jane Austen. It was her first novel, and was published in 1811. The novel is mostly about two sisters, Elinor and Marianne Dashwood, and their life and loves. The story takes place in southern England in the 1790s.
Austen paid to have the book published. The publisher got a commission on sales. She made a profit of £140 (almost £5,000 in 2008 currency) on the first edition, which sold all 750 printed copies by July 1813. A second edition was advertised in October 1813.

</doc>
<doc id="25458" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25458" title="Pride and Prejudice">
Pride and Prejudice

Pride and Prejudice is a book by Jane Austen. It was published in 1813. It was made into a movie in 1940 and again in 2005. There were two BBC television productions, in 1980 and 1995.
"It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune must be in want of a wife". (first line)
The story starts with Mr. Bingley, a wealthy, handsome young gentleman, who comes to town and rents a place near the Bennet family. He comes with quiet Mr. Darcy and his pretty sisters. Jane Bennet and Mr. Bingley begin to spend a lot of time with each other, even though the sisters of Mr. Bingley try to cut the attraction. Mr. Bingley is loved and admired by almost every woman in the town. Mr. Darcy is disliked by everybody, because of his arrogant way of talking and his mean attitude. Elizabeth Bennet, the second daughter of Mrs. Bennet, seems to despise Mr. Darcy. She despises him even more after he refused to dance with her at the ball. 
Elizabeth soon grows to admire an officer named Wickham. He seems to equally hate Mr. Darcy. He tells her a sad story about how Mr. Darcy was mean to him. This story makes Elizabeth hate Mr. Darcy even more. Meanwhile, Mr. Darcy begins to fall in love with Elizabeth.
Bingley slowly begins to declare his proposal of marriage to Jane, when he suddenly has to leave to Netherfield. Netherfield is the house he lives at most of the time. He did not plan to leave for a long time but his sisters use this chance to move Bingley and Jane away from each other. The sisters follow Bingley to London. Bingley's quick leave makes Jane sad and confused. Elizabeth finds out that it is because of his sisters.
Before Mr. Bingley leaves, Mr. Collins, the man who was supposed to inherit all of Longbourn (where the Bennet family lives), appears. The rich and pompous Lady Catherine de Bourgh had employed him as a clergyman. Collins wanted to find a good wife from the daughters of Mr. Bennet. He tries to take Jane as his wife, but after learning about the relationship between her and Mr. Bingley, he tries to marry Elizabeth. He proposes, but Elizabeth rejects him. Her mother is angry because Elizabeth could have lived in Longbourn if she married Mr. Collins. Then Mr. Collins turns his attention to Elizabeth's friend, Charlotte Lucas. He decides to marry Charlotte. They marry and Charlotte invites Elizabeth over to her house for a short visit.
Elizabeth goes to Charlotte's house in the Spring. It is quite close to Rose Park. Rose Park is Lady Catherine de Bourgh's land. Mr. Darcy's aunt is Lady Catherine de Bourgh. He is staying there when Elizabeth visits and they meet. Elizabeth finds out that Mr. Darcy was the one who put an end to Mr. Bingley and Jane's love. She later rejects Mr. Darcy's proposal. She says all the mean thoughts she had about his cruelness towards Wickham and Jane and Mr. Bingley's relationship.
Darcy writes an explanation to Elizabeth in a letter. Mr. Wickham almost eloped with Darcy's 15 year old sister, Georgianna. Mr. Wickham had only wanted her money. Also, Darcy told Bingley not to propose marriage to Jane because he thought that she did not actually love him. Elizabeth returns home soon after and thinks about Darcy's explanations and all her misunderstandings about him.
A few months later, Elizabeth visits Pemberly during her tour with her aunt and uncle. Pemberly is Darcy's land. Mr. Darcy meets them there. and is very kind to them during their visit. Mr. Darcy's kindness makes Elizabeth even more attracted to him. She also becomes friends with his sister Georgianna. Later, Elizabeths receives a letter from Jane. It contains sad news that their younger sister Lydia, has run off with Wickham. They find out that Wickham does not want to marry Lydia, but this would cause a scandal. Elizabeth and her uncle and aunt hurriedly return home. Elizabeth thinks that now Mr. Darcy will never speak to her again because of her sister's behavior.
Then, Lydia and Wickham are found and are married. They later visit Longbourn. While describing her wedding to Elizabeth, Lydia talks about Mr. Darcy. Elizabeth sends an inquiry to her aunt because she is surprised. She learns that Mr. Darcy had paid for all the wedding expenses and paid Wickham to marry Lydia.
Bingley and Darcy come to Longbourn. Bingley proposes to Jane, and she accepts. Mr. Darcy proposes to Elizabeth, even though Lady Catherine does not like Elizabeth. Elizabeth accepts the proposal. Jane and Elizabeth marry their lovers on the same day. 

</doc>
<doc id="25470" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25470" title="Emma (novel)">
Emma (novel)

Emma is a book by Jane Austen. It was first published in the year 1815. Jane Austen readers with the idea of a "heroine whom no one but myself will much like" when she began writing "Emma". It is a comedy about Emma Woodhouse, a rich young lady growing up in the fictional community of Hartfield, in 19th century England. The book is about the troubles Emma causes when she tries matchmaking.
Emma Woodhouse is a rich and beautiful young woman. The book starts by introducing her, and with her governess, Miss Taylor's wedding with Mr. Weston, a cheerful neighbor. Emma quickly becomes friends with Harriet Smith, a "natural daughter".

</doc>
<doc id="25476" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25476" title="Chris Martin">
Chris Martin

Chris Martin is an English singer and pianist for the band Coldplay. He also plays the guitar. He was born in Exeter, Devon, England on 2 March 1977. He married Gwyneth Paltrow in 2003. They have two children, a daughter, Apple (born 2004) and a son, Moses (born 2006). The couple separated in 2014. 
His band members are called Jonny Buckland (lead guitarist), Guy Berryman (bassist) and Will Champion (drummer). They met while studying at University College London. In January 1998, they formed the rock band Coldplay. They were influenced by the Scottish rock band Travis. U2 was another important influence on Martin both musically and politically. 
Martin does not smoke cigarettes or drink alcohol. PETA said he was the World's Sexiest Vegetarian in 2005.

</doc>
<doc id="25477" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25477" title="Joseph Fiennes">
Joseph Fiennes

Joseph Alberic Fiennes is an English actor. He was born on 27 May 1970 in Salisbury, Wiltshire, England. His parents were Jennifer Lash and Mark Fiennes. Joseph is the youngest of six children. His brothers and sisters are Ralph Fiennes, Sophie Fiennes, Martha Fiennes, Magnus Fiennes and his twin brother, Jacob Fiennes. He is best known for acting in the movie "Shakespeare in Love".

</doc>
<doc id="25480" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25480" title="1179">
1179


</doc>
<doc id="25482" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25482" title="Wikibooks">
Wikibooks

Wikibooks (previously called Wikimedia Free Textbook Project and Wikimedia-Textbooks) is a collection of free books. It is one of many projects that are run by the Wikimedia Foundation. It is a wiki, which makes it possible for anyone to edit.
Some books are original, but others have started as text copied from other sources of free-content textbooks found on the Internet.
The CC-BY-SA license covers all the content that is in Wikibooks.
In February 2010, the Simple English Wikibooks was closed and locked.
Wikijunior is a subproject of Wikibooks that has books for children. The project consists of both a magazine and a website, and is currently being developed in English, Danish, Finnish, French, German, Italian, Japanese and Spanish. It is funded by a grant from the Beck Foundation.
Pages in Wikijunior will have the Wikijunior: prefix in front of the page's name.

</doc>
<doc id="25489" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25489" title="Charles IX of France">
Charles IX of France

Charles IX of France (June 27, 1550 – May 30, 1574) was a King of France and a member of the house of Valois.
Charles was born in Saint-Germain-en-Laye, France, on June 27, 1550. His parents were Henry II of France and Catherine of Medici.
Charles was married to Elizabeth of Austria on November 26, 1570. They had one child, Mary Elizabeth of France (October 27, 1572 – April 9, 1578), who died young.
Charles died in Vincennes, France, on May 30, 1574. He is buried in the Saint Denis Basilica. The next King was Henry III of France.

</doc>
<doc id="25490" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25490" title="Henry III of France">
Henry III of France

Henry III of France (September 19, 1551 – August 2, 1589) was a King of France and a member of the House of Valois. He was also a King of Poland.
Henry was born in Fontainbleau, France, on September 19, 1494. His parents were Henry II of France and Catherine de Medici. He was Catherine de Medici's favourite son.
Henry was married to Louise of Lorraine on February 13, 1575. They had no children.
Henry died in Saint-Cloud, France, on August 2, 1589, after being stabbed by a knife. He is buried in the Saint Denis Basilica. Henry was the last King of the Valois Dynasty. The next King was Henry IV of France, who was a member of the Bourbon Dynasty.

</doc>
<doc id="25498" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25498" title="981">
981


</doc>
<doc id="25499" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25499" title="997">
997


</doc>
<doc id="25500" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25500" title="999">
999


</doc>
<doc id="25501" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25501" title="1015">
1015


</doc>
<doc id="25502" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25502" title="418">
418


</doc>
<doc id="25503" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25503" title="1660">
1660


</doc>
<doc id="25505" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25505" title="Constance of Arles">
Constance of Arles

Constance of Arles (973 - July 25, 1034) was the third wife of Robert II of France. They were married in 1003 after Robert had got a divorce from his second wife, Bertha. She was buried in the Saint Denis Basilica with Robert II of France.
They had several children:

</doc>
<doc id="25508" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25508" title="Matilda of Boulogne">
Matilda of Boulogne

Queen Matilda of Boulogne (1105 – May 3, 1152) was the wife of Stephen of England. She also became the Countess of Boulogne when her father died in 1125.
Matilda was born in Boulogne, France. She was the daughter of Eustace III of Boulogne and Mary of Scotland. Matilda's mother, Mary, was the daughter of Malcolm III of Scotland and Saint Margaret of Scotland.
Matilda married Stephen I of England in [1125)They were deeply in love until two of there children died Baldwin and Matilda.
Matilda died at Hedingham Castle, Essex, England. She was buried in Faversham Abbey.

</doc>
<doc id="25509" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25509" title="Marie of Boulogne">
Marie of Boulogne

Marie of Boulogne was the Countess of Boulogne from 1159 until 1170.
Marie was the daughter of Stephen of England and Matilda of Boulogne. She was placed in a convent when she was young so that she could become a nun. When her brother, William of Blois, died, she became the heir of the Count of Boulogne. She had to leave the convent and was married to Matthew of Alsace. Marie and Matthew ruled Boulogne together, but their marriage was not happy and they got a divorce in 1170. 
After Marie died, Matthew continued to be the Count of Boulogne until 1173. After this Marie and Matthew's daughter, Ida of Boulogne, became Countess of Boulogne. Marie and Matthew's other daughter, Maud of Boulogne, became the wife of Henry I of Brabant.

</doc>
<doc id="25510" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25510" title="Marie of France">
Marie of France

Marie of France was the eldest daughter of Louis VII of France and Eleanor of Aquitaine. In 1164 she was married to Henry I of Champagne. Their children included:

</doc>
<doc id="25511" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25511" title="Alix of France">
Alix of France

Alix of France was the youngest daughter of Louis VII of France and Eleanor of Aquitaine. She was married to Theobald V of Blois in 1164. Their children included:

</doc>
<doc id="25512" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25512" title="Margaret of Blois">
Margaret of Blois

Margaret of Blois was Countess of Blois from 1218 until 1230. She was the daughter of Theobald V of Blois and Alix of France. Her mother was the daughter of Louis VII of France and Eleanor of Aquitaine. 
Margaret was married to Otto I of Burgundy.

</doc>
<doc id="25515" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25515" title="Flemish Region">
Flemish Region

Flanders (Dutch: Vlaanderen) is a region in the north of Belgium. The other region is Wallonia. The official language is Dutch, sometimes called Flemish. Flanders has 5 provinces. About 7 million people live there. Its capital is Brussels.

</doc>
<doc id="25519" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25519" title="Feta cheese">
Feta cheese

Feta cheese (Greek: φέτα, feminine gender; pronounced ), or simply Feta is a kind of cheese. Usually it is made from the milk of sheep or goats. Feta cheese originally is from the Greek mainland, or from Lesbos in the Aegean Sea. 
Other cheese (which is usually not from Greece and is usually made from cow milk) must not be called "Feta" from 2007. The European Court said so in its decisions C-465/02 and C-466/02 (from October 25, 2005). 
What is now called "feta cheese" was known to Ancient Greeks. Homer must have known about it. There were several references to the cheese in the "Odyssey". According to the myth, the cyclops Polyphemos was the first cheese manufacturer. He carried the milk in animal-skin bags. He had collected the milk from his sheep. He was very surprised to see that days later the milk had become solid. When Polyphemus tried to eat it, it tasted well. He also found that as such a solid, it would go bad later than with milk. 
The name "Feta" has an Italian origin. It is derived from "fetta" (slice), and dates back to the 17th century. Very likely this referred to the method of cutting the cheese in slices to put it in barrels.

</doc>
<doc id="25561" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25561" title="Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band">
Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band

Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band is an album released by The Beatles. It was the 9th Beatles album to be released in the United Kingdom. It was released on 1 June 1967, and stayed at the top of the charts for twenty-seven weeks. It has lots of well-known songs such as McCartney's "When I'm Sixty-Four" and "A Day in the Life", which Lennon and McCartney worked on together. For a while before this album came out, The Beatles had been trying new things when they made records, but this album made a much bigger change in the way they sounded.
The album title was used later for a 1978 Universal Pictures movie. Peter Frampton and the Bee Gees played Sgt. Pepper's band, while Billy Preston was the Sergeant. George Burns played Mr. Kite (the mayor), Steve Martin (in his first film) played Maxwell Edison, and Aerosmith was the Future Villain Band.

</doc>
<doc id="25572" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25572" title="Winter Palace">
Winter Palace

The Winter Palace in St. Petersburg, Russia, is one of the greatest and largest palaces. It was, from 1732 to 1917, the official residence of the Russian Tsars. It was built on the shores of the Neva River between 1754 and 1762.
Tsar Nicholas I, in the 19th century, was responsible for the palace's present appearance and layout. He made many changes to the interior of the palace, and was responsible for its complete rebuilding after the fire of 1837.
On 30 October 1917, the palace was declared to be part of the Hermitage Museum. Today, the palace, as part one of the world's most famous museums, attracts an annual 3.5 million visitors.

</doc>
<doc id="25574" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25574" title="Standing's day gecko">
Standing's day gecko

The Standing's day gecko (Phelsuma standingi Methuen & Hewitt, 1913) is a type of gecko. It is diurnal, which means that it sleeps during the night and is awake during the day. It lives in southwest Madagascar and usually is found on trees. Standing's day gecko eats insects and nectar (a type of drink created by flowers).

</doc>
<doc id="25575" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25575" title="Charles VI, Holy Roman Emperor">
Charles VI, Holy Roman Emperor

Charles VI (1 October 1685 – 20 October 1740) was Holy Roman Emperor from 12 October 1711 to 20 October 1740. He succeeded his elder brother, Joseph I. His daughter, Maria Theresa of Austria, inherited the throne after he died.

</doc>
<doc id="25577" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25577" title="Pierre Trudeau">
Pierre Trudeau

Joseph Philippe Pierre Yves Elliott Trudeau,PC, CC, CH, QC, MSRC, (October 18, 1919 in Montreal, Canada – September 28, 2000 in Montreal, Canada) was the 15th Canadian Prime Minister during the 1970s (1968 - 1979), and then again from 1980 - 1984. He is thought by many Canadian citizens today as having been the greatest Canadian Prime Minister ever. His son is the 23rd and current Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau.
He had many challenges during the 1970s, including the October Crisis, and in 1980 held the country together by defeating the referendum on Quebec sovereignty (the province of Quebec wanted to leave Canada and become its own country), and keeping Quebec a member of the Canadian state. Another popular event associated with Pierre Trudeau is Trudeaumania, which referred to how much he was liked by the Canadian people. As a relatively young man, he was very close to the youth of the time, as well as funny, and he appealed to everyone by being so understanding and just like a normal person. This kind of Prime Minister had never been seen before, and it made people feel like he was a good, friendly person.
Trudeau retired from being the Prime Minister in 1984, after which he did not speak to the public very much. He died of prostate cancer and Parkinson's disease in Montreal on September 28, 2000. After he died, his son, Justin Trudeau, spoke at his funeral, which was shown all over the country. He said "je t'aime" (French for "I love you") and cried on his father's coffin. After this moving eulogy (a speech at a funeral about the dead person), many Canadian people thought Justin would have a future in politics; Justin is a member of the Canadian parliament, and he represents the people of the Papineau constituency (another word for area), which is in the Canadian province of Quebec. 

</doc>
<doc id="25578" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25578" title="Jennifer Lopez">
Jennifer Lopez

Jennifer Lynn Lopez (also known as J. Lo) is a Grammy-nominated American singer, dancer, fashion designer and actress. She was born July 24, 1969. She's most known for her performances in "Selena", "Out of Sight" (co-starring George Clooney), "Monster-in-Law", "The Cell", and "An Unfinished Life" (with Robert Redford and Morgan Freeman). She also was a judge for the talent reality series "American Idol" in 2011 and from 2014 until the show's series finale in 2016.
She began her career as a "Fly Girl" dancer on the 1990s TV series, "In Living Color". Her first album "On the 6" was released in 1999. It contains the hit singles "If You Had My Love", "No Me Ames", "Waiting for Tonight", "Feelin' So Good" and "Let's Get Loud". She released "J.Lo" in 2001, her most successful album to date. "J to tha L-O! The Remixes" and "This Is Me...Then" were released in 2002. The album "Brave" was released in 2007, followed by "Love?" in 2011. She has released one greatest hits album, "Dance Again... The Hits", in 2012. Her most recent album is "A.K.A.", which was released in 2014. Lopez has sold more than 40 millions copies of her albums so far.
She has many records, including record for having a movie and album ("The Wedding Planner", and "J.Lo") both #1 on the same week. Also, she is recently known for having the biggest re-entry on the Billboard charts, for the single "Control Myself" (2006) by LL Cool J and where she's featuring. After a peak at #89 and going out of the charts, it made a high re-entry again, at #4, some weeks after.
Lopez has had problems with People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) and other animal activist groups because she often uses fur in the clothing she designs and the clothing she wears.
All of Lopez' three marriages ended in divorce.
From February 1997 until January 1998 Lopez was married to Ojani Noa.
From September 2001 until June 2002 she was married to Cris Judd.
On June 5, 2004, she married Marc Anthony. They have twin children, son Maximillian David Muñiz and daughter Emme Maribel Muñiz (born on February 22, 2008). The couple separated in July 2011 and divorced in June 2014.

</doc>
<doc id="25583" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25583" title="Anne of Brittany">
Anne of Brittany

Anne of Brittany (January 25, 1477 - January 9, 1514) was a Duchess of Brittany.
Anne was the daughter of Francis II of Brittany and Margaret of Foix. She was born in Nantes (then in Brittany, now officially outside that Région) on January 25, 1477.
Anne was married to Charles VIII of France on December 6, 1491. They had four children, but all of them died young.
After Charles died, Anne married Louis XII of France on January 8, 1499. They had two daughters:
Anne died in the Chateau of Blois on January 9, 1514.

</doc>
<doc id="25603" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25603" title="Ritual">
Ritual

A ritual (or a rite) is a set of actions people do. In a ritual, the actions are important because every action stands for a particular thing. Rituals are always done in very similar ways. Many rituals have a religious significance and are prescribed by a religion or traditions of a community. Danger might be involved in carrying out the ritual. When the ritual has been performed successfully, it is usually followed by a celebration.
Rituals can mark a passage or a change. For example, some rituals show that a boy has become a man.
A ritual can also be linked to obsessive compulsive disorder, when a person believes that performing the ritual again and again is necessary.

</doc>
<doc id="25605" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25605" title="Maria Theresa of Austria">
Maria Theresa of Austria

Maria Theresa of Austria (May 13, 1717 – November 29, 1780) was the only female head of the Habsburg Dynasty. She was the Holy Roman Empress, queen of Hungary and Bohemia, and archduchess of Austria. During her rule she changed the royal palace outside Vienna (the Austrian capital) to look much like Versailles. Vienna itself became an important center for the arts, especially music. Maria Theresa added support to her absolute power by tightening her hold on the government. She also improved conditions for the peasants. She is generally known to history as the Empress Maria Theresa.
Maria Theresa was born in Vienna, Austria, on May 13, 1717. Her parents were Charles VI, Holy Roman Emperor and Elisabeth Christine of Brunswick-Wolfenbüttel. 
Maria Theresa was married to Duke Francis Stephan I of Lorraine for love. They had sixteen children who are named here:
Maria Theresa died in Vienna, Austria, on November 29, 1780.
She was the Archduchess of Austria and queen of Bohemia and Hungary. Oldest daughter of Charles VI.

</doc>
<doc id="25607" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25607" title="Marie Antoinette">
Marie Antoinette

Marie Antoinette was born as Maria Antonia of Austria (2 November 1755 – 16 October 1793). She was Archduchess of Austria and Queen of France and Navarre. She became the queen consort of Louis XVI of France in 1770. 
Her marriage was at first an unhappy one, and it was not properly consummated for several years. She was married at 14. After seven years of marriage, she gave birth to a daughter, and later to three more children. She was the mother of Louis XVII of France, who never actually became king. 
Initially popular for her personality and beauty, the French people later disliked her. It was thought she spent too much money, had lovers and sympathised with France's enemies. Her country of origin was Austria. She became known as 'Madame Déficit' because France's financial crisis was blamed on her lavish spending. These were mostly the opinions of the courtiers (those at court).
It is difficult to assess the causes of the French Revolution. The French economy was bad, and the king and queen were blamed for it. Her own spending was not a main factor, but in the famous phrase "Let them eat cake" she was blamed. She was executed by guillotine after being held in prison for months.
On the morning of 2 November 1755, Maria Teresa, Queen of Hungary and Empress of the Holy Roman Empire, gave birth to Marie Antoinette, her fifteenth child and last daughter. The Empress quickly became well again after giving birth, and was reported to have looked happy and healthy. Marie Antoinette was taken care of by Constance Weber, a wet-nurse. When Marie Antoinette was a child, she often gave gifts to Constance Weber and her son, Joseph. According to Joseph, Marie Antoinette once said to Constance, "Good Weber, have a care for your son."
Joseph Weber added that the Archdukes and Archduchesses were allowed to make friends with "ordinary" (common) children. Except on formal celebrations, people who did not have a very high birth or title were still liked and allowed into the court. Marie Antoinette was known as "Antoine" when she was young. The Austrian court young Madame Antoine grew up in was already beginning to become much less formal. Antoine was taught by Countess Brandeis, who loved Marie Antoinette and treated her very kindly. Antoine's first recorded letter, written when she was 11 or 12, was to "dearest Brandeis" from "your faithful pupil (student) who loves you dearly, Antoine". However, though the countess taught Antoine about morality and religion, she did not educate her on many other subjects, and Antoine did not like to concentrate. Later, one of her friends said that when she talked, her words were not connected, "like a grasshopper". In fact, when Antoine was 12 she could not write or even speak French and German properly, though she spoke Italian well. She greatly loved music, though. In 1759, shortly before she became four years old, Antoine sang a French song at a party for her father, while her brothers and sisters sang Italian songs. She listened to Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart playing "marvellously" once, too. She was also famous for her beautiful dancing and the graceful way she carried her head. She had been officially taught by the famous French ballet master Jean-Georges Noverre. She was much less skilled at reading.
Still, she loved her childhood home in Vienna and later missed it very much. She once said about her mother, "I love the Empress but I'm frightened (afraid) of her, even at a distance; when I'm writing to her, I never feel completely at ease (comfortable)." She disliked her sister, the Archduchess Marie "Mimi" Christine, who her mother seemed to love most. But her relationship with her sister Maria "Charlotte" Carolina was quite different: they loved each other warmly. They were very close, and a painter later said that they "resembled (looked like) each other greatly". Charlotte was more forceful, and Antoine was usually thought to be prettier.
At the beginning of 1767 the Empress had five daughters with her. Marie Christine was already married to Prince Albert of Saxony. Elizabeth, who was very pretty, was 23, Amalia almost 21, Josepha was 16, Charlotte was 14, and Antoine was now 12. The Empress wanted Josepha, who was gentle and pretty, to marry Charles III of Spain. But then bad things started to happen. Her son Joseph's second wife died because of smallpox and was buried. After that Maria Teresa caught the smallpox and almost died.
Then Maria Teresa took her daughter Josepha, who was about to begin her bridal journey to Naples, to go to the tomb of Joseph's wife to pray. But the tomb had not been closed tightly enough. Probably because of this, Josepha suddenly caught smallpox and died. Elizabeth also caught the disease. She lived, but her beauty was gone. Antonia, who had caught smallpox when she was two years old and become healthy again, did not catch the disease.
But a bride was still needed for King Ferdinand of Naples. Maria Teresa quickly wrote a letter explaining what had happened to Charles III of Spain a month after Josepha died. "I grant of my daughters to make good the loss," she wrote. "I do currently (right now) have two who could fit, one is the Archduchess Amalia who is said to have a pretty face and whose health should other is the Archduchess Charlotte who is also very healthy and a year and seven months younger than the King of Naples." Soon, the King of Naples married Charlotte and Amalia was married to Louis XV's grandson, Don Ferdinand of Parma. Amalia was not happy with her mother's decision.
The only daughter left was now Marie Antoinette. Empress Maria Theresa decided to use Antonia to make Austria become friendly with France. After long discussions, Antonia was engaged to Louis-Auguste, Dauphin of France. The duc de Choiseul from France and the Prince of Starhemberg from Austria helped arrange the wedding.
They immediately began preparing Marie Antoinette for her marriage. Her teeth were crooked, but a French dentist came to fix it. After a painful three months, Marie Antoinette had a smile that was "very beautiful and straight". Her thick "mountain of curls" were dressed by Larsenneur, a famous hairdresser who powdered and softened her hair. Marie Antoinette also had a high forehead which was thought unfashionable at that time. though she had a long, graceful neck.
Her education was also changed. In November 1768, the Abbe Jacques-Mathieu de Vermond went to Vienna to teach Antonia. She was clever, but without the knowledge a future queen should have. She was also lazy and unable to concentrate. She could not read or write properly in French or German, but a year after Vermond had arrived, she could speak it well enough. By the time she left Austria, she was speaking French easily and well, even if it had a small German accent. The Abbe also found that Marie Antoinette did not know much about French history, which they studied carefully together. In the end, Marie received a fairly good education.
Marie Antoinette was publicly executed by guillotine in Paris, France, on 16 October 1793, months after the death of her husband. Her youngest son Louis-Charles, later died of tuberculosis and malnutrition during the revolution. She was buried in the Saint Denis Basilica. Her eldest daughter, Marie Therese, was the only one of their family to survive the revolution.

</doc>
<doc id="25608" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25608" title="Montesquieu">
Montesquieu

Charles-Louis de Secondat, Baron de La Brède et de Montesquieu (18 January 1689 – 10 February 1755), was commonly known as Montesquieu. He was a French political thinker who lived in the Enlightenment. He is famous for his theory of the separation of powers in government. Many constitutions all over the world use it. He helped make the terms "feudalism" and "Byzantine Empire" popular.
Before Montesquieu, the standard feudal system was called "the three estates":
Montesquieu's radical work divided French people into three classes, or groups: three classes (or trias politica, a term he coined): 
These should be balanced, so that no one power would be able to overcome the other two, either singly or in combination. This was a radical idea because it eliminated the three estates structure. Montesquieu's ideas are important because they ended the feudalistic structure. They also helped inspire the constitution of many countries, including the United States.
Some of Montesquieu's ideas are still controversial. He believed that women could be leaders in government. But he thought women could not lead a family. He supported a hereditary aristocracy and primogeniture. Hereditary means that the title passes from the parents to the children. 
Montesquieu describes an unusual idea in his essays "The Spirit of the Laws" and "Persian Letters". This idea is the climate theory. It says that climate, the weather of a place, influences the nature of man and his society. Montesquieu thought that some climates were better than others. He believed the mild climate of France is the best. He believed people from hot countries are "too hot-tempered". People in cold, northern countries are "icy" or "stiff." The climate in middle Europe therefore breeds the best people. (This view is possibly influenced by similar statements in "Germania" by Tacitus, one of Montesquieu's favourite authors.)
Montesquieu's philosophy that "government should be set up so that no man need be afraid of another" prompted the creators of the Constitution to divide the U.S. government into three separate branches.

</doc>
<doc id="25615" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25615" title="Aristocracy">
Aristocracy

Aristocracy is a kind of government that puts power in the hands of a small, privileged ruling class. In Ancient Greek, the word aristocracy means "the rule of the best", but it has come to be linked with rule by royal families.
There are different kinds of aristocracy with different ways the government is set up. In history, most aristocracies are hereditary. Members of the ruling group have passed on power to their eldest surviving son, and sometimes to their eldest daughter. Aristocracy can be combined with other kinds of government. There were small groups of people that run a country. The people were called aristocrats and often had titles such as duke, duchess, baron and baroness.

</doc>
<doc id="25617" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25617" title="Poseidon">
Poseidon

In Greek mythology, Poseidon was the god of the sea and one of the Twelve Olympians. He is the brother of Zeus, Hades, Hestia, Demeter and Hera. His home is Mount Olympus and all the water on earth. He is the god of the sea and earthquakes, the cyclops and of horses. The horse was a creature of enormous importance to the Indo-European migrants; it provided transport, food, clothing and was a visible symbol of fertility. 
He had many love affairs, although he was married to Amphitrite, a sea goddess, with whom he had a son, Triton, and possibly two daughters. In some stories, he is believed to have been eaten by his father Cronos. In other versions his mother Rhea saves him by feeding her husband a small horse wrapped in a blanket. When he was displeased, he would throw down his Trident and cause earthquakes. He was also called the "Sea Swimmer", the "Earth Shaker", and "Father of many heroes". He was very strong and masculine. Poseidon also was said to have created horses.
He was believed to be in a relationship with Medusa until Athena found them in her temple and turned Medusa into an ugly woman with snakes for hair and eyes that turn people to stone.
Poseidon’s father was the titan Kronos, his mother was Rhea. Poseidon was a brother of Zeus, the god of the heavens. When born, Poseidon was swallowed by his father (although some myths differ). Later when Zeus was saved by Rhea, Zeus tricked Kronos into regurgitating all his siblings. Poseidon shook the earth when he was angry with his powerful trident. Poseidon lived in two palaces; one underwater but in meetings with the other gods he would go to Mount Olympus. Poseidon was called the earth shaker as he could shake the earth. Though Poseidon was the god of the seas he could control the land too. That is why the sailors worshiped and prayed to him.
Poseidon was also the father of horses. It is believed that when riding his chariot (that was pulled by hippocampi) the sea foam turned into horses.
Poseidon was in love with Medusa, who was a beautiful woman. When Athena discovered them in her temple, she turned Medusa into a Gorgon-a terrible monster with snake hair and a stare that turned people into stone. Her two sisters were also punished, although neither of them were as powerful nor gruesome as Medusa.

</doc>
<doc id="25626" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25626" title="Object-oriented programming">
Object-oriented programming

Object-oriented programming, also called OOP, is a model for writing computer programs. Before OOP, most programs were a list of instructions that acted on memory in the computer. Instead of a procedural list of actions, OOP is modeled around objects that interact with each other. Classes generate objects and define their structure, like a blueprint. The objects interact with each other to carry out the intent of the computer program.
Many design patterns have been written utilizing OOP principles for code reuse.
OOP has become popular, but many people criticize it.
Luca Cardelli wrote a paper titled 'Bad Engineering Properties of Object-Oriented Languages'.
This code is in Java. It does the same thing as the Python code above.
This code is in C++. It does the same thing as the Java code above.
class Human {
private:
public:
int main() {

</doc>
<doc id="25627" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25627" title="Message (computer science)">
Message (computer science)

In computer science, a message is a bit of data, which is sent by a sender, to a recipient. This is usually done by copying the data around. In an event-driven model, the recipient will then act in a certain way to the message.

</doc>
<doc id="25628" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25628" title="Handball">
Handball

Handball (also known as team handball, field handball or Olympic handball) is a team sport similar to football (soccer). Two teams of 7 players each (six players and a goalkeeper) pass and bounce a ball using the hands, trying to throw it into the goal of the other team. Games are an hour of playing time, divided into 30-minute halves, with 15 minutes break at halftime.
The size of the court is a little bigger than a basketball court, 40 meters by 20 meters, which is the same court as indoor soccer. It has a six meter line which no one but the goalie is allowed to have possession of the ball and touching the ground. If this happens, a foul is called and the player committing the foul gets ejected, (sitting out of the game for two minutes, five minutes, or the rest of the game). There are seven players total on a team handball, six players and a goalie. Most historians agree that handball predates soccer, (football) but that is not for certain.
"Team handball." World Book Advanced. World Book, 2012

</doc>
<doc id="25652" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25652" title="Twelve Olympians">
Twelve Olympians

The Twelve Olympians are the most important gods of Greek mythology, who lived on top of Mount Olympus. Seventeen gods have been said to have been Olympians, but there were never more than twelve at the same time. 
Zeus, Hera, Poseidon, Ares, Hermes, Hephaestus, Aphrodite, Athena, Apollo, and Artemis are always considered to be Olympians. Hebe, Helios, Hestia, Demeter, Dionysus, Hades, and Persephone are the gods who have sometimes been Olympians.Thus, Hestia gave up her place to Dionysus because she wanted to live amongst humans.
The Olympians became the most important gods when Zeus and his brothers and sisters won a war against the Titans. Zeus, Hera, Poseidon, Demeter, Hestia, and Hades are all brothers and sisters. All the other gods are Zeus's children and have different mothers.

</doc>
<doc id="25655" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25655" title="Sandro Botticelli">
Sandro Botticelli

Alessandro di Mariano Filipepi, better known as Sandro Botticelli ("little barrel") (March 1, 1445 – May 17, 1510) was an Italian painter. He went to the Florentine school during the Early Renaissance (Quattrocento).
Less than a hundred years later, Giorgio Vasari saw this movement as a "golden age". The patron of the movement was Lorenzo de' Medici. Giogio Vasari expressed this thought at the head of his "Vita" of Botticelli.
Botticelli was born in Florence in the working-class "rione" of "Ognissanti". At first he did an apprenticeship to become a goldsmith. Following the boy's wishes, his doting father sent him to Fra Filippo Lippi. Lippi was working on frescoing the Convent of the Carmine. Lippi's synthesis of the new control of three-dimensional forms, tender expressiveness in face and gesture, and decorative details inherited from the late Gothic style were the strongest influences on Botticelli. Another influence were the Pollaiuolo brothers.They were doing a series of Virtues for the Tribunale or meeting hall of the Mercanzia. This hall was a cloth-merchants' confraternity.Botticelli contributed to this the "Fortitude", dated 1470 in the Uffizi Gallery.
He was an apprentice too of Andrea del Verrocchio, where Leonardo da Vinci worked beside him, but he made his name in his local Church of Ognissanti, with a "St. Augustine" that successfully competed as a pendant with Domenico Ghirlandaio's "Jerome" on the other side "the head of the saint being expressive of profound thought and quick subtlety" (Vasari). In 1470 he opened his own independent "studio".At what age did he start art?
Lorenzo de' Medici was quick to employ his talent. Botticelli made consistent use of the circular "tondo" form and did many beautiful female nudes, according to Vasari. The "Birth of Venus" was at the Medici villa of Castello.
Sandro was intensely religious. In later life, he was one of Savonarola's followers. Botticelli burned his own paintings on pagan themes in the notorious "Bonfire of the Vanities". Earlier, Botticelli had painted an "Assumption of the Virgin" for Matteo Palmieri in a chapel at San Pietro Maggiore. In this painting, it was rumored, both the patron who dictated the iconic scheme and the painter who painted it, were guilty of heresy. People did not say what kind of heresy it was. The ideas that could be seen as heresy seem to be gnostic in character:
This is a common misunderstanding. It is based on a mistake by Vasari. The painting referred to here, now in the National Gallery in London, is by the artist Botticini. Vasari confused their similar sounding names.
The "Adoration of the Magi" for Santa Maria Novella, ca1476, contains portraits of Cosimo de' Medici ("the finest of all that are now extant for its life and vigour"), his grandson Giuliano de' Medici, and Cosimo's son Giovanni, were effusively described by Vasari:
In 1481, Pope Sixtus IV summoned him and prominent Florentine and Umbrian artists who had been summoned to fresco the walls of the Sistine Chapel. The iconological program was the supremacy of the Papacy. Sandro's contribution was moderately successful.
He returned to Florence, and "being of a sophistical turn of mind, he there wrote a commentary on a portion of Dante and illustrated the Inferno which he printed, spending much time over it, and this abstension from work led to serious disorders in his living." Thus Vasari characterized the first printed Dante (1481) with Botticelli's decorations; he could not imagine that the new art of printing might occupy an artist. As for the subject, when Fra Girolamo Savonarola began to preach hellfire and damnation, the susceptible Sandro Botticelli became one of his adherents, a "piagnone" left painting as a worldly vanity, burned much of his own early work, fell into poverty as a result, and would have starved but for the tender support of his former patrons.

</doc>
<doc id="25665" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25665" title="Hermes">
Hermes

Hermes is the "messenger of the gods". He is the god of travellers and shepherds in Greek mythology. He is one of the Twelve Olympians, and is often shown with his caduceus. 
Hermes is the son of Zeus and Maia. He was born on Mount Cyllene. The story of his birth was told in the Homeric Hymn, which means "Hymn to Hermes". It said that Maia was a nymph.
Hermes was very clever and on his first day invented the lyre, by using the shell of a tortoise. One of the myths about Hermes is that he once stole his brother's oxes, and burned them as a sacrifice.

</doc>
<doc id="25666" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25666" title="Maia">
Maia

Maia is the goddess of the fields in Greek mythology. She is the oldest of the Pleiades. She is also the most beautiful and the shyest. 
The Pleiades were the seven daughters of Atlas and Pleione. Maia and her sisters were all born on Mount Cyllene, which is in Arcadia. 
Maia was the mother of Hermes by Zeus, who is another god. She gave birth to Hermes in a cave in Arcadia. After Maia gave birth to Hermes she wrapped him in blankets and then went to sleep. When she woke up, Hermes had crawled away to Thessaly and had invented the lyre and stole some of Apollo's cattle.
Maia also looked after Arkas when Hera had turned his mother, Kallisto, into a bear.

</doc>
<doc id="25667" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25667" title="Pleiades (mythology)">
Pleiades (mythology)

The Pleiades are seven nymphs in Greek mythology, and companions of Artemis. They were the seven daughters of Atlas and the nymph Pleione. They were all born on Mount Cyllene, which is in Arcadia.

</doc>
<doc id="25668" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25668" title="Medieval commune">
Medieval commune

Medieval townspeople in western Europe during the period of the High Middle Ages needed protection from lawless nobles and bandits. The walled city was protection from direct assault, but once a townsperson left the city walls, he or she was at the mercy of often violent and lawless nobles in the countryside. Because much of medieval Europe lacked central authority to provide protection, such as a police force (to use a modern analogy), each city had to provide its own protection for citizens both inside the city walls, and outside. In order to do this towns formed what are called communes. 
Every town had its own commune and no two communes were alike, but at the heart, communes "were sworn alliegences of mutual defense". When a commune was formed, all particpitating members gathered and swore an oath together, in public, they would defend each other in time of trouble. In addition they would swear to maintain the peace within the city proper. 
What did it mean for a commune member to defend another? Obviously if a commune member was attacked outside the city it was too late to call for help as it would be unlikely anyone would be around in time. Instead the commune would promise to exact revenge on the attacker, the promise of revenge being a form of defense. However, what would happen if the attacker was a noble who had a castle, too strong for the townspeople? This was often the case and certainly the town commune could not muster the forces to attack a castle. Instead they might attack the nobles family, or burn his crops, or kill his serfs, or destroy his orchards. It was eye for eye violent revenge. 
The commune movement started in the 11th century in northern Italy which had the most urbanized population of Europe at the time, and in what is now Belgium which was also relatively urban at the time. It then spread in the early 12th century to France, Germany, and Spain and elsewhere. England never saw much of the commune movement because it was by comparison a pretty well run kingdom and did not need local protection forces. Although in most cases the development of communes was connected with that of the cities, there were rural communes, notably in France and England, that were formed to protect the common interests of villagers.
The Church and King both had mixed reactions to communes. On the one hand they agreed safety and protection from lawless nobles was in everyones best interest. The communes intention was to keep the peace through the threat of revenge, and the Church was sympathetic to the end result of peace. However the Church had their own ways to enforce the peace such as the Peace and Truce of God movement, for example. On the other hand, communes disrupted the order of medieval society. The methods the commune used, eye for an eye, violence begets violence, were generally not acceptable to Church or King. Normally only the noble lords are allowed to fight and the merchant townspeople were the workers, not fighters. There was a sense the communes were a threat to the medieval 3-tiered social order: Those who work, those who pray, those who fight. Communes crossed the line between working and fighting. As such communes were sometimes accepted, and other times not by the Church and King. One of the most famous cases of a commune being suppressed and the resulting defiant urban revolt occurred in the French town of Laon in 1112.

</doc>
<doc id="25678" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25678" title="Imperialism">
Imperialism

Imperialism is a policy (way of governing) in which large or powerful countries seek to extend their authority beyond their own borders. The policy of imperialism aims at the creation of an empire. 
Imperialist countries take control of other countries. They may use military force to do this. However, they may also avoid using military force. They may simply establish economic and/or political control over the other country. 
Imperialist policies are expansive. That is, imperialist countries always aim to create a bigger empire. 
The ruler of an empire gains natural resources such as agricultural and mining products. Human resources are also gained. Conquered peoples may be forced into slavery or into low-wage work. They may also be called into military service on behalf of the empire. Trade markets are also gained. The people under an imperial government may be forced to buy products from that government or from that government's industries. 
Thus, a policy of imperialism can vastly enrich the imperialist country. This benefit can extend over a long period of time.
Imperialism has been practiced throughout recorded history. However, there is one historical period that is specifically known as the Age of Imperialism. This period extends from the early 18th century to the mid-20th century. 
During the Age of Imperialism, modern, industrialised countries competed for control of pre-industrial parts of the world. In pre-industrial areas, natural and human resources were widely and cheaply available. The imperialist countries that acquired the largest empires during the Age of Imperialism are The United Kingdom, France, Germany, Japan, and the United States.
Some writers use the term "imperialism" informally. They use the term to mean any type of domination of one country over another part of the world.

</doc>
<doc id="25679" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25679" title="Heresy">
Heresy

Heresy is a word used by different religious groups, used to describe someone who has ideas that are different from what the religion or law teaches. Such a person is known as heretic. 
In the Middle Ages it was not uncommon to accuse someone of heresy. If the accusations could be proven, the culprit would go through a ritual. Since torture could be used, the accusations were often proven. The ritual was done to save the soul of the convicted criminal. It involved being burnt while tied to a post.
Still in the 21st century Muslims who apostatize are often treated very harshly and frequently killed.
Jesus Christ himself was regarded as a heretic by the Jewish leaders at the time- see Gospel of Matthew 26:57-67
The Roman Catholic Church sees a few heresies in Protestantism:
As a result of the Protestant Reformation, the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith was created in the Roman Catholic Church which protects the Church against heresies. It is the last instance to decide what constitutes a heresy, and how to deal with it.

</doc>
<doc id="25681" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25681" title="Cossacks">
Cossacks

Cossacks () are a group of people in the southern land of Ukraine and Russia. They are famous for their sense of being free. They are also well known for their military skill, mostly the way they ride horses.
The name Cossack means "free man". The term was first used in the year 1395. The most well known Cossacks are the Ukrainian Cossacks from Zaporizhie and the Russian Cossacks from Don, Terek, Kuban and Ural areas. They started after the Mongols attacked Kievan Rus. Eventually Russian Cossacks guarded land for the Russian government. Cossacks were in the Russian army in some wars throughout the 1800s and 1900s. In the Russian Civil War most fought against the Red Army but some were "Red Cossacks". In Soviet times, the Cossacks' life was subject to a lot of Bolshevik attacks and Cossack lands survived several famines. Cossack armies fought on both sides in the Second World War. In Russia today, Cossacks are ethnic descendants or are in the Cossack army and often both. There are 150,000 Cossacks in the Cossack army today and many millions of Cossack children.

</doc>
<doc id="25686" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25686" title="41">
41

Year 41 (XLI) is a year in the 1st century. It was a common year starting on Sunday of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Augustus and Saturninus.

</doc>
<doc id="25687" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25687" title="1341">
1341


</doc>
<doc id="25688" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25688" title="1522">
1522


</doc>
<doc id="25698" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25698" title="American Sign Language">
American Sign Language

American Sign Language (old names: Amslan, Ameslan ) is the most popular sign language for the Deaf in the United States, in the English-speaking parts of Canada, and in parts of Mexico. Although the United Kingdom and the United States share English as a spoken and written language, British Sign Language (BSL) is different from American Sign Language. ASL actually comes from French Sign Language, as Thomas Hopkins Gallaudet went to England for help learning sign language to teach to his deaf neighbors. He could not find anyone willing to teach him the British Sign Language, but did find some French people who were willing to help, he convinced one of them to travel back to the United States with him to set up the first deaf school in the U.S. 
ASL is also used (sometimes with other sign languages) in the Philippines, Singapore, Dominican Republic, Haiti, Puerto Rico, Côte d'Ivoire, Burkina Faso, Ghana, Togo, Benin, Nigeria, Chad, Gabon, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Central African Republic, Mauritania, Kenya, Madagascar, and Zimbabwe. Like other sign languages, its grammar is different from any spoken language. 
ASL includes fingerspelling. Fingerspelling is a way to show any letter of the English alphabet using one hand. Fingerspelling is also used to express numbers. Names of people and names of places can be fingerspelled.
Counting the number of ASL speakers is difficult because ASL users have never been counted by the American census. ASL use in the general American population has not been directly measured. The ultimate source for current estimates of the number of ASL users in the United States is a report for the National Census of the Deaf Population (NCDP) by Schein and Delk (1974). Based on a 1972 survey of the NCDP, Schein and Delk provided estimates consistent with a signing population between 250,000 and 500,000. The survey did not distinguish between ASL and other forms of signing.
Incorrect figures are sometimes cited for the population of ASL speakers in the United States based on misunderstandings of statistics. Demographics of the deaf population have been confused with those of ASL use. This accounts for cited estimations which are greater than 500,000. Such mistaken estimations can reach as high as 15,000,000.
ASL is sometimes incorrectly cited as the third- or fourth-most-spoken language in the United States. These figures misquote Schein and Delk (1974), who said ASL speakers constituted the third-largest population "requiring an interpreter in court".

</doc>
<doc id="25699" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25699" title="Sign language">
Sign language

A sign language is a way of communicating by using the hands and other parts of the body. Sign languages are an important way for deaf people to communicate. Deaf people often use them instead of spoken languages. Spoken languages use sounds from the mouth and are understood with the ears. Sign languages use hands and are understood with the eyes. Deaf people can use sign languages more easily than spoken languages.
Deaf people sometimes learn a sign language from their family, especially if their parents are deaf. But, most deaf children have hearing parents, so they learn a sign language from other deaf people. They may meet other deaf people at school or in the streets. Hearing people may learn to sign directly from deaf people. Or, they may learn a sign language by going to signing classes or by studying a sign language workbook, which can come with an interactive DVD.
Sometimes deaf people do use a spoken language, especially when talking with hearing people. Sometimes hearing people use a sign language with each other, rather than speaking. But, deaf people tend to use sign languages, and hearing people tend to use spoken languages.
Some deaf people can also understand spoken words by looking at a speaker's lips. This is known as lip-reading. It is hard to learn, and few people do it well. Sometimes signing and lip-reading are combined, especially when deaf and hearing people are talking to each other.
Sign langages have always existed in deaf communities. In ancient texts we see authors commenting about deaf people and sign language. In the western world, the first studies dedicated to sign languages date from the 17th century. In 1620, in Spain, the priest Juan Pablo Bonnet published a text about teaching deaf people to speak, using gestures as a tool. The language of signs created by Bonet was used by Abbé Charles-Michel de l-Épée, to create a fingerspelling alphabet in the 18th century. This alphabet has changed very little since then, and is used with sign languages in many countries. 
The sign alphabet created by l-Épée, however, is not the origin of French Sign Language, the sign language that has influenced many other sign languages around the world. Even before l-Épée started teaching deaf people, they already used Old French Sign Language, and could read and write in French. This was a great advance, because it proved that deaf people could be educated and didn’t needed speech to think and learn.
Sign languages are not universal. That means there is not one single sign language for all deaf people around the world. There are many different sign languages. Each deaf community can develop its own sign language. Usually there is a different sign language in each country. Linguists have identified at least 137 different sign languages. 
Here are some well-known sign languages:
However, sign languages are not totally independent from each other. Sign languages can develop from the same source. For example, ASL, LSM, and LSQ all developed from Old French Sign Language. They are part of the same language family. Sign languages can be similar to each other. BSL, Auslan, and NZSL are very much alike. Linguists sometimes talk about them as if they are one language. They call it "BANZSL" (an acronym for "British Australian New Zealand Sign Language"). Sign languages can influence each other. They sometimes copy signs from other sign languages, the same way spoken languages copy loanwords.
According to the "American Heritage Dictionary", signing is "a language that uses a system of manual, facial, and other body movements as the means of communication, especially among deaf people." Sign languages have their own grammar rules: syntax, morphology, phonology and semantics. Sign languages are not simply mime. They are not gestures strung together without any rules. Sign languages are real languages. 
A sign language is not a copy of a spoken language. For example, American Sign Language (ASL) and British Sign Language (BSL) are not copies of English. They are different from each other, even though they are both used in countries that speak English. Sometimes sign languages may copy a few elements from a spoken language, but usually they are very different. For example, sign languages often use different locations in space around the signer to represent people or objects that are being talked about. These locations are used like pronouns in spoken languages.
The main difference between sign languages and spoken languages is that sign languages use hand and body movements to form signs while spoken languages use sounds to form words. Really, each sign in a sign language is like a word in a spoken language. Both types of languages use grammar rules to combine words/signs into sentences. That's what makes them languages, and why both types of languages are different from mime or simple gestures.
Spoken words are made up of smaller pieces: individual sounds like "p" or "o". In the same way, signs are made up of smaller pieces: handshapes, movements and locations of the hands, facial expressions and other body movements. These pieces are used in different combinations to make the signs in the language Some signs are made with only one hand, and others are made with both hands. Some signs include movements of the mouth or other parts of the body; without those other movements, the sign is not correct. Other body movements are also important in the grammar. For example, in many sign languages, raised eyebrows indicate a question that has a "yes" or "no" answer.
The grammar rules of different sign languages are similar to each other, but they aren't the same. There is not a universal grammar for sign languages; each sign language has its own grammar. For example, sign languages use different handshapes to form signs; each sign language has its own set of handshapes. 
Sometimes a sign looks like the object or action it represents, but this is not always true. For many signs, a person just has to learn the meaning, like words in a spoken language. It's not easy to guess the meaning from what the sign looks like. This is another thing that makes sign languages different from mime; in mime, the meaning of a gesture is obvious, it doesn't have to be learned. However, signs aren't totally arbitrary either. Once a person knows the meaning of a sign, the form of the sign can often help remember the meaning.
Besides normal signs, many sign languages use fingerspelling. Fingerspelling is also known as a "hand alphabet" or "dactylology". In fingerspelling, each letter in the alphabet of a spoken language has its own sign. Fingerspelling is a tool. People use it to spell names, acronyms and other words from spoken languages. Sometimes people do this when there is not a sign yet. Sometimes people use a fingerspelled word even when there is a normal sign for the same meaning. For example, when talking about a person, a signer might spell their name using fingerspelling. Or, they may use a "name-sign"—a special sign for that person.
Fingerspelling is not universal. It is different in different sign languages. Two sign languages may have a similar fingerspelling system. Or, their fingerspelling systems may be very different. Some fingerspelling systems use only one hand. ASL uses a one-handed system. Other sign languages use both hands for fingerspelling. The BANZSL languages use a two-handed system. There are different fingerspelling systems for different writing systems. Japanese is written with different letters than English. This means fingerspelling in Japanese Sign Language is different from fingerspelling in ASL or BANZSL. ASL uses a lot of fingerspelling. Most sign languages use less fingerspelling than ASL. Some sign languages don't use fingerspelling at all.
There is not any official way of writing signs. Some deaf and hearing people think there should be. Some have invented different ways of writing sign languages. Here are some of them.
Other users of sign language don’t think writing signs is something useful. Usually, deaf people just write the spoken language in their country. They don't try to write the sign language.
Deaf people have their own culture. It is similar to the culture of hearing people around them, but there are important differences. Deaf people have different experiences from hearing people. This makes their culture different. 
Sign language is the most important part of deaf culture. Through a sign language deaf people can create a social and cultural identity for themselves. They can communicate naturally with each other. The shared sign language helps hold their deaf community together. Hearing people use spoken languages to do the same things. 
Some children are born deaf. Others lose their hearing because of illness when they are very young. These children often learn how to sign and become a part of the deaf community and deaf culture. 
However, some people who are physically deaf do not participate in deaf community and deaf culture. Some people lose their hearing later in life. These people usually continue to interact with hearing people using a spoken language. They do not learn to sign. They do not make friends with deaf people who sign. They depend on hearing aids, lip-reading, or writing notes to communicate with their hearing friends.
Some deaf children learn to speak and lip-read a spoken language. This is a difficult skill, but some children succeed. Also, some may have surgery to get a cochlear implant. A cochlear implant helps some deaf children hear better. It is not the same as normal hearing, but it can help them learn to speak. These deaf people can interact with hearing people using a spoken language.
The term "deaf culture" usually refers only to the culture of deaf people who sign.

</doc>
<doc id="25701" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25701" title="Saint-Dié-des-Vosges">
Saint-Dié-des-Vosges

Saint-Dié-des-Vosges is a city in the northeast of France, in Lorraine.
Now about 23,000 people live there.
Surrounded by the Vosges mountains, it is a popular resort for tourists.
The city is famous for the International Festival of Geography, which takes place every autumn. 
Electronics, computer science, graphic design and communication are studied at the University Institute of Technology.
In French it is called "IUT" (Institut universitaire de technologie).

</doc>
<doc id="25708" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25708" title="Rhodesian Ridgeback">
Rhodesian Ridgeback

Rhodesian Ridgeback is a breed of dog. 
It has a red-brown coat of fur on its body and a line of hair down its back which is different from the rest of hair on its body. They are sometimes called "The African Lion Dog", because they were used by hunters in Africa to sniff out and confuse lions while the hunter shot the lion.

</doc>
<doc id="25718" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25718" title="Glove">
Glove

A glove is a piece of clothing that covers a hand. There are many different kinds of gloves. Gloves are made of many different fabrics and materials, and gloves are used in many ways.
People wear thick gloves, usually made of wool or fabric, to keep their hands warm in cold weather. They wear thin gloves (usually made of rubber or plastic) to keep their hands clean. People also wear thin gloves made of rubber or plastic to keep things they touch clean. Some workers wear gloves made of heavy rubber to protect their hands from chemicals. A mitten is a glove which has a separate place for the thumb, but the other four fingers are together. There are also mittens, which are very similar to gloves. Gloves and mittens are usually used to protect people from cold, and chemicals. People use latex gloves during Earth day to clean up.
There are also gloves that are worn for fashion, because they look good. These type of gloves are made from leather, fur, or different fabrics.
Gloves are worn in sports, the most common reason being for extra grip for the competitors hands. Like in golf, baseball and goalkeepers in soccer.
The word is used for certain kinds of usually knitted gloves. Some don't have separate finger pieces, and are made for children. Others have separate finger pieces without tips, so the wearer can use his fingers for delicate work, and keep his hands warm at the same time.

</doc>
<doc id="25720" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25720" title="Sky High (2005 movie)">
Sky High (2005 movie)

Sky High is a 2005 movie from Walt Disney Pictures, starring Kurt Russell.
This movie is about superheroes. Will Stronghold has two superhero parents. His dad, Steve, is The Commander, who is very strong. His mother, Josie, is Jetstream, who can fly. Will is expected to have great powers of his own, but he finds that he does not have any. He enters his school, Sky High, where the students are sorted into "hero" and "sidekick." Will is given the position of a sidekick and takes different classes than the hero track. He later tells his dad about this, who is not happy that his son will not be like him.
At school, Will also has an enemy named Warren Peace. The Commander put Warren's father away for three life terms. During a lunch, Warren gets very mad at Will and starts throwing fireballs, which is his superpower. Will dives under a bench. It is here his power comes to him; super strength, like his dad. He manages to defeat Warren and both are put in a time out room where their powers do not work. His mother is not happy, but his dad is very happy that Will has powers. Steve shows Will the hiding place where the Stronghold family does all of their activities.
Will's new powers put him up in the hero track, where he is partnered with a girl named Gwen Grayson. Will soon falls for Gwen and does not keep up with the friends he made as a sidekick. Will has an old friend named Layla, whose power is to grow plants. Will gets more popular. Gwen gets him to invite all the popular kids for a party. When Layla comes over to tell Will that she loves him, Gwen stops her and tells her that Will has new friends. Layla is upset. When Will learns about it, he breaks off the date. He was going to go to the prom with Gwen, but now decides to stay home.
His parents go to the prom instead. There was going to be a ceremony to honor the best superhero of all time. During the prom, however, it is revealed that Gwen is really a villain named Royal Pain. The Commander thought he killed her off, but when he zapped her, she simply became a baby instead. The years passed and she grew into another teenager. Royal Pain puts on her suit and uses her weapon to make everyone become babies.
Will comes on down to the school. He is very sorry for how he acted as a hero and tells his sidekick friends that he needs all of their help to beat Royal Pain. Lash and Speed, two bullies on Royal Pain's side, are knocked out. Ethan tricks Lash and stuffs his head down the toliet. Then he becomes a puddle of ooze, which causes Speed to slip. Warren, now on Will's side, throws fireballs to knock Speed down. 
Magenta, whose power is to become a rat, climbs into the system and tries to disable it, otherwise the school will fall from orbit and everyone will die. Penny, a cheerleader who can make multiple copies of herself, surrounds Layla. Layla does not want to fight, but when they hit her, she uses her power to make all the plants come out and bind the cheerleaders down.
Will finds Royal Pain outside. She has loaded all the babies onto the bus and will retrain them to be bad people. He tells her to put his father down. They fight. Will is winning when Layla bursts in, distracting Will. Royal Pain manages to throw Will out of the window. All seems lost when Will appears in the window – he too has Josie's power of flying. He then kicks Royal Pain out of the window. The school begins to fall down. Will goes outside and uses his power to try to keep the school from hitting the ground. Magneta cuts the wire in time and saves the school from crashing into the ground.
Steve and Josie give their award to all of the sidekicks that helped out. All of the villainsa re put into the time-out room.

</doc>
<doc id="25723" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25723" title="Tales of Symphonia">
Tales of Symphonia

Tales of Symphonia is a role-playing video game released in 2004 for the Nintendo GameCube. It is a fantasy RPG.
The main character Lloyd Irving and his friends, Genis Sage and Colette Brunel, are sent away from the town where Lloyd lived. Genis' sister Raine and the mercenary Kratos join them. While traveling, Colette begins to change into an angel. Lloyd learns that she is in charge of saving the world. Two groups of people want her to stop. They are the Desians, bad guys that enslave humans, and Sheena, a woman that wants to kill Colette. Sheena and Colette save each other from the Desians and become friends. Eventually, they get ready to save the world. Kratos betrays Colette and the others to Cruxis, the angels who control the Desians. Lloyd and the others manage to escape. They go to a different world called Tethe'alla. There, they make three new friends called Zelos, Presea, and Regal. Kratos still wants to find them and the Cruxis leader, Mithos, is very angry. Lloyd's group learns that if they want to save the world, they need to have Sheena gain the power of the eight "Summon Spirits". The spirits are magical creatures. After using the power of the summon spirits, the problem gets worse. Lloyd and Kratos need to work together to save the world from being destroyed by the Giant Kharlan Tree. Yuan uses a drug where it puts people to sleep on everyone. After this, Lloyd wakes up in the middle of the night. Kratos is with Yuan and two of Yuan's henchman. Lloyd learns that Kratos is his father. Kratos dives in front of Lloyd to stop him from being hurt. Kratos then tells Lloyd that there is a ninth Summon Spirit by the name of Origin. Lloyd has to fight Kratos to get its help because Origin was sealed by Kratos himself. The Summon Spirit helps Lloyd use the eternal sword. After this, they go to Derris Kharlan and there is one last battle with Mithos.

</doc>
<doc id="25730" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25730" title="Protestant Reformation">
Protestant Reformation

The Protestant Reformation is a term used to describe a series of events that happened in the 16th century in the Christian Church. Because of corruption in the Catholic Church, some people saw a need to change the way it worked. 
People like Erasmus, Thomas More, Huldrych Zwingli, Martin Luther and John Calvin saw this corruption, and acted to stop it. This led to a schism in the church, into Catholics and a number of Protestant churches. 
Martin Luther was the first person to translate the Bible into German. He could print copies, because Johannes Gutenberg had invented a way to print a number of copies (approximately 50-100) at a relatively low price. The Protestant reformation triggered the Catholic Counter-Reformation.
In general, Martin Luther's posting of the 95 theses on the door of the church at Wittenberg is seen as the start of the Protestant Reformation. This happened in the year 1517. The Peace of Westphalia of 1648 recognised Protestants, and is generally seen as the end of this process.
In the beginning of the 16th century, many events occurred that led to the protestant reformation. Clergy abuse caused people to begin criticizing the Catholic Church. 
The central points of criticism were the following:
The greed and scandalous lives of the clergy had created a split between them and the peasants. Furthermore, the clergy did not respond to the population needs because they did not speak the local language, or live in their own diocese. The papacy lost prestige. The recent invention of the printing press helped spread awareness of the Church's abuses, and coordinate a response.
In 1515, the pope started a new indulgence campaign to raise money for the rebuilding of St. Peter's Basilica, a church in Rome. This was the last straw for Martin Luther, a Catholic monk from Germany. On October 31, 1517, he nailed 95 theses to the door of the Wittenberg chapel in protest. Luther, who appeared as an enemy of the pope, was excommunicated. In the beginning, Luther had not planned to separate from the Catholic Church or to create a new religion; he wanted to reform the Catholic Church.
In 1524-1525, millions of peasants rebelled against the nobles in the name of equality of the humanity in front at God. Many countries in Europe followed the trend of Protestant reformation and Europe was divided by denomination. This brought religious wars such as the French Wars of Religion. For a short time, Protestant and Catholic had managed to live with one another and with the Peace of Augsburg in 1555. This Peace recognized the confessional division of the German states and gave the right to Protestants to practice their religion. 
The Pope reestablished the inquisition to combat heresy. The Catholic Church responded to the protestant reformation with the counter-reformation. Force was not entirely successful, so the Pope created new religious orders like the Jesuits. These new religious orders were charged to combat Protestantism while educating the population to Catholicism. The Pope made the Index Librorum Prohibitorum, a list of banned books. It had a big influence in its first centuries and was ended the 1960s. The Catholic Church used baroque art to touch the religious feeling of the faithful and bring them to the Catholic religion.
Protestant denominations have multiplied in different forms, especially in Protestant countries. Catholic countries such as Spain and Mexico for a long time forbade Protestants to immigrate, and Protestant countries sometimes forbade Catholics. Protestants are influential in the United States and the English Canada. After the Seven Years War the British imposed the Quebec Act granting freedom of religion in Quebec, hoping it would become Protestant. In later centuries, many Protestant churches were established in the province of Quebec despite Britain's failure to do so.

</doc>
<doc id="25732" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25732" title="Sermon">
Sermon

A sermon is a speech that a priest or other speaker gives during church service. The speech has a theological, religious or moral content. The purpose of a sermon is to give hope to the people who hear it, or to encourage them to do right things in their lives. The speaker may also talk about the current problems of the community, and offer ways to solve them.Very often, sermons given by priests or other clergy are based on passages from the Bible.

</doc>
<doc id="25734" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25734" title="Sand">
Sand

Sand is a mixture of very small pieces of different rocks or minerals such as granite and feldspar and sand stone. Sand grains are between the size of gravel grains (which is from 2 mm to 64 mm) and the size of silt (which is around 0.0625 mm to 0.004 mm). It is found on beaches, and in deserts.
Sand is most of the time made of silica (silicon dioxide, or SiO). Sand is also formed by Granite by weathering and erosion.
Sand is made from large boulders eroding (being broken apart by wind or rocks). They get smaller and smaller until they reach the beach or a low lying area.
Sand dunes are made when wind or a river pulls sand into a mountain-like shape. They can be found in deserts, but sometimes high up on beaches too.
It can also be used to make sand castles. 

</doc>
<doc id="25738" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25738" title="Alsatian language">
Alsatian language

Alsatian (, ) is a Germanic language. It is spoken in Alsace (eastern part of France).

</doc>
<doc id="25753" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25753" title="Ian McEwan">
Ian McEwan

Ian Russell McEwan CBE, FRSA, FRSL (born 21 June 1948), is an English novelist (who is also called "Ian Macabre" because of the type of his early work).
McEwan was born in Aldershot, Hampshire, England and spent much of his childhood in the Far East, Germany and North Africa where his father, an officer in the army, was posted. He was educated at the University of Sussex and the University of East Anglia, where he was the first graduate of Malcolm Bradbury's pioneering creative writing course. 
He has been married twice. His second wife, Annalena McAfee, is the editor of the Guardian's Review section.
In March and April of 2004, just months after the British government had invited him to a dinner with First Lady of the United States Laura Bush, McEwan was denied entry into the United States by the United States Department of Homeland Security for not having the proper visa for earning a living (McEwan was preparing to give a series of paid lectures). Only after several days and publicity in the British press was McEwan admitted because, as he said a customs official had told him, "We still do not want to let you in, but this is attracting a lot of unfavourable publicity."
He is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Literature, a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts, and a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. He was awarded the Shakespeare Prize by the Alfred Toepfer Foundation, Hamburg, in 1999. He was awarded a CBE in 2000.
His first published work was the collection of short stories "First Love, Last Rites" (1975), which won the Somerset Maugham Award in 1976. 
"The Cement Garden" (1978) and "Black Dogs" (1992) were his early novels.
His 1997 novel, "Enduring Love", about a person with de Clerambault's syndrome, is regarded by many as a masterpiece, though "Atonement" has received equally high acclaim.
In 1998, he was controversially awarded the Booker Prize for his novella, "Amsterdam". 
His 2005 novel, "Saturday", follows an especially eventful day in the life of a neurosurgeon. Mr Henry Perowne, the main character, lives in a house on a square in central London where McEwan himself lives after relocating from Oxford.
The 2007 novel, "On Chesil Beach", was a short novel about one couple in England and how they experience love and sexuality in the early 1960s. The novel was on the short list of possible Booker Prize winners.
His most recent novel, "Solar", is a comedy. A fictional Nobel Prize winning physicist with a disorganized personal life is the main character.

</doc>
<doc id="25754" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25754" title="Mahjong">
Mahjong

Mahjong is a game for four players that was created in China. It is a game of skill, intelligence, calculation and luck.
A Mahjong game is played at a square table (four sides all the same length). The dealer is called the "east" player and everyone else is called a different direction because of where they are sitting - so the person to East's left is South, the person across from East is West, and the person to East's right is North. If East wins, he is the dealer again for the next round; if he does not, the dealer is the person to his right (North). That person then becomes East. A game of Mahjong ends when every player has been the dealer four times, or when they have played the number of rounds they said they would play before they started.
A single-player version of this game exists, called Mahjong Solitaire. It is based on the four-player game, but can be played by one person, so it is one of the games that are played often on computers (such as Solitaire, Spider Solitaire, or Minesweeper). Mahjong Solitaire is much simpler than four-player Mahjong: it is played without dice or chips, by removing tiles (set up in the shape of a pyramid) from the board in sets of two. Each set of two has to match - they are either exactly the same, or go together (two "flowers" tiles, for example). A Mahjong Solitaire player wins when he picks up all the tiles, or he loses when he runs out of sets of two that he can pick up.

</doc>
<doc id="25755" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25755" title="Ionia">
Ionia

Ionia was a region in the west of Asia Minor in Ancient Greek times. It was in what is now Turkey.It was the birthplace of the Hellenic civilization. The Dorian invasion of the Peloponnesus, caused the migration of Ionic Greeks across the Aegean sea to Anatolia about 1000-900 BCE. The original Greek settlements in the region were numerous and small, but by the 8th century BCE they had consolidated themselves into 12 major cities—Phocaea, Erythrae, Clazomenae, Teos, Lebedus, Colophon, Ephesus, Priene, Myus, and Miletus on the mainland, with the islands Chios and Samos.By the end of the 7th century the Ionian cities had achieved great prosperity through their trading enterprises, their colonization efforts, and their manufacture of ceramics, textiles, and metalware.

</doc>
<doc id="25765" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25765" title="Harmonic">
Harmonic

A harmonic of a wave is the part of a signal's frequency that is a whole multiple (an integer) of the fundamental frequency. The fundamental frequency is the lowest frequency of a periodic waveform. If "f" is the fundamental frequency (that is, 1"f"), then the "harmonics" have frequencies 2"f", 3"f", 4"f"..., and so on. The second harmonic (2"f") has a frequency twice that of the fundamental frequency, the third harmonic three times, and so on. This concept applies to wave motions of any form of energy, but is perhaps most often related to acoustics.
Frequencies that lie between one harmonic and another harmonic are called "interharmonics". For example, 1⅓"f" is an interharmonic between the fundamental frequency (or first harmonic) and the second harmonic. Interharmonics is a term invented, or at least standardised, by the international electronics industry about 1999, particularly for use in electrical energy. However, interharmonic frequencies also occur naturally in other radiant energies, for example music or any type of sound.

</doc>
<doc id="25766" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25766" title="Art Ross Trophy">
Art Ross Trophy

The Art Ross Trophy is given to the top scoring player each year in the National Hockey League (NHL). The player with the most points (goals plus assists) is given the trophy. If two players have the same number of points, the award goes to the player with the most goals. If they are tied in goals, it goes to the player who has played fewer games. If they are tied in games, it goes to the player who scored his first goal of the year the soonest.
Wayne Gretzky has won this trophy ten times, the most of any player. Gordie Howe and Mario Lemieux each won six trophies; Phil Esposito and Jaromir Jagr won five; Stan Mikita won four; and Bobby Hull and Guy Lafleur each won it three times.
The Art Ross Memorial Trophy was first awarded in 1948. This list includes all NHL scoring champions:

</doc>
<doc id="25778" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25778" title="Towel">
Towel

A towel is a form of cloth or paper used for drying things. There are many types of towels, such as the beach towel and the washcloth, a small towel used for cleaning dishes and bodies. Towels have many different uses, such as drying yourself after a shower, or wiping a table clean.

</doc>
<doc id="25785" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25785" title="South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands">
South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands

South Georgia and South Sandwich Islands are an overseas territory of the United Kingdom claimed by Argentina. They are in the southern part of the Atlantic Ocean. The territory was started in 1985, before that it was classed as part of the Falkland Islands. The islands do not have a native population, but in 2006 they had around 20 people on the islands. Most of these people were scientists who are at Bird Island, museum staff at Grytviken and the British Government Officer.

</doc>
<doc id="25789" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25789" title="Batman: Rise of Sin Tzu">
Batman: Rise of Sin Tzu

Batman: Rise of Sin Tzu is an action-adventure game video game. It was released in 2003 for the PlayStation 2, Xbox and Gamecube. It is also available for the Game Boy Advance and PC.
The game is based on "". In the game Batman faces a new enemy who sends Gotham City into chaos.
Some critics said that "beat 'em up" was too recurring and it lacked the story of "Batman Vengeance".

</doc>
<doc id="25792" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25792" title="Vein">
Vein

A vein is a type of blood vessel in the body. All veins carry blood to the heart. Most veins carry blood that is low in oxygen, except for the pulmonary vein and the umbilical veins which carry blood that is high in oxygen. 
A vein has a large lumen (width) and less pressure than an artery. There is smaller amounts of smooth muscle and elastic fibres in the vessel wall. Most veins have one-way valves that keep blood from going backwards. 
Veins carry blood to the heart and enter the heart through the vena cava. Other important veins are the coronary veins and renal veins. 
Veins are mainly situated just below the skin, and could easily be seen from the outside.
The blood carried by veins is dark red, but when a vein is cut or pierced, the dark blood immediately reacts with the oxygen in the air and becomes bright red colored. The vein appears blue because of the scattering of light through the skin and the way the eye perceives color and light.

</doc>
<doc id="25793" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25793" title="Ottawa Senators">
Ottawa Senators

The Ottawa Senators are a professional ice hockey team based in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. They are members of the Northeast Division of the Eastern Conference of the National Hockey League (NHL). The Senators play their home games at the 19,153 seat (20,500 capacity) Canadian Tire Centre, which opened in 1996.
The team was started by Ottawa real estate developer Bruce Firestone, the team is the second NHL franchise to use the Ottawa Senators name. The original Ottawa Senators, founded in 1883, had a rich history, winning 11 Stanley Cups and playing in the NHL from 1917 until 1934. On December 6, 1990, after a two-year public campaign by Firestone, the NHL awarded a new franchise, which began play in the 1992–93 season. The current team owner is Eugene Melnyk, and in 2011, the club was valued by "Forbes Magazine" at $201 million.
The team has had success, qualifying for the Stanley Cup playoffs in twelve of the past fourteen seasons, four division titles, the Presidents' Trophy in 2003 and appeared in the 2007 Stanley Cup Finals. The success has been reflected in attendance. The club has averaged over 18,000 fans per game since 2005–06, peaking at 19,821 in 2007–08.
Source: "Ottawa Senators 2009–10 Media Guide", p. 206.
Source: "Ottawa Senators 2009–10 Media Guide", p. 206.
Statistics and records are current after the 2011–12 season, except where noted.
"For the full season-by-season history, see List of Ottawa Senators seasons"
Source: Ottawa Senators.

</doc>
<doc id="25794" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25794" title="Calgary Flames">
Calgary Flames

The Calgary Flames are an ice hockey team in the National Hockey League (NHL). They began in 1972 in the city of Atlanta, and moved to Calgary in 1980. They won the Stanley Cup in 1989. They also made the Stanley Cup finals in 1986, losing to the Montreal Canadiens, and in 2004, losing to the Tampa Bay Lightning four games to three. The Flames won the President's Trophy as regular season champion in 1988 and 1989.
The Flames play in the Saddledome arena in Calgary, Alberta, Canada. It is called the "Saddledome" because the roof is shaped like a saddle.
Some of the best players to play for the Flames include Al MacInnis, who won the Conn Smythe Trophy as most valuable player in the playoffs in 1989; Jarome Iginla, who won the Art Ross Trophy as top point scorer in 2001-02, as well as the Richard Trophy as top goal scorer in 2001-02 and 2003-04; Lanny MacDonald, who scored 500 career goals, mostly on Calgary; Gary Suter, who won the Calder Trophy as rookie of the year in 1985-86 and captained the team to their only Stanley Cup win; goaltender Mike Vernon; and forwards Joe Mullen, Joe Nieuwendyk, and Theoren Fleury. The starting goaltender on the Flames in currently Miikka Kiprusoff, who is considered to be one of the best goalies in the NHL.

</doc>
<doc id="25796" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25796" title="Edmonton Oilers">
Edmonton Oilers

The Edmonton Oilers are an ice hockey team in the National Hockey League (NHL). They joined the NHL in 1979, after seven years in the World Hockey Association. They were named the "Oilers" because Edmonton, Alberta is the center of Canada's petroleum industry.
The Oilers have won the Stanley Cup five times, in 1984, 1985, 1987, 1988, and 1990. They also won the President's Trophy as top team in the regular season in 1984, 1986, and 1987. They lost the 1983 Stanley Cup final to the New York Islanders and the 2006 Stanley Cup Final to the Carolina Hurricanes.
Wayne Gretzky won the Hart Trophy as the NHL's most valuable player (MVP) eight times on the Oilers. He also won the Art Ross Trophy seven times on Edmonton, the goal-scoring title (now known as the Richard Trophy) five times, and the Conn Smythe Trophy as MVP in the playoffs twice. Gretzky set many NHL records on the Oilers, including most goals (92), assists (163), and points (215) in a season.
The Oilers have had many other great players: Mark Messier won the Hart Trophy in 1990 and the Conn Smythe Trophy in 1984; Paul Coffey won the Norris Trophy as best defenceman in 1985 and 1986; Grant Fuhr won the Vezina Trophy as best goaltender in 1988; Jari Kurri led the NHL in goals in 1986; and Bill Ranford won the Conn Smythe Trophy in 1990. Glenn Anderson and Curtis Joseph are among their other top players.

</doc>
<doc id="25797" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25797" title="Philadelphia Flyers">
Philadelphia Flyers

The Philadelphia Flyers are an ice hockey team in the National Hockey League (NHL). They began in 1967, and have been a strong team for most of their history. The Flyers won the Stanley Cup championship in 1974 and 1975. They also made the finals in 1976, 1980, 1985, 1987, 1997, and 2010. They won the President's Trophy as top team in the regular season in 1975, 1980, and 1985.
Their championship team in the 1970s was led by Bobby Clarke, who won the Hart Trophy as most valuable player (MVP) in the NHL in 1973, 1975, and 1976. Bernie Parent was also an important part of this team: he was named the NHL's top goaltender in 1974 and 1975, and those same years won the Conn Smythe Trophy as MVP in the playoffs. Reggie Leach was the NHL's top goal scorer in 1976; he also won the Conn Smythe Trophy that year. Bob Dailey, Rick MacLeish, and Bill Barber were also important members of the 1970s Flyers.
In 1979-80, the Flyers set an NHL record for most games in a row without a loss: 35. No team in North America in hockey, baseball, football, or basketball has had more games unbeaten.. Goaltender Pete Peeters was one reason they set this record.
In the 1980s, the team was led by (son of Gordie Howe), a defenceman who also played well on offence. Pelle Lindbergh (1985) and Ron Hextall (1987) both won the Vezina Trophy as the NHL's top goaltender; Hextall also won the Conn Smythe Trophy in 1987. Tim Kerr was a high goal scorer.
Eric Lindros won the Hart Trophy in 1995. John Leclair, Mark Recchi, and Eric Desjardins were also strong players in the 1990s.
The Flyers continued to be a strong team in the early 21st century, coming very close to making the Stanley Cup finals twice. Keith Primeau, Peter Forsberg, and Simon Gagne have been among their top players. They lost the Stanley Cup finals in 2010 but did not make the playoffs in two out of the last three seasons (2012-13 and 2014-15).

</doc>
<doc id="25799" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25799" title="Pittsburgh Penguins">
Pittsburgh Penguins

The Pittsburgh Penguins are an ice hockey team in the National Hockey League (NHL). They began in 1967. They have won the Stanley Cup championship four times; in 1991, 1992, 2009, and 2016.
The Penguins had many poor seasons in their first 20 years. They had a good team in the mid-1970s, with players such as Peter Mahovlich, Pierre Larouche, and Jean Pronovost. They missed the semi-finals in 1975 because they lost four games to three to the New York Islanders after being ahead three games to none.
Mario Lemieux helped turn the Penguins into a strong team. He won the Art Ross Trophy as NHL scoring champion six times, in 1988, 1989, 1992, 1993, 1996, and 1997; the Hart Trophy as most valuable player in 1988, 1993, and 1996; the Conn Smythe Trophy as MVP in the playoffs in 1991 and 1992; and the goal scoring title in 1988, 1989, and 1996. Lemieux did all this even though he had many injuries.
After their two Stanley Cups (which included a record-tying 11 wins in a row in the playoffs in 1992), the Penguins set the NHL record for most wins in a row, with 17 in 1992-93. They won the President's Trophy that year as the top team in the regular season.
the penguins are the best nhl team
In 2005, the Penguins were one of the worst teams in the league, but they were able to draft Sidney Crosby. Crosby was 6th in NHL scoring in his rookie (first) season in 2005-06, at the age of 18. In 2007, the Penguins made the playoffs, but were eliminated in five games by the Ottawa Senators in the first round. The next year, the Penguins advanced to the Stanley Cup final. However, the Detroit Red Wings beat them in six games.
Returning the next season with new players such as (Matt Cooke, Ruslan Fedotenko, Chris Kunitz, Craig Adams, Pascal Dupuis, Bill Guerin, Miroslav Satan, Hal Gill and more. The Pittsburgh Penguins finished the 2008-2009 season in 2nd place in the Atlantic Division behind the New Jersey Devils with 99 points (( 45 wins, 28 loses, and 9 overtime loses)). Pittsbugh went into the NHL Playoffs with the forth seed. Playing rival Philadelphia Flyers in the first round, the Pens went up on the Flyers two games to none winning in OT in game 2. The Flyers won game 3 in Philadelphia, but lost game 4 at home to send it back to Pittsburgh where the Flyers shut the Pens out 3-0 in game 5, but in game 6 the Pens rolled over the Flyers to win game 6 to advance to the 2nd round of the NHL Playoffs facing the Washington Capitals. Losing the first two games in Washington by a goal a piece in each game Pittsburgh had to change up there game to get back into the series. Behind 2-0 going into game three in Pittsburgh Mellon Arena would see another OT Thriller win by the Pens. To keep the series alive Pittsburgh won games 4 and 5 but losing in game 6 in OT to force a game 7 back in Washington. Pittsburgh came out strong to win the game to advance to the Eastern Conference Finals against the Carolina Hurricanes. With Players Stepping up in the series Pittsburgh sweeps the Cains in 4 straight games to send them back into the Stanley Cup Finals for the second time in a row. With the Detroit Red Wings winning the Western Conference Final series against the Blackhawks there would be another face off in Detroit with the same two teams. Last season Detroit won the first 3 games and losing games 4 and 5 (game 5 in triple over time) but to win the Stanley Cup in game 6 at Pittsburgh. Pittsburgh already knowing how it feels to lose in the Stanley Cup Finals, Pittsburgh knew what could happen. With a repeat of Detroit, the Red Wings won the first 2 game, making it look like it the Penguins would lose again. Pittsburgh came back to tie up the series 2-2. Pittsburgh lost 5-0 to make the series 3-2, giving Detroit a chance to win it in Pittsburgh for the second time. Pittsburgh scoring the first two goals, which were by Jordan Staal and Tyler Kennedy. With 11:59 left, Chris Draper of Detroit scored on a rebound to put the game at 2-1. With 1:43, Detroit player Dan Cleary had a huge break away but was stopped by goaltender Marc-André Fleury. Also, with 13 seconds left in regulation, Detroit crashed the net to attempt to send it into OT but Fleury and Rob Scuderi making big stops in front of the net to force a game 7 in Detroit. With no Scoring in the first period someone had to score soon. Scoring the Penguins only two goals, Max Talbot scored early in the second and also in the middle of the 2nd period. With Detroit getting shut out, the Red Wings made the game interesting with 6:07 left in the 2009 NHL season John Ericson scored to make the game 2-1. Pulling Osgood giving Detroit the extra skater, Detroit had a chance to put the puck in the back of the net with just seconds left, but Fluery with an amazing "Martin Brodeur roll" like save the Pittsburgh Penguins would become the 2009 Stanley Cup Champions.
Jaromir Jagr was also a big star on the Penguins. He won the Art Ross Trophy five times, in 1995, 1998, 1999, 2000, and 2001; and the Hart Trophy in 1999. Tom Barasso, Paul Coffey, Ron Francis, and Kevin Stevens have also been strong players over the years.
The Penguins almost moved to Portland, Oregon in the late 1990s, but Lemieux (along with some investors) bought the team. Lemieux then came back to play in late 2000 (he had retired in 1997), and continued until 2006.

</doc>
<doc id="25800" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25800" title="Conn Smythe Trophy">
Conn Smythe Trophy

The Conn Smythe Trophy is a trophy in the National Hockey League awarded to the most valuable player in the playoffs each year. It was first awarded in 1965. Montreal Canadiens and Colorado Avalanche goaltender Patrick Roy has won it three times, more than any other player.
Normally the trophy goes to a player of the Stanley Cup champion. Sometimes it goes to someone on the losing team. Trophy winners on losing teams are marked with as asterisk (*) in the list below.

</doc>
<doc id="25801" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25801" title="Los Angeles Kings">
Los Angeles Kings

The Los Angeles Kings are an ice hockey team in the National Hockey League (NHL). They began in 1967. The were named at least in part for a former minor league hockey team called the Los Angeles Monarchs. They made the finals in 1993, and lost to the Montreal Canadiens. They won their first Stanley Cup in team history on June 11, 2012, defeating the New Jersey Devils 4 games to 2. The team won their second Stanley Cup on June 13, 2014 after they defeated the New York Rangers in double overtime of Game 5.
The Kings have been known for their high scoring teams. Marcel Dionne won the Art Ross Trophy as NHL scoring champion in 1980, and Wayne Gretzky won it on the Kings in 1990, 1991, and 1994. Gretzky also won the Hart Trophy as the NHL's most valuable player on the Kings in 1989. Charlie Simmer tied for the most goals (now the Richard Trophy) in 1980. Luc Robitaille, one of the ten highest goal scorers in NHL history, spent most of his years on the Kings.
Other strong players have included Rob Blake, who won the Norris Trophy as best defenceman in 1998; goaltender Rogie Vachon, who was second in voting for the Hart Trophy in 1975; and Dave Taylor, Bernie Nicholls, and Larry Murphy.

</doc>
<doc id="25802" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25802" title="St. Louis Blues">
St. Louis Blues

"For the type of music, please see St. Louis blues."
The St. Louis Blues are an ice hockey team in the National Hockey League (NHL). They began in 1967. They have never won the Stanley Cup championship, though they made the finals in each of their first three seasons. The Blues won the President's Trophy as top team in the regular season in the year 2000.
The name "Blues" is a pun (play on words) between the colour blue and Blues music; thus a blue note is the team's logo. There is a song entitled "St. Louis Blues".
In their first years, they had a good team because of experienced players such as goaltender Glenn Hall. In 1968 Glenn Hall won the Conn Smythe Trophy as most valuable player in the playoffs. But the team did not win in 1968. They had some trouble in the 1970s. In 1980-81 Mike Liut was named best goalie in the NHL. The 1980s were a good decade for the Blues. Mike Liut, Bernie Federko, Doug Gilmour, and Joe Mullen were all important players for the team in the 1980s.
The 1990s also were a good decade. Brett Hull led the NHL in goals in 1990, 1991, and 1992, with the help of centre Adam Oates. Hull is the son of Chicago Blackhawks star Bobby Hull. Brett Hull won the Hart Trophy as most valuable player in 1991. Curtis Joseph was a strong goaltender in the 1990s. Al MacInnis (1999) and Chris Pronger (2000) each won the Norris Trophy for best defence; Pronger also won the Hart Trophy in the year 2000. Doug Weight, Pavol Demitra, and Keith Tkachuk were also strong players in the early 21st century.
The Blues made the playoffs 25 years in a row from 1979-80 to 2003-04, an NHL record. In 2006 they finished last in the NHL. The Blues have come to be one of the NHL best teams, there advance gameplay has marked them, a team capable of winning The Stanley Cup.

</doc>
<doc id="25803" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25803" title="Ratio">
Ratio

A ratio between two or more quantities is a way of measuring their sizes compared to each other. 
For example, if a school has 20 teachers and 500 pupils then the ratio of teachers to students is written as 20:500 (read as "20 to 500"). For another example, if a cake mix asks for 100 grams of flour, 300 grams of butter and 25 grams of sugar then the ratio of flour to butter to sugar is written as 100:300:25 (read as "100 to 300 to 25"). 
Ratios can be simplified. In the school example, there were 20 teachers to 500 pupils. If we divided the children up into equally sized classes then each teacher's class would have 25 pupils. That means that for each teacher there are 25 pupils, i.e. the teacher to pupil ratio is 1:25. Another way to go from the ratio 20:500 to the ratio 1:25 is to simply divide both numbers in 20:500 by 20. Note: The ratio 20:500 is the same as 1:25. They are just two ways of writing the same thing. Just like there are different ways of writing a fraction (for example ), there are many ways of writing a ratio. the first term is called antecedent and the second term is called consequent.ratio has no units 

</doc>
<doc id="25804" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25804" title="Fraction">
Fraction

In common usage a fraction is any part of a unit.
Fraction may also mean:

</doc>
<doc id="25806" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25806" title="Proportionality">
Proportionality

A proportion (adjective: proportionate) is a relationship between two quantities or numbers. A proportion can be expressed as a word, for example, one man may be described as "smaller" than another man. A proportion can usually be expressed more precisely by "numbers". For example, the proportion, or mathematical relationship, between one man and two men can be written as the numbers "1/2", which is also known as a fraction or ratio.

</doc>
<doc id="25812" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25812" title="Mitochondria">
Mitochondria

Mitochondria are organelles, or parts of a eukaryote cell. They are in the cytoplasm, not the nucleus. 
They make most of the cell's supply of adenosine triphosphate (ATP), a molecule that cells use as a source of energy. Their main job is this energy conversion. They oxidise glucose to provide energy for the cell. The process makes ATP, and is called cellular respiration.
In addition to supplying cellular energy, mitochondria are involved in a range of other processes, such as signalling, cellular differentiation, cell death, as well as the control of the cell division cycle and cell growth. 
A mitochondrion contains outer and inner membranes. These are made of phospholipid double layers and proteins. The two membranes have different properties. Because of this double-membraned organization, there are five distinct compartments within the mitochondrion. They are:
Mitochondria's main role in the cell is to take glucose, and use the energy stored in its chemical bonds to make ATP in a process called cellular respiration. There are 3 main steps to this process: glycolysis, the citric acid cycle or Krebs cycle, and ATP Synthesis. This ATP is released from the mitochondria, and broken down by the other organelles of the cell to power their own functions.
It is thought that mitochondria were once independent bacteria, and became part of the eukaryotic cells by being engulfed, a process called endosymbiosis.
Most of a cell's DNA is in the cell nucleus, but the mitochondrion has its own independent genome. Further, its DNA shows substantial similarity to bacterial genomes.
The shorthand for mitochondrial DNA is "either" mDNA or mtDNA. Both have been used by researchers.
Mitochondria divide by binary fission similar to bacterial cell division. In single-celled eukaryotes, division of mitochondria is linked to cell division. This division must be controlled so that each daughter cell receives at least one mitochondrion. In other eukaryotes (in humans for example), mitochondria may replicate their DNA and divide in response to the energy needs of the cell, rather than in phase with the cell cycle. 
An individual's mitochondrial genes are not inherited by the same mechanism as nuclear genes. The mitochondria, and therefore the mitochondrial DNA, usually comes from the egg only. The sperm's mitochondria enter the egg, but are marked for later destruction. The egg cell contains relatively few mitochondria, but it is these mitochondria that survive and divide to populate the cells of the adult organism. Mitochondria are, therefore, in most cases inherited down the female line, known as "maternal inheritance". This mode is true for all animals, and most other organisms. However, mitochondria is inherited "paternally" in some conifers, though not in pines or yews. 
A single mitochondrion can contain 2–10 copies of its DNA. For this reason, mitochondrial DNA is thought to reproduce by binary fission, so producing exact copies. However, there is some evidence that animal mitochondria can undergo recombination. If recombination does not occur, the whole mitochondrial DNA sequence represents a single haploid genome, which makes it useful for studying the evolutionary history of populations.
The near-absence of recombination in mitochondrial DNA makes it useful for population genetics and evolutionary biology. If all the mitochondrial DNA is inherited as a single haploid unit, the relationships between mitochondrial DNA from different individuals can be seen as a gene tree. Patterns in these gene trees can be used to infer the evolutionary history of populations. The classic example of this is where the molecular clock can be used to give a date for the so-called mitochondrial Eve. This is often interpreted as strong support for the spread of modern humans out of Africa. Another human example is the sequencing of mitochondrial DNA from Neanderthal bones. The relatively large evolutionary distance between the mitochondrial DNA sequences of Neanderthals and living humans is evidence for a general lack of interbreeding between Neanderthals and anatomically-modern humans.
However, mitochondrial DNA only reflects the history of females in a population. It may not represent the history of the population as a whole. To some extent, paternal genetic sequences from the Y-chromosome can be used. In a broader sense, only studies that also include nuclear DNA can provide a comprehensive evolutionary history of a population.

</doc>
<doc id="25813" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25813" title="Menominee, Michigan">
Menominee, Michigan

Menominee is a city in the U.S. state of Michigan. Around 13000 people live in Menominee. It is part of the twin-city area with Marinette, Wisconsin. It is on the north bank of the Menominee River where the river empties into Lake Michigan. Marinette, Wisconsin is on the south bank of the river.

</doc>
<doc id="25826" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25826" title="Mortar and pestle">
Mortar and pestle

A mortar and pestle are two tools used with each other to mill (grind) and mix substances.
The "mortar" is bowl-shaped, and used to hold the substance to be ground. Mortars have smooth, rounded bottoms and wide mouths. The "pestle" is a stick used for pounding and grinding. 
Mortar and pestles are sometimes used in pharmacies to crush various ingredients to make drugs. They can also be used in cooking to grind herbs.
Mortar is also a mix of lime, cement, sand, and water used to bond materials together.

</doc>
<doc id="25828" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25828" title="Mortar">
Mortar

Mortar can refer to different things:

</doc>
<doc id="25839" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25839" title="1212">
1212

1212 is a year in the 13th century.

</doc>
<doc id="25842" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25842" title="1192">
1192


</doc>
<doc id="25843" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25843" title="Hiram E. McCallum">
Hiram E. McCallum

Hiram E. McCallum (1900 - January 13, 1989) was a mayor of Toronto, Ontario, Canada, from 1948-1951.

</doc>
<doc id="25845" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25845" title="Walter Cronkite">
Walter Cronkite

Walter Leland Cronkite, Jr. (November 4, 1916 - July 17, 2009) was an American news reporter. He was the anchor of CBS News from 1962 to 1981. Important events he reported included when President John F. Kennedy was assassinated. He reported the Apollo 11 moon landing. He also reported on the Watergate scandal, which led to President Richard Nixon resigning from his position. He was often called "the most trusted man in America." People across the country tuned in nightly to hear his coverage of the Vietnam War as it progressed.
Cronkite was born on November 4, 1916 in St. Joseph, Missouri. He studied at the University of Texas at Austin. In 1935 he left school to work for the Houston Post. He later worked for several midwestern radio stations. In World War II he was a war correspondent for United Press International. After the war he was chief correspondent at the Nuremberg trials. He went to work for CBS News in 1950. In 1962 he helped start the CBS Evening News. He served as the news anchor until he retired in 1981.
After retiring, in 1981 he was a co-producer of a PBS program, "Why in the World". In 1982 he hosted "CBS's Universe". He was the host of A&E's "Dinosaur". He did "Cronkite Remembers" for CBS and the Discovery Channel. He also wrote several books. He has won several awards during his career. In 1981 he was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom. He has won two Peabody Awards and several Emmy Awards.
He was also known for his coverage of the U.S. space program from Project Mercury to the Moon landings to the Space Shuttle. He was the only non-NASA recipient of a Moon-rock award. Cronkite is well known for his departing catchphrase "And that's the way it is," followed by the date on which the appearance aired.
Cronkite made history when he became the first television reporter to announce the assassination of John F. Kennedy. In the newsroom at CBS, the cameras were not ready when the news came in over the wire service. Cronkite's voice was broadcast over a blank CBS placard on the screen: "Bulletin . . . In Dallas, Texas, three shots were fired at President Kennedy's motorcade. The first reports say the President was seriously wounded, that he slumped over in Mrs. Kennedy's lap, she cried out, 'Oh, no!' and the motorcade went on . . . The wounds perhaps could be fatal . . ." For three and a half days there was no entertainment, no commercials, just the news. 
Cronkite's reporting of vietnam, however, was controversial. He reported the events on the evening news. But at the Tet Offensive he traveled there to see the results. What he saw upset him. On February 27, 1968 Cronkite reported the war in Vietnam could not be won. This was a major change from his usual objective reporting. He was voicing his own opinion on national television. It was the view of David Halberstam and others that Cronkite's broadcast turned many Americans against the war. Also that it played a part in Lyndon B. Johnson's decision not to run for another term as President. The other viewpoint is that Americans had already turned against the war before Cronkite's broadcast. After watching Cronkite's broadcast Lyndon Johnson said to his press secretary, George Christian, "If I have lost Walter Cronkite, I’ve lost Middle America." Whatever the effect Cronkite's broadcast had, by 1967 Johnson's approval rating on the war was down to 32%.
He was married to Mary Elizabeth "Betsy" Maxwell from 1940 until her death in 2005. They had three children. Cronkite died on the morning of July 17, 2009 in New York City, New York from cerebrovascular disease, aged 92.

</doc>
<doc id="25846" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25846" title="Dog Day Afternoon">
Dog Day Afternoon

Dog Day Afternoon is a 1975 American crime drama movie set in New York City. It was directed by Sidney Lumet and written by Frank Pierson and based on an article from Life magazine. The stars of the movie are Al Pacino, John Cazale, Chris Sarandon, and Charles Durning. The story is about the robbery of a Brooklyn bank.
The "Life" article described Wojtowicz as "a dark, thin fellow with the broken-faced good looks of an Al Pacino or Dustin Hoffman". Hoffman was offered the role when Pacino briefly quit. An 18-year-old actor was originally to be cast in the role of Sal to match the age of the actual Salvatore. The table below shows the main cast of "Dog Day Afternoon".
The movie was based on the story of John Wojtowicz. It keeps the basic facts of what happened, according to the "Life" article "The Boys in the Bank". According to the article, Wojtowicz, along with Sal Naturile, held up a Chase Manhattan Bank branch in Brooklyn, New York on August 22, 1972.
After being arrested, Wojtowicz was convicted in court and sentenced to twenty years in prison. He served six years.
Wojtowicz wrote a letter to "The New York Times" in 1975. He said the movie was not completely true. He said the way his ex-wife was shown was not accurate. He also said there was not a talk with his mother. He did say Al Pacino and Chris Sarandon's portrayals of him and his boyfriend Ernest Aron were good. Also, Sal was 18 years old, but is played by a 39-year-old.
Wojtowicz died of cancer in January 2006.
"Dog Day Afternoon" won the Academy Award for Writing – Original Screenplay (Frank Pierson) and was nominated for other Oscars:
The movie was also nominated for the following seven Golden Globes, winning none:
The movie won other awards, including an NBR Award for Best Supporting Actor (Charles Durning) and a Writers Guild Award for Best Drama Written Directly for the Screen (Frank Pierson) as well as the British Academy Award for Best Actor (Al Pacino). It was nominated for the BAFTA Award for Best Screenplay.
In 2009, it was named to the National Film Registry by the Library of Congress.

</doc>
<doc id="25856" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25856" title="Cursor">
Cursor

A cursor is a shape on a computer screen that shows where actions made with the keyboard or mouse will make a change.
There are 2 types of cursor that most people will use.
The computer automatically moves the cursor one space to the right when a letter, number or symbol is typed. The cursor can be moved to the start of the next line by pressing the Enter Key.
Most Keyboards also have 4 cursor keys to move the text cursor up, down, left or right.

</doc>
<doc id="25857" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25857" title="Kurt Gödel">
Kurt Gödel

Kurt Gödel (28 April 1906 Brno, then Austria-Hungary, now Czech Republic – 14 January 1978 Princeton, New Jersey) was a logician, mathematician, and philosopher.
Some people believe Gödel was one of the most significant logicians of all time. Gödel's work has had a big impact on scientific and philosophical thinking in the 20th century. Many people, such as Bertrand Russell, A. N. Whitehead, and David Hilbert, tried to use logic and set theory at that time. They wanted to understand the foundations of mathematics.
Gödel is best known for his two incompleteness theorems. The theorems were published in 1931. He was 25 years of age, and had just finished his doctorate at the University of Vienna one year earlier. 
The more famous of the two theorems says that if there are consistent axiomatic systems that are powerful enough to describe themselves, there will be things that are true in those systems that can not be proved within the system itself. 
To prove this theorem, Gödel developed a technique now known as Gödel numbering, which codes formal expressions as natural numbers.
He also showed that the continuum hypothesis cannot be disproved from the accepted axioms of set theory, if those axioms are consistent. He made important contributions to proof theory. He did this by clarifying the connections between classical logic, intuitionistic logic, and modal logic.
Later in his life, Gödel probably suffered from paranoia. He thought that some people would come and poison his food. So when his wife Adele was no longer able to prepare his food, he stopped eating. He died of starvation.
To put his theories in simple terms: What he discovered was that some theorems in mathematics may be true, but they cannot be proved to be true. 
"This sentence is false".
Therefore, we found a contradiction. "This sentence is false" is a proposition that is called undecidable. We cannot say if it is true or false.

</doc>
<doc id="25863" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25863" title="Tyrannosaurus">
Tyrannosaurus

Tyrannosaurus was a large predatory dinosaur from the Upper Cretaceous, 67 to 65.5 million years ago. 
"Tyrannosaurus" was a bipedal carnivore with a massive skull balanced by a long, heavy tail. Compared to the large and powerful hind limbs, its forelimbs were small, but powerful for their size. They had two clawed digits.
There is discussion as to whether it was a hunter or a scavenger. Like most dominant meat-eaters of today, such as lions and hyenas, "Tyrannosaurus" might have been both. It had a very strong jaw, and its bite power could snap the bones of other dinosaurs. 
More than 30 specimens of "Tyrannosaurus rex" have been found. Some of them are nearly complete skeletons, and soft tissue and proteins have been reported in at least one of these specimens. Research is done on its biology, life history and biomechanics. The feeding habits, physiology and potential speed of "Tyrannosaurus rex" are some topics. Some scientists think "Tarbosaurus bataar" from Asia is a second species of "Tyrannosaurus", but others think "Tarbosaurus" is a separate genus.
The estimated size of this dinosaur has changed many times. Packard and colleagues tested dinosaur mass calculations on elephants. They decided that dinosaur estimations are flawed and produce results which were too high. Thus, the weight of "Tyrannosaurus" could be much less than usually estimated. 
Although other theropods rivalled or exceeded "Tyrannosaurus rex" in size, it was the largest known tyrannosaurid and one of the largest known land predators. It was up to in length, up to tall at the hips, and up to in weight. By far the largest carnivore in its environment, "Tyrannosaurus rex" was a top predator, probably preying on hadrosaurs and ceratopsians, and/or a scavenger. The debate over "Tyrannosaurus" as apex predator or scavenger is among the longest running in paleontology.
For a long time, "Tyrannosaurus" was the largest known "carnivorous" dinosaur. Recently, skeletons of other, slightly larger, carnivores have been found, such as "Giganotosaurus", "Spinosaurus", and "Carcharodontosaurus". Skeletons of "Tyrannosaurus" were found on the North American continent, but relatives, such as "Tarbosaurus", have been found in Asia.
The largest known "Tyrannosaurus rex" skulls measure up to in length. Large openings ('fenestrae') in the skull reduced weight and gave places for muscle attachment, as in all carnivorous theropods. But in other respects "Tyrannosaurus"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s skull was significantly different from those of large non-tyrannosaurid theropods. It was extremely wide at the rear but had a narrow snout. This permitted good binocular vision. The skull bones were massive. Some bones were fused, preventing movement between them; but many were pneumatized, with a "honeycomb" of tiny air spaces. This may have made the bones more flexible as well as lighter. These features are part of the tyrannosaurid trend towards an increasingly powerful bite. Its bite easily surpassed that of all non-tyrannosaurids. 
The tip of the upper jaw was U-shaped (most non-tyrannosauroid carnivores had V-shaped upper jaws), which increased the amount of tissue and bone a tyrannosaur could rip out with one bite, although it also increased the stresses on the front teeth.
The earliest "Tyrannosaurus" skeletons were found in 1902 by Barnum Brown. Henry Fairfield Osborn, president of the American Museum of Natural History, named the species "Tyrannosaurus rex" (meaning "tyrant lizard king") in 1905. The most complete skeleton was found in 1990 in South Dakota and named "Sue" after its finder, Susan Hendrickson.
"Tyrannosaurus" has become well known. Many movies and television shows have featured it, such as Jurassic Park. Its skeletons are popular exhibits in many museums. 
"Tyrannosaurus" became extinct in the Cretaceous–Tertiary extinction event, which wiped out half of all species on Earth.
Jane is a fossil specimen of a small tyrannosaurid. It is either "Nanotyrannus" or a juvenile "Tyrannosaurus". The skeleton was found in the Hell Creek Formation in southern Montana in 2001.
After four years of preparation, Jane went on display at Rockford, Illinois in the Burpee Museum of Natural History. Some paleontologists think Jane was a juvenile about 11 years old at its time of death. Its fully restored skeleton measured 6.5 metres (21.5 ft) long, about half as long as the largest known complete "T. rex" specimen, which measures 13 m (42.6 ft) long. The weight of the specimen in life was probably nearly 680 kg (1,500 lbs). Its large feet and long legs indicate it was built for speed and could possibly run as fast as 20–30 miles per hour. Its lower jaw has 17 curved, serrated teeth.
Despite having a typically female name, Jane's sex is unknown—the specimen was named after Burpee Museum benefactor Jane Solem.
The Jane specimen has been central to the debate regarding the validity of the proposed tyrannosaurid genus "Nanotyrannus". Jane's skull is almost identical to the skull of the original "Nanotyrannus" specimen, confirming that they belong to the same species. A conference was held at the Burpee museum in 2005, during which paleontologists debated whether these "pygmy tyrants" represented adult specimens of a small species, or juvenile specimens of "Tyrannosaurus rex". While there were a few dissenters, most paleontologists at the conference decided on the latter, that both Jane and "Nanotyrannus" were juvenile "T. rex". However, the Jane material has yet to be properly studied and described by scientists. This research is currently being done, by Robert Bakker and colleagues Peter Larson, and Phil Currie.

</doc>
<doc id="25875" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25875" title="Brno">
Brno

Brno (-Czech, German: "Brünn") is the second largest city in the Czech Republic. About 405,000 people live there. It is in the center of the historical region Moravia. Brno is the capital of the South Moravian Region. 
There are many historical monuments in the city, for example the Špilberk Castle, Villa Tugendhat, or the St. Peter and Paul Cathedral.
Masaryk University, the second largest university in the Czech Republic, is there. Among other universities in the city are Janáček Academy of Music and Performing Arts or Brno University of Technology.

</doc>
<doc id="25876" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25876" title="David Hilbert">
David Hilbert

David Hilbert (Königsberg, Prussia, 23 January 1862 –Göttingen, Germany, 14 February 1943) was a German mathematician, logician, and philosopher of mathematics. He is widely considered to be one of the most influential and greatest mathematicians of the 19th and 20th centuries.
Hilbert discovered and developed a range of fundamental ideas in many areas. He worked on invariant theory, the axiomization of geometry, and the notion of Hilbert space. This is one of the foundations of functional analysis. Hilbert and his students supplied much of the mathematics needed for quantum mechanics and general relativity. He was one of the founders of proof theory and mathematical logic. He was also one of the first people to make the distinction between mathematics and metamathematics, and warmly defended Georg Cantor's set theory and transfinite numbers.
In 1895 Hilbert became Chairman of Mathematics at the University of Göttingen, at that time the best research center for mathematics in the world. He remained for the rest of his life. Among his students were: Hermann Weyl, the champion of chess Emanuel Lasker, Ernst Zermelo, and Carl Gustav Hempel. John von Neumann was his assistant. At the University of Göttingen, Hilbert was surrounded by a social circle of some of the most important mathematicians of the 20th century, such as Emmy Noether and Alonzo Church.
The text "Grundlagen der Geometrie" ("Foundations of Geometry") was published by Hilbert in 1899. It proposed a formal set, Hilbert's axioms, instead of the traditional axioms of Euclid. They avoid weaknesses in those of Euclid, whose works at the time were still used textbmathematics is his 1900 presentation of a set of problems that set the course for much of the mathematical research of the 20th century.
He put forward a number of unsolved problems at the International Congress of Mathematicians in Paris in 1900. This is reckoned the most successful and deeply considered compilation of open problems ever to be produced by an individual mathematician. Later he expanded his list to 23 problems.
In 1920 he proposed explicitly a research project in "metamathematics", which became known as Hilbert's program. He wanted mathematics to be formulated on a solid and complete logical foundation. He believed that in principle this could be done, by showing that:
He seems to have had both technical and philosophical reasons for formulating this proposal.
After 1912, Hilbert turned his focus to physics. At that time, he worked in general relativity and mathematical physics. His work in these fields is also important.

</doc>
<doc id="25878" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25878" title="Bertrand Russell">
Bertrand Russell

Bertrand Arthur William Russell, 3rd Earl Russell, OM, FRS, (18 May 1872 – 2 February 1970), was one of the world's best-known intellectuals. He was a philosopher, logician, and mathematician. He was born in Wales, but spent most of his life in England. He worked mostly in the 20th century.
Bertrand Russell wrote a lot. He also tried to make philosophy popular. He gave his opinion on many topics. He wrote the essay, "On Denoting", which has been described as one of the most influential essays in philosophy in the 20th Century. He wrote on very serious issues as well as everyday things. Continuing his family's tradition of being involved in politics, he was a well known liberal as well as a socialist and anti-war activist for most of his long life. Millions looked up to Russell as a prophet of the creative and rational life. At the same time, his stances on many topics were extremely controversial.
Born at the height of Britain's economic and political ascendancy, he died of influenza nearly a century later when the British Empire had all but vanished, its power dissipated in two victorious, but debilitating world wars. Russell's voice carried enormous moral authority, even into his early 90s. Russell supported nuclear disarmament a lot, but did not support the American war in Vietnam even when it was popular.
In 1950, Russell was made a Nobel Laureate in Literature "in recognition of his varied and significant writings in which he champions humanitarian ideals and freedom of thought". He died of influenza.
This is a selected bibliography of Russell's books in English sorted by year of first publication.
Note: This is a mere sampling, for Russell also authored many pamphlets, introductions, articles and letters to the editor. His works also can be found in any number of anthologies and collections, perhaps most notably, "The Collected Papers of Bertrand Russell", which McMaster University began publishing in 1983. This collection of his shorter and previously unpublished works is now up to 16 volumes, and many more are forthcoming. An additional 3 volumes catalogue just his bibliography. The Russell Archives at McMaster also have more than 30,000 letters that he wrote.
Additional references:
A. Russell
B. Secondary references:

</doc>
<doc id="25882" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25882" title="Alfred North Whitehead">
Alfred North Whitehead

Alfred North Whitehead, OM (15 February 1861 – 30 December 1947) was an English mathematician who became a philosopher. He was born in Ramsgate, Kent, and died in Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA. He wrote on algebra, logic, foundations of mathematics, philosophy of science, physics, metaphysics, and education. He is the co-author, with Bertrand Russell, of the important "Principia Mathematica".

</doc>
<doc id="25891" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25891" title="Mask">
Mask

A mask is a type of clothing which covers the face. It is similar to a veil, but more close-fitting.
There are different reasons why people use masks. A person can use masks so others do not know who they are (as when a robber steals from a bank). Or, a mask may keep someones face safe from harm (like a gas mask so harmful gases do not get into the lungs).
There are many practical uses for masks in everyday life. Mostly, the masks used are "semi-masks" which cover only the bottom half of the face, the mouth and nose. An example is the use of masks in operating theatres, and
by wood-workers. In surgery, the purpose is to keep bacteria off the patient; in wood-working the purpose is to keep wood fibres out of the lungs.
In Venetian masks only the top half of the face is covered, to prevent recognition. Ice hockey masks, used in the Hannibal Lecter movies, cover the whole face to protect it from the hockey puck moving at high speed.
The word 'mask' might have come from other languages. The French "masque", the Italian "maschera", the Spanish "máscara", the Latin (not classical) "mascus/masca (meaning "ghost")" or the Arabic "maskharah (meaning "jester" or "man in masquerade")" all use the same word.
One of the oldest masks found is the Death Mask. This stone mask is 9000 years old and is probably the oldest mask in the world. It is kept in Musée de la bible et Terre Sainte, Paris.
There are also three masks from the same period, kept in The Israel Museum, Jerusalem.
Masks are used in many magical or shamanistic rituals in non-western societies. The celebration or appeasement of animistic spirits takes place with dance and song in ancient performances in many parts of the world. In these events performers use costumes and masks to mimic the supposed spirits.
From this kind of beginning, the use of masks in ancient Greek theatre may have started. The actors and chorus in this early theatre all used masks.
There are some other uses of the word 'mask', which arise by extension. That means using 'mask' as a metaphor. In film a mask is a screen which cuts out part of the image. In social theory, a mask is the behaviour a person takes on in his role or job. Thus policemen, head teachers, army commanders, prime ministers act as they are expected to act (most of the time). The inference is that behind the mask is the 'real' person. Their role is a mask. As a verb, 'to mask' means to cover or hide.

</doc>
<doc id="25893" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25893" title="Holiday">
Holiday

A holiday is a regularly reoccurring festive day. Usually, but not always, the festive day is observed every year. The word "holiday" is derived from the words "holy" and "day." 
"In the order of the Wheel of the Year:"
Catholics also celebrate saint's days.

</doc>
<doc id="25896" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25896" title="Spokane, Washington">
Spokane, Washington

Spokane (Pronounced: spo can) is a city in the U.S. state of Washington. Spokane is in the eastern half of the state, close to the border with the state of Idaho.
Spokane is the second largest city in all of Washington state, only Seattle is larger. Spokane is the main city for a large area including all of eastern Washington and northern Idaho. Spokane is the business, and industrial city in the area.
The population of the city is 199,630 and the population of the metro area of Spokane is 435,644.
Spokane was founded in 1871 when a sawmill was built on the Spokane River waterfall. In 1889 a fire burned down all of the downtown. In 1892 the railroad came to Spokane, this made it easier for people to get to and from the city.
In 1974 Spokane hosted the World's Fair. This brought lots of people and money to Spokane.
The Spokane River flows through the downtown of the city where it creates a large waterfall called the Spokane Falls. This waterfall is important to the city because it was where the first building in Spokane was built, and it is very pretty.
The river is also important because many dams have been built on it so the city can have Electricity. It also provides a place for swimming and boating.
Spokane has warm dry summers, and cold winters with moderate rain and snow. 

</doc>
<doc id="25962" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25962" title="M16 rifle">
M16 rifle

The M16 is an assault rifle used by the United States since the Vietnam War in 1963, based on the AR-15. Since 1975, the M16 has been used by many different countries. First designed by Eugene Stoner in the United States of America, it is currently the standard infantry rifle used by the United States Military Forces. The rifle is being used by over 80 nations.
The M16 uses the 5.56mm NATO (.223) caliber cartridge, with a muzzle velocity (the speed of bullet leaving the rifle) of over 900 meters per second (over 3,000 feet per second), and has a maximum effective range (the maximum distance that the bullet is deadly) of 550 meters, with a rate of fire (how fast the gun shoots) of approximately 800 rounds per minute. The M16A1 can shoot fully automatic and semi automatic; other versions have three-round-burst fire and semi-automatic, and the M4A1 Carbine retains full automatic and semi automatic fire. The M16 normally holds 30 bullets in its magazine, but there are variants of the magazine that hold only 20 bullets.
There is also an M16 variant for the Canadian Army called "Diemaco C-7". The "Diemaco C-7" rifles have maple leaves on the left side.

</doc>
<doc id="26028" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26028" title="Foreskin">
Foreskin

The foreskin is a fold of skin that covers the glans penis when the penis is uncircumcised. Most mammals have foreskin.
The outside of the foreskin is like normal skin but the inside of the foreskin is a membrane like the inside of an eyelid or mouth. The foreskin is attached to the penis by the frenulum, but it can move. Muscles made it very stretchy. The five most sensitive areas of the penis are on the foreskin.
The World Health Organization say that there are lots of uses for the foreskin, such as keeping the glans penis moist, protecting it or to make sexual intercourse feel nicer since it has so many nerves in it. The removal of the foreskin, the circumcision, reduces diseases.
However, Moses and Bailey (1998), say that "it has not been demonstrated that [the foreskin] is associated with increased male sexual pleasure."
"Circumcision" is when the foreskin is cut off. It is done to satisfy medical, religious and aesthetic views. Circumcision reduces disease, though most medical associations agree the benefits are small (see Circumcision#Policies of various national medical associations).
The foreskin can also be pierced or slit for fashion reasons.Circumcision can cure certain medical problems at any age. A man should pull back his foreskin before washing the end of the penis. If a man cannot do this, a doctor should do a circumcision.

</doc>
<doc id="26032" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26032" title="Sid Vicious">
Sid Vicious

Sid Vicious (May 10, 1957 – February 2, 1979) was an English punk musician. His real name was "John Simon Ritchie" and he was born in Lewisham, London. He was a member of the band The Sex Pistols from February 1977 to January 1978, but played his instrument (the bass guitar) very badly. His bad behaviour was more important to the band than playing his instrument well.
On October 22, 1978 his American girlfriend Nancy Spungen (1958-1978) was stabbed to death with a knife in New York City. It is not clear if Vicious killed her. He was charged with murder, and released on bail. Before he was due to go to court, he died of an accidental overdose of heroin in New York City.
A movie was made about the lives of Vicious and Spungen. The name of this movie is "Sid and Nancy." Gary Oldman plays Vicious.

</doc>
<doc id="26033" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26033" title="Wii">
Wii

The Wii (pronounced "we") is a video game console made by Nintendo. It first came out on November 19, 2006, in North America. It plays video games made for the Wii and the Nintendo GameCube. It was succeeded by the Wii U in 2012.
Nintendo, the company that made the Wii, says they want to focus more on new ways to play games. The Wii uses a controller, called the Wii Remote, that is very different from the controllers of other video game consoles. It can be held with just one hand, and uses technology that senses the player's movements.
By making the Wii, Nintendo says they are trying to change the way video games are looked at and played. The Wii was made for all people of any age or interest. By making it easier to play, Nintendo thinks that they can get people who do not normally play games to start playing. Because of this, more people who have been playing video games for a long time (that means that they are "hardcore") do not like the Wii.
CPU: "Broadway" processor at 1 GHz
GPU: ATI "Hollywood" at 243 MHz
Memory: 88 MB RAM
Storage: 512 MB of flash memory
There are many things called Channels on the Wii. They are called Channels because just like on TV, you can look through channels by pressing − and +. Just like watching different channels on TV, you usually can not find all the things you want to know on one channel.
Each Wii Channel does something different. Some of them need to connect to the internet to work, using either Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection or WiiConnect24, but some information that has been saved can be viewed without a connection to the internet. However, all of these channels do not work anymore since the console's internet has been removed.
Games can be played on this channel after a game disc, or Nintendo GameCube disc, is put in the disc slot.
The Wii Shop Channel is used to buy downloadable Virtual Console (old games) and WiiWare games and also Wii channels mentioned here. An internet connection is required to use this channel.
The Mii Channel is where a player can make an avatar called a Mii to represent them, either in the Mii Channel's online feature Mii Parade, or in games that allow using Miis and most other Wii channels mentioned here.
The News Channel is used to look up news on different topics, ranging from your country's news, to sport and entertainment. An internet connection is required to use this channel.
The Forecast Channel is used to check the weather forecast on most cities around the world. There is a feature that lets you select your local area to receive weather updates. An internet connection is required to use this channel.
The Everybody Votes Channel is a channel containing regularly updated polls. There are three national polls (updated on Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays) along with one worldwide poll. An internet connection is required to use this channel.
The Internet Channel is used to access the Internet. It is based on the Opera Browser. You need an internet connection to use this channel. From 1 September 2009, the Internet Channel became free to download after an update was released to support Adobe Flash (a program to watch movies on the internet). Refunds consisting of a free Virtual Console NES title worth 500 Wii Points were offered by Nintendo to Wii owners who had downloaded it beforehand for the same price.
The Check Mii Out Channel (known as Mii Contest Channel in the UK) is used to send and pick up other Miis, and is also used in voting contests to see which Mii is the best. An internet connection is required to use this channel.
The Nintendo Channel is used to watch videos, collect and send feedback on certain Wii titles, and to download Nintendo DS game demos to a Nintendo DS using the DS Download Service. An internet connection is needed to use this channel.
The Today and Tomorrow Channel is a channel that was only released in Europe, on 9 September 2009, used to view daily horoscopes. Up to six Mii characters can be registered. It offers advice on five topics; love, work, study, communication, and money. It also offers hints on food, fun, and care. Another feature is a Mii compatibility check.
The Homebrew Channel is an unofficial channel used for loading unofficial software, or homebrew. With homebrew, you can do many things that the Wii cannot normally do on its own (play DVDs, stream media from another computer, run emulators, etc.). Nintendo does not help fix problems with this channel, because it is not allowed by Nintendo.
The Wii Speak Channel is downloadable once you buy the Wii microphone, used in certain games like "Animal Crossing: City Folk". An internet connection is required to use the Wii Speak Channel.
The Wii Remote is a controller that is like a regular television remote. The Wii Remote uses accelerometers and infrared light sensors (from LEDs inside a 'sensor bar') to know where it is in 3D space. This lets people control the game using physical movement and by pressing buttons. The controller connects to the console using Bluetooth. It has a rumble feature (the controller shakes when the game being played tells it to do so) and a speaker inside the remote.
An attachment to the Wii Remote that comes with the Wii console and can also be bought by itself in stores is the "Nunchuk" controller. It also has an accelerometer and an analog stick with two buttons, and connects to the bottom of the Wii Remote with a wire. A wrist strap can also be used to stop the player from dropping or throwing the Wii Remote. Because of problems with the straps, Nintendo has given all players a free stronger replacement for all straps. It also comes with a cover called the Wii Remote Jacket, which protects the Wii Remote and the thing that it hits from being damaged or broken.
It also gives a stronger grip which makes it harder for the Wii Remote to slide out of players' hands.
Nintendo and many other companies have made attachments for the Wii Remote. They are usually connected by a wire or by a small plug at the bottom of the Wii Remote.
The Nunchuk is the most common attachment for the Wii Remote. It is made to fit perfectly into someone's hand. It comes packaged with the Wii. The Nunchuk has an analog stick on the front and two buttons on the back. A Nunchuk is needed for many Wii games, as it is required to move characters around the game.
The Wii Motion Plus connects to the bottom of the Wii remote to help the sensors find the remote more accurately. It improves the playing of some games.
Nintendo has released a "classic" controller for the Wii. The design is similar to the SNES's controller, but has two analog sticks and four shoulder buttons as opposed to two. It is very good for playing older games that can be bought from the Wii Shop Channel, and is made mainly for that purpose.
There is also a case that looks like a gun for the Wii Remote and Nunchuk. It is named the Zapper after a NES gun controller. When the Wii Remote and the Nunchuk are placed inside it, the shape of the controller in the player's hands is changed. The Zapper does not actually plug into the Wii Remote. It just holds it in place. The Zapper also includes a free, short game to help the player get used to it.
There are many pretend instruments made by Nintendo and other companies for playing music video games like Guitar Hero and Rock Band. So far, they have made guitars and drums. They plug into the bottom of the Wii Remote. There are also microphones that plug into the USB port on the back on the Wii console.
There is also a plastic wheel. These come with Mario Kart Wii and other racing or car driving games. The Wii remote goes into the middle of the wheel. There are some built-in buttons on the wheel to make it easier to click on things on the screen.
On December 7, 2012, a new model called the Wii Mini was released in Canada. It is a smaller version of the Wii. It is styled in black and red. It does not have support for GameCube games, Wi-Fi and online play, and SD cards. It retails for $99.99.

</doc>
<doc id="26037" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26037" title="Joseph Strutt">
Joseph Strutt

Joseph Strutt was an English engraver in 1749. He put patterns into objects (like words into stone) and collected things from the past. He died in 1802.

</doc>
<doc id="26039" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26039" title="Tricia Nixon Cox">
Tricia Nixon Cox

Patricia "Tricia" Nixon Cox was born on February 21, 1946 in Whittier, California. She is the daughter of former US president Richard Nixon and Pat Nixon. She is the older sister of Julie Nixon Eisenhower.
Unlike her sister, Tricia performed many ceremonial jobs, like going with her father to campaign stops and state visits. She married Edward F. Cox on June 12, 1971.
She tutored inner-city children.

</doc>
<doc id="26041" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26041" title="Grocon">
Grocon

Grocon Pty Ltd is a big Australian construction company based in Melbourne. It is owned by the Grollo family.
The company was involved in building the Eureka Tower and Rialto Towers.

</doc>
<doc id="26042" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26042" title="Głuchołazy">
Głuchołazy

Głuchołazy ("Bad Ziegenhals") is a town in Poland, in Opole Voivodship, in Nysa County. It had a population of 15,052 in 2004.

</doc>
<doc id="26044" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26044" title="1652">
1652


</doc>
<doc id="26045" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26045" title="1124">
1124


</doc>
<doc id="26047" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26047" title="Columbia River">
Columbia River

The Columbia River is a river in British Columbia, Canada, and the U.S. states of Washington and Oregon. The Columbia River is about 1,243 miles long. Its largest tributary is the Snake River, which flows west from the state of Idaho. The lower part of the Columbia forms the border between the states Washington and Oregon. The Columbia drains 254,000 square miles (657,857 km) of land, beginning in the Canadian Rockies and flowing west through the Cascade Range, to where it empties into the Pacific Ocean.
There are 14 dams on the Columbia River. Three are in Canada, and the other 11 are in the United States. The dams generate hydroelectricity and provide flood control and water for farms. There are also dams on the Snake River and many other tributaries. These dams have, along with their benefits, caused salmon populations in the river to go down.

</doc>
<doc id="26048" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26048" title="1597">
1597


</doc>
<doc id="26049" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26049" title="Martyr">
Martyr

A martyr is a person who died or was killed because of their faith, for example Saint Stephen. One meaning of the word is "someone who dies for a particular cause", being used for people who die for any belief or idea.for example Bhagat Singh.

</doc>
<doc id="26050" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26050" title="Whittier, California">
Whittier, California

Whittier is a city in Los Angeles County, California, USA. It is near Pico Rivera, Santa Fe Springs, La Habra and La Mirada. It is one of the oldest cities in the Los Angeles Area. Early settlers included Manuel Nieto and Pio Pico. In the 1880s, the land that is now Whittier was bought by Quakers, who named the city after John Greenleaf Whittier, a Quaker poet. These Quakers started Whittier College. In the early 1900s, Whittier was mostly orange groves, but became a suburb of Los Angeles after World War II. In 1987, a large earthquake hit the city, destroying many buildings and leading to a wave of civic activism. This activism helped save many old buildings, including the Bank of America Building, the Southern Pacific Railroad Depot, and the Hoover Hotel.
The 2010 United States Census reported that Whittier had a population of 85,331.
Whittier's largest employers are Whittier College, Presbyterian Hospital, and Whittwood Mall. There has been talk of new development on the site of Nelles School for Boys and in Uptown. Besides Whittier College, Whittier has a community college, Rio Hondo College, five public high schools (Whittier, California, Pioneer, Santa Fe, and La Serna High), and several elementary and middle schools.
Many famous people have lived in Whittier, including Richard Nixon, who attended Whittier High and was a lawyer in the Bank of America Building.

</doc>
<doc id="26051" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26051" title="List of German institutions">
List of German institutions

This is a list of German institutions.

</doc>
<doc id="26052" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26052" title="List of French institutions">
List of French institutions

This is a list of French institutions.

</doc>
<doc id="26074" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26074" title="EarthBound">
EarthBound

EarthBound (called Mother 2 in Japan) is a console role-playing game made by Ape, Inc. and published by Nintendo for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System game console. It is the second game in the "EarthBound" series, after "Mother". It has a sequel called "Mother 3".
There are many places in the world of "EarthBound". It starts in Eagleland, "EarthBound"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s version of the United States. The player can explore many other areas, including Winters, a snowy country based on the United Kingdom, Dalaam, an oriental land, and Scaraba, an Egyptian-themed land. 
Two areas from the series have been used in the "Super Smash Bros." series. "Super Smash Bros. Melee" had a level about the first area, Onett, and another level called Fourside. Onett was reused in "Super Smash Bros. Brawl".
There are many characters in "EarthBound", but only four main playable characters.
Besides playable characters, there are other important characters.
"EarthBound" takes place in the year 199X (meaning somewhere in between 1990 and 1999). Ness is sleeping, when a large crash is heard, which wakes him up. He goes to see what it is, and arrives to see a meteor had crashed. His friend, Pokey, tells Ness to go away because he's bothering the cops, even though the cops are finding Pokey annoying. He returns home, and is awoken by a loud knocking, and Pokey comes in. He tells Ness that his brother is missing, and Ness, Pokey, and Ness' dog King go to the meteor to find Picky. After they find Picky, a being that is at first thought to be a bee flies out of the meteor, and tells them about the future, Giygas, and that legends say that three boys and a girl would save the universe. When Picky and Pokey are returned to their house, their mom is frightened by Buzz Buzz and swats him. This fatally injures him, and before he dies, he gives Ness an item called the Sound Stone, and tells him to find the eight "Your Sanctuary" spots. Ness goes to find these Your Sanctuary spots, as well as the two other boys and the one girl.
"EarthBound" is a turn-based role-playing game. When in battle, the player can do many different things, including Fight, PSI, Goods, Auto-Fight, and Run Away. Fight has a character use his or her weapon on an enemy, PSI lets the character use PSI if he or she has any to use, Goods lets the player use an item in the selected character's inventory, Auto-Fight lets the computer take control of the characters, and Run Away obviously has a chance to end the battle. 
Nintendo removed many things from the English version of "EarthBound". They removed any reference to child abuse, any taking about death, any reference to religion, and the Red Cross logo. Despite people thinking the red crosses were removed because of religious references, they were actually removed because of Nintendo not wanting to deal with a law suit over it, as the Red Cross has copyright.
"EarthBound" and its series has had a strong cult following in and outside of Japan. It has its own web site called Starmen.net, and has had multiple petitions, including one to release "Mother 1 + 2" in English and one to release "Mother 3" in English. Both of these petitions had very many signatures, but have not been successful.
"EarthBound" was re-released for the Game Boy Advance along with "Mother" as "Mother 1 + 2", only in Japan. It has been rated by the ESRB for release on the Wii's Virtual Console, but it has no release date. It was going to have a sequel on the Nintendo 64 called "EarthBound 64", and it was going to be in 3D. However, after being delayed for many years, it was cancelled. Five years later, "Nintendo" announced that it was being re-released for the Game Boy Advance as "Mother 3", and would feature the same plot and characters.

</doc>
<doc id="26075" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26075" title="Mother (video game)">
Mother (video game)

Mother (マザー Mazā) was a video game sold only in Japan for the Family Computer (FC). They planned to sell the game in the USA, but Nintendo of America chose not to release it. This is because when they finished making it into English, the Super Nintendo Entertainment System was already being sold. The game was released on the Wii U Virtual Console in the USA in 2015.

</doc>
<doc id="26078" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26078" title="Mother 1 + 2">
Mother 1 + 2

Mother 1 + 2 is a video game for the Game Boy Advance which includes "Mother" and "Mother 2" ("EarthBound" US). Much of the music is different than the console games ("Mother 2" is mostly the same, but "Mother" was changed a lot to make it similar to the United States one that was not sold).

</doc>
<doc id="26079" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26079" title="Mother 3">
Mother 3

Mother 3 is a video game for the Game Boy Advance, made by Brownie Brown and HAL Laboratory. It was released on April 20, 2006 and it is the third game in the "Mother" video game series, called "EarthBound" outside of Japan. 
The game was kept secret until it appeared in June of 2003 during a "Mother 1 + 2" commercial in Japan. Once it appeared, the game stayed near the top of Famitsu's Most Wanted Games list.
"Mother 3" was first going to be made for the Nintendo 64 and then later for the Nintendo 64DD. It was going to be called "Earthbound 64". It was canceled after the developers were having problems making the 3D graphics work. It was moved to the Game Boy Advance, and came out in 2006. It uses much stuff from "EarthBound 64", including the characters Lucas, Claus, Flint, and Boney, as well as the villain of the game.
"Mother 3" takes place on Nowhere Islands. The Nowhere Islands are a large amount of islands in the middle of the ocean. They contain one volcano, two mountains, a castle, and one small village called Tazmily. The story takes place when Lucas, his brother Claus, and his mother Hinawa take a vacation to his grandpa's house. During the vacation, Lucas and Claus play with a race of peaceful T-Rex like creatures called Dragos. After a long day of playing, they head home, not after Hinawa sending a message to Flint, her husband, that they are heading back. 
Meanwhile, the forest near Tazmily is lit on fire mysteriously.
Lucas is the main protagonist, son of his mother Hinawa and father Flint. Lucas is known to be gentle. He is yellow haired with a stripe of yellow and red on his shirt.

</doc>
<doc id="26085" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26085" title="Cardcaptor Sakura">
Cardcaptor Sakura

Cardcaptor Sakura is a manga series from Japan. It is also an anime series. "Cardcaptor Sakura" is sometimes abbreviated as CCS.
"Cardcaptor Sakura" was created in 1996 by a team of artists named CLAMP. CLAMP has created many other series, but "Cardcaptor Sakura" is one of the most popular. The manga was first published in "Nakayoshi" from 1996 to 2000. The story is about Sakura Kinomoto, a middle school student who accidentally frees a deck of magical cards from a book hidden in her father's study. The book's guard, Keroberos, gives Sakura the task to find and capture the troublemaking cards. The series focuses on themes of love and family, Sakura and her friends, and their different relationships.
The anime aired on Japanese television from 1998 to 2000, changing parts of the manga's story and introducing new characters, and has two films as well. The English version of the anime was licensed by Nelvana, renamed "Cardcaptors", and the story was changed a lot to suit an American audience.
Ten-year old Sakura Kinomoto is an athletic girl in middle school. She finds a strange book in her father's study, named the Clow Book, and finds the Clow Cards inside. She learns the cards are magical, accidentally setting them free when she calls the name of the Windy Card. The book's guardian, Kero, gives Sakura the task of finding and capturing the cards, using the Clow Wand to seal them in their card forms. Sakura is helped by her best friend Tomoyo Daidouji, who designs Sakura's battle costumes and records her adventures on a video camera. Sakura meets Syaoran Li, a boy of her age and a relative of the Clow Cards' creator Clow Reed. Syaoran wants to capture the cards himself, becoming Sakura's rival, though they later become friends. The two capture all of the cards between them, but have to face the second guardian of the Clow Cards, Yue, to decide who will become the new master of the cards. Yue is revealed to be the true form of Yukito Tsukishiro, the friend of Sakura's older brother Toya. Sakura defeats Yue and becomes the new owner of the Clow Cards.
Eriol Hiiragizawa, a student from England, arrives in Sakura's town and begins causing magical troubles around town. Sakura learns she has to transform the cards into Sakura Cards to continue using their magic or they would become normal cards. Eriol is revealed to be a reborn Clow Reed, and after tasking Sakura with one last challenge, all of the cards are successfully transformed. Syaoran, who fell in love with Sakura, confesses to her, who comes to love him in return. Syaoran returns home to Hong Kong but returns two years later to be with Sakura.
The characters' Japanese names are followed by their English names.
"Cardcaptor Sakura" is shown in many countries around the world. CCS is popular, because it is very cute. There are many posters and many toys about CCS.

</doc>
<doc id="26086" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26086" title="1173">
1173


</doc>
<doc id="26091" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26091" title="Allies">
Allies

In general, allies are people or groups that are working together to achieve some common purpose.
When written with a capital A, Allies usually means 

</doc>
<doc id="26092" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26092" title="Sunderland">
Sunderland

Sunderland is in North East England. It was a county borough, and is now part of the City of Sunderland in Tyne and Wear. It sits at the mouth of the River Wear.
Sunderland started as three small villages:
Sunderland grew as a port, mostly selling coal and salt. In the 1300s people began to build ships along the river bank. By 1835, the port of Sunderland was so important that its name was used when the three old villages became the a borough. Sunderland became a city in 1992.
A person born in Sunderland is sometimes called a "Mackem".
In 674, Benedict Biscop built the Wearmouth ("St. Peter's") monastery. He was given the land by King Ecgfrith of Northumbria. Biscop's monastery was the first monastery built of stone in Northumbria. Biscop brought glass makers from France. This was the start of glass making in Britain.
In 686, the community was taken over by Ceolfrid, and Wearmouth monastery and its other site in Jarrow became very important places of learning in Anglo-Saxon England. The library had about 300 books; all of them were hand written and painted.
The Codex Amiatinus, was written and painted at the monastery and was probably worked on by Bede who was born at Wearmouth in 673.
Bede wrote the "Historia ecclesiastica gentis Anglorum (The Ecclesiastical History of the English People)" in 731. This is why he is often called "The father of English history".
In the late eighth century, the Vikings began to raid the coast, and by the middle of the ninth century, the monastery had been abandoned.
In 930, King Athelstan of England gave the land on the south bank of the river to the Bishop of Durham. This is why the area is still called Bishopwearmouth.
By 1100, the Bishopwearmouth parish included a small fishing village at the mouth of the river (modern day East End) known as 'Soender-land' (which changed into 'Sunderland'). This settlement was granted a charter in 1179 by Hugh Pudsey, then the Bishop of Durham.
By 1346, ships were being built at Wearmouth. The merchant Thomas Menville started building ships so he could transport the things he wanted to sell.
In 1589, salt making started in Sunderland. Large vats, called ‘’panns’’, of seawater were put on coal fires. When the water boiled, the salt was left behind. This is known as salt panning. Today, the road leading to where the pans were is still called Pann's Bank. It is on the river bank near the city centre. As more coal was needed to heat the salt pans, coal mining started in the area. Only poor quality coal was used in salt panning; the best coal was sold and shipped out of the town. This is why the port began to grow. This put Sunderland in competition for the first time with its coal-trading neighbour Newcastle.
Before the English Civil War in 1642, King Charles I said Newcastle could be the only town in the east of England which could send coal by ship. This had a big impact on Sunderland, which was selling more and more coal. This created resentment towards Newcastle and towards the idea of having a king. When the civil war began, the mainly Protestant Sunderland sided with Parliament against the mostly Catholic Newcastle. This was good for Sunderland's business, because Parliament blockaded (blocked) the Tyne. This stopped the Newcastle coal trade and allowed the Sunderland coal trade to grow. When an army from Scotland came to fight the King, its base was set up in Sunderland.
The River Wear was not very deep, so the coal had to be loaded onto big boats called "keels" and taken downriver to the coal ships which were called "colliers".
In 1719, Sunderland and Bishopwearmouth were too big for the only parish church, which was in Bishopwearmouth. A new parish of Sunderland was created and Holy Trinity, Sunderland parish church was built. The three original settlements of Wearmouth (Bishopwearmouth, Monkwearmouth and Sunderland) had started to join up. This was because of the success of the port of Sunderland as well as the salt panning and the shipbuilding along the banks of the Wear. Around this time, Sunderland was also known as 'Sunderland-near-the-Sea'.
Local government was divided between the three churches (Holy Trinity, Sunderland, St. Michael's, Bishopwearmouth, and St. Peter's Church, Monkwearmouth). When cholera broke out in 1831, the "select vestrymen", as the church councillors were called, did not know what to do about the epidemic. Many were frightened to say that a disease has started because it might stop their businesses from making money. They printed notices which said there was no disease in the town, and saying that the doctors who said that there was disease did not know what they were talking about.
Sunderland was a big trading port at the time. It was the first British town to be affected by 'Indian cholera' epidemic. The first victim, William Sproat, died on 23 October 1831. Sunderland was put under , so that people could not leave the town. The port was blockaded, so that ships could not spread the disease to other ports. But in December of that year, cholera was in Gateshead and it spread across the country, killing about 32,000 people.
Jack Crawford was one of the first to die in the epidemic. There are two statues honouring Jack, one in Mowbray Park near the Civic Centre, and the other next to Holy Trinity Church.
Sunderland got its first Member of Parliament after the Reform Act of 1832, and the Borough of Sunderland was created in 1836, although impatient citizens elected Andrew White to be Mayor in December 1835.
The river at Sunderland is in a narrow valley, and the town grew up on plateaus high above the river. This meant it never had the problem of allowing people to cross the river without stopping high masted vessels. Rowland Burdon MP pushed for the Wearmouth Bridge, which was built in 1796. It was the second iron bridge ever built. Only the famous Iron Bridge itself is older, but Wearmouth bridge was over twice as long and only three-quarters the weight of the Iron Bridge. Wearmouth Bridge was the biggest single span bridge in the world. Farther up the river, another bridge, the Queen Alexandra Bridge, was built in 1910, linking the areas of Pallion and Southwick. It was designed for trains to run across, too, but the railway section was never completed.
The Victoria Hall was a large concert hall on Toward Road facing Mowbray Park. On 16 June 1883, 183 children died. During a variety show, children rushed down the stairs for treats. At the bottom of the staircase, the door only opened inward and was bolted so that only one child at a time could get through. The children pushed down the stairs to the door. Those at the front were trapped, and were crushed by the weight of the crowd behind them.
The Victoria Hall disaster is still the worst of its kind in Britain. A memorial statue, which is a crying mother holding a dead child, is now back in Mowbray Park with a protective canopy. The newspaper reports of the tragedy were so shocking that an inquiry was set up. This committee said that public buildings should have outward opening emergency exits. This led to the invention of 'push bar' emergency doors. This law still remains in full force to this day. The Victoria Hall was used until 1941 when it was destroyed by a German bomb.
As the traditional industries have declined, electronics, chemicals, and paper making have replaced them. Some of these new industries, are in Washington, which has more space to allow purpose built factories. The Nissan car plant and the nearby North East Aircraft Museum are on the site of the old Sunderland Airport.
Since 1990, industries along the banks of the Wear have changed a lot. Housing, shopping parks and business centres have been built where the shipbuilding yards were. The National Glass Centre is also there, next to the University of Sunderland’s new “St Peter’s Campus”. On the south side of the river, the old Vaux Brewery site has been cleared so that new houses, shops and offices can be built close to the city centre.
Sunderland was the one of the most heavily bombed areas in England during World War II. As a result, much of the town centre was rebuilt in a boring concrete style. But some fine old buildings remain. These include Holy Trinity, built in 1719 for an independent Sunderland, St. Michaels's Church, built as Bishopwearmouth Parish Church and now known as Sunderland Minster and St. Peter's Church, Monkwearmouth, part of which dates from 674 AD, and was the original monastery.
St. Andrew's Roker, so-called "Cathedral of the Arts and Crafts Movement", contains work by William Morris, Ernest Gimson and Eric Gill.
Sunderland was made a municipal borough of County Durham in 1835. Under the Local Government Act 1888, it was given further status as a county borough with independence from county council control. In 1974, under the Local Government Act 1972, the county borough was abolished and its area combined with that of other districts to form the Metropolitan Borough of Sunderland in Tyne and Wear. See City of Sunderland.
Sunderland has the motto of Nil Desperandum Auspice Deo. This means Never Despair, Trust In God
Much of the city is on a low range of hills running parallel to the coast. On average, it is around 80 metres above sea level. Sunderland is divided by the River Wear which passes through the middle of the city in a deep valley, part of which is known as the Hylton gorge. The only two road bridges connecting the north and south halves of the City are the Queen Alexandra Bridge at Pallion and the Wearmouth Bridge just to the north of the City centre. A third bridge carries the A19 trunk road over the Wear to the West of the City.
Most of the suburbs of Sunderland are west of the city centre with 70% of its population living on the south side of the river and 30% on the north side. The city extends to the seafront at Hendon and Ryhope (on the south) and Seaburn (on the north).
The area is part of the Anglican Diocese of Durham. It has been in the Roman Catholic Diocese of Hexham and Newcastle since the Catholic bishops returned in 1850.
Some Sunderland suburbs have most streets beginning with the same letter:
Sunderland has cool winters and warm summers. Being on the coast, Sunderland is a little warmer in the winter than the national average, but a little cooler in summer.
Average rainfall is below the UK national average due to an east coast location.
As with most UK east-coast towns, Sunderland sometimes gets sea fog known locally as "Fret". This is most common in the summer months (April - September). These frets can be very dense, are often very localised, and can appear and disappear in a matter of minutes.
Sunderland is the largest city, by population and area, between Leeds and Edinburgh.
The City of Sunderland is the 22nd largest borough in England and the largest in the North East. However, as well as including the Sunderland it also includes a number of surrounding towns and villages, such as Washington, Houghton-le-Spring and Hetton-le-Hole.
98.1% of the population are white, with 1% Asian and 0.4% mixed-race.
In 2001, the most ethnically mixed ward of the city was the (now abolished) Thornholme area - just to the south of the city centre Thornholme included the suburbs of Ashbrooke and Eden Vale. Here, 89.4% are white, 7.8% are Asian and 1.3% are mixed-race.
The least ethnically diverse wards are in the north of the city. The area of Castletown is made up of 99.3% white, 0.4% Asian and 0.2% mixed-race.
According to census statistics, 81.5% of Sunderland residents class themselves as Christian, 9.6% have no religion, 0.7% are Muslim and 7.6% did not wish to give their religion.
Only 114 people of Jewish faith live in Sunderland. There was no Jewish community before 1750, but then a number of Jewish businessmen from across the UK and Europe settled in Sunderland. A Rabbi from Holland was working in the city in 1790. The Jewish community has been shrinking since the mid 20th century. Many Sunderland Jews left for bigger Jewish communities in Britain or to Israel. The Jewish primary school, the Menorah School, closed in July 1983. The synagogue on Ryhope Road (opened in 1928) closed at the end of March 2006.
Lewis Carroll often visited to the area. He wrote most of "Jabberwocky" at Whitburn as well as "The Walrus and the Carpenter". Some parts of the area are believed to be the inspiration for his Alice in Wonderland stories, such as Hylton Castle and Backhouse Park. There is a statue to Carroll in Whitburn library. Lewis Carroll was also a visitor to the Rectory of Holy Trinity Church, Southwick, beforeSouthwick became a part of Sunderland. Carroll's connection with Sunderland, and the area's history, is documented in Bryan Talbot's 2007 graphic novel "Alice in Sunderland".
More recently, Sunderland-born Terry Deary, writer of the series of Horrible Histories books, has become famous, and many others such as thriller writer Sheila Quigley, are following his lead.
The Manchester painter, L S Lowry, was another frequent visitor, staying in the Seaburn Hotel in Sunderland. Many of his paintings of seascapes and shipbuilding are based on Wearside scenes.
The Northern Gallery for Contemporary Art on Fawcett Street and Sunderland Museum and Winter Gardens have exhibitions and installations from new and established artists alike. Sunderland Museum has a big collection of LS Lowry. The National Glass Centre on Liberty Way also exhibits a number of glass sculptures.
Sunderland has produced a number of musicians that have gone on to reach international fame, most notably Dave Stewart of the Eurythmics. Kenickie, which featured Lauren Laverne on vocals, also achieved a top ten album and wide critical acclaim in the mid-to-late-1990s.
In recent years, the underground music scene and the Sunderland Music Project have helped the likes of The Futureheads and Field Music gain national recognition. In 2004, music magazine NME put Sunderland came 8th in a list of the "coolest" music places in the UK.
Other famous Mackem musicians include punk rockers The Toy Dolls, who broke the top five of the charts with "Nellie the Elephant" in December 1984; the lead singer of dance outfit Olive, Ruth Ann Boyle, who now works with Enigma; A Tribe of Toffs made number 21 with their cult hit "John Kettley is a weatherman" in December 1988; Alex Kapranos of the band Franz Ferdinand also grew up in Sunderland and South Shields.
On the 7th and 8th of May 2005, Sunderland hosted the BBC Radio 1 Big Weekend concert - the UK's largest free music festival. The event was held at Herrington Country Park, in the shadow of Penshaw Monument and was attended by 30,000 visitors.
Sunderland does not have a big music venue such as the MetroRadio Arena or the Carling Academy in Newcastle. The Empire Theatre sometimes plays host to music acts, and has attracted Deacon Blue and Journey South to the city in recent years. McFly played there in April 2007. In the past it has also welcomed major bands such as The Beatles and The Kinks.
"Independent", a city centre nightclub/music venue, satisfies underground music lovers, having previously played host to Keane, Franz Ferdinand, Kasabian, Kaiser Chiefs, Maxïmo Park and Snow Patrol when they were largely unknown. More recently, Doves and Tim Burgess have performed DJ sets on club nights, and in summer 2007 the club hosted gigs from established bands such as The Zutons and The Maccabees. The Manor Quay, the students' union on the campus of the University of Sunderland has also hosted the Arctic Monkeys, Maxïmo Park, 911, the Levellers and Girls Aloud in the past three years.
Clint Boon sometimes deejays in indie venue "Ku Club", and the Bluetones did a set there in 2006.
“CoSMOS”, the City of Sunderland Millennium Orchestral Society’’ was set up in 2000 to mark the millennium.
The Sunderland Empire Theatre, opened in 1907, is the largest theatre in the North East. It reopened in December 2004, following a big redevelopment, making the stage bigger. Now it can stage West End shows such as "Miss Saigon", "Starlight Express" and "My Fair Lady". The Empire is the only theatre between Leeds and Glasgow big enough to put on such shows.
The Birmingham Royal Ballet have a season at the Sunderland Empire every year, and it is thought of as the company's north-east home.
The Royalty Theatre is the home to the (amateur) Royalty Theatre group who also put on a number of low-budget productions throughout the year. Well-known movie producer David Parfitt belonged to this company before achieving worldwide fame.
Each year on the last weekend in July, the city hosts the Sunderland International Airshow. It takes place along the sea front at Roker and Seaburn, and is attended by over 1.2 million people annually. It is the largest free airshow in Europe.
Sunderland also hosts the free International Festival of Kites, Music and Dance, which attracts kite-makers from around the world to Northumbria Playing Fields, Washington.
Every year, the city hosts a large Remembrance Day memorial, believed to be the largest in the UK outside of London.
HMS Ocean, a Helicopter Landing Ship is Sunderland's adopted Royal Navy ship. The crew of HMS Ocean regularly visit the city.
At Christmas, Sunderland has a German market in the city centre selling German-made wooden goods, and German food. It also hosts a large ice rink in Mowbray Park, which is part of the wider, regional North East Winter Festival.
Traditional attractions for visitors to Sunderland include Penshaw Monument, the Souter Lighthouse (the first electrically powered lighthouse in the world), the 15th century Hylton Castle, the Wildfowl park in Washington, and the beaches of Roker and Seaburn.
The National Glass Centre opened in 1998, reflecting Sunderland's distinguished history of glass-making. The centre has never been as successful as hoped.
Sunderland Museum and Winter Gardens, on Borough Road, was the first publically funded museum in the country outside London. It was opened by Ulysses S. Grant shortly after he stopped being US President. The museum has a big collection of the locally produced Sunderland Lustreware pottery. The new City Library Arts Centre, on Fawcett Street, also houses the Northern Gallery for Contemporary Art.
The City of Sunderland has been commended several times on its commitment to preserving its natural environment. Sunderland has won awards from the Britain in Bloom group in 1993, 1997 and 2000.
Sunderland is one of the most deprived cities in the North of England. 11 of the 25 wards featuring in the list of the 2000 most deprived wards in England. The most deprived areas are Southwick to the north of the river and Thorney Close to the south - both with chronic levels of unemployment, although the city is performing better than the North East as a whole.
Once called the "Greatest Shipbuilding Town in the World", ships were built on the Wear from at least 1346 onwards. The Port of Sunderland was expanded in the 1850s when the Hudsons Dock were built for the River Wear Commissioners. Robert Stephenson helped the engineers..
Competition from overseas caused a downturn in demand for Sunderland built ships toward the end of the twentieth century. The last shipyard in Sunderland closed in 1988.
Sunderland, part of the Durham coalfield, has a coal-mining heritage that dates back centuries. At the peak in 1923, 170,000 miners were employed in County Durham alone, as labourers from all over Britain, including many from Scotland and Ireland, entered the region. As demand for coal fell after World War II, mines began to close across the region, causing mass unemployment. The last coal mine closed in 1994. The site of the last coal mine, Wearmouth Colliery, is now the Stadium of Light, and a miner's Stephenson lamp monument stands outside of the ground to honour the heritage of the site.
Glass has been made in Sunderland for around 1,500 years. But overseas competition has forced the closure of all of Sunderland's glass-making factories. Corning Glass Works was one of the last. It was in Sunderland for 120 years, until March 31, 2007
Vaux Breweries was established in the town centre in the 1880s and for 110 years was a major employer. The brewery was finally closed in July 1999. Vaux in Sunderland and Wards Brewing Company in Sheffield had been part of the Vaux Group, when both breweries closed the group started to concentrate on its hotels which were in The Swallow Group. In the autumn of 2000 even this was taken over by Whitbread PLC.
Sunderland's economy began to get better after the 1980s.
The giant Nissan factory moved in, and new service industries arrived. Doxford International Business Park, in the south west of the city, has attracted a host of national and international companies.
The former shipyard areas along the River Wear have also been transformed. Instead of the old industry new developments have been built, including:
Sunderland Corporation's massive post-war housing estate developments, such as Farringdon, Pennywell, Grindon, Hylton Red House, Hylton Castle, Thorney Close and Town End Farm, together with earlier developments, have all passed into the ownership of Gentoo (once caleed Sunderland Housing Group), a private company and a "Registered Social Landlord". Since the transfer in 2000 there have been a lot of improvements to the quality of social housing in the city.
The central business district of Sunderland has also been redeveloped and improveed. In 2000, The Bridges shopping centre was extended to attract national chain stores. In November 2004, after several years with no cinema, a Cineworld multiplex opened in the new River Quarter, an entertainment complex towards the east of the City Centre. The Cinema was taken over by the Empire Multiplex Cinema Company in mid 2006. The previous ABC Cinema, situated on the corner of Park Lane and Holmeside, had been derelict for a number of years until it reopened late in 2005 as The Point, with three bars and the Union nightclub.
The arrival of Roy Keane as Sunderland AFC's new manager in August 2006 has had a massive impact in Sunderland's once limited tourism industry. Keane has proved a big pull for the city in terms of attracting tourists to Sunderland, with the Tourism Office reporting a dramatic rise in the number of football fans coming to the city "mentioning his name" as early as October 2006, just six weeks after Keane's appointment as manager. Airline Ryanair, moreover, recorded a 10% increase in passenger numbers travelling to Newcastle Airport on Fridays before a Sunderland home game, some 600 more than on other Fridays. The Tourism Office believes Keane's attachment to the city is causing a knock-on effect on local restaurants, bars and attractions in that more tourists are "making a weekend of it" after watching the football.
Sunderland station was rebuilt in November 1965 for football teams and officials from countries who were playing at Roker Park when England hosted the 1966 World Cup. It is served by Northern Rail services between Newcastle and Middlesbrough, and Grand Central services to York and London
In 2002, the Tyne and Wear Metro system was extended to Sunderland. The local Metro ends at South Hylton after calling at Sunderland Rail Station and Park Lane Bus Station. Metro trains are quite frequent and travel between Newcastle International Airport and Newcastle-upon-Tyne in the north and South Hylton at the southern end of the line. However, the Metro extension has not been viewed as a huge success with frequency of services cut due to a lack of demand.
A multi-million pound transport interchange at Park Lane was opened on 2 May 1999 by the then "Brookside" actor Michael Starke. With 750,000 passengers per year it is the busiest bus and coach station in Britain after Victoria Station in Central London, and has won several design awards. A new Metro station was built underneath the bus concourse to provide a direct interchange as part of the extension to South Hylton in 2002.
There are a number of cycle routes that run through and around Sunderland. The National Cycle Network National Route 1 runs from Ryhope in the south, through the centre of the city, and then along the coast towards South Shields.
Britain's most popular long distance cycle route - The 'C2C' Sea to Sea Cycle Route - traditionally starts (or ends) when the cyclist dips their wheel in the sea on Roker beach. The 'W2W' 'Wear-to-Walney' route, and the 'Two-Rivers' (Tyne and Wear) route also end in Sunderland.
Developer of the electric lightbulb Joseph Swan, agony aunt Denise Robertson, rockers 'The Futureheads' and Alex Kapranos of 'Franz Ferdinand', Civil liberty campaigner Chris Mullin MP, radio DJ and singer Lauren Laverne, football manager Bob Paisley, actor James Bolam, movie producer David Parfitt, lead singer of 'Olive' Ruth-Ann Boyle, author Lewis Carroll, artist LS Lowry, journalist Kate Adie, and the Venerable Bede are a few of the many famous people born in or associated with Sunderland. For a more detailed list, see List of famous residents of Sunderland.

</doc>
<doc id="26094" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26094" title="List of kings of Carthage">
List of kings of Carthage

Until 308 BC, Carthage was ruled, at least officially, by Monarchs.
Monarchs of Carthage, 814 BC-308 BC
Magonids
Hannonian
In 480 BC, following Hamilcar I's death, the King lost most of his power to an aristocratic Council of Elders. In 308 BC, Bomilcar attempted a coup (rebellion) to restore the monarch to full power, but failed, which led to Carthage becoming in name as well as in fact a republic.

</doc>
<doc id="26100" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26100" title="Wilhelm Busch">
Wilhelm Busch

Wilhelm Busch (April 15, 1832 (Wiedensahl near Hannover) - January 9, 1908 (Mechtshausen)) was a German painter and poet who is known for his satirical picture stories.
After studying first mechanical engineering and then art in Düsseldorf, Antwerp, and Munich he started drawing caricatures.
One of his first picture stories, "Max and Moritz" (published in 1865), was a huge success. "Max and Moritz" as well as many of his other picture stories were early examples of the what became the modern comic strip. The idea of "Max and Moritz", for instance, has been an inspiration for the Katzenjammer Kids.
Wilhelm Busch also wrote a number of poems in a style similar to his picture stories. Besides that he produced more than 1,000 oil paintings that were not sold until after his death in 1908.

</doc>
<doc id="26103" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26103" title="Electronic sports">
Electronic sports

Electronic sports is the term for video games that are played competitively. Popular electronic sports games are Counter-Strike, League of Legends, Warcraft, Starcraft, Dota 2, and Quake. Electronic Sports is played over the Internet or via LAN. There are professional leagues and tournaments like the "Cyberathlete Professional League", "ClanBase", "Electronic Sports League" and the "World Cyber Games" where electronic sports players can earn thousands of US Dollars. One example is Starcraft in Korea where they have many players who are very competitive.

</doc>
<doc id="26104" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26104" title="Marklohe">
Marklohe

Marklohe is a small village in Germany. It is an amt in the district of Nienburg (Weser) in Lower Saxony. Marklohe has about 4000 habitants.

</doc>
<doc id="26105" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26105" title="Skunk">
Skunk

A skunk is a mammal, usually black with a white stripe on its back and a fluffy tail, but some skunks can be brown or gray. Its most special part is that it can shoot out a bad-smelling spray from under its tail; it does this to scare away things that could hurt it. Some people keep skunks as pets.
It can eat both plants and small animals like earthworms, frogs, snakes, birds and eggs. It usually eats berries, leaves, grasses and nuts. In places where humans live, skunks often steal food from garbage or pet bowls.
The striped skunk is the most well-known kind of skunk. It weighs 2.5 to 14 pounds (1.2–6.3 kg) with a body length (without the tail) of 13 to 18 inches (33–46 cm). The tail is 7 to 10 inches long (18–25 cm), and sometimes has a white tip.
Most types of skunk live in the United States and Canada, but there are also types that live in Indonesia and the Philippines.

</doc>
<doc id="26108" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26108" title="Cerebellum">
Cerebellum

In all vertebrates, including human beings, the cerebellum is one of the main divisions of the brain. 
The cerebellum works mainly to control balance and coordinate movement. It combines signals from eyes, muscle spindles, and ears with motor commands from the forebrain and helps to coordinate control of the body. More advanced regions of the human cerebellum may be crucial to language and mental dexterity. Bands of axons extend from the cerebellum into the pons.

</doc>
<doc id="26109" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26109" title="Sustainable development">
Sustainable development

Sustainable development is a way for people to use resources without the resources running out . 
The term used by the Brundtland Commission defined it as development with sustainability that "meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs." 
Everyone wants a better place to live. Some people want better homes and housing, while other people want better schools, more jobs, better shops, or cleaner and safer streets. Others may want all these things. Whatever the problems in any neighbourhood, they can usually be grouped into three issues. People need:
But many people now realise that if we are to tackle one issue, then we’ll probably have to tackle the others as well. For instance, new shops are unlikely to open in an area where crime and poverty levels are very high. Similarly crime is unlikely to fall in an area where the housing has been improved unless there are jobs available. People may move into an area where housing and jobs are available, but if the surroundings are run-down and public transport is poor, they may well not want to stay.
This is not just a local issue. The same problems are faced at a national level. If the governments of the world are to deal with poverty, they do not just need to provide money and food aid, they need to help local people get educated and get jobs. People also need a safe environment with adequate homes and drinking water. To make these things work, governments also need to make sure that people have an effective voice in deciding what happens where they live.
This approach is called ‘sustainable development’. While this phrase can be confusing, it’s now used in many government documents and in funding programmes. Sustainable development has three parts: environmental sustainability, economic sustainability and sociopolitical sustainability.
At the core of this idea is the matter of meeting people’s needs – for a home, for a decent job, for education for their children, for good health care, and for a safe and healthy neighbourhood to live in.
Most people in the rich nations have most of these needs, but there are still many people living in poverty and in poor quality homes. Even if these basic needs are met there are still plenty of ways in which their ‘quality of life’ is under threat: from crime, from pollution, or from living in neighbourhoods where no-one in authority seems to care.
Many areas have programmes to promote ‘local sustainability’: many are called ‘Local Agenda 21’ plans, named after the international Agenda 21 action plan for sustainable development agreed at the United Nations Earth Summit held in 1992.

</doc>
<doc id="26112" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26112" title="Ribose">
Ribose

Ribose is a five-carbon sugar. It is found in RNA (ribonucleic acid).
D-Ribose is taken as a herbal supplement. Victims of fibromyalgia often report reduced pain and increased energy with little or no side effects.

</doc>
<doc id="26113" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26113" title="Deoxyribose">
Deoxyribose

Deoxyribose is the sugar component of deoxyribonucleic acid or DNA, having one less hydroxyl group than ribose, the sugar component of ribonucleic acid or RNA.

</doc>
<doc id="26114" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26114" title="Henry Royce">
Henry Royce

Sir Henry Royce was born 27 March 1863 and died 22 April 1933. He made cars, and with Charles Stewart Rolls started the Rolls-Royce company.
He was born in Alwalton, Huntingdonshire which is near Peterborough as the youngest child of five.

</doc>
<doc id="26123" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26123" title="Seizure">
Seizure

A seizure happens when the nerves in a person's brain act strangely. Nerves send information, partly through electrical signals. Usually, nerves in the brain (called neurons) do not fire at the same time. During a seizure, groups of nerves start firing together, too fast. This causes there to be too much disorganized electrical activity in the brain.
Most people think a person with a seizure will shake and twitch. Some will, but there are also other kinds of seizures.
There are many different types of seizures. They are named by how much of the brain they affect and what happens to the person when they are having that type of seizure.
In partial seizures, only a small part of the brain is involved in the seizure. These seizures can be more specifically called:
In generalized seizures, a larger part of the brain is involved in the seizure. Often, parts of both hemispheres (halves of the brain) are affected. These seizures can be more specifically called:
"Status epilepticus" is a medical emergency. A person is "in status" when:
Status epilepticus is a medical emergency because the brain will not get enough oxygen during a long seizure. This can cause brain damage or death.
Certain types of seizures point to a disorder called epilepsy, where the nerves do not work as they should. They carry the wrong messages to the brain so that the person moves uncontrollably or sees, hears, smells, feels, or tastes things that are not there. Medicine can be taken to prevent this from happening.
Other than epilepsy, many other things can cause seizures.
Diseases that can cause seizures include:
Drugs and alcohol can cause seizures:
Other things that can cause seizures include:

</doc>
<doc id="26132" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26132" title="1236">
1236

Year 1236 (MCCXXXVI) was a leap year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="26133" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26133" title="1238">
1238


</doc>
<doc id="26135" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26135" title="Profession">
Profession

A profession is a job at which someone works and for which they have had training. It is what they do to get money or a living. People often study for years to do their job. Examples of a profession would be a teacher or a lawyer. These are called "learned professions". Sometimes "profession" only means learned professions, but sometimes the word may also be used for other jobs. Someone who works in a profession is called a Professional.

</doc>
<doc id="26140" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26140" title="International Nuclear Event Scale">
International Nuclear Event Scale

The International Nuclear Event Scale (INES) is a system introduced by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). It was introduced to allow people to communicate how serious a nuclear accident is. Other people are then able to react faster to take protection measures. For each level, there is a list of criteria (things) that must be there, for the accident to be of that level. 
There are 7 levels on the INES scale:
</div>
Level 7 is the highest level. Accidents of this type have a large impact (pollution, radiation) outside the site where they occur. The health of many people is put in danger. There are big effects on the environment. Examples: Fukushima nuclear disaster - 2011, Chernobyl disaster (former Soviet Union) - 1986.
Level 6 : Accidents of this type have a large impact (pollution, radiation) outside the site where they occur. Several governments may need to take the full set of countermeasures to protect their population. Example: Mayak (former Soviet Union)- 1957.
Level 5 : Accidents of this type do release some radiation. Some groups of people which are at risk may need special countermeasures. Examples: Windscale fire (United Kingdom) - 1957, Three Mile Island accident (United States) - 1979.
"The Levels 5-7 are related to severe damage of the reactor core and the radiological barriers." 
Level 4 is related to significant damage of the reactor core / radiological barriers and/or a fatal exposure of a worker (or more), but the off-site impact is minor, resulting in public exposure of the order of the prescribed limits. Examples: Windscale (United Kingdom) - 1973, Saint-Laurent (France) - 1980, Buenos Aires (Argentina) - 1983.
Level 3 is characterized by very small off-site impact, although related to severe spread of contamination on-site / acute health effects to a worker (or more). It is a "near accident" event, when no safety layers are remaining. Example: Vandellos (Spain) - 1989, THORP plant Sellafield (United Kingdom) - 2005.
Level 2 is an incident with no off-site impact, related to significant spread of contamination on-site / overexposure of a worker.
Level 1 is an anomaly beyond the authorized operating regime.
Level 0 is a "below-scale event" of no safety significance.
There are also events of no safety relevance, characterized as "out of scale".

</doc>
<doc id="26143" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26143" title="Hafnarfjörður">
Hafnarfjörður

Hafnarfjörður is a city found on the western coast of Iceland. It is found about 10 kilometres south of Reykjavík. It is the third biggest city in Iceland.. Around 25,400 people were living in Hafnarfjörður as of 2008.

</doc>
<doc id="26144" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26144" title="Level">
Level

Level can have different meanings:

</doc>
<doc id="26151" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26151" title="Bloomington, Illinois">
Bloomington, Illinois

Bloomington is a city in McLean County, Illinois, United States. It is considered a "Twin City" of Normal, Illinois. It is probably best known as the headquarters of State Farm Insurance.

</doc>
<doc id="26152" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26152" title="1252">
1252


</doc>
<doc id="26153" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26153" title="Giverny">
Giverny

Giverny is a village in Normandy, France. It was the temporary home of Claude Monet. At Giverny Monet paintings became much more popular. Here he painted the famous "Poppy Field Near Giverny","Grainstacks" and "The Japanese Bridge":

</doc>
<doc id="26168" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26168" title="Fort Collins, Colorado">
Fort Collins, Colorado

Fort Collins is a city in the U.S. state of Colorado. It is near the Cache la Poudre River and home of Colorado State University.

</doc>
<doc id="26169" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26169" title="Silver Spring, Maryland">
Silver Spring, Maryland

Silver Spring is a community in the U.S. state of Maryland. It is a suburb of Washington, DC. It is the fourth biggest place in Maryland by population. Its estimated population in 2013 was 76,716. Francis Preston Blair founded Silver Spring in 1840.

</doc>
<doc id="26175" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26175" title="Iraq">
Iraq

Iraq is a country in southwestern Asia. Iraq borders with Saudi Arabia and Kuwait to the south, Turkey to the north, Syria to the north-west, Jordan to the west, and Iran to the east. The capital of Iraq is Baghdad.
Iraq has been known by the Greek name Mesopotamia which means "(Land between the rivers)" and has been home to continuous successive civilizations since the 6th millennium BC. The region between the Euphrates and Tigris rivers is often referred to as the cradle of civilization and the birthplace of writing. Iraq was part of several empires, some were Safavid, and Afsharid. Most Iraqis are Shia Muslims.
From 1968 to 2003, Iraq was run by the Ba'ath Party. Saddam Hussein was the President from 1979 until the disbandment of the Ba'ath Party. 
After the 1990 invasion of Kuwait many countries, including the United States, United Kingdom, Saudi Arabia, France, Italy, Pakistan, and others fought to free Kuwait. Later, some agents believed to be sent by Saddam Hussein tried to kill former President George H. W. Bush with a truck bomb in Kuwait. 
The March 2003 invasion of Iraq was led by American, British, Australian, Danish and Polish forces. They forced the Ba'ath Party to surrender. The publicly stated reason for the invasion was that Saddam Hussein refused to let United Nations inspectors look for suspected nuclear, biological, and chemical weapons. In the past, Iraq used chemical weapons to kill people. Iraq had done research in making biological and nuclear weapons.
The country was initially split into 3 zones, the American zone, the British zone, and the Polish zone similar to the way Germany was divided in 1945. Forces from Denmark controlled areas in the British zone. A new temporary government was formed on June 28, 2004. The coalition forces were in the country. 
There were many U.S., British and multi-national troops in the country until December 15, 2011 when the Iraq War had ended. Tensions between religious groups (Shia and Sunni Muslims, as well as Christians) lead to a great deal of instability in the country.
The country area lies between two rivers; for this reason the area was called Mesopotamia in ancient ages. The rivers Euphrates and Tigris bound what is called the Fertile Crescent. Iraq also has a small coastline along the Persian Gulf, and this coastline was considered the heart of the petroleum trade in Iraq before the First Gulf War. The weather is extremely hot and dry because Iraq is far from seas and oceans and even the close ones are blocked by mountains so that the rainy wind can not reach the inlands. This region has fertile land because of the two rivers.
Iraq is divided into 18 provinces ("muhafazah").
Iraq has a large amount of oil. Iraq is the world's number four in petroleum production and the world's number two in petroleum reserves. In the past, Iraq sold much of this oil to other countries. After Iraq invaded Kuwait in August 1990, the United Nations stopped Iraq from selling the oil. The United Nations later allowed Iraq to sell some oil to buy food, clothes, and medicine so the people would not suffer as much. This was called the "Oil-for-Food" program. 

</doc>
<doc id="26182" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26182" title="Neutron star">
Neutron star

A neutron star is a very small and dense star made almost completely of neutrons. They are small stars with a radius of about 1111.5 kilometres. They have a mass of about twice that of the Sun. They are the smallest and densest stars known to exist in the Universe. They are what is left of a huge star which exploded as a supernova. 
The density of the star is like that of the nucleus of an atom. They have strong magnetic fields, between 10 and 10 times as strong as that of Earth. The gravitational field at the neutron star's surface is about 2×10 times stronger than on Earth.
To imagine how dense a neutron star is, take all of the mass of our sun (which has a diameter of ) and push it down into a size that would fit into a ball with a diameter. Another way to understand the density is this: one teaspoon of matter from the neutron star would weigh 6 billion tons.
Neutron stars spin very fast, from 0.001 second up to 30 seconds to turn. They come in different types. They may emit beams of electromagnetic radiation as pulsars. Other types are magnetars and binary pulsars.
In 1934, Walter Baade and Fritz Zwicky proposed the existence of neutron stars, only a year after the discovery of the neutron by James Chadwick. 
Looking for the origin of a supernova, they suggested that in supernova explosions ordinary stars are turned into stars that consist of extremely closely packed neutrons, which they called neutron stars. Baade and Zwicky suggested that the release of the gravitational binding energy of the neutron stars powers the supernova: "In the supernova process, mass in bulk is annihilated". 
Neutron stars were thought to be too faint to be detectable. Little work was done on them until November 1967, when Franco Pacini (1939–2012) pointed out that if the neutron stars were spinning and had large magnetic fields, then electromagnetic waves would be emitted. Radio astronomer Antony Hewish and his research assistant Jocelyn Bell at Cambridge soon detected radio pulses from stars that are now known as pulsars.

</doc>
<doc id="26183" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26183" title="Parent">
Parent

A person's parents are the mother and father or caretaker of their offspring. In humans, a parent is the mother or the father figure of a child. They are either biologically or legally related to the person. 

</doc>
<doc id="26212" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26212" title="Lee Hsien Loong">
Lee Hsien Loong

Lee Hsien Loong (b. 10 February 1952) is the current Prime Minister of Singapore. His father is Lee Kuan Yew, first Prime Minister of Singapore. He is the first child of Lee Kuan Yew and Kwa Geok Choo.
In August 2004, Goh Chok Tong stepped down as Prime Minister, while Lee Hsien Loong took over the position. He then became the General Secretary of People's Action Party (PAP).
In 1971, Lee joined the Singapore Armed Forces (SAF). Lee was promoted to very high rank quickly in the Singapore Army. In July 1983, he became the youngest Brigadier General in Singapore. He left SAF in 1984.
In the 1980s, Lee Kuan Yew said he will step down as Prime Minister in 1984. Lee Hsien Loong was considered in the list of new leaders in PAP.
In 1984, at 32, He was elected an MP. His father immediately assigned him as a Minister of State for some ministries.
In 1987, he joined in the Cabinet as the Minister for Trade and Industry and Second Minister for Defence.
From 2008 to 2012, Lee's salary is S$3.87 million every year. He had a salary increase of 25%, it was originally S$3,091,200.
In January 2012, his salary was reduced to S$2.2 million. But, he is still the prime minister with the highest salary in the world.

</doc>
<doc id="26220" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26220" title="Adam and Eve">
Adam and Eve

Adam and Eve are figures that appear in the Abrahamic religions. In the Book of Genesis in the Bible, as well as the Qu'ran and the Aqdas, they are the first two people made by God.
The second chapter of Genesis says that God made Adam from the dust of the ground. Then, God breathed life into him. God made a garden, called the Garden of Eden, for him to live in and take care of. Adam named the animals that God made. 
God knew that the animals were not good enough friends for Adam, who needed a partner like him. So God made Eve (meaning "life") from a rib of Adam's.
Chapter three of Genesis says that Adam and Eve had everything they needed in the garden. There was only one thing that God told them that they should "not" do: eat from the Tree of Knowledge; only from the Tree of Life. However, they disobeyed God's orders and ate the Forbidden fruit. So they were forced to leave the garden. Not only that but God said that women will have pain in childbirth, and that man will have to work hard to grow food, and would return at death to the soil from where he once came.

</doc>
<doc id="26221" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26221" title="Ramadan">
Ramadan

Ramadan (sometimes spelled Ramadhan) is the ninth month of the Islamic calendar, during which Muslims fast or do not eat or drink during the daytime.
The date for the start of Ramadan is slightly different each year, depending on the position of the moon. Once Ramadan starts, Muslims should not eat or drink between sunrise and sunset. This usually continues for thirty days, but sometimes twenty-nine days.
Fasting is supposed to teach Muslims about patience and spiritual things. It is a time for Muslims to think about how the poor and homeless suffer without lots of food, it helps Muslims to be more obedient, and less greedy. During Ramadan, Muslims ask to be forgiven for their sins, and they pray for help in stopping them from doing bad things.
Muslims believe Ramadan is the month in which the first verses of the Qur'an were revealed to the Prophet Muhammad. 
Not everyone has to observe Ramadan. Children do not have to fast. They should start when they reach the age of puberty, so long as they are healthy. People who are travelling long distances do not have to fast. Pregnant women do not have to if they think it might harm their unborn baby. Sometimes sportsmen do not observe the fast, although there are disagreements about this. For example, the Olympic Games in 2012 fell in the middle of the holy month. This made it very difficult for the sportsmen who could not eat or drink during daytime.
When the sun goes down and it gets dark the Muslim people will start eating again (this is called "breaking the fast"). This meal is known as Iftar. There are often big meals enjoyed together by lots of Muslims.
. Sometimes markets open after Iftar and stay open during the night. Ramadan is also the month when the "Quran" was sent down into Earth by an Angle called "Jabrill"

</doc>
<doc id="26226" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26226" title="Caykur Rizespor">
Caykur Rizespor

Caykur Rizespor is a sports club in Rize, Turkey. It was started in 1968. Caykur Rizespor 's home stadium is the Caykur Didi Stadyumu in Rize. Caykur Rizespor is in Turkish Super League.

</doc>
<doc id="26232" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26232" title="Tenzing Norgay">
Tenzing Norgay

Tenzing Norgay (May 29, 1914 – May 9, 1986) was a Sherpa climber. During his life he had several wives, as it is part of Sherpa lifestyle. Norgay and Sir Edmund Hillary were the first people to reach the top of Mount Everest on May 29, 1953. Norgay was born in Kharta Valley, Nepal. He died aged 71 in Darjeeling, India.
There are different views about his early life. The account that he gave in his first autobiography, accepted for several years, is that he was a Sherpa born and brought up in Khumbu in Nepal. However more recent research has led to the claim that he was born a Tibetan in Kharta valley, Tibet, but his family were left destitute when their yaks were killed by disease, and he was sold as a bonded servant to a Sherpa family in Thamey in Nepal. Khumbu lies near Mount Everest, which the Tibetans and Sherpas call Chomolungma which in Tibetan means Mother Goddess of the Earth. 
His exact date of birth is not known, but he knew it was in late May by the weather and the crops. After his ascent of Everest on 29 May, he decided to celebrate his birthday on that day thereafter.
He was originally called "Namgyal Wangdi", but as a child his name was changed on the advice of the head lama and founder of the famous Rongbuk Monastery, Ngawang Tenzin Norbu. Tenzing Norgay translates as "wealthy-fortunate-follower-of-religion." His father, a yak herder, was Ghang La Mingma (d. 1949) and his mother was Dokmo Kinzom (who lived to see him climb Everest); he was the 11th of 13 children, most of whom died young.
He ran away from home twice in his teens, first to Kathmandu and later Darjeeling, and, at age 19, eventually settled in the Sherpa community in Too Song Bhusti in Darjeeling, West Bengal, India.
One of his autobiographies is "Tiger of the snows: The Autobiography of Tenzing of Everest", written in 1955.
Tenzing Norgay has been on several attempts to reach the top of Mount Everest. Two of the attempts were stopped by bad weather which caused them to turn around. One of failed attempts was in 1935 with Eric Shipton. Eventually, after 6 failure attempts, Norgay finally reached the top of Mount Everest in 1953 along with Sir Edmund Hillary. They came back down from the top of the mountain on May 29, 1953 .
Tenzing later became director of field training for the Himalayan Mountaineering Institute in Darjeeling. In 1978 he started Tenzing Norgay Adventures, a company providing trekking adventures in the Himalaya.
As of 2003 the company was run by his son Jamling Tenzing Norgay, who himself reached the summit of Everest in 1996.
He was honored with the prestigious Padma Bhushan, India's third highest civilian honour, in 1959.
The Government of India instituted the Tenzing Norgay National Adventure Awards in his honour, awarded annually.
Tenzing Norgay died of a cerebral hemorrhage on 9 May 1986.

</doc>
<doc id="26233" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26233" title="Sherpa">
Sherpa

The Sherpa are an ethnic group in Nepal, who live in the higher parts of the Himalayas. They often help guide people through the mountains. They also sometimes live on the trail of Mt. Everest. A well known Sherpa is Tenzing Norgay, who helped Edmund Hillary climb to the top of Mt. Everest.

</doc>
<doc id="26259" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26259" title="Charlotte Eagles">
Charlotte Eagles

The Charlotte Eagles are a soccer club that plays in Charlotte, North Carolina. The team's first season was 1993. They play in the 2nd Division of the United Soccer Leagues.

</doc>
<doc id="26260" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26260" title="Charlotte, North Carolina">
Charlotte, North Carolina

Charlotte is the biggest city in the state of North Carolina and it is the 16th largest city in the United States. In 2013, the estimated population of Charlotte according to the U.S. Census Bureau was 792,862.
The first people settled at the place where Charlotte is in 1755 when a man named Thomas Polk built a house near two Native American trading paths. More people started living in the area and in 1768 it became a town named Charlotte Town. It was named after the wife of King George III because the people wanted him to like them. But he did not, and soon he started passing laws that the people in Charlotte did not like. So, on May 20, 1775, the people in Charlotte signed a proclamation that later was called the Mecklenburg Declaration of Independence. They did not want to be ruled by the king anymore so eleven days later they had a meeting and made new laws for their town.
In the early 1800s, many churches started to form in Charlotte. That is why Charlotte is sometimes called “The City of Churches.”
In 1799, a boy found a big rock. When a jeweler told his family that it was gold, the first gold rush in the United States started. A lot of gold was found. More gold was found in North Carolina then any other state until the California Gold Rush of 1848. Some people in Charlotte still enjoy looking for gold.
After the Civil War Charlotte became a busy town. Cotton farmers brought their cotton to Charlotte to ship it on trains. Even more people started living in Charlotte during World War I. When the war ended a lot of people stayed in the city.
Today the city is known for its many banks. Charlotte is the second biggest banking city in the United States. Only New York City has more banks.
Charlotte has many different kinds of weather throughout the year. In the winter the temperature sometimes goes below 32 °F (0 °C) and in the summer it has gone up to 104 °F (40 °C). The city usually gets about 43.52 inches (1105.3 mm) of precipitation a year. Most of it is rain. It does not snow much in Charlotte.
This table shows the average temperature and rainfall each month:
Banking is very important in Charlotte. Many banks, such as Bank of America and Wachovia have headquarters in the city. There are also many other big companies in Charlotte. There are many skyscrapers (tall buildings) in Charlotte.
NASCAR also has many offices in Charlotte and in the towns around Charlotte.
Charlotte has a council-manager kind of government. This means that there two main leaders in Charlotte: the city council who makes the laws, and the city manager who makes sure everybody follows the laws.
The Charlotte-Mecklenburg Police Department is in charge of keeping everyone in the city safe. The are about 1600 police officers in the Police Department.
The city’s public school system, called Charlotte-Mecklenburg Schools, is the second biggest school system in North Carolina. The school system has about 132,000 students.
There is a university, called the University of North Carolina at Charlotte, in Charlotte. Right now there are about 22,000 students who go to this university. There is also a community college, called Central Piedmont Community College, in the city. It is the biggest community college in both North or South Carolina. Charlotte has many private universities as well.
There are many professional sports teams in Charlotte. Some of them are:
Charlotte also has several parks and other public places for people to enjoy.
There are many public busses to help people get around the city. In 2007 Charlotte began a mass transit light rail system. Charlotte also has a system of small trains called LYNX.
Charlotte's International Airport name Charlotte/Douglas, which is the 11th busiest airport in the world.
Because Charlotte is in the middle of the east coast of the U.S., a lot of people drive through the city every day. Charlotte has many big interstates to handle all the traffic. But many people think Charlotte does not have good roads. They are big, but they were not planned well.
Amtrak runs three different trains every day in Charlotte. People can ride these trains to the following cities:

</doc>
<doc id="26264" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26264" title="Carolina Panthers">
Carolina Panthers

The Carolina Panthers are an American Football team in Charlotte, North Carolina that play in the National Football League. They play at Bank of America Stadium and played their first game in 1995. The team has gone to the playoffs 7 times and to the Super Bowl twice. The most recent appearance was in the . 

</doc>
<doc id="26270" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26270" title="ADD">
ADD

ADD or Add can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="26314" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26314" title="Selgovae">
Selgovae

The Selgovae were a Brythonic tribe in Scotland, who lived in what is now the Borders. Their capital was on the North Eildon hill, near the current town of Melrose. This was a large hillfort covering an area of about 40 acres. It is believed that there were about 2500 people living in the fort. The Selgovae left the fort in 79 AD when the Roman army invaded the area. There are other Selgovae hillforts at Caidemuir Hill (near Peebles), Dreva Craig (near Broughton), Rubers Law (near Hawick), Whiteside Hill (near Romannobridge), Abory Hill (near Abington), Cow Castle (near Coulter), Quothquan Law (near Thankerton), Bodsberry Hill (near Crawford) and at Crawford. At Tamshiell Rigg there is evidence of a walled settlement. The Roman forts at Birrens, Netherby and Bewcastle were all built in Selgovae lands, north of Hadrian's Wall.
In the second century, the Selgovae are said to be one of the four kingdoms of ancient Scotland. By the end of the fourth century, the area had been taken over by Coel Hen and his kingdom of North Britain.

</doc>
<doc id="26317" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26317" title="Harrison Ford">
Harrison Ford

Harrison Ford (born July 13, 1942) is an American movie actor and producer. He is famous for his roles as Han Solo in the original "Star Wars" trilogy and the title character of the "Indiana Jones movie series". He won an Saturn Award in 1981 and an Bambie Award in 1997. He has recently stared in "Cowboys and Aliens" and in "42".
Harrison Ford was born on July 13, 1942 in Chicago, Illinois, U.S.. His family has Irish, German, Russian and Jewish ancestry. He studied at Maine East High School in Park Ridge, Illinois and at Ripon College in Wisconsin. 
Before he became successful as an actor, he worked as a carpenter during the 1970s. He is one of the most successful actors in the world. During his early years, he went by "Harrison J. Ford" to stop the confusion between him and silent movie actor Harrison Ford. His movies have made a worldwide profit of US $5.65 billion. He is most known for his roles as Han Solo from "Star Wars" and as Indiana Jones in all four "Indiana Jones movies". Since then he formed a career relationship with both Steven Spielberg and George Lucas.
Ford was married to Mary Marquardt from 1964 until they divorced in 1979. Then he was married to Melissa Mathison from 1983 until they divorced in 2004. Then he was married to Calista Flockhart since 2010. He has two sons, Benjamin and Willard with Marquardt and a son, Malcolm and a daughter, Georgia with Mathison. Ford now lives in Los Angeles, California.

</doc>
<doc id="26320" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26320" title="Pre-history">
Pre-history

Pre-history is the time before people began to write. The word comes from the Ancient Greek words προ ("pre" = "before") and ιστορία ("historia" = "history"). Paul Tournal first used the French word "Préhistorique". He found things made by humans more than ten thousand years ago in some caves in France. The word was first used in France around 1830 to talk about the time before writing. Daniel Wilson used it in English in 1851.
The term is mostly used for the period from 12,000 BC 3000 BC, roughly speaking, the Neolithic. Sometimes the term "prehistoric" is used for much older periods, but scientists have more accurate terms for those more ancient times.
Less is known about prehistoric people because there are no written records (history) for us to study. Finding out about pre-history is done by archaeology. This means studying things like tools, bones, buildings and cave drawings. Pre-history ends at different times in different places when people began to write.
In the more ancient stone age pre-history, people lived in "tribes" and lived in caves or tents (houses made from animal skin). They had simple tools made from wood and bones and cutting tools from stone such as flint, which they used to hunt and to make simple things. They made fire used it for cooking and to stay warm. They made clothing out of animal skins, and later by weaving. Society started when people began doing specialized jobs. This is called the division of labour. The division of labor made people depend on one another and led to more complex civilizations.
Some important sciences that are used to find out more about pre-history are palaeontology, astronomy, biology, geology, anthropology, and archaeology. Archaeologists study things left over from prehistory to try to understand what was happening. Anthropologists study the traces of human behavior to learn what people were doing and why.
After people started to record events, first by drawing symbols (called "pictographs") and then by writing, it became much easier to tell what happened, and history started. These records can tell us the names of leaders (such as Kings and Queens), important events like floods and wars, and the things people did in their daily lives. The time when "prehistory" ended and "history" started is different in different places, depending on when people began to write and if their records were kept safe or lost so they could be found later on. In places like Mesopotamia, China, and Ancient Egypt, things were recorded from very early times (around 3200 BCE in Ancient Egypt) and these records can be looked at and studied. In New Guinea the end of prehistory came much later, around 1900.

</doc>
<doc id="26321" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26321" title="Early Middle Ages">
Early Middle Ages

The Roman Empire ruled much of Europe in ancient history. It became weaker and finally collapsed in 476. When it collapsed, its army stopped working and its communication systems (ways of people in different places talking to each other) also stopped working. This made the people in Europe unable to talk to each other and share news and facts. Because the Roman army had kept peace between different parts of Europe and defended it from other people, and the Roman army had now collapsed, there was much fighting. This time was known as the Dark Ages. A famous person in the Dark Ages was King Arthur of England. We do not know if he was real or just a myth. There is a legend that he stopped the fighting in England and made peace. 
After the Dark Ages, there was the Middle Ages. It is called the "middle" ages because it was between ancient history and modern history. It can also be called medieval times. It was a time when Europe was Christian, and the Catholic Church was very powerful. The Middle Ages ended when the Renaissance started. During the Renaissance people began going to school and university more and learning more things. There was less fighting. The printing press was also made. This was a machine that made books easily and quickly. It made it easier for people to read and learn things.

</doc>
<doc id="26326" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26326" title="KGB">
KGB

KGB is the Russian-language abbreviation for State Security Committee. 
During the Cold War, the KGB actively suppressed "ideological subversion"—unorthodox political and religious ideas and the dissidents. It was Cold War policy for the KGB of the Soviet Union and the secret services of the satellite states to monitor public and private opinion, internal subversion and possible revolutionary plots in the Soviet Bloc. In supporting those Communist governments, the KGB was instrumental in crushing the Hungarian Revolution of 1956, and the Prague Spring of "Socialism with a Human Face", in 1968 Czechoslovakia. A record of at least some of its doings is contained in the Mitrokin Archive.
From 13 March 1954 to 6 November 1991, KGB was the main name for the main Soviet security agency, intelligence agency or spy agency, and the secret police agency.
In March 1953, Lavrenty Beria merged the MVD and the MGB into one agencythe MVD. In December of that year, Beria and six associates were executed and the MVD split. The re-formed MVD retained its police and law enforcement powers, while the second, new agency, the KGB, did the internal and external security functions, and reported to the Council of Ministers. 
On 5 July 1978 the KGB was renamed as the "KGB of the Soviet Union", with its chairman holding a ministerial council seat. The KGB ended when its chief, Colonel-General Vladimir Kryuchkov, used the KGB's resources to help the August 1991 coup attempt to overthrow Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev. On 23 August 1991 Colonel-General Kryuchkov was arrested, and General Vadim Bakatin was appointed KGB Chairmanand mandated to dissolve the KGB of the Soviet Union. On 6 November 1991, the KGB officially ceased to exist, although Russia's new national security organisation, the Russian "Federalnaya sluzhba bezopasnosti" (FSB), works in the same things that the Soviet KGB did.
Belarus is the only post-Soviet Union era country where the national security organization is still called "KGB". Belarus is where Felix Dzerzhinsky started a group called the Cheka, which was an organization in the Soviet Union before the MVD or the KGB was started.

</doc>
<doc id="26327" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26327" title="FSB (Russia)">
FSB (Russia)

The FSB (ФСБ) is a state security organisation in Russia. It is the organisation that came after the KGB, relating to internal affairs inside the country. It is usually simply called the FSB in English-language sources. Its headquarters are in Moscow.
Its main responsibilities are within the country. It does counter-intelligence, internal and border security, counter-terrorism, and surveillance. It also investigates some other types of serious crimes. Its headquarter is in Lubyanka Square, Moscow's centre, in the main building of the former KGB. The Director of the FSB since 2008 is army general Aleksandr Bortnikov.

</doc>
<doc id="26332" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26332" title="Nicolaus Copernicus">
Nicolaus Copernicus

Nicolaus Copernicus 19 February 1473 – 24 May 1543) was an astronomer. People know Copernicus for his ideas about the sun and the earth. His main idea was that our world is "heliocentric" ("helios" = sun). His theory was that the sun is in the middle of the solar system, and the planets go around it. This was published in his book, "De revolutionibus orbium coelestium" (On the revolutions of the heavenly spheres). 
Copernicus was born in 1473 in the city of Thorn (Toruń), in Royal Prussia, a mainly German-speaking region that a few years earlier had become a part of the Kingdom of Poland. He was taught first in Cracow and then in Italy, where he graduated as a lawyer of the church. He studied also medicine to serve his fellow clerics. Copernicus spent most of his life working and researching in Frauenburg (Frombork), Warmia, where he died in 1543.
Copernicus was one of the great polymaths of his age. He was a priest, mathematician, astronomer, doctor, jurist, physician, classical scholar, governor, administrator, diplomat, economist, and soldier. During all these jobs, he treated astronomy as a hobby. However, his formula of how the sun, rather than the earth, is at the center of the solar system, is still one of the most important scientific hypotheses in history. It was the beginning of modern astronomy.

</doc>
<doc id="26334" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26334" title="Projection (mathematics)">
Projection (mathematics)

A projection in geometry is something like a shadow, that an object casts onto another object. When a three-dimensional sphere is projected onto a plane, its projection will either be a circle or an ellipse.
In higher mathematics, projections are changes of one thing into something else. They may also be applications of functions.

</doc>
<doc id="26338" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26338" title="Drizzle">
Drizzle

Drizzle is the name given to light rain. The drop size of drizzle is smaller than that of rain, about 0.5 mm (millimeters) in diameter. 

</doc>
<doc id="26339" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26339" title="Lightning">
Lightning

Lightning is a powerful electrical discharge made during a thunderstorm. The electric current is very hot and causes the air around it to expand very quickly, which in turn makes thunder. Sometimes it happens between clouds. Sometimes (in the rain) it goes from cloud to ground. If it goes from cloud to ground, it can strike a person. Around 2000 people are struck by lightning each year. About 50 to 100 lightning bolts strike the Earth every second. Lightning has hit the Empire State Building as many as 500 times a year.
Benjamin Franklin was interested in lightning. He discovered many things about it, and in 1772, he was the first to show that a thunderstorm lets out electricity. In his book he suggested an experiment to test it. Franklin did not really go out in a thunder storm and fly a kite in an attempt to prove the presence of electricity in the storm. If that had happened Franklin may have been killed, though it is possible to conduct electricity through the kite, and down the string. 
When lightning strikes, the surface rubs electrons from the lightning, and a spark of electricity shoots from the lightning to the surface. In a thunderstorm, the lower cloud has as many as 100 million volts of electricity. This electricity is given out either within the cloud, to the ground, to another cloud, or into the air. Lightning has been known to travel from the ground upwards to the cloud. In 1993, scientists discovered lightning bolts that shot upward from the top of a cumulonimbus cloud.
A Tesla coil is one way that people can make lightning to study electricity.

</doc>
<doc id="26340" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26340" title="Roseau">
Roseau

Roseau is the capital city of the Caribbean island of Dominica. It is home to more than fourteen thousand people.

</doc>
<doc id="26349" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26349" title="Event">
Event

An event is something which happens or takes place. An event is brief, possibly extremely brief. Contrast with a process, which takes time. 

</doc>
<doc id="26365" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26365" title="Paint">
Paint

Paint is the general term for liquid that is used to add colour to the surface of an object by covering it with a pigmented (coloured) coating. As a verb, painting means "applying paint" (putting paint onto something). Someone who paints is called a painter. 
Paint is made from a coloured pigment which is usually a powder. The powder is made from different chemicals. Some of the pigments come straight from natural things like clay. The pigment must be made wet by mixing it with something that will make it stick onto the surface and not come off easily. The wet stuff is called the "medium". Some paints are just mixed with water. Other paints are mixed with oils or chemicals of different sorts. Most painters buy paint that is already mixed. House-painters use paint already mixed in large cans. Artists buy paint in tubes. Some artists buy dry pigment and mix it for themselves. 
The paint is usually put onto the surface with a paint brush. Paint brushes are used by painters of all sorts. House painters also use rollers and spray-guns to put on paint. A modern invention is paint in a pressurized can which can be sprayed on. Some modern artists also use spray paint. In factories there are machines which spray paint onto objects. Cars are usually painted in this way. 
Paint must be allowed to dry. Some paints such as watercolour, dries in a few minutes. Other paints, such as artist's oil paint, can take days or even weeks to dry. Most other types of paints fit between these two. Many types of paint are best if they are put on in several layers. The painter must first prepare the surface so it is smooth, clean and dry. The first layer of paint is often an "undercoat" or "ground" which is smooth and sticks very well. The coloured paints are put on over the top. A house-painter who is using oil paint on a wooden window frame might used three layers of paint to give very good protection from the weather. Other types of modern house paint only need one layer, particularly on the inside. Artists using oil paint and tempera often use many layers to get just the right effect. 
Paint has four important uses.
Paint is used to protect all sorts of buildings and structures from the effects of water and sun. Wooden buildings such as houses are usually painted because a coat of paint prevents water seeping into the wood and making it rot. The paint also helps to prevent the wood from drying out in the hot sun. 
Metal structures and objects of all sorts are painted to stop them from rusting. A very large steel structure such as a bridge must have a team of painters who keep the paint in good condition all the time. 
Paint is used to decorate all sorts of objects. Since pre-historic times, people have painted the inside walls of their houses to make them look attractive. Painting and decorating the exterior (outside) and interior (inside) of houses is an important industry in many countries. There are many types and colours of paint to chose from. 
All sorts of other objects are painted to make them attractive. This includes furniture, toys, tools and utensils, and street fittings. Sometimes things made of wood such as furniture are painted in decorative patterns. In some countries, many people enjoy decorating furniture and other small things like trays and boxes. This is often called Folk art. In other countries such as Japan, painting furniture is a very skilled profession and an antique piece of decorated furniture is very valuable. 
Other people enjoy the hobby of painting small objects such as model planes or soldiers.
Paintings are pictures that are done in paint. Many different types of paint are used for paintings. They include tempera, oil paint, gouache, watercolours and acrylic paints. The paintings are usually done on board, canvas or paper. Many other famous paintings are done on the walls and ceilings of buildings, such as the Sistine Chapel ceiling which was painted by Michelangelo. 
Many artists are famous for their painted pictures. Old, beautiful and famous paintings are very valuable and are sometimes sold for millions of dollars. Famous painters include Giotto, Leonardo da Vinci, Titian and Rembrandt.
Paint is a very good way to give important information to people, using painted signs. Painted signs include lane markings on the road, street signs of all sorts, advertising signs and warning signs.

</doc>
<doc id="26367" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26367" title="Mark Antony">
Mark Antony

Mark Antony (Latin: Marcus Antoninus, 14 January "circa" 82 BC – 1 August 30 BC), was a Roman patrician from an upper-class family. He became a general and politician. He was an important supporter of Julius Caesar as a military commander and administrator.
After Caesar's assassination, Antony, left as sole Consul, surrounded himself with a bodyguard of Caesar's veterans. He forced the senate to transfer to him the province of Cisalpine Gaul, at the time administered by Brutus, one of the conspirators. Brutus refused to surrender the province and Antony set out to attack him in the beginning of 43 BC, besieging him at Mutina. 
Encouraged by Cicero, the Senate denounced Antony. In January 43 they granted Octavian "imperium" (commanding power), and sent him to relieve the siege. In April 43, Antony's forces were defeated at the battles of Forum Gallorum and Mutina, forcing Antony to retreat to Transalpine Gaul. 
News came that Brutus and Cassius were assembling an army in order to march on Rome. Antony, Octavian and Lepidus joined as allies, in November 43 BC, to stop Caesar's assassins. The trio were the Second Triumvirate. Brutus and Cassius were defeated by Antony and Octavian at the Battle of Philippi in October 42 BC. After the battle, a new arrangement was made: while Octavian returned to Rome, Antony went on to govern the east of the Republic. Lepidus went to govern Hispania (Spain) and the province of Africa. The triumvirate's enemies were subjected to proscription, including Mark Antony's archenemy Cicero, who was killed on 7 December 43 BC.
Antony followed in Caesar's footsteps by going to Egypt and becoming Cleopatra's lover. They had three children together. His absence from Rome allowed the intelligent Octavian to build up support. 
The triumvirate broke up in 33 BC, and disagreement turned to civil war in 31 BC. Antony was defeated by Octavian at the naval Battle of Actium and then at Alexandria. He committed suicide, as did his lover, Cleopatra VII of Egypt, in 30 BC.
William Shakespeare wrote a play ""Antony and Cleopatra"" based on this historical event.

</doc>
<doc id="26377" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26377" title="Digg">
Digg

Digg.com is a social news, sharing, discovering, bookmarking and rating information website. Digg started out as a popular technology news sharing destination.
Digg allows users to submit 3 types of topic:
The Digg website works by allowing users to vote topic up (Digging);then displays popular stories on the front page of Digg. 

</doc>
<doc id="26380" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26380" title="Crossword">
Crossword

A crossword, or crossword puzzle, is a popular type of word puzzle. A crossword is made up of black and white squares (called a 'grid') and a list of clues.
The answer to each clue is a word or phrase. The aim is to write the words letter-by-letter in the white squares. The white squares go "across" or "down" the page. Each clue has a number - for example "1 Across" or "15 Down".
There are many types of crosswords. Straight (or Quick) crosswords are usually made up of simple definitions - which means that other words are used to describe the answer. Some crosswords use riddles and word play and are usually more difficult than straight crosswords.
Here is a small example of a (British-style) straight crossword:
1. Sheep sound (3)
3. Neither liquid nor gas (5)
5. Humour (3)
1. Road passenger transport (3)
2. Permit (5)
4. Short for "Dorothy" (3)
The solution (answer) to this crossword is:

</doc>
<doc id="26387" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26387" title="Bob Geldof">
Bob Geldof

Robert Frederick Xenon "Bob" Geldof, KBE (Hon) (born 5 October 1951) is an Irish singer, songwriter, and political activist. He was born in Dún Laoghaire, County Dublin. Geldof is a member of the band the Boomtown Rats. He also helped to organise the Live Aid and Live 8 events, and to form the Band Aid charity group. He also served as an actor for the Pink Floyd film The Wall, a musical about the album titled the same.
Geldof was married to Paula Yates from 1986 until they divorced in 1996. They had three daughters together, Fifi Trixibelle (born 1983), Peaches (1989-2014) and Little Pixie (born 1990). In 1996, Yates had a daughter called Tiger by her partner Michael Hutchence, who died in 1997. Yates died in 2000. Geldof adopted their daughter. He lives in Battersea, London with Tiger and his partner Jeanne Marine.
He has an honorary knighthood. Because he is not a British citizen, he should never be called "Sir". He was nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize in 2006 and 2008.

</doc>
<doc id="26388" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26388" title="Bullseye (UK game show)">
Bullseye (UK game show)

Bullseye is a British television game show. It is hosted by Jim Bowen. In "Bullseye", people play darts and answer questions to win money. The person who wins the most money has a chance to win Bully's special prize. It ran from 1981-1995 on ITV and there was another series in 2006 on Challenge, hosted by Dave Spikey.

</doc>
<doc id="26391" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26391" title="Coronation Street">
Coronation Street

Coronation Street (commonly known as Corrie) is the longest-running television soap opera in the United Kingdom. It is one of the two most popular soap operas in the UK, the other is "EastEnders". It has won many awards. It is set in Weatherfield, a pretend part of Manchester. It is currently filmed in Granada Studios in Manchester but will be made in Salford Quays from 2014. William Roache has played Ken Barlow in it since it was first started in 1960 by Tony Warren. He has acted in the show for longer than anyone else. Eileen Derbyshire, who plays Emily Bishop, started in 1961. Gail Platt played by Helen Worth, who was at first meant to be a very small character, has been in 1544 episodes, more than any other character. There are five half-hour episodes a week: two on Monday, one on Thursday and two on Fridays. There have been more than 5000 characters in the show's history.
The soap opera is shown in many countries around the world. In the UK it is on ITV, the third television channel.
Compare The Market is the show's sponsor.
The video of the 1984 Queen single "I Want to Break Free" parodies the show's characters.

</doc>
<doc id="26392" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26392" title="European plaice">
European plaice

European plaice ("Pleuronectes platessa") is the name for a kind of fish. They are a commercially important flatfish. They live on the sandy bottoms of the European shelf. Its geographical range is from the Barents Sea to the Mediterranean. Plaice are characterised by their smooth, brown skin, red spots and bony ridge behind the eyes.
The fish feeds on polychaetes, crustaceans and bivalves. They can be found down to about 200 m.
In England they are often used as the fish in fish and chips.
In Danish cuisine they are one of the most commonly eaten fishes. Filleted, battered and pan-fried plaice is popular hot or cold as an open sandwich topping together with remoulade sauce and lemon slices. Battered plaice can also be served hot with french fries and remoulade sauce as a main dish; this fish and chips variant is commonly available as a children's special in Danish restaurants. Breaded frozen plaice, ready to be baked or fried at home, are readily available in supermarkets. Fresh plaice is also oven-baked.

</doc>
<doc id="26393" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26393" title="Plaice">
Plaice

Plaice is the common name of three species of flatfishes:
Plaice can also mean:

</doc>
<doc id="26394" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26394" title="Taboo">
Taboo

In a group, a taboo is something that the group looks down upon. People usually will not talk about taboos. Doing something that is known as a taboo is usually seen as a bad thing by the community or society. Certain actions that are thought of as taboo are against the law in certain countries. Breaking the taboo may be punished hard by those states. Breaking other taboos can result in feeling embarrassed, or ashamed. Breaking a taboo is sometimes seen as . 
The English word is traced back to Tongan "tapu" or the Fijian "tabu". These words usually mean "not allowed", or "forbidden". In its current use in Tonga, the word "tapu" also means "sacred" or "holy", in the sense of being restricted or protected by custom or by law. For example, the main island in the Kingdom of Tonga, where the capital Nuku'alofa is located and most of the population resides, is called "Tongatapu".
The use of the word "taboo" drawn from "tapu". "Tapu" means "not allowed". It dates back to 1777 and an English explorer, Captain James Cook, went to a place he named "the Friendly Islands" (now Tonga). Writing about the Tongans, he wrote:
Some Solomon Islanders say that their languages have a word "tabu" (said like "ta-boo") that means holy. It refers to places in the bush where holy spirits live. Those areas should not be disturbed unless a ceremony or ritual is taking place. As taboo, they are places that should not be touched. 
Taboos can include:
Some taboos are because a religious, legal or social authority did something, over and over. Taboos can be talked about or joked about, outside "polite society". Comedy and satire such as "South Park", "The Simpsons" or "Beavis and Butthead" frequently do this.
There have been two main groups of explanations why taboos exist:
One suggestion is that taboos are the result of history and certain cultural experiences (which is called "Anthropolcial approach"). Steven Pinker suggests that taboos have developed culturally from more basic instincts. For taboos regarding the dead, he proposes that the human brain may have developed a hard-wired repulsion to many carriers of disease – an "intuitive microbiology". Only with the modern development of scientific microbiology have humans been able to rationalize these taboos. Pinker suggests similar explanations for the incest taboo and other things that cause the reflex emotion of disgust.
The other proposal is that taboos are the result of unconscious phenomena that are passed on (and this is called "Psychoanalytical approach"). Sigmund Freud provided an analysis of taboo behaviours. He highlighted strong subconscious motivations behind such prohibitions. In this system, described in his collection of essays "Totem and Taboo", Freud says there is a link between forbidden behaviours and the sanctification of objects to certain kinship groups. Freud also states that the only two "universal" taboos are that of incest and patricide, which formed the eventual basis of modern society.
German psychologist Wilhelm Wundt explains that taboos were originally nothing other than an objectified fear of a "demonic" power which was believed to lie hidden in a tabooed object. Sigmund Freud believes this to be a superficial explanation having nothing to do with the true origins of taboos. He claims that many similarities between taboo-holders and obsessive neurotics point to "a psychological condition that prevails in the unconscious". Freud believes this "unconsciousness" is central to understanding the history of taboos. He then reconstructs the history of taboo based on the model of obsessional prohibitions as follows:
And so, "Anyone who has violated a taboo becomes taboo himself because he possesses the dangerous quality of tempting others to follow his example."

</doc>
<doc id="26396" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26396" title="Flatfish">
Flatfish

Flatfish are a type of fish. There are several different kinds of flatfish. Some of them are fished commercially, like flounder, sole, turbot, plaice, and halibut.
All flatfish are rather flat, and have rays. They swim sideways. Some can hide on the ocean floor, waiting for prey. They have a capacity for dynamic camouflage, which is under nervous control, and can change in 'real time'.
The Order Pleuronectiformes is in the infraclass Teleostei. But it is best to look upon it as a group of fish which are adapted to the same habitat. They share those features which suit their life-style. They have both eyes on one side of the head: the upper side. This is their main adaptation to living on the seabed (benthos). Other distinguishing features are the protrusible eyes: they can stick the eyes up a bit to see round.
The flatfish life-style or 'habit' evolved several times independently, and so the group is polyphyletic. Their young are perfectly symmetrical, but the head is remodelled during a metamorphosis. One eye moves to the other side, close to the other eye. Some species have both eyes on the left (turbot), some on the right (halibut, sole); all living and most fossil flatfish to date show an 'eyed' side and a 'blind' side.
Darwin predicted a gradual migration of the eye in evolution, mirroring the metamorphosis of the living forms. A recent examination of two fossil species from the Eocene shows "the assembly of the flatfish bodyplan occurred in a gradual, stepwise fashion". The intermediate stages survived for quite a long time: over two geological stages. They are found in sites together with flatfish with the full cranial asymmetry. That shows the intermediate stages were at no particular disadvantage. Eventually, the more complete forms did survive. The evolution of flatfish falls squarely within the evolutionary synthesis.
"Amphistium" is a 50-million-year-old fossil fish which has been identified as an early relative of the flatfish, and as a transitional fossil. In "Amphistium", the transition from the typical symmetrical head of a vertebrate is incomplete, with one eye placed near the top-center of the head. Paleontologists concluded that "the change happened gradually, in a way consistent with evolution by natural selection.

</doc>
<doc id="26397" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26397" title="Trey">
Trey

Trey could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="26401" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26401" title="Monopoly">
Monopoly

A monopoly (from the Greek "monos", one + "polein", to sell) is when a product or service can only be bought from one supplier for a specific market. If other firms serve the market, they may be too small compared to the largest, thus allowing the large firm to have a lot of market power. A monopoly usually happens when there is no economic competition to produce the product or service and there is no available substitutes to the product or service.
In economics, a monopoly is a single producer of a product or service. In law, a monopoly is a firm that has a lot of market power and is able to charge very high prices for a product or service. As long as the firm has a lot of market power, it does not matter if the firm is large or small, as size is not used to decide if a firm is a monopoly.
A monopoly can be formed by the government, by merging a few firms to form a large one, or form naturally to become a natural monopoly. In many places, utilities such as telephone service or cable television are monopolies, as it is very costly to build the infrastructure for another firm to compete in the market. Such natural monopolies is hence allowed by the government, but is usually strictly controlled to prevent the monopoly from charging a very high price for a product or service.
Many countries, including the United States, have laws to stop companies from having a monopoly or to limit the actions that they can do as a monopoly.
In classical economics, a monopoly has the following features:
A monopoly is a type of firm that aims to maximize profits, and as the market does not have any other large firms, the monopoly is thus able to set prices on their products or services. Hence, the monopoly would set a price that would maximize the profits that they gain, but cause the consumers to have to pay more for the same good.
For all types of firms (including monopoly), firms maximize their profits at the output level in which the marginal revenue and marginal cost curves meet, known as the profit maximizing output. The price that the monopoly sets is the price level of the demand curve for that amount of output. However, it is better for society if the output level is when the marginal cost and the demand curve meet, which is of a higher output and a lower price than what the monopoly produces. Hence, as there is welfare that is available to consume for society if more of the good is produced, a deadweight loss is hence created. A monopoly is hence not allocatively efficient.
Depending on the total cost that the monopoly has, a monopoly may be able to earn supernormal profits in the long run. This thus allows the monopoly to have money to do costly innovation or become more cost efficient in producing the products or services. However, there are people who believe that a monopoly may become complacent and not do innovation at all as there is no competition in the market.
A natural monopoly can happen when there is very high barriers to entry that it is not profitable for more firms to enter the market for the level of demand that is present in the market. A natural monopoly keeps getting increasing economies of scale for the level of demand in the market, and relatively high fixed costs. The average cost of production would then keep decreasing for the whole demand of the product or service. It is thus cheaper for a single firm to produce the product or service, as it would not be profitable for two or more firms to be in the market.
A natural monopoly is similar to a normal monopoly and can be inefficient. Hence, governments tend to make laws that controls what the natural monopoly does, mainly to set prices at an affordable level.

</doc>
<doc id="26403" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26403" title="Pluto (Disney)">
Pluto (Disney)

Pluto is a fictional dog that belongs to Mickey Mouse. He is a golden-yellow mutt with a green collar. He was introduced in the 1930s and got his name from the planet Pluto which had recently been discovered.
Pluto taught many kids lessons such as sharing, not to have jealousy, and many others. Pluto was very energetic. Pluto was created by Walt Disney.

</doc>
<doc id="26404" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26404" title="Even number">
Even number

An even number is an integer which is "evenly divisible" by two. This means that if the integer is divided by 2, it yields no remainder. Zero is an even number because zero divided by two equals zero. Even numbers can be either positive or negative.
An integer that is not an even number is an odd number.
Integer addition and subtraction follows these rules: 
Note: the symbol '±' mean either addition or subtraction.
To find the set of even natural numbers, we use 2"N" where "N" is any natural number.
Any number multiplied with an even number will result in an even number. For example:
0N, 2N, 4N, 6N, ... (where N is any natural number)
the result is always an even number.

</doc>
<doc id="26405" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26405" title="Mardi Gras">
Mardi Gras

Mardi Gras (Fat Tuesday) is a festival held the day before Ash Wednesday, signifying the end of the Carnival season and the start of Lent. Many cities (especially those with large Catholic populations) like New Orleans are famous for their Mardi Gras. 
During Mardi Gras, almost everyone takes part in celebrating with lavish parades and parties. Many different people celebrate Mardi Gras in their own way, some people have small parties and eat many of the tasty pastries and some people have huge parties and celebrate in a big way. Some of the pastries they eat are called king's cake, hot cross buns, punchskis, tricolor scrolls and thick sugar cookies. There are many more things that other people eat but these are the usual American celebration food for mardi gras. There are so many different parades and kinds of celebrations.
In some countries, including the United Kingdom, Ireland and Australia, the day is called Shrove Tuesday, Pancake Tuesday or Pancake Day.

</doc>
<doc id="26406" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26406" title="Røldalsvatnet">
Røldalsvatnet

Røldalsvatnet is a lake in Odda, Hordaland, Norway. The length around it is 20.64 km, its area is 6.99 km² and it is 380 meters above sea level.

</doc>
<doc id="26407" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26407" title="Technorati">
Technorati

Technorati is a search engine for weblogs. As of August 2006, Technorati indexes over 55 million sites. 
Technorati was founded by Dave Sifry and its headquarters are in San Francisco, California, USA.

</doc>
<doc id="26411" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26411" title="Stuart, Florida">
Stuart, Florida

Stuart is a city in the U.S. state of Florida. It is the county seat of Martin County, part of the Treasure Coast.

</doc>
<doc id="26412" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26412" title="Astoria, Oregon">
Astoria, Oregon

Astoria is a city in the American state of Oregon . It is named after John Jacob Astor, who started a fur trading post, there in 1811. Many movies have been filmed there like "The Goonies", "Kindergarten Cop", and "Free Willy".

</doc>
<doc id="26414" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26414" title="The Goonies">
The Goonies

The Goonies is a 1985 American movie about of a group of children living in part of Astoria, Oregon called The "Goon Docks", who go on a search for a pirate's treasure, to save their neighborhood from being bought and destroyed. The movie was produced by Steven Spielberg and directed by Richard Donner.
 

</doc>
<doc id="26417" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26417" title="Press Your Luck">
Press Your Luck

Press Your Luck was an American game show that aired from 1983 to 1986 and later in reruns, and was hosted by Peter Tomarken. The three contestants on each show would earn spins by answering questions that they could later use on The Big Board. On the board, they could earn thousands of dollars in cash and prizes, but had to beware of the Whammy, a cartoon demon who stole players' money and prizes. If a Whammy was hit, the contestant lost all earnings up to that point. Four Whammies took a player out of the game. The winner returned on the next show.
The show came back on the air in 2002 on Game Show Network as "Whammy! The All-New Press Your Luck". It featured a new "Big Bank" feature, which gave the player a chance to earn all the money and prizes lost to the Whammy. It was hosted by Todd Newton and ran until 2003.
The original version of "Press Your Luck" was called "Second Chance", which aired on television in 1977. Instead of the Whammy, players had to face a cartoon "Devil." It was hosted by Jim Peck, but did not last very long.

</doc>
<doc id="26418" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26418" title="Nepal Bhasa">
Nepal Bhasa

Nepal Bhasa is a language. Newah Bhaaye is the term used for Nepal Bhasa by native speakers. It is a Himalayan language of Tibeto-Burman branch of the Sino-Tibetan group. It is to be noted that it has been incorrectly called by the term ‘Newari’ by westerners and non-Newars of Nepal. Nepal Bhasha shares the feature of Kirant and Tibetan dialects of Northern Himalayas. It consists of five major dialects and several sub-dialects spoken by Newa people living throughout the country. 

</doc>
<doc id="26419" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26419" title="Narcolepsy">
Narcolepsy

Narcolepsy is a sleep disorder. It happens when the nervous system does not work properly. People with narcolepsy tend to fall asleep during the daytime, even if they do not want to. Very often, they do not sleep well at night, and during the day they fall asleep uncontrollably. There are two different forms. The classical (more common) form is the one with muscle failure (called cataplexy). There is also a less common form without cataplexy. 
Narcolepsy affects the way the nerves work. It is not a mental illness, or caused by psychological problems. It is estimated that between 25 and 50 people, per 100,000 suffer from narcolepsy. Very few cases are reported.
The first description was given in 1877. Jean-Baptiste Gélineau, a military doctor, first used the name narcolepsy in 1880.
In certain countries, people diagnosed with narcolepsy may not drive a car.
Things that people with narcolepsy may experience:
Hallucinations, sleep paralysis, and automatic behaviour can also occur in people who are not narcoleptics. This usually happens when people are very tired, and have not slept for a long time.
Some scientists think that narcolepsy is caused by a lack of hypocretin. Hypocretin is a chemical in the brain which wakes people up and regulates sleep. However, It is not yet known for sure what causes it. Quite a few sufferers also have another family member with the disease. This may point to the fact that some of the things that cause the disease may be passed from the parents to the children through genes.
There are certain drugs that can treat the effects of narcolepsy. They can not treat the cause, since it is unknown. In general those drugs are special kinds of stimulants. General stimulants, like coffee, usually do not help. Some strategies for treatment do not rely on drugs:

</doc>
<doc id="26422" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26422" title="Danny Phantom">
Danny Phantom

Danny Phantom is an animated television series on the Nickelodeon cable network. This show, and another Nicktoon, "The Fairly OddParents", were created by American animator Butch Hartman.
The show "Danny Phantom" is about a fourteen-year old boy named Danny Fenton. His parents, Jack Fenton and Maddie Fenton, are ghost hunters and also create machines that help them to catch ghosts. Danny's parents were creating a portal, but when they were finished and tried to make it work, it failed to work and they quit. Danny, however, who had been watching them, put on a white suit and went inside the machine out of curiosity. He accidentally pressed a button and got an electric shock, which gave him his ghost powers.
Only his friends, Samantha (often called Sam) and Tucker know about his powers. Later Danny's sister, Jasmine (often called Jazz) accidentally discovered and learned about his powers.
Danny's powers include the following:
Danny Fenton - a fourteen-year-old boy who has ghost powers. He does not do well in school and is often bullied by Dash.
Samantha (Sam) Manson - A teenage girl who is one of Danny's best friends. She can be bossy sometimes. She has a crush on Danny.
Tucker Foley - A teenage boy who is one of Danny's best friends. He is smart and carries around gadgets. He also wears glasses.
Emma-Pies Exercice - A grew teenage girl who is the new ennemy of Danny in season 2.
Jack Fenton - Danny's father. He is clumsy but is good at making machines. Although a little bit dumb sometimes, he really does care about his family.
Maddie Fenton - Danny's mother. She also enjoys making machines with her husband.
Jazzmine (Jazz) Fenton - Danny's older teenage sister. She is smart and is sometimes against her parent's ghost hunting.
Dash - A teenage boy in Danny's school who likes to bully Danny. Recently, however, Danny has been able to avoid this. Dash is a very popular kid in the school.
Mr. Lancer - One of Danny, Jazz and Dash's teachers.
Kwan - One of Dash's friends who is also popular. 
Vlad Plasmius - Vlad is one of Jack's old friends. He too also has ghost powers, but he is more powerful than Danny.
Guys in White - This is a small group in the show. They are ghost hunters.
"Danny Phantom" is distributed outside the United States by the Canadian company, Nelvana.
Danny's school is called Casper High.
In the show, there are also characters called Guys in White. This is an obvious joke of Men in Black.
"Danny Phantom" was originally called "Danny Phantom and the Spector Detectors", but the creator thought that the show would be more interesting if the ghost was a teenage boy, so he changed it to "Danny Phantom".
"List of Danny Phantom episodes"

</doc>
<doc id="26429" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26429" title="Cane">
Cane

A cane is stick from a piece of wood, or sometimes of metal. It is used by someone to help support themself when they are walking. A person might need a cane because of their age, or weight, or for another reason.

</doc>
<doc id="26430" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26430" title="Pipe">
Pipe

A pipe can be several things:

</doc>
<doc id="26432" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26432" title="Amazon.com">
Amazon.com

Amazon.com is an online store that sells books, movies, games, DVDs, music CDs, computer software and other items (like Amazon Kindle). It is the largest online store right now. It was started by Jeff Bezos in 1994 and the headquarters is in Seattle. The original name was Cadabra.com but was changed to Amazon later on because it sounded like the word "cadaver". The store is named after the world's second longest river.

</doc>
<doc id="26435" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26435" title="Summer Olympic Games">
Summer Olympic Games

The Summer Olympic Games or the Games of the Olympiad are an international sporting event which are held every four years by the International Olympic Committee. The "Games", as they are often called, are held in a different city each time. It is a great honour for a city to be "awarded" (given) the right to hold the Olympic Games. Two years after the Summer Olympics, the Winter Olympic Games are held. These are always in a cold, mountainous place because the sports are all snow and ice sports such as skiing. Many more countries send athletes to the Summer Olympics than to the Winter Olympics.
The Olympic Games were first held in Ancient Greece more than two thousand years ago. The first modern Summer Olympic Games were held in Athens in 1896. There were 200 athletes from Greece and 45 athletes from 13 other countries. Since 1904, medals have been given to the three best athletes or teams in each sport. 
The earliest Games consisted of 42 events only, but it was expected that 10,500 athletes would compete in the 302 events on the program for the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing.
Games in "italics" were cancelled or have not yet been held.

</doc>
<doc id="26439" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26439" title="Alpha Centauri">
Alpha Centauri

Alpha Centauri is the brightest star in the southern Centaurus constellation. It is the fourth brightest star in the night sky, with a magnitude of -0.01. It is visible in the Southern Hemisphere, and is too far south for most of the Northern Hemisphere to see.
Alpha Centauri is a binary star system of two stars A & B. The distance between them is quite close. To the naked eye, the stars are too close for the eye to be able to see them as separate. Their orbit is about the distance of the giant planets from our Sun.
There is a third star, Proxima Centauri (or Alpha Centauri C). This is usually considered separately, but in fact it is also gravitationally connected to the other two. It is actually slightly closer to us, with a very much larger orbit around A and B.
Viewed as a triple star system, Alpha Centauri is the closest to our own, being 4.2-4.4 light years (ly) away. It consists of two main stars, Alpha Centauri A and Alpha Centauri B (which form a binary star together) at a distance of 4.36 ly, and a dimmer red dwarf named Proxima Centauri at a distance of 4.22 ly. Both of the two main stars are rather similar to the Sun. The larger star, Alpha Centauri A, is the most similar to the Sun, but a little larger and brighter.

</doc>
<doc id="26440" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26440" title="Last call bell">
Last call bell

The last call bell is a bell found in bars. 
The last call bell is rung to:
Last call bells are related to bells used on ships. 

</doc>
<doc id="26444" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26444" title="TGV">
TGV

The TGV (Train à Grande Vitesse, French for "high-speed train"), is a category of high speed trains. They are used in France. They are also used for some travel between France and England, Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany, Switzerland, Italy and Spain. The trains normally travel at speeds between 270 km/h and 320 km/h. They are the fastest normal trains in the world, their average travel speed is at 279,4 km/h.
In 2007, a special TGV set the speed record for rail vehicles, reaching 574,8 km/h.
Inside France, there are the following high speed lines
Lines to Spain and Italy are being planned. A High speed line to Germany is being built.
The building of the network has made travel times much shorter. Paris to Marseille (750km) can now be done in 3 hours. Two thirds of the traffic volume is done by the TGV, only one third is done by airplanes.
Since the beginning of the high-speed rail network, the French Poste uses TGVs to transport mail, mostly between Paris, Mâcon and Cavaillon. These use the high-speed lines (LGV Sud-Est) during the night. 
In the north of France, the high-speed lines are also used to run regional trains over longer distances. There are currently train from Lille to Dunkerque. This takes half an hour. Other lines run to Calais, in forty minutes, or to Boulogne-sur-Mer in 55. In 2007, a line to Arras was opened, which is also very successful. Unfortunately, there are some problems with this approach. First, only high-speed lines can be used that are not saturated, because these trains run slower than regular TGVs. Secondly, using a TGV line costs more to the client, they have to pay extra. This makes these services more expensive.

</doc>
<doc id="26488" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26488" title="Slur">
Slur

Slur might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="26491" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26491" title="Caregiver">
Caregiver

A caregiver, or carer, is someone who has the job of caring for people. They usually care for people who are unable to care for themselves, for example, children, disabled people, or the elderly. When a caregiver is assigned to look after a baby or a child they are sometimes called a babysitter.

</doc>
<doc id="26496" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26496" title="Binoculars">
Binoculars

Binoculars are a kind of tool that lets people see far-away things more clearly, using a technology called optics. They are made of a pair of matched telescopes that are held in front of the user's eyes. 
The two telescopes have lenses that focus light and magnify the image, a process called magnification. This way, when someone looks through the binoculars at a far-away object, it looks much closer. They have prisms inside, which bend the light so to shorten the length of the tubes. That is why a binocular is shorter than standard telescopes of similar power.
Binoculars were invented in the 17th century. They allow a telescope user to use both eyes. The Royal Navy used single telescopes, but now all ships have heavy binoculars. Heavy ones can be mounted on swivels to scan the horizon. Binoculars are also standard issue in all armies. Night vision binoculars use photocathode electronics to intensify the image.
Binoculars are also used for theatre (opera glasses), birdwatching and amateur astronomy.
These features are present in some or all binoculars:

</doc>
<doc id="26497" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26497" title="Odd number">
Odd number

An integer that is not an odd number is an even number.
Some sequential even numbers are: {0,2,4,6,8,10,12,14,16...}.
An even number is defined as a whole number that is a multiple of two.
If an even number is divided by two, the result is another whole number.
On the other hand, an odd number, when divided by two, will result in a fraction.
Since odd and even numbers are defined only in reference to the set of integers (..., −3, −2, −1, 0, 1, 2, 3, ...), all negative numbers can also be either odd or even.
To find the set of odd natural numbers, we use 2"N"+1 where "N" is any integer.

</doc>
<doc id="26509" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26509" title="1343">
1343


</doc>
<doc id="26510" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26510" title="1342">
1342


</doc>
<doc id="26511" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26511" title="1344">
1344


</doc>
<doc id="26542" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26542" title="Tent">
Tent

The tent is a movable, lightweight shelter which uses thin fabric to protect people from wind and rain. The fabric walls of a tent are supported by wood or metal poles and thin ropes (called "guy lines"), and the tent or the ropes are usually attached to the ground with plastic or metal pointed stakes. 
Tents are usually used as shelter during camping, hiking, and other outdoor recreational activities. Large tents are also used to provide temporary shelter for events such as outdoor weddings or circuses. Tents are also used to provide temporary sleeping quarters for military personnel or homeless people, or for people who have been displaced by a disaster (such as refugees).

</doc>
<doc id="26544" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26544" title="Cottage">
Cottage

A small house is often called a cottage. This word comes from England where it is used to mean a house that has one main storey, with a second, lower storey of bedrooms which fit under the roof upstairs. In many places the word cottage is used to mean a small old-fashioned house. In the United States the word cottage is often used to mean a small holiday home.
Cottages are usually found in villages or in the countryside, rather than in the town. They are nearly always built from material that can be found nearby. A cottage may be built of stone, of brick or of timber. It may have a roof of tiles, slates, shingles, shakes or thatch.

</doc>
<doc id="26596" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26596" title="Bullseye">
Bullseye

Bullseye might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="26636" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26636" title="Alaska plaice">
Alaska plaice

Alaska plaice ("Pleuronectes quadrituberculatus") are salt water fish that live in the north Pacific Ocean. Like most flatfish, they live on the bottom of the continental shelf, up to 600 metres deep. Their geographical range is from the Gulf of Alaska in the east, to the Chukchi Sea in the north, to the Sea of Japan in the west. Alaska plaice feed mostly on polychaetes, but also eat amphipods and echiurans.
Most commercial fisheries do not want to catch Alaska plaice; but many are caught by trawlers trying to catch other bottom fish. So many Alaska plaice get caught anyway that, for example, the 2005 total allowable catch in the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands management area (BSAI) was reached before the end of May of that year.
Alaska plaice can live for up to 30 years, and grow to 60 centimetres (24 inches) long, but most that get caught are only seven or eight years old, and about 30 cm (12 in).

</doc>
<doc id="26637" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26637" title="Sleep paralysis">
Sleep paralysis

When people are dreaming, their muscles do not move, even if they in their dream they are moving. This is a natural process which prevents that people actually perform the movements they do in their sleep. In general, people are not aware of this inability to move, as it usually stops as soon as they wake up. People suffering from sleep paralysis wake up and find that they are unable to move. This is because the paralysis has not stopped. Usually it lasts for only a few minutes, and people have said they feel a "presence" or "ghost" during it.
Little is known about the physiology of sleep paralysis. However, some have suggested that it may be linked to post-synaptic (neurons sending signals to other neurons) inhibition (restraint) of nerves in the pons (back) region of the brain. In particular, low levels of melatonin may stop the depolarization current in the nerves, which stops stimulation of the muscles.
Studies suggest that many people get sleep paralysis at least once in their lives. People who have narcolepsy often get it much more. Many people try to induce sleep paralysis, to have an Out of Body Experience. If you suffer from sleep paralysis, you can change it into an enjoyable experience.
Some report that various factors make paralysis and hallucinations happen more. These include:

</doc>
<doc id="26640" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26640" title="American plaice">
American plaice

American plaice ("Hippoglossoides platessoides") are salt water fish that live in the northwest Atlantic Ocean. Like most flatfish, they live on the bottom of the continental shelf, up to 700 metres deep, but spend most of the time at 90 to 200 meters. Their geographical range is from the coast of Labrador, south to the coast of the U.S. state of Rhode Island. The most are found off the eastern tip of Newfoundland. American plaice feed on sand dollars, brittle stars, crustaceans, polychaetes, and fish such as capelin and launce.
Like many flatfish, American plaice are sometimes said to be a flounder or dab, even though both are names for other fish species.
The U.K.-based Marine Conservation Society rates American plaice as 5, the most threatened category of over-harvested animals.

</doc>
<doc id="26641" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26641" title="Spider web">
Spider web

A spider web is a sticky net that spiders make from silk to trap their prey. When insects fly or crawl into the web, they get stuck and the spider eats them. Most spider webs are very thin, but are also very strong. Different kinds of spiders make different types of webs. Spiders make different webs in different places to trap many kinds of prey. 

</doc>
<doc id="26645" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26645" title="World Series">
World Series

The World Series in Major League Baseball, is when the best team from the American League (the winner of the American League Championship Series) and the best team from the National League (the winner of the National League Championship Series) keep playing games of baseball until one of the two teams wins four games total. The winners of the most recent World Series in 2014 were the San Francisco Giants. They defeated the Kansas City Royals four games to three.

</doc>
<doc id="26651" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26651" title="Janet Jackson">
Janet Jackson

Janet Damita Jo Jackson (born May 16, 1966, in Gary, Indiana) is an American singer, dancer, actress, and songwriter. She is the younger sister of Michael Jackson and has had many popular songs such as "Nasty," "Rhythm Nation," and "That's The Way Love Goes." Jackson also plays Patricia in the 2007 movie "Why Did I Get Married?" She is one of the best-selling artists in the history of pop music. In 2011 "True You: A Journey to Finding and Loving Yourself", a book written by Jackson and David Ritz, was published. The book reached number five in "The New York Times" Best Seller list.
Jackson was born to Katherine and Joe Jackson. She was raised as a Jehovah's Witness. She did not want to be an entertainer. She wanted to become a race-horse jockey. However her father planned for her to go into the show business. When Jackson was seven she went on stage in Las Vegas Strip with her siblings in a routine show at the MGM Casino.
In September 1979 Jackson started acting in "A New Kind of Family". Her first album, "Janet Jackson", was released on September 21, 1982 by A&M Records. Jackson won her first Grammy Award in 1987. On September 19, 1989 Jackson's fourth album "Janet Jackson's Rhythm Nation 1814" was released. Eight singles were released from the album. In 1993 Jackson was on the cover of "Rolling Stone" magazine. On May 31 1995 "Scream", a song that Janet made with her older brother Michael Jackson, was released as the first single from Michael's album "". In June 2009 Michael died. In September 2009, she performed "Scream" at the 2009 MTV Video Music Awards as part of a tribute to Michael.
In 2010 Jackson acted in "For Colored Girls".
Jackson has been married three times. It was announced that Jackson was pregnant shortly before her 50th birthday in May 2016. She is expecting a child with her husband Wissam Al Mana.

</doc>
<doc id="26652" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26652" title="Melissa Joan Hart">
Melissa Joan Hart

Melissa Joan Catherine Hart (born April 18, 1976) is an American actress. She was born and raised in Long Island, New York.
She played the title roles in the television series "Clarissa Explains It All" and "Sabrina, the Teenage Witch". In 1999 she played the lead role in the movie "Drive Me Crazy". From 2010-2015, she starred as Mel Burke in the ABC Family show "Melissa & Joey".
Since July 19, 2003, Hart has been married to musician Mark Wilkerson (born 1976). They have three sons together: Mason Walter Wilkerson (born January 11, 2006), Braydon Hart Wilkerson (born March 12, 2008) and Tucker McFadden Wilkerson (born September 18, 2012).

</doc>
<doc id="26653" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26653" title="Colleen Fitzpatrick">
Colleen Fitzpatrick

Colleen Ann Fitzpatrick (born July 20, 1972 in Old Bridge, New Jersey) is an American singer and actor. Her stage name is Vitamin C. Before she started her solo career, she was the lead singer of the band Eve's Plum.

</doc>
<doc id="26656" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26656" title="Jamie Lynn Spears">
Jamie Lynn Spears

Jamie Lynn Marie Spears (born April 4, 1991 in McComb, Mississippi) is an American actress and singer. She is the younger sister of pop singer Britney Spears. She played the lead role in the television series "Zoey 101". In late December 2007 it was revealed that Jamie Lynn was pregnant. Jamie Lynn's daughter, Maddie Briann Aldridge, was born on June 19, 2008. Spears is now a country music singer. In November 2013 Spears released her first single, "How Could I Want More".

</doc>
<doc id="26657" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26657" title="Opel">
Opel

Opel, full name Adam Opel AG, is an automobile maker from Germany, founded in 1862. Since 1929, Opel is the German brand of the American automaker General Motors. Opel has about 35,000 workers. The company headquarters are in Rüsselsheim, Germany. Other German plants are in Eisenach and Kaiserslautern. In Great Britain, Opel cars are called Vauxhall. Opel would later engineer cars for GMDAT, and still engineers them for GM Korea. From 2007-2009 three Opel models (the Antara, the Astra and the Vectra) were sold in the United States under the Saturn marque. Upon the discontinuation of Saturn Buick became responsible for importing the Opel models. The only Buick cars to not be Opels are the Enclave CUV and the full sized LaCrosse sedan.
Passenger cars:
Adam | Antara | Ampera | Astra | Cascada | Corsa | Insignia | Karl | Meriva | Mokka | Zafira Tourer
Commercial cars:
Combo | Vivaro | Movano
Concept cars:
Antara GTC | Astra OPC X-Treme | Eco Speedster | Flextreme | Flextreme GT/E | Frogster | GTC Concept | Insignia Concept | Monza Concept | RAK e | Snowtrekker | Trixx 
Historic cars:
Agila | Admiral | Ascona | Blitz | Calibra | Commodore | Diplomat | Frontera | GT | Kadett | Kapitän | Manta | Monterey | Monza | Olympia | Omega | Rekord | Senator | Signum | Sintra | Speedster | Tigra | Vectra

</doc>
<doc id="26658" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26658" title="JAG">
JAG

JAG (the American military acronym for Judge Advocate General) is an American legal, crime drama television show created by Donald P. Bellisario. It was on air between 1995 and 2005. The series is about the JAG officers Harmon "Harm" Rabb, Jr. (David James Elliott) and Sarah "Mac" MacKenzie (Catherine Bell) in Washington, D.C. In 2003, the series spawned the spin-off "NCIS".

</doc>
<doc id="26678" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26678" title="Burn">
Burn

Burning is the process of combustion, a reaction between a substance (the fuel) and a gas (the oxidizer).
Burn, burning or burned can mean:
Bands:
Albums:
Songs:

</doc>
<doc id="26680" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26680" title="Adobe Photoshop">
Adobe Photoshop

Photoshop is a popular image changing software package. It is widely used by photographers for photo editing (fixing colors, reducing noise, adding effects, fixing brightness/contrast) and by graphic designers and Web designers to create and change images for web pages. Version Photoshop CS6 was launched on April 23 2012.
Photoshop works on computer systems like Windows and Mac. The software is made by the company Adobe. A simpler version named Photoshop Elements is made for home users who do not want to buy the more powerful, more expensive full version. Photoshop Express, a free version, is even more limited.

</doc>
<doc id="26683" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26683" title="Finger">
Finger

A finger is a type of digit attached to the hand. Our type of fingers are similar to those of other primates. They are used for doing things and things. 
Humans have five digits, the bones of which are termed phalanges. The first digit is the thumb, followed by the index finger, middle finger, ring finger, and little finger or 'pinky'. According to different definitions, the thumb can be called a finger, or not.

</doc>
<doc id="26684" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26684" title="Bronze">
Bronze

Bronze is a metal alloy. Bronze is mostly copper, with some tin added (usually between 5% and 20% tin). 
Bronze was the first alloy that was used by humans. The first nation that used Bronze was Egypt about 3500 years B.C. This gave the name for the Bronze Age.
Bronze is stronger than copper or tin alone. Bronze lasts longer than copper. Pure copper can be oxidized by air and also by water. When copper is oxidized by air or water, it turns green (the color of "copper oxide"), and falls apart.
When people learned how to make and work iron, the Bronze Age ended, and the Iron Age started. Iron can be made harder than bronze, but is susceptible to corrosion (see rust). Iron also wears away faster than bronze, when different pieces are moving against each other. Iron is very common, and easy to make. For this reason, iron costs less than bronze. This is the reason why iron is now used where bronze used to be used.
Bronze is still used to make many parts of machines. We choose to make a part out of bronze when it is important that the part last for a long time around water and air, or that the part not wear away. The main things that are made out of it are pump parts, bearings, bells, electrical components, gears, valves, and other things.
Bronze parts are usually cast in a foundry. After they are cast, bronze parts can also be worked in a lathe or milling machine, or drilled. Bronze is not normally worked with a hammer like iron.
When an alloy is called Bronze, it usually means the alloy of copper and tin. When two words are used to name an alloy, and one of the words is Bronze, this means that the alloy is made mostly from copper. The other word tells us what other metal was combined with copper to make this alloy. 
Other bronzes are:
Bronze should not be confused with Brass which is a different alloy of copper and Zinc.

</doc>
<doc id="26685" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26685" title="Flight">
Flight

Flight, or flying - a process of movement of the object in a gaseous environment or a vacuum without contact with the surface of another environment, as is possible with the use of jet thrust, or other means of propulsion, and without it (by inertia). Best adapted for long controlled powered flight are flying birds and insects, and mammals of the order Chiroptera and extinct reptiles of the order pterosaurs. All of these animals use the aerodynamic principles of flight, using the load-bearing properties of the wing. There are also many animals that make gliding and parachute flight, such as spiders web, aeroplankton flying clams and flying fish, intending to use the ear or leather folds, mammals and reptiles. The fastest flying animal is the peregrine falcon. The speed of its dive is over .
Humans have managed to construct lighter than air vehicles that raise off the ground and fly, due to their floating in air and water.
An aerostat is a system that remains in the air primarily through the use of floating to give an aircraft that has the same overall density as air. Aerostats include free balloons, airships, and moored balloons. An aerostat's main structural component is its envelope, a lightweight skin containing a lifting gas to provide floating, to which other components are attached.
Aerostats are so named because they use "aerostatic" lift, a buoyant force that does not require lateral movement through the surrounding air mass. By contrast, aerodynes primarily use aerodynamic lift, which requires the side movement of at least some part of the aircraft through the surrounding air mass.

</doc>
<doc id="26686" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26686" title="Pound">
Pound

A pound is:

</doc>
<doc id="26687" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26687" title="Reindeer">
Reindeer

The reindeer ("Rangifer tarandus") is an even-toed ungulate mammal of the deer family. In North America it is also called caribou. 
There are about 10-20 reindeer subspecies. The reindeer is the only deer that has been domesticated.
The different reindeer subspecies have different sizes and slightly same fur colors. Male reindeer are usually bigger and heavier than the females. Reindeer are about 1.20 - 2.20 meters long and about 0.90 - 1.40 meters high. They weigh between 60 - 300 kilograms. Reindeer mostly have a grey-brown fur. The fur is dark in summer and becomes a lighter color in winter. Reindeer are the only deer where both sexes have antlers. The antlers of female reindeer are smaller than the antlers of males. Reindeer also have big feet, which helps them walk on soft ground.
Many people think that Caribou and Reindeer are the same animals, but there are some noticeable differences.
Reindeer: 
- most commonly found as domesticated animals
- sedentary
- breeding starts mid-Aug 
- can be pinto colored 
- dark bown calves 
- more fat
- thicker fur
- shorter face and muzzle
- females have larger antlers than female caribou
Caribou:
- wild
- migratory
- breeding starts mid-September
- never pinto colored
- light brown calves
Reindeer can be found in Lapland ( Northern Finland, Sweden, Norway and Russia), North America (All over Canada and on farms across North America where they are raised in captivity), and Siberia. They were first used by people to do work in Lappland and Siberia.
Reindeer live in coniferous forest and Arctic conditions. The historic range of the reindeer is threatened by global warming.
Reindeer eat mostly grass, but eat also almost any other plant. In winter they often eat Reindeer lichen, moss and fungi. 
Reindeer are herd animals and live in groups. They live in groups of 10-100 reindeer, which are herds of only females or herds of only males. Reindeer go on long journeys between the warm and cold seasons. For this journeys the smaller groups form big herds of up to several 100,000 animals. Reindeer mate in October, and the males mate with as many females as possible. 
After a pregnancy of 230 days the female gives birth to a single baby, usually in May or June. Reindeer babies do not have spots on their fur, like most other deer babies have. Young reindeer become mature when they are 2 year old. Reindeer usually live to be 12–15 years old, sometimes they can live to be 20 years old.
Reindeer have been hunted by humans since the stone age. People, especially in the northern regions, used the reindeer's meat, fur, skin, antlers and bones. 
The reindeer was domesticated about 3 thousand years ago. It was first domesticated in Siberia and Scandinavia. Since then, reindeer have also been used for transport, for example for pulling sleds. Because reindeer can live in very cold climates, domesticated reindeer are used in most northern parts of the world.
The "Sami" people in Lapland use Reindeer for fur, and food.
In western/European culture, it is said that Santa Claus' sled is pulled by reindeer.

</doc>
<doc id="26688" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26688" title="Deer">
Deer

Deer are a group of even-toed ungulate mammals. They form the family Cervidae. 
A male deer is called "stag" or "buck", a female deer is called "doe", and a young deer is called "fawn". 
There are about 60 species of deer. They originally lived in the northern hemisphere, and now are native to Europe, Asia, North America and South America. Humans introduced deer to Australia, New Zealand and South Africa.
Almost all deer have antlers. Only the males have antlers. The antlers are deciduous, and drop off after the mating season. Their main use is for males to fight for groups of females during the rutting season.
Deer do not make nests or dens. They find a safe and comfortable place to rest under low hanging evergreen branches. They stay close to where they can find food. In summer, they eat grasses, plants and weeds. In the fall, they like mushrooms and small branches. They do not store their food for the winter. If the snow is not deep, they use their hooves to uncover moss and leaves. If the snow is deep, they eat twigs and branches. 
The doe usually has 1 or 2 fawns in the spring. The fawn can stand immediately after birth, but is weak. The doe will hide each fawn in a different place. They are camouflaged by spots on their backs.
Deer have many predators. Wolves, cougar, dogs and people will eat deer. They are always looking, listening and smelling for danger. They can usually run faster than their predators.
Deer are a monophyletic group. They originated in the northern hemisphere and arrived in some Gondwana continents much later. The Red Deer are found in the Atlas Mountains of North Africa, and some deer arrived in South America via the Great American Interchange. Below the Sahara, Africa belongs to the antelopes, which occupy a niche similar to the deer.
The deer family has about 62 species. 

</doc>
<doc id="26699" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26699" title="Congo">
Congo

Congo can refer to several things:

</doc>
<doc id="26701" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26701" title="Atomic mass unit">
Atomic mass unit

An atomic mass unit is a unit of measurement that is used to measure the mass of atoms. The atomic mass unit (abbreviated: amu or u) is roughly equal to the mass of 1 proton or 1 neutron.
The unified atomic mass unit and the dalton are different names for the same thing. The dalton name is used more over time. The unit is named after John Dalton, an 18th-century naturalist and teacher.

</doc>
<doc id="26703" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26703" title="Cation">
Cation

Cations are atoms that have lost electrons. Since they now have more protons than electrons, cations have a positive charge.
Cations are one of the two types of ions. The other type is called an anion.
A cation has lost some electrons, so it is shown as X^Y+, with X being the atom, and Y being the amount of electrons they have lost. For example, Fe^3+ is an ion of Iron with 3 lost electrons.

</doc>
<doc id="26704" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26704" title="Anion">
Anion

Anions are atoms or radicals (groups of atoms), that have gained electrons. Since they now have more electrons than protons, anions have a negative charge. For example, Chloride ions Cl- , Bromide Br- , Iodide I-. These are monovalent anions, meaning they have a combining capacity with only one ion of Hydrogen. Similarly there are bivalent anions, etc.
Anions are one of the two types of ions. The other type is called a cation, and have a positive charge. Ions are atoms that have an electrical charge.
Anions are termed so because they are attracted towards the Anode (the positive electrode). All Anions tend to accept a proton H+ thus they are categorized as bases. 

</doc>
<doc id="26709" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26709" title="David (Michelangelo)">
David (Michelangelo)

David is a statue by Michelangelo, begun in 1501 and completed in 1504. It is made of marble and is 17 feet tall. It is a statue of a shepherd, David, whose story is told in the Bible. David fought a battle with a giant soldier called Goliath. He beat Goliath by knocking him down with a small stone from his slingshot. David later became King of Israel. 
Michelangelo has carved the figure naked, in the way that Ancient Roman statues of Classical Gods were often made. He shows David before the fight, just as he is looking at Goliath and planning what to do. 
The statue was paid for by the wool-workers of Florence. To the people of the Republic of Florence, David, the teenage boy who fought a giant, was a symbol of how a small fierce town could battle off powerful invaders. David was a particularly important symbol to the wool-workers as well, because as a boy, he took care of his father’s sheep, and as a king, he was like a shepherd to his people. 
The statue of David is a symbol of the City of Florence, Italy, and is Michelangelo's most famous work of sculpture. It is often called "The David". 
From about 1464 the members of the Wool Guild wanted to have twelve statues of people from the Old Testament of the Bible carved for the Florence Cathedral. These statues were to go on the buttresses all around the outside walls, high up near the roof. Two statues had already been made by Donatello and his assistant, Agostino di Duccio. Duccio was asked to carve a statue of David. He began carving the statue's feet, chest and a hole between the legs. He stopped making the statue when his master, Donatello, died in 1466. Antonio Rossellino then worked on the statue for two years. The block of stone was untouched for 33 years and was left in the cathedral workshop where it was getting damaged by the weather. Michelangelo began working on David on September 13, 1501. It was finished on September 8, 1504.
When it was finished, the statue was placed in front of the entrance to the Palazzo Vecchio. During 1873 it was moved to the Accademia Gallery in Florence to protect it from damage. The statue currently attracts many visitors to the Accademia Gallery.
In 1991, the statue of David was attacked by a person with a hammer. Before the person with the hammer could be stopped, damage was done to the toes of the left foot.
The following are other statues by Michelangelo:

</doc>
<doc id="26712" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26712" title="Moses (Michelangelo)">
Moses (Michelangelo)

Moses is a statue that was made by Michelangelo. It is a statue of Moses from the Bible. The statue is unusual because Moses has horns on his head. This was one of Michelangelo's last projects. 
The following are other statues by Michelangelo:

</doc>
<doc id="26713" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26713" title="The Birth of Venus (Botticelli)">
The Birth of Venus (Botticelli)

The Birth of Venus is a painting by Sandro Botticelli (1445 – May 17, 1510). It is of a Roman goddess who was called Venus. He pictured her standing on a shell because Venus was said to have been born from foam on the sea in "Stanze per la giostra", a poem written by Angelo Poliziano. The painting shows Zephyr, god of the winds holding the gentle breeze Aura, blowing her toward the shore where Horae, goddess of the seasons, is awaiting her with a cloak. She is pictured naked to show her innocence and divinity.

</doc>
<doc id="26714" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26714" title="Primavera (Botticelli)">
Primavera (Botticelli)

The Primavera is a painting by Sandro Botticelli, which was painted in about 1482.
The painting is set in the garden of Venus, who is in the middle of the painting. Above her head is Cupid, who is aiming a bow and arrow at "The Three Graces". The Three Graces are dancing a rondel. Mercury is on the left of the painting. He is wearing a helmet and is carrying a sword. This means that he is the guard of Venus's garden. On the right of the picture is Zephyr. Zephyr is the god of the wind. He is chasing a nymph called Cloris. Next to Cloris is Flora, the goddess of Spring, scattering flowers. She was originally Cloris but was turned into Flora by Zephyr.
The Primavera is in the Uffizi Gallery in Florence.

</doc>
<doc id="26715" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26715" title="Cupid">
Cupid

Cupid, also called Amor (Latin for "love"), is the god of sexual desire in Roman mythology. He fired golden arrows at people to make them fall in love, and lead arrows to make people fall out of love. He was mainly drawn as a cherub, but he might have looked like a normal teenager. He had large feathery wings which he used to fly around in the sky and mainly shot people with his love arrows by flying above them. He secretly did this. And many people asked him for help.

</doc>
<doc id="26716" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26716" title="Eros (disambiguation)">
Eros (disambiguation)

Eros is the Greek god of love.
Eros can also mean:

</doc>
<doc id="26718" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26718" title="The Creation of Adam">
The Creation of Adam

The Creation of Adam is part of a painting by Michelangelo on the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel in the Vatican City. It is of Adam and God touching hands so that God can give the spark of life to Adam.

</doc>
<doc id="26729" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26729" title="Newbury, Berkshire">
Newbury, Berkshire

Newbury is a small historical market town in Berkshire, England, with many buildings from the 16th century, the world famous Newbury racecourse, and the Lambourn horse training stables.
Newbury is home to many kinds of people from different cultures. It is easy to get there from the M4 motorway and has airport and train links.

</doc>
<doc id="26730" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26730" title="Dvorak keyboard">
Dvorak keyboard

The Dvorak keyboard is an alternative way of putting letters on an English keyboard. Most English keyboards have the keys lined up in a "QWERTY layout." The point of QWERTY was to prevent typewriter keys from sticking, but it is not the most "ergonomic", or comfortable, keyboard to type on. Augustine Dvorak invented the Dvorak keyboard, where letters are arranged based on how often they are used. For instance, the most common letters (like "e") are in the center row of keys, so less hand movement is needed when a person is typing.
Now that we use computers instead of typewriters, there is no reason to keep the QWERTY keyboard, except that everyone already learned to type using it. Many Dvorak keyboard users think that more people should use the Dvorak keyboard, as it aims to prevent typing injuries (like Repetitive Stress Injury and carpal tunnel). But most users are used to the QWERTY keyboard, and do not want to switch.

</doc>
<doc id="26731" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26731" title="Microsoft FrontPage">
Microsoft FrontPage

Microsoft FrontPage (Full name: Microsoft Office FrontPage)is a program made by Microsoft to help people make webpages and full websites. It was one of Microsoft Office programs until 2003.
Microsoft FrontPage was commercially available in four versions:
FrontPage 98, FrontPage 2000, FrontPage 2002 & FrontPage 2003.
There was also a freeware version included in earlier releases of Internet Explorer. It was called FrontPage Express. If you have an older version of IE (if I am not mistaken this would be 4.0-5.0) it was found under "Accessories". It was actually a useful web editor for those without access to the funds for purchasing professional software. FrontPage express is compatible with Windows XP, Windows Vista, Windows 7 and possibly earier versions of Windows. FrontPage Express downloads are still available online from third-party hosts, such as stormthecastle.com.
FrontPage is a WYSIWYG, "What You See Is What You Get", Web Editor. All versions of FrontPage are still in use by web developers all over the globe.
The 2003 version is the last installment to the series. It was replaced by Microsoft Expression Web and Microsoft Office SharePoint Designer.
The first version of the app was made by Vermeer Technologies, before its acquisition by Microsoft.

</doc>
<doc id="26734" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26734" title="Martial arts">
Martial arts

A martial art is any form of fighting and an art that has a set way of practice. There are many martial arts that come from certain countries. They are practiced for many reasons: fighting, self-defense, sport, self-expression, discipline, confidence, fitness, relaxing, meditation. A martial art is a style of combat, in many instances directed towards the self-defence. In the common usage, the word applies to the systems of combat developed in all the world.
A person who does martial arts is called a "martial artist".
One common method is particularly in the Asian martial arts, it is the form or kata.
Martial arts may be used for self-defense, combat and fitness.
The idea of "martial art" appeared first time in English language in the 1920 "Takenobu's Japanese-English Dictionary" as a translation of the word "bu-gei" or "bu-jutsu" what means ""art" or "solution" of the military matters".
In simple words, the martial arts are fighting systems. There are many schools and styles of martial arts, but all share the same goal: the self-defence. Some of them, like taiji quan also can be used in order to improve health and the form as flowing of the "qi".
Some martial arts were not born in Asia. For example, savate had appeared in France and the movements of sport of the capoeira came from the Brazil.
Many martial arts include punches (boxing, karate), kicks (taekwondo, kickboxing, karate), holds and throws (judo, jujutsu, wrestling), weapons (iaijutsu, kendo, kenjutsu, naginatado, fencing, Filipino eskrima) or certain combination of earlier mentioned elements (several styles of jujutsu).
The martial arts are divided in two great sets: the so-called "hard martial arts" like karate and kickboxing which give special consideration to the attack for beat the opponent and the "soft martial arts" like the judo and the aikido which fight the opponent in the less aggressive method, using the force of the other for surrender him.
It is difficult to compare the effectiveness of the different existing arts. Recently, people developed competitions like the Ultimate Fighting Championship in the United States of America or Pancrase in Japan. That competitions also are known as "mixed martial arts" or MMA. Although that is yet to be seen the financial success or defeat of these ways.
The martial arts are defined in this method: through the history, to the soldier in the battlefield, the only thing that was important for them was beat the enemy that one have before himself. Whether a style is soft or hard or how many points are gained with a blow are details and subjects of discussion which appear in periods of peace, when there were hand to hand combats.
The martial arts are the arts of the war. If the main goal in a competition depends on noting points to somebody's advantage, then we are not before a martial art but before a sport.
The history of the martial arts is wide. The act of developing of the fighting systems dates from when the man had been able to cause to pass the knowledge, along with the strategies of war. Part of the most ancient written material on the subject dates from the 15th century in Europe and the authorship fall to famous masters, like Hans Talhoffer and George Silver. Also transcriptions of still more ancient texts had been brought to our days, one of them is a document written by hand. That document is called I.33 and dates from end of the 13th century.
The persons who train martial arts disagree with relation to the matter of the competitions. Some arts, like the boxing or the Thai boxing, give attending to the sparring -fights during training - and to taking part in competitions, yet the most common of aikido and krav maga reject the competitions. The reasons that cause these opinions are different. Many of the arts desiring to compete argue that the competitions give place to better and more efficient techniques. However, certain styles not desiring to compete claim that the rules with which people developed these competitions ruin the art and does not represent what can happen in a real situation.
In recent years, there have been tries to return to life some martial arts considered historical. Examples of this historical reconstruction of the martial arts are the pankration and the school of Shaolin that have not a continua tradition.

</doc>
<doc id="26736" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26736" title="Soda">
Soda


</doc>
<doc id="26739" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26739" title="Gonad">
Gonad

Gonads are the ovaries and testicles. A male usually refers to his testes as "gonads" more than a female would refer to her ovaries as gonads.

</doc>
<doc id="26742" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26742" title="Felix Mendelssohn">
Felix Mendelssohn

Jakob Ludwig Felix Mendelssohn Bartholdy (born Hamburg 3 February 1809; died Leipzig 4 November 1847) was a German composer.
His grandfather was the German-Jewish philosopher Moses Mendelssohn. He was one of the great composers of the Romantic period. He loved the music of earlier composers like Bach, Handel and Mozart and he built on the traditions they had made. Mendelssohn was a child prodigy. He was already composing great music when he was a teenager. He wrote music for orchestra, piano, organ as well as chamber music and music for singing. His violin concerto is one of the most popular concertos ever written and is played by all the famous violinists. Two of his tunes are known by almost everybody: the hymn tune "Hark the Herald Angels Sing", and the "Wedding March" which is played so often at the end of weddings.
Mendelssohn’s family had plenty of money. They were also very interested in music, literature, painting etc. His grandfather Moses Mendelssohn was famous in German national literature. His father was a banker and his mother came from a family who owned a lot of factories in Berlin. The young Felix was educated at home by his parents. Although the family was Jewish his parents had Felix baptized and his father became a Christian a few years later. The Mendelssohn family added the name of Bartholdy to their name at this time.
Soon Felix was being taught by private tutors including Ludwig Berger who taught him the piano. He also learned music theory and composition. He played the piano at a concert when he was nine, and started to compose little plays with music (called a Singspiel in German). In 1821 he was taken to meet the famous writer Goethe in Weimar. It was to be the first of several visits and Goethe’s way of thinking and his works of German literature had a big influence on the young Mendelssohn. He composed several works at this time including Singspiels, symphonies and chamber music. He traveled with his father and met many famous musicians.
In 1825 the family moved to Berlin. They had regular concerts on Sunday mornings in their large house. Many rich and famous people were invited to their private concerts. In October 1825 he wrote a "String Octet" (a piece for eight string instruments) which is one of his best works. He studied the music of Johann Sebastian Bach (1685-1750) whose music people had almost forgotten. He found the music of Bach’s "St Matthew Passion" and conducted a performance of it in 1829. It was a famous performance in music history, because people suddenly realized how great Bach was. Bach’s music has never been forgotten again since then.
During the years 1829 to 1835 Mendelssohn traveled all over Europe. He visited London several times and he also performed Beethoven’s "Emperor Concerto" there. He travelled to Scotland where he sailed to Fingal’s Cave in the Hebrides. This inspired him to write the overture called "The Hebrides". When he was returning the stagecoach had an accident and he hurt his knee. He stayed with the composer Thomas Attwood for some time before he could return to Berlin. Next he travelled to Italy where he wrote the "Italian Symphony". In Italy he met Hector Berlioz and on his way back he met Chopin.
He spent some time in Düsseldorf where he performed several oratorios by Handel as well as his own music. In Frankfurt am Main he stayed with a family who had two daughters. He married one of them, Cécile Charlotte Sophia Jeanrenaud, in 1837. They had a happy marriage and had five children.
Felix and his young wife went to live in Leipzig where he became the conductor of the famous Leipzig Gewandhaus Orchestra. This was one of the highest musical jobs in Germany. He conducted a lot of music by 18th century composers who had been forgotten. He also gave the first performance of Schubert's which had been discovered by Robert Schumann nine years after Schubert’s death. Mendelssohn got some of the most famous musicians to come to Leipzig and perform with the orchestra: Clara Schumann, Franz Liszt, Anton Rubinstein, the young violinist Joseph Joachim and the Swedish soprano Jenny Lind. Mendelssohn improved the playing of the orchestra, making them one of the best orchestras in the world. He also made sure that the players were paid well.
In the early 1840s Mendelssohn spent some time in Berlin. The new king, Friedrich Wilhelm IV, King of Prussia, was very keen on music and had lots of ideas about new plans for concerts. He wanted Mendelssohn to be in charge of this. The king wanted to see Greek plays performed and Mendelssohn had to write incidental music for the performances of "Antigone". 
In June 1842 Mendelssohn was twice received by Queen Victoria at her palace in London. Mendelssohn thanked the Queen by dedicating his "Scottish Symphony" to her. He continued to conduct in Leipzig and helped to make Berlioz’s music famous in Germany. He became director of the new Conservatoire in Leipzig. In Berlin the king asked him to provide incidental music for Shakespeare's play " A Midsummer Night’s Dream ". He had already written some of this music 17 years earlier but now he finished it and performed it in 1843.
During his last years Mendelssohn suffered from bad health. He continued to work and travel as much as he could, but after a stroke in 1849 he died in Leipzig aged 38. His body was taken by a special train to Berlin where he was buried near the grave of his sister Fanny.
Mendelssohn’s most famous works are his 5 symphonies (especially the "Scottish" and "Italian" symphonies), his concertos (especially his violin concerto), his overtures (especially "The Hebrides") and his Incidental Music to "A Midsummer Night’s Dream" which includes the famous "Wedding March". He wrote some very good chamber music: string quartets and piano trios and two very famous oratorios: "Elijah" and "St Paul". His piano music includes a large collection of short pieces called "Songs without Words" (German: "Lieder ohne Worte") which many pianists like to play. His organ music shows his love for J.S.Bach, often sounding more Baroque than Romantic. After his death Mendelssohn’s music became less popular for a time. This may have been because of the rise of anti-semitism in the mid-19th century, it may also have been because some musicians played Mendelssohn’s music in a rather delightful way. But many great musicians saw his greatness and his music is well-loved today.
The New Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians, ed. Stanley Sadie, 1980; ISBN 1-56159-174-2

</doc>
<doc id="26746" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26746" title="Watercolour">
Watercolour

Watercolours (UK), also called watercolor (US) or aquarelle (French), are paintings whose colours are water-based pigments. 
Pigments are coloured materials from rocks, plants, or chemicals, that dissolve in water. They are made in the form of cakes or tablets. When water is added, the powdered pigment becomes liquid again. The pigment is applied to white paper or white card by brush or cloth or cotton wool, and allowed to dry. Unlike painting in oil-based pigments (coloured materials dissolved in oil), a watercolour can not be painted over without spoiling the colour, whose purity depends on the white backing below. Therefore each area of a watercolour painting is painted only once, and looks fresh and original rather than worked over. Watercolour painting is often used in Chinese, Korean, and Japanese paintings. Fingerpainting with watercolours came from China.

</doc>
<doc id="26748" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26748" title="Expert system">
Expert system

An expert system is a program running on a computer. Like a human expert, it knows a lot about a subject. People can ask the expert system a question. The expert system will then use a set of rules and give answers to the question. This method of automated reasoning belongs to a field of computer science called artificial intelligence.
Different groups of people can have different kinds of access to an expert system. The people managing the network of computers have different needs than the office worker or secretary.
Expert systems are made of
When they are asked a question, they will filter the data with the rules they have. They might give back a result, or ask an additional question.

</doc>
<doc id="26755" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26755" title="Hermann Hesse">
Hermann Hesse

Hermann Hesse (2 July 1877 – 9 August 1962) was a German-Swiss poet, novelist, and painter. In 1946, he received the Nobel Prize in Literature. His best known works include "Steppenwolf", "Siddhartha", and "The Glass Bead Game" (also known as "Magister Ludi").

</doc>
<doc id="26766" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26766" title="Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol">
Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol

The Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol, is a protocol related to computers and networks of computers. It is referred to as DHCP for short. It was made so that computers could connect to other computers (on a network) automatically. To be able to access the Internet (or any computer network), an IP address is needed. DHCP allows for this IP address to be obtained automatically. Other data, like a DNS Nameserver, or a time server can also be obtained that way. Finally, computers that support it can even get a disk image they boot from over the network.
The address can be dynamic (it can change), or it can be static (it stays the same). After a certain time, the address lease has to be renewed.
dhcp is one of the most complicated ip protocol.

</doc>
<doc id="26767" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26767" title="Communication protocol">
Communication protocol

In computing, a protocol or communication protocol is a set of rules in which computers communicate with each other. The protocol says what part of the conversation comes at which time. It also says how to end the communication.

</doc>
<doc id="26769" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26769" title="Aldi">
Aldi

Aldi is a supermarket in Germany and in most parts of the European Union. Aldi shops are also in Australia and the United States. Most German towns and villages have at least one Aldi shop. There are about 4,100 stores in Germany, and 7,600 worldwide. The name of the shop stands for "ALbrecht-DIscount".
The company is a food retailer, but it also sells non-food at times. In the 1990s, Aldi often sold computers that were sought after. Aldi has a reputation for being cheap. It forces its suppliers to sell to them at low prices.
The company was started in 1913 as a family grocery business in Essen. In 1946, brothers Karl Albrecht (born 1920) and Theo Albrecht (1922-2010) took over the business from their mother. Theo had been held by the US in a prisoner of war camp. They started the idea of discount shops in Germany. They decided to have a limited range of goods and sell them at a discount price. In 1960, the company was split into Aldi Nord (Aldi North) under the control of Theo, and Aldi Süd (Aldi South) under the control of Karl. The brothers became billionaires. In 2009 Karl's wealth was estimated to be €25 billion. Theo was kidnapped in 1971 and held prisoner for 17 days until a seven million mark ransom was paid. The family have avoided publicity and there are few known photographs of them.
Aldi started in Australia in 2001. At the end of 2010 there were 210 Aldi stores in eastern Australia and the company were planning to open 20-30 stores each year. In 2009 the Australian stores made a profit of AU$91.94 million, up 27% on 2008.

</doc>
<doc id="26777" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26777" title="Channel Tunnel">
Channel Tunnel

The Channel Tunnel (or Chunnel) (French: le tunnel sous la Manche) is a long underwater tunnel between England and France that runs under the English Channel at the Strait of Dover. It is only for trains. Some of the trains in the Channel Tunnel carry freight, including automobiles. Others, like the Eurostar, carry only passengers.
The tunnel, which was once called the Eurotunnel, opened in 1994. It is 50 km (31 miles) long and its deepest point is 75 m (250 feet) beneath the surface. It connects Folkestone, Kent in the United Kingdom to Calais in northern France. This has reduced travel time between London and Paris to a little over two hours with high-speed trains.

</doc>
<doc id="26784" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26784" title="Katowice">
Katowice

Katowice (pronounce: , also known as "Kattowitz" in German) is a city in Poland. It is in the south of Poland in the historical region called Silesia on Kłodnica and Rawa river. It received city rights in 1865. Between 1954 and 1956 Katowice had the name Stalinogród - "Stalin City". It was given by the polish communists. There are about 315,123 people living there. The mayor of the city is Piotr Uszok. For a long period of time the city was ruled by Germans, as it was a part of Germany until 1918. There is a little airport called "Airport Muchowiec". There are both modern and old buildings in Katowice. It was the center of the coal mining and metallurgy.

</doc>
<doc id="26786" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26786" title="Mobile phone">
Mobile phone

A mobile phone (also known as a wireless phone, cell phone, or cellular telephone) is a small portable radio telephone.
The mobile phone can be used to communicate over long distances without wires. It works by communicating with a nearby base station (also called a "cell site") which connects it to the main phone network. When moving, if the mobile phone gets too far away from the cell it is connected to, that cell sends a message to another cell to tell the new cell to take over the call. This is called a "hand off," and the call continues with the new cell the phone is connected to. The hand-off is done so well and carefully that the user will usually never even know that the call was transferred to another cell.
As mobile phones became more popular, they began to cost less money, and more people could afford them. Monthly plans became available for rates as low as US$30 or US$40 a month. Cell phones have become so cheap to own that they have mostly replaced pay phones and phone booths except for urban areas with many people.
The modern form of mobile phone is called "Smart Phone". It has become very popular. The majority of mobile phones made after 2010 are "smartphones". They can be used as computers as well as making voice calls.
Mobile phones in the 1950s through 1970s were large and heavy, and most were built into cars. In the late 20th century technology improved so people could carry their phones easily.
Although Dr. Martin Cooper from Motorola made the first call using a mobile phone in 1973, it did not use the type of cellular mobile phone network that we use today.
The first mobile phone networks were created in the late 1970s in Japan. Now almost all urban areas, and many country areas, are covered by mobile phone networks.
A cell phone combines technologies, mainly telephone, radio, and computer.
Cell phones work as two-way radios. They send electromagnetic microwaves from base station to base station. The waves are sent through antennas. This is called wireless communication.
Early cell telephones used analog networks. They became rare late in the 20th century. Modern phones use digital networks.
The first digital networks are also known as second generation, or 2G, technologies. The most used digital network is GSM (Global System for Mobile communication). It is used mainly in Europe and Asia, while CDMA (Code-Division Multiple Access) networks are mainly used in North America. The difference is in communication protocol. Other countries like Japan have different 2G protocols. Some 2G networks are still used. 3G are more common, and some places have 4G.
The radio waves that the mobile phone networks use are split into different frequencies. The frequency is measured in Hz. Low frequencies can send the signal farther. Higher frequencies provide better connections and the voice communications are generally clearer. Four main frequencies are used around the world: 850, 900, 1800 and 1900 MHz. Europe uses 900 and 1800 MHz and North America uses 850 and 1900 MHz.
Today there are mobile phones that work on two, three or four frequencies. The most advanced phones work on all frequencies. They are called 'world' phones and can be used everywhere.
There are different kinds of phones. A flip phone flips open, and is best for calling. A bar phone is shaped like a candy bar, and the keys and screen are on one face. A slate phone is a phone that has almost no buttons, and uses a touchscreen. Most smartphones are slates. A slider phone slides on rails. It can slide out number keys or a mini keyboard, but some do both. A swivel spins on an axle.
When a mobile phone is switched on, it finds and connects to a nearby mobile phone base station. Computers in the base station check if the phone is allowed to use the network. The base station covers what is called a cell and a phone can move between different cells, but will only ever communicate with one cell at a time. This is why mobile communications are sometimes called cellular communications.
Once connected to a cell, the mobile phone can make calls. Because the network knows that the phone is connected to that particular cell, it can also route calls to the mobile phone. Sometimes the radio connection to the cell is lost, for example when you go underground. This means the phone cannot make or receive calls until the connection is made again.
The network is the company that provides the phone service. In most areas there will be more than one mobile network. Customers choose networks based on how well the different networks work in their area, or by price.
There are two main ways to pay for mobile phone calls:
Mobile phones use different technical standards. GSM phones need a separate microchip, called a Subscriber Identity Module or SIM card, to work. The SIM has information like the phone number and payment account and this is needed to make or receive calls. The SIM may be supplied by the same company as the phone, or a different one. Sometimes you can change the network by using a SIM from another network, but some companies do not want this to happen and they lock the phone so that you have to use their SIM. 
The others have a special radio inside them that only makes phone calls when the phone is activated. When someone buys a contract, the network gives them a code, that if they enter it into the phone, the phone will then make calls. It is usually impossible to switch to a different network's code on this type of phone. The majority of these CDMA phones are used in the United States and nearby countries.
A majority of new mobile phones from the 21st century are smartphones. These phones can be used for email, browsing the internet, playing music and games,and many other functions that computers can perform. This is because mobile phones basically are small computers. Older phones also used computer technology, but lacked many of the parts of a computer that were too big to fit into a phone. Modern phone makers have been able to use smaller parts. Most smartphones are also GPS receivers and digital cameras. Examples of smartphones include Apple's iPhone and Samsung's Galaxy series.

</doc>
<doc id="26787" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26787" title="Amazon">
Amazon

Amazon can be:

</doc>
<doc id="26791" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26791" title="Giorgio Napolitano">
Giorgio Napolitano

Giorgio Napolitano (born in Naples, Italy on June 29, 1925) was the 11th President of the Italian Republic.
He was elected on May 10, 2006 on the fourth ballot, with 543 votes out of 1009 (the required number was 505), but he took office as President only on May 15, 2006, after Carlo Azeglio Ciampi's time was finished. 
He was voted mostly by the left-wing coalition led by Prime Minister Romano Prodi, head of the Italian Government. Napolitano was preceded at his job by Carlo Azeglio Ciampi. His nickname is King George.
Napolitano resigned as President of Italy on January 14, 2015 due to his old age.

</doc>
<doc id="26800" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26800" title="Robert Byrd">
Robert Byrd

Robert Carlyle Byrd (November 20, 1917 – June 28, 2010) was a Senator of the state of West Virginia from 1959 until his death in 2010. He is the longest Senator in United States History. He was dean of the United States Senate from 2003 to 2010. He was President pro tempore four times. He was elected to the Senate in 1958. He served as majority leader from 1977 to 1981 and again from 1987 to 1989. He was also minority leader from 1981 to 1987.
Byrd was born on November 20, 1917 in North Wilkesboro, North Carolina. He was married to Erma James from 1937 until her death in 2006. They had two children.
Byrd was fourth person in the state (as President "pro tempore" of the Senate, usually longest serving Senator from majority party) from January 1989 to January 1995, from January 3, 2001 to January 20, 2001 and again from June 2001 to January 2003 and January 2007 until his death in 2010.
After Republicans retook control of the Senate, he became the honorary President "pro tempore emeritus" In 2007, Byrd became President Pro Tempore of the Senate again. Before he was elected to the Senate he served in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1953 until 1959 (he is dean of all Congress).
He was a vocal opponent of President George W. Bush's war in Iraq. In January 2006 he was one of the only four (alongside Ben Nelson of Nebraska, Kent Conrad of North Dakota and Ken Salazar of Colorado) democratic Senators, who voted for Samuel Alito.
Byrd died on June 28, 2010 in Falls Church, Virginia, aged 92 from natural causes.

</doc>
<doc id="26805" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26805" title="Artemis">
Artemis

Artemis is a goddess in Greek mythology, and one of the Twelve Olympians. She is the daughter of Zeus and Leto and the twin sister of Apollo.
She is the goddess of hunting, wild animals and the wilderness.
During the 5th century BC, Artemis became also known as the goddess of the moon, becoming one with the goddess Selene.
She is known as a goddess of childbirth as well because she helped Leto give birth to Apollo. 
She is also known as the goddess who asked Zeus to remain chaste and unmarried.
She was also the patroness of Sparta the city-state where a the warriors came from in ancient Greece.
In Greek mythology, Artemis is the daughter of Zeus and Leto, and the twin sister of Apollo. Leto had to find a place where she could give birth to the two. This was because of a curse set by Hera, Zeus' wife, because she was very angry with Zeus. For this, Zeus raised an island that had been floating underwater and had not yet been touched by the sun's rays. The island was Delos. Leto gave birth there, while grasping hold of a palm-tree.

</doc>
<doc id="26806" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26806" title="Apollo">
Apollo

Apollon or Apollo was a god in Greek mythology, and one of the Twelve Olympians. He was the son of Zeus and Leto and the twin brother of Artemis. He lived in Greece. He was the god of healing and medicine, and of music and poetry. He was the leader of the Muses. He also was a god of prophecy, and his Oracle at Delphi was very important. He also was the god of justice. During the 5th century BC, Apollo became also known as the god of the sun, becoming one with the god Helios, and getting the name Phoebus. He is shown as a young man, wearing a laurel wreath and playing the kithara (lyre). It was known as his symbol. His other symbols included the raven. Some times he is known as the god of fire but this title is also given to Vulcan or Hephaestus.
Apollo was one of the Twelve Olympians, the 12 most important gods in Greek mythology. Because of this, there are many myths about him:
Apollo and his twin sister Artemis were the children of Zeus, the king of the Greek gods, and the goddess Leto. When Leto became pregnant, Zeus already had a wife, the queen of the gods Hera. Hera was angry that Zeus was having children with Leto, and cursed Leto so that she could not ever give birth to her kids anywhere on the earth where the sun shone. Hera then sent a dragon called Python to eat her. Python chased Leto to the edge of the sea, where Leto swam to the island of Delos. Python could not swim, however, and had to leave her alone.
The island of Delos was at that time just a big rock floating on the sea, not really an island yet, so it wasn't "on the earth". So Leto climbed under the shade of a palm tree and gave birth to her daughter Artemis, and then her son Apollo.
When Apollo grew up, he went to his father Zeus and asked for a golden bow with arrows as bright and sharp as the sunshine. Then he went looking for a place to build his temple. He came to a spring that belonged to a nymph called Telephusa and tried to build his temple there, but Telephusa suggested he build his temple at Delphi instead, since there was already a shrine there to Themis, the goddess of telling the future. Apollo went to Delphi, but found out it was taken over by Python, the dragon who had tried to eat his mother. He killed the Python with a hundred arrows and claimed Delphi as his own temple. He got two sailors to be his priests and then gave a girl the power of telling the future. The girl became his priestess, or oracle. The little god Eros, the son of the love-goddess Aphrodite, had watched Apollo kill Python and worshiped Apollo as his idol. Apollo, however, was annoyed by Eros and insulted him. Eros got angry and shot Apollo with his magic arrow, making him fall in love with a nymph named Daphne. Daphne didn't love Apollo and shunned him. Apollo chased her and she turned herself into a laurel tree to escape him. Apollo still loved her and made the laurel one of his symbols.
Apollo looked after the cattle of the sun-god Helios while Helios was driving the sun through the sky. While Apollo was chasing Daphne, the mischievous baby god Hermes stole the cattle and confused Apollo by making the cattle walk backwards as they left their pen. When Apollo went looking for them, it looked like they had walked into the pen instead of out. Hermes also told a nearby man that he would make him rich if he told no one about what he saw Hermes do. The man, Battos, told Apollo anyway, and was later turned into a stone by Hermes as punishment. Apollo took Hermes in front of all the gods to be judged. Hermes acted innocent, though, and finally convinced Apollo to forgive him by giving him the lyre. Apollo loved this lyre so much that he not only let Hermes keep the cattle, but also gave him the caduceus, a magic wand that could heal wounds and cause sleep. Hermes tried the caduceus out on two dying snakes, who came back to life and curled around the wand for the rest of eternity.
Apollo, meanwhile, used his lyre to become the god of music and became the leader of the Mousai, the nine goddesses of the arts.

</doc>
<doc id="26809" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26809" title="Nike (mythology)">
Nike (mythology)

Nike (Greek: Νίκη) is the goddess of victory in Greek mythology. She was the daughter of Styx and Pallas and the sister of Cratos, Bia, and Zelus. Nike and her brothers and sister were all friends of Zeus. 
Nike could run very fast, had wings and brings good luck. She is usually worshipped at the same time as Athena. Nike is often linked with sport, with companies named for her like Nike Inc. A picture of Nike also appears in all the medals for the Summer Olympics. Her Roman name is Victoria.
The most famous statue of Nike is the Winged Victory of Samothrace. This is now in the Louvre, which is a museum in Paris, France. She is a symbol of victory displayed outside Olympic stadiums in Olympia and in other places where there are Olympics. She is believed to always be watching over sport stadiums ready to choose the victor of the game.

</doc>
<doc id="26811" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26811" title="Daphne">
Daphne

Daphne can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="26814" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26814" title="Montagu Island">
Montagu Island

Montagu Island is the largest island of the South Sandwich Islands.

</doc>
<doc id="26815" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26815" title="Styx">
Styx

Styx is the goddess of the river Styx in Greek mythology, and was the only female river goddess. She was the daughter of Okeanos and Tethys, and with Pallas was also the mother of Zelus, Nike, Kratos, and Bia (and sometimes Eos). During the Titanomachy she sent the children to help Zeus. To reward her for helping the Olympians, Zeus did not throw her in Tartarus, but let her be the guardian of the river Styx. She is the wife of the ferryman, Charon, and the guardian of the river Coctylus, Archeon.

</doc>
<doc id="26816" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26816" title="Groucho Marx">
Groucho Marx

Julius Henry Marx or Groucho Marx (October 2, 1890 – August 19, 1977), was a famous American comedian. He was best known for work with his siblings in The Marx Brothers and then later on his own. He is best known for playing a fast-talking "wise guy" with bushy eyebrows, glasses, moustache, and a cigar.

</doc>
<doc id="26817" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26817" title="Greek mythology">
Greek mythology

Greek mythology is a large collection of stories, started in Ancient Greece, about the beginning of the world, and the lives and adventures of gods, goddesses, heroes, and heroines.
The gods and goddesses in Greek mythology have special parts in the world. For instance, Zeus is the god of the sky, Poseidon is the god of the sea and Hephaestus is the god of fire. They can make themselves invisible to humans and move to any place in a very short amount of time. The gods and goddesses also never get sick and can only be hurt by very unusual causes. This is called being immortal. The king of the gods was Zeus, who lived with the other gods on top of Mt. Olympus in Greece. The gods were children of the Titans such as Kronos and Rhea.
Greek mythology has 12 main gods known as the Twelve Olympians, including Zeus, Poseidon, Hera, Hades, Hephaestus, Dionysus, Athena, Artemis, Apollo, Ares, Demeter, Aphrodite, Hermes, and Hestia. Before them there were the 12 Titans lead by the youngest Titan, Kronos. Hestia gave up her throne for Dionysus.
There are lots of monsters in Greek mythology. Many are hybrids of animals or people. Some important Greek monsters are minotaurs, satyrs, centaurs and chimera. Hybrid animals are called chimeras sometimes because of the monster.
The Greeks believed that the sun was pulled across the sky by a "chariot" driven by the god, Apollo. Apollo was the brother of Artemis (the goddess of the hunt and the moon) and he himself was the god of archery, poetry, and prophecies. Everyday, Apollo would drive the "Sun Chariot" across the sky and provide light and heat for the people of Greece.
The Ancient Greeks believed that in the beginning, the world was in a state of nothingness, which they called chaos. Suddenly, from light, came Gaia (mother earth) and Uranus (the sky). Gaia and Uranus had 6 sets of twins. The most important of the 12 children were Kronos and Rhea. 
Gaia gave birth to some monsters called cyclops. Uranus disliked the cyclopes, so he forced Gaia to keep them in her womb. Gaia, angered by the amount of pain that Uranus had put her through by holding babies in her womb, sought revenge on Uranus. 
Gaia used her son Kronos, who chopped off Uranus' genitals. Kronos threw Uranus into the ocean. From the blood of his genitals, came the goddess of love and beauty—Aphrodite.
Kronos married his sister Rhea and gave birth to 6 children, who were called the gods.
Kronos, who was afraid of a prophecy delivered to him a while ago, swallowed each of his children each time they were born. Rhea did not like this, so she saved Zeus and gave Kronos a rock to eat instead. 
Zeus was raised by a centaur named Chiron, who is also the son of Kronos, in a mountain cave.
When Zeus was old enough, he tricked Kronos into drinking a mixture of wine and mustard. Kronos vomited up the rest of the gods, who, being immortal, had been growing up completely undigested in Kronos' stomach.
Zeus then banished Kronos to Tartarus.
Zeus was from then on the leader of the gods, and created man for his own entertainment.

</doc>
<doc id="26820" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26820" title="Gaia">
Gaia

Gaia can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="26822" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26822" title="Ge">
Ge

Ge or GE may stand for:

</doc>
<doc id="26825" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26825" title="Gaya (disambiguation)">
Gaya (disambiguation)

"See also: Gaia"
Gaya may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="26826" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26826" title="Nyx">
Nyx

Nyx was the goddess of the night in Greek mythology. She came out of Chaos.
Her Roman equivalent was Nox.
Nyx could not die. This is because she was sent to Earth by the Greek Gods and Goddesses. 
In his theogony (How the gods came to be), Hesiod tells: "Night is born of Chaos; her offspring are many, and telling. With Erebus, Night gives birth to the following deities:
Later, on her own, Night gives birth to 
In his description of Tartarus, Hesiod says further that Hemera "day", who is now Night's sister rather than daughter, left Tartarus just as Nyx entered it; when Hemera returned, Nyx left. This mirrors the portrayal of Ratri "night" in the Rig-Veda, where she works in close cooperation but also tension with her sister Ushas "dawn".
Nyx had other children on her own. These were:

</doc>
<doc id="26827" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26827" title="Hemera">
Hemera

Hemera was the goddess of daylight in Greek mythology. She was the daughter of Erebus and Nyx, and the sister of Moros, Charon, Keres and Nemesis. 
Hyginus lists their children as Uranus, Gaia, and Thalassa (the primordial sea goddess), while Hesiod only lists Thalassa as their child.
Aether was her brother and consort. Hyginus listed Gaia, Thalassa and Ouranos as their children. In Hesiod's "Theogony", Hemera was only mother of Thalassa.
Hemera's mother was the goddess of the night and her father was the god of darkness. they were brother and sister and married and had kids Hemera was one of them.
Her grandmother was the goddess of air.

</doc>
<doc id="26828" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26828" title="Aether">
Aether

Aether was the God of light in Greek mythology. He was the son of Erebus and Nyx. Aether is one of the primordial deities, the first-born elementals.
Damascius says that Aether, Erebus and Chaos were siblings, and the offspring of Chronos (Father Time). According to Epiphanius, the world began as a cosmic egg, encircled by Time and Inevitability (most likely Chronos and Ananke) in serpent fashion. Together they constricted the egg, squeezing its matter with great force, until the world divided into two hemispheres. After that, the atoms sorted themselves out. The lighter and finer ones floated above and became the Bright Air (Aether and/or Ouranos) and the rarefied Wind (Chaos), while the heavier and dirtier atoms sank and became the Earth (Gaia) and the Ocean (Pontos and/or Oceanus). See also Plato's Myth of Er.

</doc>
<doc id="26832" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26832" title="Keres (spirits)">
Keres (spirits)

The Keres are female death spirits in Greek mythology, and were the daughters of Erebus and Nyx. They look very dark and have sharp teeth, claws and like the taste of blood. The Keres look around battlefields for hurt people and people who are dying.

</doc>
<doc id="26833" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26833" title="Eris">
Eris

Eris (, "Strife") is the goddess of strife and discord in Greek mythology. She is the daughter of Nyx, but has no father. She is the opposite of Harmonia, who is the goddess of harmony.
The Romans called her "Discordia". In Roman statues of Discordia, and in other Roman art of her, she looks scary and ugly, and she is holding a knife. There are a few myths about this godess, such as the one involving the golden apple. 
Nowadays, there are some people who call themselves "Discordians". This idea comes from a book called "Principia Discordia", which was written by Greg Hill and Kerry Thornley in San Francisco in the year 1958 or 1959. The book says that Eris might not have been scary and ugly after all, but that she was just misunderstood.
The "Principia Discordia" describes the Discordian Society and its Goddess Eris, as well as the basics of Discordianism.

</doc>
<doc id="26834" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26834" title="Geras">
Geras

Geras is the god of age in Greek mythology. His mother is Nyx, but he has no father.

</doc>
<doc id="26835" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26835" title="Hypnos">
Hypnos

Hypnos is the god of sleep in Greek mythology. He is the son of Nyx and the twin brother of Thanatos, the god of death.
His sons are the Oneroi: Morpheus, Phobetor and Phantasos.
His Roman equivalent was "Somnus". Hypnos was represented as a gentle young man, usually with wings attached to his temples or shoulders (even though he tended to kill Roman workers that dozed off during their jobs).

</doc>
<doc id="26836" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26836" title="Momus">
Momus

Momus is the god of blame in Greek mythology. His mother is Nyx, but he has no father. He was kicked out of Olympus after criticizing Zeus and Aphrodite.

</doc>
<doc id="26837" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26837" title="Moros">
Moros

Moros is the personification of doom in Greek mythology. He was the child of Nyx and brother to Thanatos. It is believed that he decided the destiny of each mortal.

</doc>
<doc id="26838" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26838" title="Metis">
Metis

Metis is the goddess of wisdom in Greek mythology. She is one of the Titans and is the daughter of Oceanus and Tethys. She was the mother of Athena.
There is also a moon named after Metis.
When she was inside Zeus, Metis made a helmet and a robe for her baby. The hammering noise caused Zeus to have a headache. To try and help Zeus with the pain, Prometheus, Hephaestus, Hermes, or Palaemon (depending on the myth) cut his head open with a Minoan axe. Athena then came out of Zeus's head. She was fully grown and had her armour on.

</doc>
<doc id="26839" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26839" title="Eos">
Eos

Eos is the goddess of the dawn and a Titan in Greek mythology. She is the daughter of Hyperion and Theia.
She is the sister of Helios, the sun god, and Selene, the moon goddess.
Eos leaves her home, which was at the edge of ocean, every morning to wake her brother, Helios. She opens the gates of heaven so that Helios can ride his chariot across the sky each day.

</doc>
<doc id="26840" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26840" title="Selene">
Selene

Selene is the goddess of the moon and a Titan in Greek mythology. She is the daughter of Hyperion and Theia.
She later became one with the goddess Artemis. In Roman mythology the moon goddess is called Luna, Latin for "moon". The Roman Luna became one with Diana.
Like most moon deities, Selene plays a fairly big role in her pantheon. In the collection of poems called the Homeric hymns, there is a "Hymn to Selene" (xxxii), used with the hymn to Helios; in it Selene is called "far-winged", a name ordinarily applied to birds. Selene is also talked about in Nonnus, "Dionysiaca" 48.581; Pausanias 5.1.4; and Strabo 14.1.6,
The etymology of "Selene" is not known, but if the word is from Greek, it is probably connected to the word "selas", meaning "light". "Boreion Selas" is the Greek name for Aurora Borealis. The word "selenology", the study of the geology of the Moon, comes from her name. The chemical element Selenium was also named after Selene.
In post-Renaissance art, Selene is shown as a beautiful woman with a pale face. She is sometimes riding a silver chariot (cart) pulled by oxen or a pair of horses. Often, she is shown riding a horse or bull, wearing robes and a half-moon on her head and carrying a torch.
In the old pre-Olympian genealogy of the gods, Helios, the sun, is Selene's brother: after her brother, Helios, finishes his trip across the sky, Selene, freshly washed in the waters of the Earth-circling Ocean, begins her own trip as night falls upon the earth, which becomes lit from the light of her head and golden crown. When she is growing after mid-month, it is a "sure token and a sign to mortal men". Her sister, Eos, is goddess of the dawn. Eos also carried off a human lover, Cephalus, which is like a myth of Selene and Endymion.
As a result of Selene becoming one with Artemis, later writers sometimes said Selene was a daughter of Zeus, like Artemis, or of Pallas the Titan. In the Homeric "Hymn to Hermes", with its list of people's fathers, she is "bright Selene, daughter of the lord Pallas, Megamedes' son."
Lovers
The Apollonius of Rhodes tells how Selene loved a mortal, the handsome hunter or shepherd—or, in the version Pausanias knew, a king— of Elis, named Endymion, from Asia Minor. He was so beautiful that Selene asked Zeus to grant him eternal sleep, she learned from her sister never to ask for eternal life or be left with a grasshopper in her hands so he would never leave her: her asking permission of Zeus is as an Olympian change to an older myth: Cicero "Tusculanae Disputationes" recognized that the moon goddess had done it by herself. Another story says Endymion made the decision to live forever in sleep. Every night, Selene went down behind Mount Latmus near MiletusPausanias geographerPausanias . Selene had fifty daughters, the Menae, by Endymion, including Naxos, the nymph of Naxos Island. The protected place of Endymion at Heraclea by Latmus|Heraclea on the southern slope of Latmus is a horseshoe-shaped room with an entrance hall and pillared front court.
Though the story of Endymion is the best-known one today, the Homeric hymn to Selene tells that Selene also had a daughter by Zeus, Pandia, the "utterly shining" full moon. According to some sources, the Nemean Lion was her child as well. She also had a brief relationship with Pan, who seduced her by wrapping himself in a sheepskin and gave her the yoke of white oxen that drew the chariot in which she is shown in sculptures, with her windblown veil above her head like the arching canopy of sky. In the Homeric hymn, her chariot is drawn by long-maned horses.
The Roman moon goddess, Luna, had a temple on the Aventine Hill. It was built in the sixth century BC, but was destroyed in the Great Fire of Rome when Nero was king. There was also a temple to Luna Noctiluca ("Luna that shines by night") on the Palatine Hill. There were parties in honor of Luna on March 31, August 24 and August 29.

</doc>
<doc id="26841" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26841" title="Leto">
Leto

Leto is a goddess in Greek mythology. She was the daughter of Coeus and Phoebe, who were Titans. Leto was the mother of the twins Artemis and Apollo, whose father was Zeus.
After her twins were born, Leto played very little part in Greek mythology.
Hera, who was Zeus's wife, discovered that Leto was pregnant and became very angry. She banned Leto from giving birth on any mainland or island known.
Leto found the island of Delos, which floated and so was not an island nor mainland,and gave birth there. Leto gave birth to Artemis without any problem. However she was in labour with Apollo for nine days and nine nights. Artemis helped Leto to give birth to Apollo.

</doc>
<doc id="26843" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26843" title="Sioux Falls, South Dakota">
Sioux Falls, South Dakota

Sioux Falls (pronounced "sue falls") is a city in the U.S. state of South Dakota. It is the largest city in the state; 153,888 people lived there at the 2010 census. The city is in the eastern part of South Dakota. It is the county seat of Minnehaha County, where most of the city is located. The southern part of the city is in Lincoln County. Sioux Falls became a city in 1876. The city is built around the Big Sioux River, and it gets its name from a set of waterfalls along the river that are located in a park in the city.
Sioux Falls is home to four major sports teams. The Sioux Falls Skyforce play basketball in the NBA Development League, the Sioux Falls Canaries play baseball in the American Association, the Sioux Falls Stampede play ice hockey in the United States Hockey League, and the Sioux Falls Storm play American football in the Indoor Football League.
Two major Interstate highways go through Sioux Falls. Interstate 90 goes from east to west, and Interstate 29 goes from north to south. Sioux Falls also has a shorter route, Interstate 229, that serves the eastern part of the city and connects Interstate 90 to Interstate 29. The city is also home to the Sioux Falls Regional Airport, which has flights to many big cities across the country.

</doc>
<doc id="26844" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26844" title="30s">
30s


</doc>
<doc id="26846" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26846" title="Christopher Eccleston">
Christopher Eccleston

Christopher Eccleston (born 16 February 1964) is an English actor. He played the Ninth Doctor on "Doctor Who" in 2005. Before playing the doctor, he played the Son of God in "The Second Coming". He has acted in movies, such as "Let Him Have It", "Shallow Grave", and "Gone in 60 Seconds".
Eccleston is an atheist.

</doc>
<doc id="26848" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26848" title="Deliverance">
Deliverance

Deliverance is a 1972 American crime drama movie made by Warner Bros.. It was directed by John Boorman and stars Burt Reynolds, Ronny Cox, Ned Beatty, and Jon Voight. It was based on a book written in 1970 by James Dickey, who also wrote the screenplay and had a small part in the movie. It is set in rural northern Georgia. Four men from Atlanta take a trip in a canoe. Two of them are raped by sadistic local men; the victims take revenge on their attackers.
"Deliverance" got good reviews from critics and is widely considered one of the best films of 1972.
Nominated for:

</doc>
<doc id="26852" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26852" title="The Adventures of Robin Hood">
The Adventures of Robin Hood

The Adventures of Robin Hood is a 1938 swashbuckler movie. It was directed by Michael Curtiz and William Keighley. It was shot in Technicolor. The movie stars Errol Flynn, Olivia de Havilland, Basil Rathbone, and Claude Rains. The story is based on the traditional tales of Robin Hood. It is the third of eight movies Flynn and De Havilland made together. The movie won three minor Academy Awards. In 1995, the movie was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry.

</doc>
<doc id="26853" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26853" title="Speed (movie)">
Speed (movie)

Speed is a 1994 American action-thriller movie set in Los Angeles, California. It stars Keanu Reeves, Sandra Bullock, Jeff Daniels, Alan Ruck, and Dennis Hopper. It is about a police officer (Reeves) who has to stop a extortionist (Hopper), who has put a bomb on a city bus. The movie was a box office success in many countries.
It was followed by a 1997 sequel, "".

</doc>
<doc id="26854" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26854" title="Ares">
Ares

Ares is a god in Greek mythology. He is the god of savage war and bloodlust, and represents the untamed, wild aspects of conflict. He is one of the Twelve Olympians. His parents are Zeus and Hera. He had a twin sister called Eris. Neither parent liked him. He is considered murderous and bloody. In the Trojan war, he fought on the side of Troy. He had six children with Aphrodite. His homeland is Thrace. 

</doc>
<doc id="26855" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26855" title="Anna Kavan">
Anna Kavan

Anna Kavan (born 10 April 1901 as Helen Emily Woods, died 1968) was an English writer.
Her early work, comprising six novels, gave little indication of the style and content of her writing after 1939. The change of her name to Anna Kavan in 1940 signalled an experimental form, focussed on the 'nocturnal language' of dreams and addiction.
"I Am Lazarus" is a collection of short stories that address the disturbing unreality of mental illness, particularly as a result of [war-related] post traumatic stress disorder.
Kavan travelled extensively during the Second World War, spending 22 months in New Zealand. That country's proximity to Antarctica informed her writing of "Ice".
Kavan's biographical details have until recently been vague and sketchy, but recent discoveries of letters and unpublished manuscripts have shed revealing light on her life and times. Dr Jennifer Sturm of Auckland University has made a recent study of Kavan's writing, and has unearthed significant validation of her biographical details. Kavan is currently enjoying something of a belated interest. London publishers Peter Owen Publishers have for many years flown the Kavan flag and continue to do so, with the recent re-release of "Ice" and a forthcoming publication of "Guilty", a new posthumous release of Kavan's work.

</doc>
<doc id="26856" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26856" title="Voodoo">
Voodoo

The word Voodoo, which has many different names and spellings (like "Vodun, Vodou, Voudou, Vudu, Vodoun") is the name of a West African religion. Voodoo is animist and spiritist, and a lot of Voodoo beliefs have to do with ancestor spirits. Some of it is based on Catholic beliefs, but most of Voodoo is from the Fon, Ewe, and Yoruba peoples. The word vodún is the Fon-Ewe word for spirit. 
In Voodoo many gods and spirits are prayed to or called on. Both spirits of nature and of dead people are important. The spirits of family member who have died are especially important. Voodoo often has rituals with music and dancing. Drums are used to make most of this music. In Voodoo people often believe that a spirit is in their body and controlling the body. Having a spirit come into is wanted, and important. This spirit can speak for the gods or dead people you love, and can also help to heal or do magic.
Voodoo came to places like Haiti and the United States as Vodu. Some people think Voodoo and Vodu are the same religion. Some people think they are not the same religion because Voodoo has changed some after it was taken from Africa. For example, African Vodu often has animal sacrifice (the animal is killed for the spirits), but this is not common in Haiti. Another example is that an African sea god became a Haitian sea goddess. Voodoo in Haiti and America has also added some Catholic ideas that were not known in African Vodu.
Voodoo is an important religion in Haiti. When Haiti beat the French in a war and became its own country, the people of Haiti believed that Voodoo had helped them win. Also, in Haiti there are both good priests and "dark" sorcerers (called bokor). The bokor acts like a kind of religious policeman, and may curse bad people. It is the bokor who are said to make zombies; becoming a zombie is the worst curse because it means a person loses their soul.
Voodoo originally entered the United States via immigrants from Africa and Haiti such as Marie LaVeau, "the Voodoo queen of New Orleans." Marie was a pacifist and known for healing people. Though unprecedented, the local Catholic priest let Marie practice Voodoo in the Catholic Church, and as a result, she became famous, leading (along with others) many in Louisiana to believe in Voodoo.
In most parts of the U.S., Voodoo is primarily practiced by African descendants, who follow the teachings as part of a family heritage. Louisiana, however, which is the U.S. state with the most Voodoo believers, the belief system has attracted a number of caucasian followers as well. 
People fear the unknown, and as most people do not know much about Voodoo, it is used to frighten and its practices (Hoodoo) are portrayed as evil. Voodoo is shown in many horror/suspense movies and has come into American pop culture through music, movies, art, and many other mediums.
Like many other religions and practices, people learn about Voodoo and Hoodoo through movies and TV shows, where it has gained the popularity it has today as a form of entertainment. Hoodoo was showcased in the 2005 horror-suspense movie, The Skeleton Key, starring Kate Hudson (correctly emphasizing that it was Hoodoo that was being used), and in the upcoming 2009 Disney movie The Princess and the Frog.
<br>Zombies are a large part of popular horror culture, and they originated in Voodoo folklore from the original word, “nbzambi”, which refers to the primary sprit and/or to one’s soul.
There are four types of zombies in Voodoo: the Great Spirit, the Spiritual Soul, the Herbal Zombie and the Bargained Zombie;each type is created differently. Zombies of Voodoo folklore do not come to be from a zombie bite, it is a large misconception.
Zombies are portrayed as monsters and are in plays and many movies, including the 2009 release of Zombieland, and the 2004 movie Shaun of the Dead, both horror-comedies. 
Just as there is Christian music, there was music that came from Voodoo rituals, which influenced jazz, and many of the original jazz players are rumored to have had a connection to Voodoo in some way, including Jelly Roll Morton and Louis Armstrong. Storyville, a district in New Orleans, was a place where, at night, Jazz was played and Hoodoo was sold. There, jazz thrived and pulsed with the voices and instruments of Jelly Roll, Sweet Emma Barrett, and many others.
There are many songs and albums that reference Voodoo and/or Hoodoo, either in the title ("Hoodoo" by Muse )
or in the actual song, such as in David Bowie's song "Magic Dance", with the lyric, ""You remind me of the babe./ What babe?/ The babe with the power. /What power?/ The power of the hoodoo. /Hoodoo? /You do. /Do what? /Remind me of the babe!"". Another example is Rob Zombie who started the band White Zombie.
There are many books on the subject of Voodoo and Hoodoo, such as How-To's and folk tales.
One of the most famous books incorporating these themes is "The Serpent And The Rainbow", by Wade Davis, which is also a movie, though the author was very displeased with the result.
A list of books can be found here.
Many people enjoy partaking in Voodoo and Hoodoo practices, such as buying love potions, and casting or having spells casted for them that promise luck, money, health or success. While some only do it for the fun of it, many take it seriously, as it is a religion. Hoodoo can be used for harm, but that is adverse to how it is supposed to be used.

</doc>
<doc id="26857" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26857" title="Mercury (mythology)">
Mercury (mythology)

In Roman mythology, Mercury was the god of trade, merchants, thieves and travelers. He was the messenger of the gods. He is often represented wearing winged sandals and holding a staff with two snakes around it. He showed the way for dead souls to Pluto's realm.

</doc>
<doc id="26858" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26858" title="Medusa">
Medusa

Medusa is a character in Greek mythology. Her story has been told and retold by ancient and modern writers and artists. 
The Latin poet Ovid writes in Book IV of his "Metamorphoses" that Poseidon had raped Medusa in the temple of Athena. The goddess was outraged, and changed Medusa into a monster with snakes for hair. 
Medusa has been depicted in the visual arts for centuries. Many interpretations surround the myth, including one by Sigmund Freud. For the ancients, an image of Medusa's head was a device for averting evil. This device was called the Gorgoneion.
Medusa was one of three sisters. They were known as The Gorgons. Medusa's sisters were Stheno and Euryale. Medusa was mortal, but her sisters were immortal. They were all children of the sea deities, Phorkys and his sister Keto. Before they were monsters, all three sisters were beautiful young women, particularly Medusa; however, she was a priestess in the temple of Athena and was bound by a vow of celibacy.
Any man or animal who looked upon her was turned to stone.
The hero Perseus beheaded Medusa. After using the dreadful head to defeat his enemies, he presented it to Athena. She put it on her shield.
Medusa was pregnant by Poseidon at the time of her death. Pegasus, a winged horse, and Chrysaor, a golden giant, sprang from her blood.
Medusa was a subject for ancient vase painters, mosaicists, and sculptors. She appears on the breastplate of Alexander the Great in the Alexander Mosaic at the House of the Faun in Pompeii, Italy (about 200 BC). 
A Roman copy of Phidias' "Medusa" (left) is held in the Glyptothek in Munich, Germany. 
Among the Renaissance depictions are the sculpture "Perseus with the Head of Medusa" by Benvenuto Cellini (1554) and the oil painting "Medusa" by Caravaggio (1597).
Baroque depictions include "Head of Medusa" by Peter Paul Rubens (1618); the marble bust "Medusa" by Bernini (1630s); and "Perseus Turning Phineus and his Followers to Stone", an oil painting by Luca Giordano from the (early 1680s).
Romantic and modern depictions include "Perseus with the Head of Medusa" by Antonio Canova (1801) and "Perseus", a sculpture by Salvador Dalí. Twentieth century artists whno tackled the Medusa theme include Paul Klee, John Singer Sargent, Pablo Picasso, Pierre et Gilles, and Auguste Rodin. 

</doc>
<doc id="26870" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26870" title="Lilo &amp; Stitch: The Series">
Lilo &amp; Stitch: The Series

Lilo & Stitch: The Series is a Disney Channel animated television series based on the 2002 movie, "Lilo & Stitch". It follows "Stitch! The Movie", which was a pilot to the series. It stars Daveigh Chase as Lilo Pelekai. Lilo and her alien friend Stitch try to find Stitch's alien cousins and the job each cousin is perfect for.

</doc>
<doc id="26873" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26873" title="Olga Bondarenko">
Olga Bondarenko

Olga Bondarenko (maiden name Krentser, born 2 June 1960 in Slavgorod, Altai Krai, Russia) is a long-distance runner. Running for the U.S.S.R., she won the 10,000 metre race at the 1988 Summer Olympics, and the 3,000 metre race at the 1986 European Championships. Earlier she had set a world record for the 10,000 m event, at 31 minutes, 13.78 seconds, in Kiev in 1984. Her first world-class gold medal was a first-place finish in the 5,000 m race at the 1986 Goodwill Games in Moscow. She competed in the 1992 Summer Olympics.

</doc>
<doc id="26877" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26877" title="Hephaestus">
Hephaestus

Hephaestus was the Greek god of fire and volcanoes. His Roman equivalent is the god Vulcan. He was prayed to by metal workers. Hephaestus mother and father were Hera and Zeus. His grandparents were Kronos and Rhea. 
When Hephaestus was born, he was ugly and weak, with a broken foot. Hera did not like the way he looked and threw him off her castle which was on top of the clouds. Hephaestus fell for one day and one night before falling into the sea. The sea animals rescued him and took him to an island called Lemnos. There Hephaestus built his forge underneath a volcano. He collected precious metals, pearls and pieces of coral to fashion extraordinary! jewelry. Hephaestus built little robots of gold to help him get around. Hephaestus even worked with the Cyclopes (one eyed creatures). To impress the gods and goddesses, he made a set of golden thrones for them.
Hera realized her mistake of throwing Hephaestus off Mount Olympus and pleaded Zeus to welcome Hephaestus back. Hephaestus politely refused, saying that he was quite happy where he was. Then he set to work and fashioned a beautiful golden throne and sent it to Hera as a ‘thank you gift’ for the invitation. The instant she sat on it, golden ropes flew out and tied her up locking her into the chair.
Hephaestus was still very angry with Hera because she threw him of Mount Olympus. Even though everyone tried to free Hera from the great trap, Hephaestus’ design was so clever that none could detach the ropes. So, Zeus sent his son Ares, god of war, to bring Hephaestus back to let Hera loose. Instead Hephaestus made him run away throwing firebrands at him, and Ares made a shameful retreat. Zeus used trickery next and sent Dionysus, the god of wine, to get Hephaestus drunk. Hephaestus was not a regular drinker, and Hephaestus got drunk very quickly. Soon Dionysus was making his proud return to Mount Olympus, with drunk Hephaestus on the back of a mule. Hephaestus finally freed Hera and moved back to the forges because he did not like the busy life of the palace. Although, he still refused to forgive Hera.
Hera felt very guilty and gave him loads of supplies, materials, tools, and helpers for his workshop. Hephaestus made the best weapons, jewelry, and armor. Some of his greatest creations ever were the silver bows and arrows of Artemis and Apollo as well as Apollo’s golden chariot. He also made the shield of Achilles, Athena's spear, and Hercules' breastplate. In addition to this he made the scepter of Zeus and the battle armor of the Olympian armies. He also made all of the gods and goddesses palaces and their unbreakable locks. On top of all this, Hephaestus was and is still credited with the invention of the three-legged stool and the world’s first robots. Hephaestus helpers included a complete set of life size golden maids who helped around the house.
Hephaestus married Aphrodite. When Aphrodite emerged from the sea (created by the sperm of the severed member of Uranus,) Zeus feared that the gods would battle over her hand in marriage, so Zeus arranged that Aphrodite would marry Hephaestus. Hephaestus gave Aphrodite his best creations and even gave her a magic girdle that made her irresistible to men. However, Aphrodite did not love him as she was married against her will and she didn't like Hephaestus' looks. She spent most of her time with Ares.
Hephaestus was well liked by all of the Olympians. He was not involved in their plots. Hephaestus preferred to be alone in his workshop. Hephaestus was also worshiped by the Greeks because he proved that those who labor are also noble. Hephaestus reminds us of the value and dangers of losing our selves in work.

</doc>
<doc id="26878" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26878" title="Vulcan (mythology)">
Vulcan (mythology)

Vulcan is the god of fire in Roman mythology. His Greek equivalent is the god Hephaestus. He is the son of Jupiter and Juno, and the husband of Venus.
Vulcan was born extremely ugly. His mother, Juno, tried to throw him off a cliff, but failed to kill her son. Instead, she put him in a volcano and told him to stay there for the rest of his young life. Little did she know that her young boy would grow to be a very talented blacksmith for all the gods and goddesses of Olympus.
Vulcan made thrones for the other gods to sit on in Mount Etna. Through his identification with the Hephaestus of Greek mythology, he came to be considered as the manufacturer of art, arms, iron, jewelry and armor for various gods and heroes, including the thunderbolts of Jupiter. He was the son of Jupiter and Juno, and husband of Maia and Venus. His smithy was believed to be underneath Mount Etna in Sicily.
Vulcan had a happy childhood with dolphins as his playmates and pearls as his toys. Late in his childhood, he found the remains of a fisherman's fire on the beach and became fascinated with an un-extinguished coal, still red-hot and glowing.
Vulcan carefully shut this precious coal in a clam shell and took it back to his underwater grotto and made a fire with it. On the first day after, Vulcan stared at this fire for hours on end. On the second day, he discovered that when he made the fire hotter with bellows, certain stones sweated iron, silver or gold. On the third day he beat the cooled metal into shapes: bracelets, chains, swords and shields. Vulcan made pearl-handled knives and spoons for his foster mother, he made a silver chariot for himself, and bridles so that seahorses could transport him quickly. He even made slave-girls of gold to wait on him and do his bidding.
Later, Thetis left her underwater grotto to attend a dinner party on Mount Olympus wearing a beautiful necklace of silver and sapphires, which Vulcan had made for her. Juno admired the necklace and asked as to where she could get one. Thetis became flustered causing Juno to become suspicious and, at last, the queen god discovered the truth: the baby she had once rejected had grown into a talented blacksmith.
Juno was furious and demanded that Vulcan return home, a demand that he refused. However he did send Juno a beautifully constructed chair made of silver and gold, inlaid with mother-of-pearl. Juno was delighted with this gift but, as soon as she sat in it her weight triggered hidden springs and metal bands sprung forth to hold her fast. The more she shrieked and struggled the more firmly the mechanical throne gripped her; the chair was a cleverly designed trap.
For three days Juno sat fuming, still trapped in Vulcan's chair, she could not sleep, she could not stretch, she could not eat. It was Jupiter who finally saved the day, he promised that if Vulcan released Juno he would give him a wife, Venus the goddess of love and beauty. Vulcan agreed and married Venus. He later built a smithy under Mount Etna on the island of Sicily. It was said that whenever Venus is unfaithful, Vulcan grows angry and beats the red-hot metal with such a force that sparks and smoke rise up from the top of the mountain, to create a volcanic eruption.
According to Virgil, Vulcan was the father of Caeculus.[12]
To punish mankind for stealing the secrets of fire, Jupiter ordered the other gods to make a poisoned gift for man. Vulcan's contribution to the beautiful and foolish Pandora was to mould her from clay and to give her form. He also made the thrones for the other gods on Mount Olympus.
Vulcan's oldest shrine in Rome, called the "Volcanal", was in the Roman Forum. It was said to have been built during the Roman Kingdom by Titus Tatius, the Sabine co-king, in the eighth century BC. The Etruscan haruspices thought a temple of Vulcan should be outside the city, and the Volcanal may originally have been on or outside the city limits before they expanded to include the Capitoline Hill. Vulcan also had a temple on the Campus Marius. 
The Romans identified Vulcan with the Greek smith-god Hephaestus and he became associated like his Greek counterpart with the use of fire in metalworking. A fragment of a Greek pot showing Hephaestus found at the Volcanal has been dated to the 6th century BC, suggesting they were already associated. However, Vulcan had a stronger association than Hephaestus with fire's destructiveness, and his worshippers wanted to encourage the god to avert harmful fires. 
His festival, the Vulcanalia, was celebrated on August 23, when the summer heat made a fire hazard. The people made bonfires, and threw live fish or small animals into the fires as animal sacrifice. Vulcan was among the gods placated after the Great Fire of Rome in AD 64. Also because of that fire, Domitian (emperor 81–96) established a new altar to Vulcan on the Quirinal Hill. A red bull-calf and red boar were added to the sacrifices made on the Vulcanalia, at least in that part of town.

</doc>
<doc id="26879" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26879" title="Tyche (planet)">
Tyche (planet)

Tyche is the nickname given to a possible gas giant planet in the Solar System's Oort cloud. It is one of several proposed planets beyond Neptune. Tyche was first proposed in 1999 by astronomer John Matese of the University of Louisiana at Lafayette. 
Matese and Daniel Whitmire say that the points of origin for long-period comets gives a pattern that suggests Tyche's existence. They noted that Tyche, if it exists, should be seen in the archive of data that was collected by NASA's Wide-field Infrared Survey Explorer (WISE) Infrared telescope. However, several astronomers disagree that Tyche exists. In 2014 NASA announced that WISE had not found such a planet. 

</doc>
<doc id="26880" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26880" title="Fortuna (mythology)">
Fortuna (mythology)

Fortuna is the goddess of fortune, luck and fate in Roman mythology. Fortuna could bestow good or bad luck. She was sometimes represented veiled and blind. She was a daughter of Jupiter and like him, she could also be bountiful and generous.

</doc>
<doc id="26883" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26883" title="Demeter">
Demeter

Demeter is the goddess of farming in Greek mythology. She is one of the Twelve Olympians. She is the daughter of Kronos and Rhea, and also the sister of Zeus. As a fertility goddess, she is sometimes identified with Rhea and Gaia. She is the mother of Persephone. Demeter brings forth fruits of the earth, particularly the various grains. Her sacred animals were the snake and the pig. She is also the sister of Hera, Zeus,Posiden and Hades. Demeter was most often kind and generous.

</doc>
<doc id="26884" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26884" title="Ceres">
Ceres

In Roman mythology, Ceres was the goddess of agriculture, especially the growing of grains and cereals, good fertility and motherly relationships. She was daughter of Saturn and mother of Proserpina. A statue of Ceres stands atop the Chicago Board of Trade Building in Chicago, Illinois, United States. 

</doc>
<doc id="26885" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26885" title="Roman mythology">
Roman mythology

Roman mythology is a large collection of stories, started in Ancient Rome, about the beginning of the world, and the lives and adventures of lots of gods, goddesses, heroes, and heroines.
The myths of the Ancient Romans are often called "Greco-Roman" because they were very similar to the Greek mythology of the Ancient Greeks!
The gods and goddesses in these stories have lots of magic powers. They can make themselves invisible to humans and move to any place in a very short amount of time. The gods and goddesses also never get sick and can only be hurt by very unusual causes. This is called being immortal. Immortal means the God or Goddess can never die.

</doc>
<doc id="26886" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26886" title="List of Roman gods and goddesses">
List of Roman gods and goddesses

This is a list of Roman Gods and Goddesses that are in Roman mythology.

</doc>
<doc id="26888" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26888" title="List of gods and goddesses">
List of gods and goddesses

This is an index of deities in different polytheistic religions, cultures and mythologies of the world.
This list includes Etruscan, Greek, Roman and Norse versions of the same God. The table is ordered by the Greek God's name.

</doc>
<doc id="26891" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26891" title="Ancient history">
Ancient history

Ancient history is all the events we know about between the invention of writing and the start of the Middle Ages. Writing is one of the greatest inventions of the human species. It was invented after the Neolithic revolution in which people settled in small towns and started agriculture. Writing dates from about 3,300 BC, which is over 5000 years ago, in the Middle East. The first people to use writing were the Sumerians and the Ancient Egyptians.
Before writing, the only things we have are the tools and monuments made by earlier people. This is studied by archaeology rather than history. The period of ancient history ends with the early Middle Ages.
Finding facts about ancient history is difficult because people wrote less in those times and much of what they did write has been lost. There were very few copies made because there was no printing. What people wrote they wrote by hand. More people could read and write in Ancient Rome than in other places but much of what they wrote is now lost. Historians also look at things that were made and used in ancient history to learn more about it.
Archaeology is looking at things that were made or used in the past to learn about that time. Things like clay pots, solid tools, and metal weapons can stay the same during a long time. Things like paper, wood, and cloth can be easily broken, burnt or damaged.
Some ancient things found using archaeology are:
Primary sources are written by people who lived in ancient times. They tell us most of what we know about ancient history. But people in ancient history may have believed different things from each other. They may also be wrong.
Some famous people who wrote in ancient history are:
Herodotus, Josephus, Livy, Polybius, Suetonius, Tacitus, Thucydides and Sima Qian.

</doc>
<doc id="26902" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26902" title="Andrzej Sapkowski">
Andrzej Sapkowski

Andrzej Sapkowski (born June 21, 1948 in Łódź) is a well-known Polish fantasy writer. He is probably one of the most popular Polish writers today. His best known work is The Witcher ("Wiedźmin") Saga (takes place in a fictional universe). Before starting his career in the late 1980s, he worked in foreign trade.

</doc>
<doc id="26903" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26903" title="Staten Island">
Staten Island

Staten Island is a borough of New York City. Fewer than half a million people live there, the smallest population of any of the five boroughs. Three bridges connect Staten Island to New Jersey, and the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge connects to Brooklyn. A passenger railroad runs along the south shore to the northeast end of the island, which is called Saint George.
The free Staten Island Ferry carries 21 million passengers each year the five miles across New York Harbor between Saint George and Manhattan. Nine ferry boats provide the service which began in the 1700s.

</doc>
<doc id="26904" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26904" title="Borough">
Borough

A borough is an administrative division in many countries. It is a kind of local government. 
The term borough can means a self-governing township. 
In medieval times, boroughs were settlements with some self-government. Boroughs were particularly common in England, Germany and Scotland. In medieval England, boroughs had also the right to elect members of parliament. ("The Borough" in Southwark, London is thought to have been the original 'borough' of which all others come from.)
Usually a borough is a single town with its own local government. 
But in some cities it is a sub-division of the city (e.g. London, New York City, Toronto, Montreal). In such cases the borough will normally have either limited powers delegated to it by the city's local government or no powers at all. At certain times London has had no overall city government and London boroughs were the main unit of local government for Londoners. 
In other places, such as Alaska, a borough does not mean a single township, but a whole region. In Australia borough can mean a town and its surrounding area, e.g. the Borough of Queenscliffe.
Boroughs exist in United Kingdom, more specifically in England and Northern Ireland, in the Canadian province of Quebec, in some states of the United States, in Israel, and formerly they also existed in New Zealand. 
At the end of a word, -borough (or -brough) is found in the name of many towns and cities in England; in southern England it is usually spelt -bury. The suffix -bury is also used in the New England region of the United States, while -burg (or -burgh) is more common in Scotland and the American South and West.

</doc>
<doc id="26909" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26909" title="Echo (mythology)">
Echo (mythology)

Echo was a nymph in Greek mythology, and an Oread (a mountain nymph). She was very beautiful, but loved her own voice.
According to "Ovid", Echo once had the job of distracting Hera from Zeus having relationships with other women. She did this by leading Hera away and flattering her. When Hera found out she was very angry with Echo. She put a curse on her that meant that she could only speak the last words of other people after she had heard them. It is due to this story that we get the meaning behind the word "echo".
After she was cursed, Echo fell in love with Narcissus. Narcissus was very handsome and anybody who saw him always fell in love with him. However, Narcissus had no heart and could not fall in love with anybody. Echo could not speak to Narcissus but wanted to be able to see him. She therefore followed him everywhere, but made sure that he could not see her.
Narcissus got lost and called out ""Is anyone here?"". Echo said back ""Here, here, here."" Narcissus then asked Echo to come out of her hiding place. Echo did so and then told Narcissus that she loved him by hand movements. Narcissus, who was angry that so many people loved him, told Echo that he did not love her.
Echo was very upset and prayed to Aphrodite for death. Aphrodite granted Echo's wish, but she liked Echo's voice so much she kept it alive.
Narcissus also rejected Echo and broke her heart. She then went and haunted valleys and mountainous areas where echoes are able to be heard in all hollow places of the earth.
This is a different story about Echo's death. Echo was a very good dancer and singer, but did not like the love of any man. This caused another god, called Pan, to become angry. He had Echo killed and split into pieces. These pieces were spread about the world, but were collected up by Gaia. Echo's voice was not collected, so it remains all over the world and still says the last words that other people have said. In some versions of the story, Echo and Pan have a child who was called Iambe.

</doc>
<doc id="26911" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26911" title="Helios">
Helios

Helios is the god of the sun and a Titan in Greek mythology. He is the son of Hyperion and Theia.
He later became one with the god Apollo.Greek people used to worship Helios because they thought that the sun was the most powerful.

</doc>
<doc id="26919" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26919" title="Bia">
Bia

Bia is the goddess of force in Greek mythology. She is the daughter of Styx and Pallas, and also the sister of Nike, Cratos, and Zelus. She and her brothers and sister were the friends of Zeus and were always with him. 

</doc>
<doc id="26920" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26920" title="Zelus">
Zelus

Zelus (Greek: Ζῆλος, "zeal") is the god of dedication and emulation in Greek mythology. He is the son of Styx and Pallas, and also the brother of Nike, Cratos, and Bia. He and his brothers and sister were the friends of Zeus and were always with him. He was a constant companion of Zeus and personified zeal.

</doc>
<doc id="26921" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26921" title="Mnemosyne">
Mnemosyne

Mnemosyne is the Titan of memory in Greek mythology. Her parents are Gaia and Uranos. With Zeus her children are the nine Muses. Her patron symbol is a mask and she is often seen wearing one. Her patron animal is the partridge.

</doc>
<doc id="26925" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26925" title="Harmonia">
Harmonia

Harmonia is the goddess of harmony in Greek mythology. 
She is the daughter of Ares and Aphrodite, and the mother of Ino, Polydorus, Autonoe, Agaue and Semele with Kadmos. As goddess of harmony, she is the opposite of Eris, the goddess of strife and discord.

</doc>
<doc id="26930" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26930" title="President Pro Tempore of the Senate">
President Pro Tempore of the Senate

The President "pro tempore" ( or ), or president pro tem, of the United States Senate is the longest serving Senator from the majority political party in the United States Senate. According to the Constitution, this is the fourth highest office in the United States. It is the third in the presidential line of succession (behind the Vice President and the Speaker of the House). Many state senates also use the office of President pro tem.
Officially the Vice President is person in charge of the Senate, but he is not a Senator. Orrin Hatch (R-UT) is the President pro tempore. When the Vice President cannot be in charge, the President pro tempore is in charge of the Senate. Many people still think of the President pro tempore as "" president of the Senate. Benjamin Wade was only one vote away from becoming the President of the United States due to the impeachment of Andrew Johnson. No president pro tempore has taken over the presidency as of 2016.
Probably the most famous Presidents pro tempore were John Langdon (first in this office), David Rice Atchison (D-MO), Benjamin Wade (R-OH), Arthur Vandenberg (R-MI), Carl Hayden (D-AZ) Richard Russell, Jr. (D-GA), Strom Thurmond (R-SC), Robert Byrd (D-WV), Daniel Inouye (D-HI), and Patrick Leahy (D-VT).
When Senator Hubert Humphrey, a former Vice President of the United States, was seriously ill, the Senate showed its respect for him by creating the office of Deputy President Pro tempore for any former President or Vice President who is elected to the Senate. No Vice-President since Humphrey has done this.
Since 2001, the honorary title of president pro tempore emeritus has been given to a Senator of the minority party who has previously served as president pro tempore. The position has been held by:

</doc>
<doc id="26937" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26937" title="David Tennant">
David Tennant

David Tennant (born David John McDonald; 18 April 1971) is a Scottish actor. He is most known for playing the Tenth Doctor on "Doctor Who" from 2005 to 2010 and as Giacomo Casanova in the television series "Casanova".
In 2011, Tennant had a daughter with Georgia Moffett. Later that year he adoption Moffett's son. The couple married in December 2011. In May 2013, the couple had a son. In November 2015, the couple had a daughter.

</doc>
<doc id="26942" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26942" title="American Broadcasting Company">
American Broadcasting Company

The American Broadcasting Company (ABC) is an United States television network. Along with CBS, NBC and FOX, it is one of the country's four major television networks. The network is owned by The Walt Disney Company.
This is a list of the programs that ABC shows.
For children, ABC has a separate programming block titled Litton's Weekend Adventure.
ABC News is ABC's news division. Its shows include "Good Morning America", "World News Now", "20/20", and "ABC World News Tonight".
"ABC World News Tonight" is the nightly news and flagship program for ABC News. It airs at 6:30 PM EST. On September 1, 2014, David Muir became the anchor (the main presenter). Former anchors include Peter Jennings, Charles Gibson, and Diane Sawyer.
Before 2006, "ABC Sports" covered sporting events for ABC. In 1996, The Walt Disney Company bought ABC. Disney already owned ESPN at the time. From 1996 through the early 2000s, "ABC Sports" was run by both ABC and ESPN but used the ABC name. In 2006, the sports programming of ABC was changed to "ESPN on ABC".

</doc>
<doc id="26943" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26943" title="Fox Broadcasting Company">
Fox Broadcasting Company

Fox (styled FOX) is an United States television network. Along with ABC, CBS, and NBC, it is one of the country's four major television networks. It is owned by Fox Entertainment Group.

</doc>
<doc id="26944" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26944" title="ABC">
ABC

ABC are the first three letters in the Latin alphabet.

</doc>
<doc id="26947" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26947" title="Papua New Guinea">
Papua New Guinea

Papua New Guinea is an island country near Indonesia and Australia. It is the east half of New Guinea island, plus some nearby islands. The capital city of Papua New Guinea is Port Moresby. The population of Papua New Guinea are mostly the native population of the island.
The island is in both Australasia and Oceania, which are two different terms for the continent of islands in the Pacific area.
Papua New Guinea is divided into four regions. These regions are important for government, commercial, sporting and other activities.
The nation has 20 province-level divisions: eighteen, the Autonomous Region of Bougainville and the National Capital District. Each province is divided into one or more districts. The districts are divided into one or more Local Level Government areas.
The province-level divisions are as follows:
Parliament has approved two additional provinces by 2012: Hela Province, which will be part of the current Southern Highlands Province, and Jiwaka Province, which will be formed by dividing Western Highlands Province.

</doc>
<doc id="26949" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26949" title="Strom Thurmond">
Strom Thurmond

James Strom Thurmond (December 5, 1902 - June 26, 2003) was an American politician. He was the oldest serving member of the United States Senate to date and the only senator to reach 100 while in office. He was also Governor of his home state South Carolina and a Presidential candidate. He was a lawyer.
Thurmond spent more than 70 years of his life on public career. Before World War II he served as state senator and judge. During war he served in the US Army in Europe and briefly in Asia. In 1960 he was promoted to the rank of major general.
Thurmond was born on December 5, 1902 in Edgefield, South Carolina. He studied at Clemson Agricultural College of South Carolina. Thurmond graduated in 1923. He was married to Jean Crouch from 1947 until they divorced in 1960. Then he was married to Nancy Moore from 1968 until his death in 2003. He had five children.
From 1947 to 1951 he served as Governor of South Carolina (as a Democrat). During 1948 U.S. Presidential Election he became the presidential candidate of the Democratic Party faction called "Dixiecrat" (States Rights Democrat, mostly from the South) - people who supported racial segregation and opposed civil rights laws. Thurmond and his Vice Presidential candidate, Mississippi Governor Fielding Lewis Wright finished the race in 's3rd (behind Harry Truman and Thomas E. Dewey) with 39 electoral votes and they carried 4 states (Alabama, Louisiana, Mississippi and, of course, Thurmond's home state).
He was elected, as first write-in candidate for major national office, to the Senate in 1954. He was reelected for his first full term in 1956 and served until January 2003. He was originally a Democrat, but in 1964 he openly supported Barry Goldwater's presidential bid and became a Republican.
As the longest serving Republican he was President pro tempore of the United States Senate for three occasions (1981-1987, 1995-2001, and January 2001-June 2001), when Republican gained a majority. After Democrats took over the control of the Senate in June 2001 Thurmond became first honorary "president pro tempore emeritus".
Thurmond turned 100 years old on December 5, 2002, while still in office, the oldest person ever to serve in the U.S. Senate.
Started his career as opponent of racial integration, in his later years Thurmond supported desegregation.
His longtime Senate rival, Robert Byrd of West Virginia surpassed Thurmond's record of length of senatorial service in 2006. Byrd died in 2010.
After Thurmond's death in 2003, an attorney for his family confirmed that in 1925, when he was 22, Thurmond fathered a mixed-race daughter, Essie Mae Washington-Williams, with his family's housekeeper, Cassie Butler, then 16 years old. Thurmond paid for the girl's college education and provided other support. Washington-Williams died in February 2013 at the age of 87.
Thurmond died in his sleep on June 26, 2003, at 9:45p.m. of heart failure at a hospital in Edgefield, South Carolina. He was 100 years old. Then-Senator Joe Biden delivered a eulogy, and later to the family burial plot in Willowbrook Cemetery in Edgefield, where he was buried.

</doc>
<doc id="26950" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26950" title="Roman Forum">
Roman Forum

The Roman Forum is an area of the city of Rome which the ancient city developed around. It is the place where commerce, business, cult, and the administration of justice took place. 
It was for centuries the centre of Roman public life. It was the site of triumphal processions and elections; the venue for public speeches, criminal trials, and gladiatorial matches. It was also the heart of commerce. Here statues and monuments mark the city's great men. It has been called the most celebrated meeting place in the world, and in all history. 
The Forum is in the small valley between the Palatine and Capitoline Hills. Today it is a sprawling ruin of architectural fragments and excavations. It has 4.5 million sightseers each year.
The Roman Forum is famous for the amount of buildings and other ancient ruins that it contains. These include:

</doc>
<doc id="26952" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26952" title="Playwright">
Playwright

A playwright is a person who writes plays for the stage. Because the name of such a text is "drama", another word for this person is dramatist. Sometimes, dramas are written to be read and not played. In that case, they are called "closet dramas".
The word "wright" does not come from write. It is an ancient English term for a builder. For example, a "wheelwright" makes wheels. In a similar way, a playwright makes plays. When the term was first used, it was meant as an insult. Today it has lost this meaning.
The first playwrights in Western literature whose plays still exist were the Ancient Greeks. They were written around the 5th century BC. These playwrights are important as they wrote in a way that is still used by modern playwrights. Important among them are Aeschylus, Sophocles, Euripides, and Aristophanes.
The most famous playwright may be William Shakespeare. A lot of later work is based on his tragedies and comedies. For example, "Kiss Me, Kate" is based on Shakespeare's "The Taming of the Shrew", and his "Romeo and Juliet" has been made again many times. Tom Stoppard created the play "Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead" in 1966 which is a modern adaptation of "Hamlet".
Modern playwrights are usually less famous than past playwrights. Since television and movies were invented, theater has become less popular. Because it is less popular, not as many tickets are sold now, and producers often do not have enough money to make plays, and many playwrights are not known.

</doc>
<doc id="26953" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26953" title="Iambe">
Iambe

Iambe was the goddess of rhyme and merriment in Greek mythology. She was the daughter of Pan and Echo.
Iambe is said to have created the iambic pentameter verse pattern in poetry. This is a metered verse with two different sounds, and it was named after Iambe. The iambic pentameter verse is used by many poets, one of which is William Shakespeare.
In the myth, Demeter, was sad about losing her daughter, Persephone. It was only Iambe who was able to make Demeter laugh. She did this by using poetry and wit to cheer Demeter up. When Demeter was not sad any more, the earth became fertile again. Iambe then became Demeter's first priestess.

</doc>
<doc id="26954" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26954" title="Triangle (instrument)">
Triangle (instrument)

The triangle is a musical instrument with three sides and curved corners. There is always one corner where the sides do not join. This makes it possible for the instrument to vibrate.
The player holds a small piece of string or leather from which the triangle is hanging, and he makes a sound by hitting the triangle with a metal beater. In orchestras, where the percussionist may be playing several percussion instruments, the triangle may hang from a stand so that the player can move quickly to another instrument.
Triangles come in different sizes. Smaller ones will sound higher than larger ones.
The triangle can always be heard clearly above the sound of the orchestra or band.

</doc>
<doc id="26955" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26955" title="Speaker">
Speaker

Speaker could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="26959" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26959" title="Bernie Little">
Bernie Little

Bernie Little (born in McComb, Ohio, USA circa 1926 - died April 25, 2003) was the most successful owner in Unlimited Hydroplane racing history. His "Miss Budweiser" team won 134 of the 354 hydroplane races they entered. They won the high points championship 22 years in 40 years of competition, and the Gold Cup 14 times.
Little's team is also known for making an enclosed driver's seat to improve driver safety, after driver Dean Chenoweth was killed in a crash during a race in 1982.
His team employed some of the biggest names in their field, including designer Ron Jones, and driver Chip Hanauer who won more Gold Cup races than any other driver, and is second only to Bill Muncey in total races won.
Little has been inducted into the Unlimited Hydroplane Hall of Fame, the Florida Sports Hall of Fame, and the Motorsports Hall of Fame of America. Chenoweth, Hanauer, and another driver for Little, Tom D'Eath, are also in the Motorsports Hall of Fame of America.

</doc>
<doc id="26964" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26964" title="Perseus">
Perseus

Perseus is a hero in Greek mythology. He is the founder of Mycenae and is most famous for killing the Gorgon Medusa.
He is the son of Danaë and the god Zeus.
With his wife Andromeda his children are the sons Perses, Alkaios, Sthenelos, Elektryon, and the daughter Gorgophone. Perseus is also the great-grandfather of Herakles.
King Akrisios of Argos was told by an oracle that he would be killed by his grandchild. Because of that he put his daughter Danaë in a tower where no one was allowed to enter, so she could not have a child. But the god Zeus could enter in the form of a golden rain, and with him her child was Perseus.
Akrisios then put Danaë and her baby Perseus in a box and threw it into the sea. But Zeus tells the sea-god Poseidon to help them, and so Danaë and her son come to the island Seriphos. There they are found by Diktys, who lets them live with him.
A long time after that, the grown up Perseus takes part in some funeral games. During the games Perseus throws a discus, which accidentally hits Akrisios. Akrisios is killed by it: he was killed by his grandchild, like the oracle's prophecy said.

</doc>
<doc id="26971" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26971" title="Niccolò Paganini">
Niccolò Paganini

Niccolò Paganini (27 October 1782 - 27 May 1840) was a Italian composer and violin player. He is believed to be one of the best violinists who ever lived. He was born in Genoa, Italy and died in Nice, France.
Paganini was the perfect virtuoso during his time although many other violinists slowly approach and some appear to be as virtuosic as him too. He was said to be a show off during his time and many wanted to challenge his violin skills. Paganini once broke all of the strings on his violin except the G-string and played a piece just on one string to show how good he was. He was the master of violin technique and invented many new techniques such as ricochet bowing, flying staccatos, left hand pizzicato, etc. His 24 caprices are his most famous compositions. Paganini was good friends with Franz Liszt who was also an equally magnificent virtuoso, only that he played the piano. They both came together and composed the etude "La campanella", also known as "the clock" in English.

</doc>
<doc id="26978" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26978" title="Samer Kamal">
Samer Kamal

Samer Kamal is a Jordanian athlete. He won the bronze medal in Taekwondo (a form of martial arts) in the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul, South Korea. He was the first Jordanian athlete to get a medal for Jordan in the Olympics in Seoul. This gave many Jordanians pride in this achievement durings the 1980s. 
Samer Kamal holds 8th Dan Black Belt in Taekwondo since 2012, a 1st Class international referee since 1997 and an international trainer since 1990. He was given the Independence Badge of Honor (4th Degree) by His Majesty the late King Hussein Ben Talal in 1988 and was chosen seventh best Jordanian athlete for the century in 1999.
Samer pursued his undergraduate higher education in Business Administration and Philosophy from the University of Jordan. He then received a graduate degree in Management Science from Robert Gordon University in Aberdeen, Scotland.
Samer began his sports career as a marketing manager at a Jordanian based sports marketing company. He took the experience he gained there to Qatar where he became a general manager. He was responsible for the starting a sports marketing company with the purpose of promoting sports in Jordan and the region. Soon after, Samer decided to start his own sports marketing company “SportUpJordan” to promote local athletes. Within a year, he was able to get sponsors for champion Jordanian athletes. He started the largest and only bilingual online sports business. He made an attractive product that was acquired by Maktoob Inc., an Arabic internet service provider.
His sports experience let him expand internationally. Samer was named the director of business development at Right To Play in Canada, that uses sport programs to help children who live in poverty and disadvantage communities to play sports and games. He helped raise funds to the organization.
Staying active in Taekwondo, Samer opened Champions Taekwondo Center in the year 1990, his first Taekwondo school in Jordan. 
The year 2012 was the year Samer has gotten his 8th Dan Black Belt in Taekwondo. 2012 also marked the opening of Champions Martial Arts Taekwondo Center in Mississauga, Canada. A year after, a 3 branch was announced open also in Erindale, Mississauga, Canada.
With all his experiences, discipline, leadership and practice, today Samer has help developed Taekwondo and martial arts in the world and has promoted more than 2000 black belt students worldwide.  
Other than at work, Samer is active in many sports communities. In 2009, he was named an executive board member of the World Olympians Association (WOA). In November 2011, Samer become president of Asian Olympians Association (AOA).
Samer Kamal competed in the following International Taekwondo Championships:

</doc>
<doc id="26986" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26986" title="Violet (plant)">
Violet (plant)

The violet is a genus of flowering plants. The Common Blue Violet (Viola sororia) is the state flower of the U.S. state of Illinois. There is also a famous poem that refers to violets. It goes "Roses are red, violets are blue", and then the poet adds his or her own lines to it. It is also February's birth flower.

</doc>
<doc id="27006" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27006" title="Winnie the Pooh">
Winnie the Pooh

Winnie the Pooh, also called Pooh Bear, is a fictional anthropomorphic teddy bear. He was created by A. A. Milne. He is based on a stuffed toy that belonged to Milne's son, Christopher Robin Milne. The toy was named after "Winnipeg" ("Winnie" for short), who was a black bear at the London Zoo, and "Pooh", which was a nickname Milne and his son had given to a swan. The first book was published in 1926. Other books were published later. Walt Disney made a series of cartoons based on the books. The Walt Disney Company still owns the character.
Pooh is a small yellow bear. He is nearly tall. He wears an old red t-shirt. His favorite food is honey. His birthday is October 14. The first thing he says when he gets up in the morning is "What's for breakfast?". He invented the game "Poohsticks".
Pooh has several friends. Their names are Piglet, Eeyore, Tigger, Rabbit, Kanga and Roo, Owl, Gopher, and Christopher Robin. Piglet is a small timid pig. Eeyore is a old grey donkey. Tigger is an energetic tiger. Rabbit is a kind-hearted rabbit. Kanga is a female kangaroo. Roo is Kanga's son.
The first book, "Winnie-the-Pooh", was published on October 15, 1926 by Methuen & Company. The second book was "The House at Pooh Corner", which was published on October 11, 1928. The poetry book "When We Were Very Young" was published in 1924 and "Now We Are Six" was published in 1927. "Return to Hundred Acre Wood" was written by David Benedictus and published on October 5, 2009.
There have been quite a few series created by Walt Disney based on these books. The stories are translated all over the world.
A Disney movie about Pooh, "The Many Adventures of Winnie the Pooh", was made in March 1977. "Winnie the Pooh" was made in July 2011.

</doc>
<doc id="27007" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27007" title="960s">
960s

Below are some of the events that happened from 960 to 969.

</doc>
<doc id="27009" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27009" title="Aleksander Kwasniewski">
Aleksander Kwasniewski

Aleksander Kwaśniewski (; born 15 November 1954) is a Polish politician. He served as President for two terms (1995-2000 and 2000-2005). He was, before being elected first time, member of the Democratic Left Alliance, but after assumed duties he became an independent. Before 1989 he was a member of Polish United Workers Party (communist). He was preceded by Lech Wałęsa and succeeded by Lech Kaczyński.
He was born in Białogard in Northwest Poland. Before became a politician, he was a journalist. Before became President, he was minister and deputy to the Sejm. In the late 1980s, he participated in the Polish Round Table Agreement.
In 1995 election, he won in the second round, but five years later he won in the first round.

</doc>
<doc id="27015" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27015" title="Viola sororia">
Viola sororia

Viola sororia, also known as Viola papilionacea, common blue violet, common meadow violet, and purple violet is a species of violets. It is a perennial flowering plant that lives in most of eastern North America.
The common blue violet is the state flower of the U.S. states of Rhode Island, Illinois, and New Jersey.
In developed areas it is often said to be a weed because it grows well in lawns.

</doc>
<doc id="27021" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27021" title="NAND gate">
NAND gate

The NAND gate is a logic gate used to build digital logic circuits. Given two inputs, A and B, A NAND B will be true if at most one of A and B is true. In other words, A NAND B is false if both A and B are true, and true otherwise. The NAND gate is a "universal gate."
There are three symbols for NAND gates: the 'military' symbol and the 'rectangular' symbol. For more information see logic gate symbols.

</doc>
<doc id="27022" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27022" title="Under the Rainbow">
Under the Rainbow

Under the Rainbow is a 1981 comedy film starring Chevy Chase, Carrie Fisher, Eve Arden, and Billy Barty.
The plot is loosely based on the gathering of little people in a Hollywood hotel, to audition for roles as "munchkins" in the movie "The Wizard of Oz". The movie also has nobility, assassins, spies, and tourists.
The movie was nominated for Razzie Awards for Worst Musical Score and Worst Supporting Actor (Billy Barty).

</doc>
<doc id="27025" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27025" title="Gilli-danda">
Gilli-danda

Gilli "िगल्ली" -danda "डन्डा" is a game played by children in India and Pakistan. It is usually played by using a small round stick, about as long as a baseball or cricket bat. This is the "danda". There is another smaller stick, round in the middle and tapering towards the ends. This is the "gilli". The game gilli-danda is similar to cricket. 
To play the game, one team uses the "danda" to hit one of the tapered ends of the "gilli" with force. This causes the "gilli" to flip through the air. While the "gilli" is airborne, the opposing team's hitter attempts to smack it like one would as if playing cricket. The one who hits the "gilli" the farthest will wins. It is played with two teams. One side pitches the "gilli" using the big "danda" (not the bare hands), to the other team's hitter. The hitter, using their "danda" then hits the "gilli". In the course of the play, if the "gilli" is caught, then those players who pitched with the big "danda" to the hitter, are out of the game. It was most popularly played around 1970 to 1980 throughout India and Pakistan.

</doc>
<doc id="27026" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27026" title="Southern United States">
Southern United States

The "Southern United States" (also known as The Southern States or "The South" among Americans) is a term for the Southeastern part of the United States. All Confederate States were in the South, but not all Southern States joined the Confederacy. The States farthest to the south are called the "Deep South". Most of the South is a land of long, hot summers. Winters are mostly short and cool. There is abundant rainfall. This combination gives the South a long growing season.
The States that make up "The South" are usually considered to be:
Border States are also sometimes called Southern:
Except for Florida and Texas, most of the South did not have as many immigrants arriving from other countries as the rest of the United States did, in the late 19th and 20th centuries. Most of the people in the South are of English, Scottish, or Irish ancestry, or the descendants of African-American slaves. Some Southerners identify themselves as being of "American" ancestry.
The Southern United States has a culture somewhat different from the rest of the United States. They cook different foods such as pecan pie, pork and beef barbecue, and collard greens.

</doc>
<doc id="27027" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27027" title="Hick">
Hick

A hick is a term for an American stereotype. It is also used in Canada to a lesser degree. It is a term for people who live in rural areas, especially on farms and ranches. It is usually meant as an insult. One other form of the word 'hick' is 'redneck'. Others are yokel, hillbilly, and hayseed. The terms redneck hick and yokel, as well as others, are mostly used to describe people in the south-central United States, including Missouri, Arkansas, Georgia (to an extent) Illinois, Indiana, Ohio,Tennessee, Kentucky, Kansas, Iowa and Nebraska. This term is considered offensive to some.

</doc>
