<doc id="9440" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9440" title="Encyclopædia Britannica">
Encyclopædia Britannica

The Encyclopædia Britannica is a very big, famous encyclopaedia. It is now out of print in paper versions, but still in print digitally. It is written in English, and is published by Encyclopaedia Britannica, Inc., a private company. It was originally only printed on paper, but late in the 20th century it expanded to have digital, or computer versions as well. The encyclopedia is split into many books. The articles in the books are arranged in alphabetical order. There have been versions of it that are for children as well. It is the largest printed encyclopedia, and the second largest encyclopedia. The largest is Wikipedia. Many people consider it to be the best encyclopedia, because it is accurate and has lots of detail. 
The Encyclopedia was once very small, the first edition in 1768 only had 3 books. Slowly it became bigger. The latest edition, the 15th edition, now has 29 books in it, plus 2 indexes. It includes an extra book called Propaedia, to classify knowledge. The 29 books and made up of a Macropaedia and a Micropaedia. The Macropædia is a larger one, with more detailed articles that can be as long as 300 pages, made up of 17 books, while the Micropædia is the smaller one with shorter articles that are usually less than 750 words. The Micropædia is used for fast-checking, but if you want more detailed information you have to use the Macropædia. Each book is very big, more than 1000 pages per book. There are books of the year. Every year, a book is published about that year. 
The articles in the Britannica are for educated adults, not for children, and written by about 100 full-time editors and over 4,000 expert contributors. Many people think it is the best encyclopedia , but Wikipedia is still more popular , being free to use. The Britannica is the oldest English-language encyclopaedia now. It was first published between 1768 and 1771 in Edinburgh, Scotland and grew very popular, with its third edition in 1801 comprising of 21 books.
The size of the Britannica is almost the same over the past 70 years, with about 40 million words on half a million topics. The encyclopedia was once owned by the British. It is now owned by the USA, but still written in British English. Over time, the encyclopedia has had difficulties trying to earn money, which almost every encyclopedia is facing.
The Britannica has been owned by many different people, including Scottish publisher A & C Black, Horace Everett Hooper, Sears Roebuck and William Benton. Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. is owned by Jacqui Safra, a Swiss billionaire and actor. Information technology has become better recently and more electronic encyclopedias such as "Microsoft Encarta" and Wikipedia have made people not want to buy encyclopedias in print anymore. So that it still can survive, Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. has kept on telling people that the "Britannica" is good and accurate, made the encyclopedia cheaper, and made electronic versions on CD-ROM, DVD and the World Wide Web. "Since the early 1930s, the company has also promoted spin-off reference works."
There are 15 official editions of the encyclopedia, with some extensions to the 3rd and 5th editions (see the Table below). Actually, you can say that the 10th edition was only an extension to the 9th edition, and the 12th and 13th editions were extensions to the 11th edition. The 15th edition was reorganised in 1985, and the updated, current version is the 15th edition.
Through the encyclopedia's history, the "Britannica" wanted to be an excellent reference book and to provide learning materials for those who want to study. In 1974, the 15th edition had a third wish: to put together all that everyone knows. The history of the "Britannica" can be divided into five main eras, or lengths of time.
In its first years (1st–6th editions, 1768–1826), the "Britannica" was controlled by the people who first wrote it, Colin Macfarquhar and Andrew Bell, and by their friends and relations, such as Thomas Bonar, George Gleig and Archibald Constable. The "Britannica" was first published between 1768 and 1771 in Edinburgh, a city in Scotland, called the "Encyclopædia Britannica, or, A dictionary of arts and sciences, compiled upon a new plan". It was written to replace the French Encyclopedie. Its logo, which is the floral emblem of Scotland, shows that the "Britannica" was a Scottish business. The encyclopedia being created is one of the most famous events that happened in the time when Scotland started inventing many things, or the Age of Enlightenment. The "Britannica" started as three-book set ( in the 1st edition) written by one young editor—William Smellie— Slowly, the "Britannica" changed, in the first era, to a 20-book set written by many people. Although a few other encyclopaedias had been fighting with the "Britannica", such as "Rees's Cyclopaedia" and Coleridge's "Encyclopaedia Metropolitana", these encyclopedias either went bankrupt or were not finished because the people writing them argued. When the first era was almost over, the "Britannica" had many people helping to write it, all having different types of skills. The encyclopedia managed to get so many people by inviting their friends to help.
In the second era (7th–9th editions, 1827–1901), the "Britannica" was owned by the Edinburgh company, A & C Black. Although some of the people who helped write the Britannica helped because they were friends of the most important editors, many other people wanted to help the Britannica because it was becoming very successful. These people came from many other countries, and some of them were very famous for the things they wrote about. An index of all the articles was written to add to the 7th edition of the encyclopedia, and they continued to make an index until 1974. The first English chief editor was Thomas Spencer Baynes, who led the making of the famous 9th edition, which is also called the "Scholar's Edition". The 9th edition is considered to be the "Britannica" most meant for students ever written. However, at the end of the 19th century, the 9th edition was already too old and the "Britannica" had many financial problems.
In the third era (10th–14th editions, 1901–1973), the "Britannica" was owned by American people, who started to advertise a lot to earn more money. The American owners also slowly made the "Britannica's" articles simpler, so it could serve more people. The 11th edition is said by many people to be the best edition of the encyclopedia. Its owner, Horace Hooper, worked extremely hard to make the 11th edition perfect. When Hooper had financial problems, the "Britannica" was managed by Sears Roebuck for about 18 years (1920–1923, 1928–1943). In 1932, the vice-president of Sears, Elkan Harrison Powell, owned the "Britannica". 
In 1936, he started to continuously revise the encyclopedia often (still done so today), in which every article is checked at least two times every ten years. This was a big difference from before, when the articles were not changed until they wrote a new edition, about every 25 years, with some articles used again without revising them. He also quickly made some educational products which made the encyclopedia even more well known by everyone. In 1943, William Benton managed the "Britannica" until his death in 1973. Benton also set up the Benton Foundation, which managed the "Britannica" until 1996. In 1968, near the end of this era, the "Britannica" celebrated its 200 year anniversary.
Since 1985, the "Britannica" has had four parts: the "Micropædia," the "Macropædia," the "Propædia," and a two-book index. The "Britannica"'s articles are found in the "Micropædia" and "Macropædia," which contain 12 and 17 books, respectively, each book having about one thousand pages. The 2007 "Macropædia" has 699 detailed articles, which can be as short as 2 pages and as long as 310 pages, and having references and named writers. The 2007 "Micropædia" has about 65,000 articles, and about 97% contain less than 750 words, no references, and no named contributors. The "Micropædia" articles are supposed to be for quick fact-checking and to help in finding more information in the "Macropædia". The "Macropædia" articles are supposed to be well-written articles on their subjects and articles of information where you cannot find anywhere else. The longest article (310 pages) is on the United States, and came from putting the articles on the individual states together.
Information can be found in the "Britannica" by following the notes telling where people can find more information in the "Micropædia" and "Macropædia"; but there are very little of this, with about only one of this every page. So, readers are asked to try to use the indexes or the "Propædia," which organises what is in the "Britannica"'s by topic.
The use of the "Propædia" is its "Outline of Knowledge," which wants to organise all of everything people know. The Outline is thought through by the "Britannica"'s editors to decide which articles should be included in the "Micropædia" and "Macropædia". The Outline is also intended to be a study guide, and to tell a student who wants to learn a topic in depth what articles to use. However, libraries say that very few people use it, and reviewers recommend the encyclopedias to not print it anymore. The "Propædia" also has diagrams printed on transparent paper of big topics and a section which lists the people working together to make the encyclopedia.
Altogether, the "Micropædia" and "Macropædia" have about 40 million words and 24,000 pictures. The index has 2,350 pages, which lists all the 228,274 topics written about in the "Britannica,". The "Britannica" uses the British spellings and not American spellings. For example, it uses "colour" (not "color"), "centre" (not "center"), and "encyclopaedia" (not "encyclopedia"). However, this rule is not always followed, for example "defense" and not "defence". The other spellings of the word is sometimes shown with a link, for example "Color: "see" Colour."
Since 1936, the articles of the "Britannica" have been revised often, with about 10% of the articles brought to be re-written each year. One Britannica website says that 46% of the articles were revised in the past three years; but another Britannica web-site says only 35% of the articles were revised.
The way the articles are arranged (in alphabet order) in the "Micropædia" and "Macropædia" is very accurate. Non-English letters are ignored and articles with numbers such as "War of 1812" are arranged as if the number had been written out ("War of Eighteen-twelve"). If the articles have the same names, articles about persons go first, then by places, then by things. People with the same names are arranged first alphabetically by country and then by their time. Similarly, places that have the same names are arranged by alphabet by the country they are in.
There are a few smaller versions of the "Britannica" encyclopedias. The "Britannica Concise Encyclopædia", written in one book, has 28,000 shorter articles. "Compton's by Britannica," published in 2007, with the old "Compton's Encyclopedia," in it is written for teenagers who are 10–17 years old and has 26 books and 11,000 pages in it. A "Children's Britannica" was published by the company in 1960; this was edited by John Armitage and written for His Royal Highness the Prince of Wales; the writers were almost all British. Other books are "My First Britannica", written for children who are six to twelve years old, and the "Britannica Discovery Library", written for children who are three to six years old (issued in 1974 to 1991). Since 1938, Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. has published a "Book of the Year" every year, with information about the past year's events, which is written online since the 1994 edition (with the events of 1993). The company also publishes a few books on special topics, such as "Shakespeare: The Essential Guide to the Life and Works of the Bard" (Wiley, 2006).
The "Britannica Ultimate Reference Suite 2006 DVD" contains over 55 million words and over 100,000 articles. It includes 73,645 "Britannica" articles, with the other articles from the "Britannica Student Encyclopædia," the "Britannica Elementary Encyclopædia" and the "Britannica Book of the Year"s (1993–2004), plus a few old articles from old editions of the encyclopaedia. The whole DVD also includes other bonus tools including maps, videos, sound clips, animations and web links. It also has study tools and a dictionary and thesaurus from Merriam-Webster.
"Encyclopædia Britannica Online" is a web site with more than 120,000 articles and is updated often. It has features, updates and links to news reports from "The New York Times" and the BBC every day. People need to pay to use the website. Special discounts are given to schools, colleges and libraries since these big groups of people are important in Britannica's business. Articles can be read online for free, but only the first few sentences can be seen. Beginning in early 2007, the "Britannica" let people read the articles for free if they are linked to another website, since these links let the articles appear more often and easily in search engines.
On 20 February 2007, Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. said that it was working with mobile phone search company AskMeNow to make an encyclopedia in phones. Users can send a question by text message, and AskMeNow will search "Britannica"'s 28,000-article encyclopedia to answer the user. 
An idea to use a wiki-Britannica was announced on the June 3, 2008. A lot of people will be involved, with the Britannica staff editing important parts.

</doc>
<doc id="9441" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9441" title="Pipeline">
Pipeline

A pipeline is a long tube, that is used to transport liquids or gases over long distances. Pipelines are made of metal. While the transport of liquids and gases is common, some pipelines are used to transport coal or iron ore, which are mixed with mud. Such pipelines are sometimes called slurry pipelines. Even though a pipeline is very expensive to build, the low operating cost often makes it the cheapest transport. 
Many stadiums use a central tank for beer. Each bar is served by a pipeline from the central tank.
Even though mail and other goods can also be delivered that way, the system is generally not referred to as "pipeline". In this case, capsules are used. These are propelled by air.
Pipeline networks are made of different components. These are:

</doc>
<doc id="9442" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9442" title="Avocado">
Avocado

An avocado is a berry fruit. It has medium dark green or dark green bumpy or smooth skin depending on the variety.
The flesh of an avocado is deep chartreuse green in color near the skin and pale chartreuse green near the core. It has a creamy, rich texture.
Avocado trees come from Central America and Mexico. They can grow in many places, as long as it is not too cold.
Avocados have much more fat than most other fruit, but most is fat that is healthy to eat (unsaturated fat). Avocados have lots of potassium, B vitamins, and vitamin E and K.
The Mexican food called guacamole is made of avocados. Many other foods are also made from avocado.
Avocado is poisonous to some animals. Many animals will get very sick or die if they eat avocado.

</doc>
<doc id="9451" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9451" title="Ice hockey">
Ice hockey

Ice hockey is a sport that is played by two teams on ice. The players wear ice skates on their feet and can skate across the ice at very high speeds. They hold hockey sticks, which they use to push, shoot or pass a puck around the ice. The players score by shooting the puck into a net; the goaltenders try to stop them. Six players on each team play at once, but a whole team has over 20 players. Each team has 2 defenders, 3 forwards, and a goalie on the ice at a time. When a player breaks a rule, a referee calls a penalty, and the player has to sit in a penalty box for 2-4 minutes. While the player sits in the penalty box, his team has to play without him, and will have fewer players on the ice until the penalty is over.
Ice hockey is very well-known and well-liked in Canada, Russia, Sweden, Finland, the Czech Republic, the United States, Latvia and Slovakia. Most of the best players in the world play in the National Hockey League (NHL), which has 30 teams in the United States and Canada. These teams are divided 2 conferences and 4 divisions. In the regular season, they play 82 games. Each team faces each other about 3 times. They try to win the Stanley Cup at the end of the year. Another popular hockey league is the Kontinental Hockey League (KHL), which has teams in Russia, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Belarus, Slovakia, China and Croatia. In North America, women play in the Canadian Women's Hockey League and the Western Women's Hockey League. In North America and Europe, men's hockey is much more popular than women's hockey. Hockey is played by both men and women at the Olympic games, and at world championships. Ice hockey began in Canada in the 19th century. There are two types of penalty: The major and the minor. The minor is the main one the referee will call during a game and the players have to go in the penalty box for two minutes. The major is when players fight with each other or when someone did something very dangerous. Most of time players are kicked out of the games but in a fight they only get 5 minutes in the penalty box. In the National Hockey League (NHL) there are four referees. Two lineman and two head referee. Only head referees can call the penalty. They can be recognized by the orange armband on their arm. In the major league, the game is separated into three periods of 20 minutes. For the minor league, the time can be different for each category. Each period starts after the face-off. A face-off is when two teams are in position around the face-off circle. Then, the referee drops the puck between the players who play center. There are 6 different positions: center, right wing, left wing, right defense, left defense and goalie. The play is over after a whistle of any referee. After a whistle-blow, the time stops running. Each team can have a maximum of 20 players, including two goaltenders who have a zone to defend. Each team has one captain and two or three assistant captains. The ice is separated into three zones. Each zone is marked by lines. The center zone is between two blue lines and team zones are between one blue line and the end of the ice. The lineman can whistle for two reasons: icing and offside. An icing is when a player throws the puck into the zone before he crosses the red line (center line) and an offside is when a player enters the zone before the one who has the puck enters with it. 

</doc>
<doc id="9455" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9455" title="1492">
1492


</doc>
<doc id="9458" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9458" title="Virtues of Harmony">
Virtues of Harmony

Virtues of Harmony was a sitcom that ran in Hong Kong from 2001 until February 2005. "Virtues of Harmony One" was set in ancient China during the Ming Dynasty. It follows the lives of the Kam family. The allure of the series was the humorous storylines and how the good always wins. The star of the show was Nancy Sit, a kind hearted matriarch with the best intentions.
Following the success of "Virtues of Harmony One", "Virtues of Harmony Two" was set in modern Hong Kong with a similar cast.

</doc>
<doc id="9459" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9459" title="Ashford, Kent">
Ashford, Kent

Ashford is a large town in Kent in England. Many villages in are nearby and Ashford attracts lots of locals for its shopping. Ashford international railway station is connected by the Channel Tunnel to mainland Europe. Ashford is an established and populated area of Kent with lots of houses. The UK Government is going to build many more houses in the town and will double its population in a few years. About 120,000 people live there.
There's also an Ashford Designer Outlet Shopping Centre nearby.

</doc>
<doc id="9460" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9460" title="Song">
Song

A song is a piece of music which contains words.
Songs can be made in many ways. Some people form bands which write and record songs to make money from it. Other songs are folk songs, which are songs created by people long ago and have been sung as tradition in many countries. When two singers sing the song it is called a duet. Some people also make parodies of songs, which is usually changing the words of the song but keeping the tune. Parodies are usually made to make fun of a song or its writer/singer (parody artist "Weird Al" Yankovic is an example of this).
The word "song" is often used to describe any piece of music, even one without words or lyrics. The proper word for a piece of music without words is ""instrumental"".

</doc>
<doc id="9461" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9461" title="Magnesium">
Magnesium

Magnesium ( /mæɡˈniːziəm/ mag-NEE-zee-əm) is a chemical element with the symbol "Mg", atomic number 12 and common oxidation state +2. It is an alkaline earth metal and the eighth most abundant element in the Earth's crust, where it constitutes about 2% by mass, and ninth in the known universe as a whole. This preponderance of magnesium is related to the fact that it is easily built up in supernova stars from a sequential addition of three helium nuclei to carbon (which in turn is made from three helium nuclei). Magnesium ion's high solubility in water helps ensure that it is the third most abundant element dissolved in seawater.
Magnesium is the 11th most abundant element by mass in the human body. Its ions are essential to all living cells. The ions play a major role in manipulating important biological polyphosphate compounds like ATP, DNA, and RNA. Hundreds of enzymes thus require magnesium ions to function. Magnesium is also the metallic ion at the center of chlorophyll, and is thus a common additive to fertilizers. Magnesium ions are sour to the taste, and in low concentrations help to impart a natural tartness to fresh mineral waters.
The free element (metal) is not found naturally on Earth, as it is highly reactive (though once produced, is coated in a thin layer of oxide (see passivation), which partly masks this reactivity). The free metal burns with a characteristic brilliant white light, making it a useful ingredient in flares. The metal is now mainly obtained by electrolysis of magnesium salts obtained from brine.
Commercially, the chief use for the metal is as an alloying agent to make aluminium-magnesium alloys, sometimes called "magnalium" or "magnelium". Since magnesium is less dense than aluminium, these alloys are prized for their relative lightness and strength.
Magnesium is used in fireworks to make a brilliant white light. Another use is to mix it with other metals to make it strong, lightweight alloys such as those used to make bicycle frames.
Magnesium compounds are used medicinally as common laxatives, antacids (i.e., milk of magnesia), and in a number of situations where stabilization of abnormal nerve excitation and blood vessel spasm is required (that is, to treat eclampsia).
Magnesium is used in electronic devices, including: mobile phones, laptop computers, cameras, and other electronic components. Magnesium's low weight, good mechanical and electrical properties are good for these uses.
Magnesium reacted with an alkyl halide gives a Gringard reagent, which is a very useful tool for preparing alcohols.
Magnesium is also used in incendiary bombs, which are bombs that blow up and spread fire everywhere.

</doc>
<doc id="9462" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9462" title="Dan Brown">
Dan Brown

Dan Brown (born June 22, 1964) is an American author. His best-known book is "The Da Vinci Code".
Dan Brown lives in the United States. His father was a math teacher and his mother was a church organist. Before Dan Brown wrote books, he was an English teacher. Dan Brown's wife, Blythe, is an artist. Sometimes she is known to help him with his books.
Dan Brown also likes to write about codes and secrets. Sometimes he writes about real secrets, but he mostly writes fiction. 
Hollywood director Ron Howard made a movie about one of Brown's books. Tom Hanks is the movie's star actor. It was released in theaters in May 2006.
Brown's next book was supposed to be called "The Solomon Key", but then the name was changed to "The Lost Symbol". When the book "The Da Vinci Code" came out in the United States, there were some puzzles hidden in the art of the book cover. Brown said that the answers to those puzzles give hints about what would be in his next book. Two of the puzzles are about a famous sculpture called "Kryptos", which is in the middle of the CIA Headquarters building in Washington D.C.
This is a list of Dan Brown's books:

</doc>
<doc id="9463" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9463" title="Thurso">
Thurso

Thurso is a town in north Scotland. The town has a population of 8,721 (2001 census)

</doc>
<doc id="9464" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9464" title="Penzance">
Penzance

Penzance () is a town in Cornwall, South West England. It is near Land's End. Many people live and work in Penzance. In 2001, there were 21,168 people living in Penzance.

</doc>
<doc id="9469" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9469" title="The Tonight Show">
The Tonight Show

The Tonight Show is a popular late night television talk and comedy show in the United States. It appears on the NBC television network. The show started in 1954 and was hosted by Steve Allen. In 1957, Jack Paar became the host, with Ernie Kovacs hosting on some nights.
In 1962, Johnny Carson took over and stayed until 1992, with announcer Ed McMahon as sidekick, and Doc Severinsen as bandleader. Carson, McMahon, and Severinsen retired from "The Tonight Show" in 1992, when Jay Leno became host. Leno left the show in 2009, and Conan O'Brien (of "Late Night" and "Saturday Night Live" fame) became host from June 2009 to January 2010 before leaving due to controversy with "The Tonight Show"'s timeslot. Jay Leno became the host of the show again on March 1, 2010. Leno retired in 2014 when Jimmy Fallon took over.
In late 2009, NBC said that they would be moving the "Jay Leno Show" to 11:35 PM, the time usually slotted for "The Tonight Show". The "Jay Leno Show" would be 30 minutes long. "The Tonight Show" would be moved to 12:05 AM, but would still be a full hour long. NBC did this because Jay Leno and Conan O'Brien were not getting enough viewers, and they believed that moving "The Jay Leno Show" to late night would increase their prime time viewers.
After being told this, Conan O'Brien said that he would be leaving "The Tonight Show". He said that he believed that moving the show to 12:05 would ruin it, and that it would be unfair to "Late Night", which would have been moved to 1:05 AM. The deal was made that O'Brien would receive $33 million and that his staff of almost 200 people would receive $12 million. Conan O'Brien's last show aired on January 22, 2010.

</doc>
<doc id="9470" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9470" title="January 17">
January 17


</doc>
<doc id="9472" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9472" title="Antoni Grabowski">
Antoni Grabowski

Antoni Grabowski was a Polish chemical engineer, and an early supporter of the Esperanto movement. The books and poems that he changed into Esperanto from other languages helped to make Esperanto more well-known and used.
Grabowski was born on 11 June 1857 in Nowe Dobre, near Chełmno, in Poland. Soon after his birth, his family moved from Nowe Dobre to Toruń. Grabowski's parents did not have a lot of money, so Grabowski started to work before leaving high school. He wanted to learn a lot, though, so he got himself ready to take a test to get into grammar school. He passed the test.
He went to the Nicolaus Copernicus school in Toruń. At that place, he was shown to be smarter than other people that were as old as him. He was put in a higher class twice.
In 1879, his family got more money, so Grabowski started to learn philosophy and natural science at the University of Breslau in Wrocław.
After he was done with school, he started to work as a chemical engineer. After that job, he started to work as a manager of a factory.
At that time, he made many new ideas about chemicals and things that helped with those ideas. He became famous among people in Europe because of that. He also had the job of making new words in the Polish language for technical things. In 1906, he wrote a book, "Słownik chemiczny". The book helped other people to learn the words he had made.
At his school, Grabowski started to want to know more about language. Because of that, he joined the Slavic Literary Society (Towarzystwo Literacko-Słowianskie), a group that wanted to learn about the Slavic language. Grabowski did not only want to learn about this language. He learned a lot of other languages.
In 1887, Grabowski read the book "Lingvo internacia. Antaŭparolo kaj plena lernolibro.". This book was written by L.L. Zamenhof, a person who wanted to make an easy language that everyone could learn. This language was called "Esperanto." Grabowski liked this language a lot. He learned it, then went to Warsaw to see Zamenhof. They spoke to each other in Esperanto.
Grabowski thought that books and writing were important to languages. He thought that this was much more true with Esperanto. Esperanto was getting used more, so it needed this. So, in 1888, Grabowski started to rewrite books into Esperanto from other languages. (this is called "translation")
In the early 1890s, Grabowski thought that Esperanto was being used by fewer people than before. He thought that this was because Esperanto needed to be remade in a different way. In 1894, though, he said that Esperanto was good like it was at first. He said that all the time after that, too.
Grabowski was the leader of the Warsaw Esperanto Society and the Polish Esperanto society for a long time. In 1908, he became the director of the Grammar Section of the Esperanto Academy. He taught people a lot about Esperanto.
From that year until 1914, he made classes for schools about Esperanto. He wrote something showing that Esperanto was good for learning other languages. People did not know this at that time.
World War I made his family have to leave Poland. They went to Russia, and he was left in Warsaw. While he was there, he rewrote from Polish one of the most important things that have been changed into Esperanto. This was the Polish poem, "Pan Tadeusz" by Adam Mickiewicz.
Grabowski died of a heart attack in Warsaw on 4 July 1921.

</doc>
<doc id="9475" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9475" title="Vessel">
Vessel

Vessel or vessels may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="9476" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9476" title="Fire">
Fire

Fire is a chemical reaction that gives off light and heat. It is an example of the chemical process of oxidation.
Fire is very hot. A person should never touch fire, because fire may burn anything that gets too close. If human skin touches fire, the skin may blister which can take some time to heal. If a fire occurs, the mouth should be covered with a wet cloth because if too much smoke is breathed in, it is possible to faint.
Fire can be very useful if it is treated carefully. It has always been very important for people to be able to make fire, because people need its heat on cold days and to cook things. Its light is also useful to be able to see in dark places.
If fire is not treated carefully, it can be very dangerous. A fire that got out of control once destroyed 17,400 km²,an area the size of New York City, in the United States. Forests can burn down if fires are not controlled. Every year, large areas of forests are destroyed because of fire, particularly in Europe. This usually happens in summer. Firefighters or firemen are people with special training to stop fires, or to keep a fire under control. 
Fire needs three things to burn: oxygen, fuel, and heat. Fuels can be wood, tinder, coal, oil or any other substance that will easily oxidize. Once a fire is burning, it creates its own heat, which allows the fire to keep burning on its own for some time.
A fire can be stopped in three different ways, by removing any of the three things it needs to burn:
However, some fires cannot be smothered, such as magnesium flames. They can burn in CO2, nitrogen, and some other elemental compounds, although they cannot burn in noble gases such as helium.
Fires are usually combustion reactions that take carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. The products are very commonly water, and carbon dioxide, although there are other examples that avoid this generalization, such as burning magnesium in air, which makes magnesium oxide.
Fires can occur in many ways and there are many types of fire which, if not treated correctly, can cause total devastation. There are wood fires, gas fires, metal fires, and more.
Wood fires can usually be put out with water used to absorb the heat, but metal fires are too hot for water to absorb enough heat to put out the fire. If water is used to extinguish ("put out") a metal fire, the water will simply evaporate. For metal fires, sand can be used to cover the fire and choke it off from obtaining oxygen. A fire extinguisher can put out most fires.

</doc>
<doc id="9484" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9484" title="Five solas">
Five solas

In Europe in the 16th century there was a big change in the Christian religion. In this Protestant Reformation, hundreds of thousands of people left the Catholic church to form Protestant churches all over Europe..
"The Five solas" are an important part of the reformed theology of these Protestant leaders:
The words "Sola Scriptura", "Solus Christus", "Sola Gratia", "Sola Fide" and "Soli Deo Gloria" are not English words. They are words written in Latin.

</doc>
<doc id="9488" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9488" title="Göran Persson">
Göran Persson

Göran Persson (born January 20, 1949) was the Prime minister of Sweden between 1996 and 2006. He was the leader of the Social Democratic political party, but quit in March 2007. He was replaced by Mona Sahlin as leader of the party, the party's first woman to do so.

</doc>
<doc id="9495" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9495" title="Jane Fonda">
Jane Fonda

Jane Fonda (born December 21, 1937) is an American actress, writer, political activist and former fashion model. She is the daughter of Henry Fonda, who was an actor. She is the sister of Peter Fonda and aunt of Bridget Fonda - both of whom are actors. She has won two Academy Awards for her acting.
She has also made instructional videos on exercise and aerobics.
Lady Jayne Seymour Fonda was born in New York City. She is the daughter of actor Henry Fonda and the Canadian-born socialite Frances Ford Seymour Brokaw. According to her father, their surname comes from Italian ancestors who immigrated to the Netherlands. There they intermarried and began to use Dutch given names. She is also of English, Scottish, French, and Norwegian ancestry. She was named after the third wife of English king Henry VIII, Jane Seymour. Her mother is distantly related to Jane Seymour. She has a brother Peter Fonda. Peter and his daughter Bridget, also became actors.
At the age of 15, Fonda taught dance at Fire Island Pines, New York. She attended the Emma Willard School in Troy, New York, and Vassar College in Poughkeepsie, New York, but dropped out to become a fashion model.

</doc>
<doc id="9501" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9501" title="Medical doctor">
Medical doctor

A medical doctor (also called a physician) is a person who practices medicine to treat illness and injuries.
Medical doctors go to medical school to be trained. They usually hold a college degree in medicine. Medical doctors used to make house calls to treat patients at home. Now they usually see patients in their offices or in hospitals. Medical doctors may also work for schools, companies, sports teams, or the military. Medical doctors are often assisted by nurses or other staff.
Medical doctors treat patients by diagnosing them, or figuring out what is wrong. When medical doctors diagnose a patient, they begin by asking questions about the patient's symptoms. Symptoms might include fever or pain. They may ask other questions about things like past illnesses or family members who have been sick. They will then examine the patient. That can include looking at different parts of the body and listening to the heart and lungs with a stethoscope. Sometimes they may need to collect blood, use an x-ray machine, or use other tools to look for things they cannot see when examining the patient. Usually, when they have gathered enough information, a doctor can make a diagnosis and then prescribe a treatment. Often they prescribe drugs.
Some medical doctors do only certain kinds of medicine. These doctors are called specialists. They may treat injuries to only specific parts of the body. They may treat only patients who have certain diseases. For example, there are medical doctors who specialise in diseases of the stomach or intestines. Other medical doctors are "general practitioners" or "family practitioners". This means that they do a little bit of everything. They try to deal with as much of a patient's health problems as they can without sending them to a specialist.
Some types of specialists are:

</doc>
<doc id="9504" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9504" title="Buffy the Vampire Slayer">
Buffy the Vampire Slayer

Buffy the Vampire Slayer is an American television series. It is about a girl who fought vampires and other monsters. It was written by Joss Whedon. He based it on the script that he wrote for a movie with the same title. The movie came out in 1992 and starred Kristy Swanson, Luke Perry, Donald Sutherland, and Paul Reubens. The television series has many fans. It was originally shown from 1997 until 2003.
The main idea of the series is the opposite of what is the normal Hollywood idea about horror. In traditional Hollywood horror stories, the young blonde girl is always the weakest character. She is always the one that needs to be saved. She is often the first one to die. In "Buffy", Whedon changed that. He changed that girl into the person with all the power. He changed her into the hero. Many of the monsters and storylines on the series are symbols of real-life problems faced by teenagers. As Whedon has said, "Highschool is a horror movie."
"Buffy the Vampire Slayer" was first shown on March 10, 1997 on the WB network. It was a very important part of the Warner Bros. television network in its early years.
After five seasons, the series left the WB and went to the United Paramount Network (UPN) for its last two seasons. In the United Kingdom, the entire series was shown on Sky One and BBC2. The BBC showed the series at two different times. A family-friendly version with violence and bad language cut out was shown early in the evening and an unedited version was shown later at night. Sky One did something similar. It showed an edited version in the afternoon and the uncut version in prime time. From the fourth season onwards, the BBC showed the series in anamorphic 16:9 widescreen format, but Whedon said that "Buffy" was never supposed to be watched this way.
The Slayer or Chosen One is a girl who kills vampires. She had superhuman strength and speed. She also heals very fast. It is her destiny to fight evil demons, mainly vampires. When the Slayer dies, a new girl is chosen. That girl gets all of the powers of the Slayer. Potentials (girls who might be chosen - "potential slayers") are trained from an early age by a "Watcher". In this series, Buffy Summers, Kendra Young, and Faith Lehane were the main slayers.
The main character was Buffy Summers. She was played by Sarah Michelle Gellar. Buffy was an ordinary high school student in the fictional city of Sunnydale, California, except for being a "vampire slayer." Buffy's Watcher was a British man named Giles. With the help of Giles and her friends, Xander and Willow, Buffy fought a different monster every episode. (aside from the main villains of each season).
Buffy and her friends went to school at Sunnydale High School. They appear normal to their families while killing vampires and monsters at night. 
Not all vampires were evil in the series. One vampire was named Angel. He was given his soul back by a gypsy curse. The curse would make him lose his soul and become evil again if he became really happy. He and Buffy fell in love. The curse took his soul away when they had sexual intercourse for the first time. This caused Angel to become evil (losing his soul). When Angel got back his soul, he knew that he and Buffy could not be together because he might lose it again. Angel left Sunnydale and went to Los Angeles. The television series "Angel" tells the story of what happened to him after he left.
Buffy Anne Summers (played by Sarah Michelle Gellar) is "the Slayer," one in a long line of young women chosen to fight evil. She is blonde and beautiful and she is a normal cheerleading girl at the start of the movie. Being the Slayer gave her increased strength, endurance, agility and healing. She also had greater intuition, and some ability of clairvoyance, usually in the form of dreams that tell the future. She was born January 19, 1981 and grew up in Los Angeles, California. Buffy died two times in the normal series. There have also been magical times that she died in, but these periods of time were stopped and do not affect normal times. The first time she died, she drowned and was brought back to life with CPR. The second time, magic was used to bring her back to life.
Rupert "Ripper" Giles (played by Anthony Stewart Head) is Buffy's Watcher. He was an Englishman. He was Buffy's second Watcher. Her first watcher was killed in the movie version of the story but this fact is not talked about in the series. Unlike most slayers, it was not known that Buffy was a potential slayer at an early age. When she was chosen, the Watcher's council sent a watcher to help her. When he died, the Council sent Giles to Sunnydale to become her watcher. In the past, Giles used magic and had a lot of knowledge about demons and vampires. 
Willow Rosenberg (played by Alyson Hannigan) was Buffy's schoolmate and best friend. She was very smart and good with computers. During the series, she learned more and more about magic. She found out that she is very good at magic and became a powerful witch. While in highschool, she had a boyfriend named Oz, who was a guitarist in a local band called Dingoes Ate My Baby, and he was also a werewolf. After Oz left in college, Willow fell in love with another witch, Tara Maclay. When Tara was killed, Willow tried to destroy the world, but Xander stopped her. Later on, at the end of season seven, she developed a relationship with a potential slayer named Kennedy.
Alexander Lavelle "Xander" Harris (played by Nicholas Brendon) was another good friend of Buffy. During season 4, Xander becomes romantically involved with an ex-vengeance demon, Anya (Anyanka), whom he later became engaged to, but left during the wedding in the episode "Hells Bells". It was said many times during the series that Xander was the person in the group who had no special powers at all, but still fought as much as everyone else, and, in season 7 ("Potential") Xander is named the "Seer" because he sees everything that is going on, because he's never actually in the spotlight, just next to it. Xander was often the character the writers used for comic moments. Xander was a major character in the series and saved the world (from Willow) at the end of Season 6, by telling her he loved her repeatedly, accessing the human love inside of her "evil" persona, created by Tara Maclay's death.
Dawn Summers (played by Michelle Trachtenberg) was a magical energy (The Key) that was turned into a person and Buffy's sister. At first, Dawn had the special ability to open the way to a hell dimension (with her blood). After Buffy's death closed that way, Dawn's only special abilities was being very good with languages and a very fast learner. She could have made a very good Watcher.
Anya Christina Emmanuella Jenkins, or Anyanka, or Aud (played by Emma Caulfield) was an 1100 year old vengeance demon. She was born with the name Aud somewhere in Scandinavia during the 9th century. She became a vengeance demon after casting a magic spell on her lover, Olaf. The spell turned him into a troll. Anya spent the next 1100 years as Anyanka. As a vengeance demon, she would use magic to give a wish to a woman who had been treated wrong by a man. Anyaka lost her powers during a wish she cast for Cordelia Chase. When the wish was ended, Anyanka was trapped in the human body of 17 year old Anya. Anya and Xander got together after graduation and later were engaged. But Xander left her at the wedding, realising he was not ready to get married, but still loved her. She then got her vengeance powers back from D'Hoffryn (head of vengeance) but later lost them again after she realized how unfulfilling maiming human men was (her human side).
Angel (played by David Boreanaz) was an Irish vampire first named Liam. He was born in 1727, in Galway, Ireland. After being turned into a vampire in 1753, he spent the next 145 year creating terror as "Angelus" (face of an angel). In 1898, he killed the daughter of gypsies. As punishment, the Gypsies returned Angelus human soul to him. This caused him to have to feel all the pain he had caused. Angel went to the United States and lived on the streets. He stopped killing people to drink their blood because with a soul he knew it was wrong. He lived a very poor life drinking the blood of rats until a messenger from the Powers That Be took him to California to show him Buffy. He fell in love with her and changed his life so he could help her. Buffy fell in love with Angel but he turned evil after she gave him one true moment of happiness (after they had sex). Then he turned into Angelus and when he was finally changed back (after months, by Willow), Buffy stabbed him in order to once again save the world by closing acaphla (against her feelings of love for him).
Cordelia "Cordy" Chase (played by Charisma Carpenter) went to Sunnydale High with Buffy. She was a cheerleader who only thought of herself. She would help Buffy every now and then, but most often was the one that needed help. During her senior year of high school, all the money Cordelia's parents had was taken away by the government because Cordy's dad had not fully paid his family's taxes. Cordy had to get a job at a dress store to pay for a dress for her senior prom.
Although Cordelia started off as a self-involved character, she grew throughout the first three seasons, learning to love others (spawning a relationship with Xander Harris, above). After Season 3 of "Buffy", Cordelia moves away to L.A. to become an actress. After having little luck, she meets Angel and they work together in the detective business- Angel Investigations. Cordelia's character grows even further throughout "Angel" as well, and by Season 4/5 of "Angel", she seems to be a completely different person.
Spike, or William the Bloody, (played by James Marsters) was an English vampire. He was born in London around 1853. He was turned into a vampire in 1880 by Drusilla, a pretty vampire created by Angelus. He spent the next 20 years with Angelus, Drusilla and Darla as they killed throughout Europe and Asia. After Angelus got his soul back and left, Spike and Drusilla continued for 100 years before going to Sunnydale to try and find him. Later, Spike fell in love with Buffy. He fought a demon (initially to get his chip removed) and got his soul back and helped save the world in the last episode ("Chosen"). He was sent, by the amulet he wore, to Angel. (Stars in the final season of "Angel").
Faith Lehane (played by Eliza Dushku) was a vampire slayer. Buffy's first death caused Kendra Young to be chosen as the Slayer. When Kendra died, Faith was chosen. Faith is in many ways the opposite of Buffy. While Buffy had family and friends for support, Faith was alone. Faith tried to fight evil, but later chose to be evil instead. In the end, Faith learns from her mistakes and helps Buffy in her fight.
Daniel "Oz" Osborne (played by Seth Green) was a musician and werewolf. He was Willow's first boyfriend. For three nights each month, Oz would change shape. If he was not put into a cage or locked up, he would roam Sunnydale from the time the sun set until it came up again in the morning. Being a werewolf gave him increased strength, endurance and healing. As a werewolf, his mind was similar to an animal and not a human.
Riley Finn was a member of a secret part of American military. 
During the day, he was a helper to a professor at Sunnydale University. At night, he lead a military team that hunted and captured demons. He had increased strength and endurance, but he was not as strong as Buffy. He gave Buffy an ultimatum and at the last minute she decided on him. But when she got to his helicopter they had already taken off and he did not see her. When he comes back in a later episode Buffy finds out that he is married.
Tara Maclay
Tara was a member of the Wicca group Willow joined in her first year in college. Willow and Tara started as friends. Over time, they became lovers. When Tara is first introduced, she is very shy. Tara has a very obvious stutter in her first season. Through season five, Tara becomes more confident. Eventually, her family comes back to take Tara home, but she (with Buffy and the gang's help) stands up to them. She became more and more confident until Glory took her sanity. Willow got it back in the season five finale, and Tara was sane again.
In season 6, Willow used dark magic (magic that hurt other people) more and more. Eventually, she used it to make Tara forget a fight they had had. Tara broke up with Willow. Tara came back when Willow stopped using dark magic. A very short time later, Tara died after being hit by a bullet meant for Buffy.
Joss Whedon uses several themes throughout his works. These are often found in the writing done for "Buffy".

</doc>
<doc id="9505" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9505" title="Vampire">
Vampire

Vampires are monsters in legends and stories. The first vampire stories were told in Eastern Europe, but much of how modern people see vampires was created by Bram Stoker in the famous novel, "Dracula". Few people believe that vampires are real, but they are still very popular in movies, television, and books.
Vampires were once people but have a supernatural curse. Some vampires must drink blood to survive. They do this by biting people or animals on the neck with their two long fangs. People who are killed by having their blood drank by vampires may also become vampires. Others can live off the life energy of people. In many stories, vampires can change into other animals, usually bats, though also wolves, cats or rats.
Depending on the story, vampires may have some or all of these characteristics:
Dracula is the most famous vampire in fiction, and many movies have been made about him, often with Christopher Lee as Dracula himself. Bela Lugosi is another actor known for the role. Nosferatu is also a famous vampire movie.
There is a popular series of books by Anne Rice about vampires. Stephen King also wrote about vampires in the 1970s in Salem's Lot. The television show "Buffy the Vampire Slayer" featured a young girl who fought vampires, but also befriended good ones. The series "Twilight" by Stephenie Meyer is also about "vampires". The movie The Lost Boys was about a band of vampires in (then) modern California. Among many other stories about vampires are The Southern Vampire Mysteries, which led to the show True Blood.
In stories, garlic is often used for keeping vampires away. A branch of wild rose or hawthorn are said to hurt vampires, and in Europe, putting mustard seeds on the roof of a house was said to keep them away. Though this is not traditional, mirrors have been used to make vampires stay away (in some cultures, vampires do not have a reflection and sometimes do not have a shadow, perhaps as a way of showing that they do not have souls). Not all vampires in stories have this quality (the Greek "vrykolakas/tympanios" had both reflections and shadows), was used by Bram Stoker in "Dracula".
Some neurologists believe that rabies might lie at the base of the myth.
The problem with this is that rabid people, especially in advanced stages of the disease, will live for about ten days, at best. This does not account for them getting out of ditches and graves over weeks or months.
Another explanation was given by other people. The disease might be porphyria, rather than rabies. Porphyria is a genetic condition that leads to differences when the body makes blood. Some parts of the blood can not be made in sufficient quantities. 
Psychological disorders can contribute to vampiric behavior. As well as the fact that drinking blood has always been believed to give you the strength of the one you drink from. That belief stems all the way back to ancient civilizations.
There are people in the real world who like to dress and behave like a vampire. Some of them may also drink blood.
Finally, there is the vampire bat.

</doc>
<doc id="9509" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9509" title="Degree">
Degree

Degree generally means to have a level in something.
Degree can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="9510" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9510" title="Academic degree">
Academic degree

An academic degree is certification students get when they graduate from a university. It shows they successfully completed their classes, and passed a final examination.
It is an official credential. The length of courses, and the number of courses vary depending on which college is attended. In the U.S.A. high schools give out diplomas to graduating students. These are not degrees.
There are hundreds of different academic degrees, but they are often grouped into a few categories:
All other degrees are known as "higher degrees".
In medicine, membership of specialist societies are also degrees, and Fellowships are higher degrees. Examples: MRCP = Member of the Royal College of Physicians. These degrees require postgraduate training and practical experience.
The college courses needed for a master's degree, or for a doctorate, are often highly advanced, difficult subjects, and they would be extremely difficult to understand unless a person had already attended the undergraduate courses. The reason the upper-level courses are so difficult, so hard to understand, is that they assume the person already knows, perhaps, 1,000 technical terms learned in earlier college courses. This is similar to having to know the Latin names of all 206 bones in the human body, as just part of those technical terms.
In many countries these degrees are shown by letters which the person is allowed to put after their name, e.g. John Smith, BA. A bachelor's degree is usually the degree received at the end of a first degree. While the student is studying for a degree he or she is an "undergraduate". When he graduates he is a "graduate". He may continue with his studies and receive a master's degree or do some original work and write a thesis to get a doctor's degree (which does not mean a Doctor of Medicine).
A Juris Doctor (JD) is earned by completing law school in the United States, Canada, Australia, and other common law countries. In the United States and elsewhere, those holding a JD must pass an examination in order to practice law.
Some examples of degrees:

</doc>
<doc id="9511" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9511" title="High school">
High school

High school is a kind of school, a place where people go to learn skills for future jobs. In a three-part system such as in the United States, children go to high school after middle school ("junior high"). In a two-part system such as in the United Kingdom, the change is from primary school to secondary school at 11 years of age. 
In the United States, a high school is a school that students go to usually for grades 9 through 12, from the ages of about 13-15 to about 17-19. It is also the last school that the law requires the student to go to. However, students with behavioral issues that are too much for the school to handle are not required to attend. This is called expulsion. Some people may choose to take some tests called GED (General Education Development) as another way to finish high school. A student is allowed by law to stop going to high school after a certain age without having graduated. In most this is 16, however in a few states it is 18 or higher, for example Wisconsin. 
In most of the United Kingdom, the last school that the law requires student to go to is called a secondary school. The term 'high school' is only used in Scotland.
There are public high schools and private high schools in the United States and many other countries.

</doc>
<doc id="9514" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9514" title="Public school">
Public school

A public school means different things in different countries:
In the United States and Canada, public schools are schools that are paid for by the government. They are open to all students who live nearby without any charge. They are usually paid for through property taxes that are applied to everyone who owns buildings in the area around the school.
Public schools greatly expanded in the United States in the 19th century. Every U.S. state now has free public schools.
Some people think that public schools in the United States are doing a bad job of educating students. One solution has been to give "vouchers" to parents that help them send their children to private schools. Critics say this takes money away that could go to improving public schools.
In the United Kingdom, public schools are independent fee-paying schools like Eton College. They are called 'public' because they accept students from anywhere not just people living nearby in the school area. Some are boarding schools, where students can sleep and live at school during the school term. The public schools have an association called the Headmasers' and Headmistresses' Conference. Junior schools which prepare children for entry into public schools are called Preparatory schools ('prep' schools).
Public schools have a very good record of getting their pupils into elite universities, such as Cambridge and Oxford. They educate the sons and daughters of the British upper and upper-middle classes. In particular, the sons of officers and senior administrators of the British Empire were educated in England while their parents were on overseas postings. In 2010, over half of Cabinet Ministers had been educated at public schools. In 2009, annual fees were up to £30,000 for boarders.
Two twenty-first century Prime Ministers, Tony Blair and David Cameron, were educated at public schools, as were a high proportion of those in previous centuries.

</doc>
<doc id="9517" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9517" title="Seoul">
Seoul

Seoul () is the biggest city of the Republic of Korea (South Korea), and its capital. Its official name is Seoul Special City ( "Seoul Teukbyeolsi"). It has a population of 10 million which is about 1/5 of the Korean population and 1/7 of Korea peninsula, and covers an area of 610 km² that is only 0.6% of South Korea. It is the 6th most populated city in the world, and 7th most crowded. Seoul is the center of politics, economy, culture, transportation, and education for South Korea.
Seoul is in the middle of the Korean Peninsula. Han River (한강 "Han-gang") is a major river in South Korea and the fourth longest river on the Korean peninsula. This river goes across Central Seoul.
Seoul hosted the 1986 Asian Games and the 1988 Olympic Games. It also hosted the 2007 World Schools Debating Championships.
Seoul is thought to be the capital of Baekje Kingdom (백제) from 18 BC. At that time, the name of the city was Wiryeseong (). Wiryeseong is thought to be Songpa-gu, Seoul. During Silla Period (신라시대), Hanju (한주) was name of Seoul. During Goryeo Period (고려시대), the name of Seoul was Namgyeong (남경) which means "the south capital". There was a palace of Goryeo Dynasty. Hanyang was name of Seoul in late Goryeo Period. After establishment of Joseon Dynasty, the name of Seoul was Hanseong (한성) and Hanseong became the capital of Joseon Kingdom. From 1910 to 1945 when Korea was under Japanese rule, the name of Seoul was Gyeongseong (경성). Since South Korea was started in 1948, it has been the capital, except for a short time during the Korean War. Seoul became a special city in 1948. April 19th Revolution (4.19혁명) and June Revolution (6월 민주항쟁) was took place in Seoul.
The most famous soccer team in Seoul is FC Seoul. Their stadium is Sang-am World cup Stadium. It can seat 66,806 people.
Seoul has three famous baseball teams that all play as part of the Korea Baseball Organization. One is The Doosan Bears and they have many famous players. The LG Twins won the Korean Series in 1990 and 1994. Both of these teams play at Jamsil Stadium. Lastly The Nexen heroes who use Mokdong stadium .
Seoul has many stadiums such as Olympic stadium, Jamsil Stadium, Sang-am World Cup Stadium, and Mokdong Stadium. Olympic Stadium was built in 1988 for the Olympics. It was used for the opening and closing ceremonies. World Cup stadium was used for several games in the 2002 FIFA World Cup.
Today, Korean is the official language in Seoul and is spoken in both North and South Korea. Hangul is the alphabet for the written language. Hangul(한글,Korean) was made by Sejong the Great in 1443. Hangul has 19 consonants and 21 vowels and was said to be a scientific language patterned on the vocal organs. Hangul replaced the Hanja, or Chinese characters, which were used before and are still occasionally used.
Seoul has been known in past by the names Wirye-seong (위례성), Hanju (한주), Namgyeong (남영), Hanseong (한성), Hanyang (한양), Gyeongseong (경성). It’s current name comes from the Korean word meaning “capital city.” The name Seoul is thought to come from the Seorabeol (서라벌) which is Gyeongju’s old name. Gyeongju was the kingdom Silla’s capital city. 
There are many universities in Seoul. Seoul National University, Korea University, Yonsei University, Sungkyunkwan University, Chungang University are in Seoul too. Seoul University is Korea’s first national university. Korea University is widely acknowledged as one of the country’s oldest, largest and top-ranked universities in Korea.
Seoul’s transportation dates back to the Korean empire, when the first streetcar lines were laid and a railroad between Seoul and Incheon was completed. Today, because of the effectiveness of Seoul’s transportation network it has become a great transportation center for Asia.
Seoul is connected to every big Korean city by the KTX high speed train, which goes more than 300km/h(186mph).
Seoul has a big subway now that connects every part of the city and many other close cities.
Seoul bus system is operated by the seoul metropolitan government, with four bus areas servicing most of the city.
There are two airports close to Seoul. One is Gimpo International Airport, the other is Incheon International Airport
63 building is 249m high. It has cinema (63 IMAX), observatory - 60th floor (63 Sky Art), aquarium (63 Seaworld), and lots of amenity. The 63 building has 60 stories high and 3 stories below so it became 63 building. The elevator’s speed is 540m/min. Before Daehan Life Insurance’s building but it’s now Hanwha’s building.
N Seoul tower is 236.7m high. It has restaurant and observatory. In the first floor, you can see Seoul only. But you can see Incheon in the fifth floor. YTN take over the building and it became YTN Seoul building (N Seoul building for short).
Gyeongbokgung is Joseon’s castle. It has Gangnyeongjeon, Geunjeongjeon, Gwanghwamun, Gyeonghoeru, Gyotaejeon, Hyangwonjeong, Jagyeongjeon, Jibokjae, Sajeongjeon, Sujeongjeon, Taewonjeon, Donggung, and Geoncheonggung.
Sungnyemun is Joseon’s south big door. It is national treasure number 1 in Korea. But, it had a fire in 2008. So it was fixed. And on May 4th 2013, it was done.

</doc>
<doc id="9518" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9518" title="May 8">
May 8


</doc>
<doc id="9519" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9519" title="July 25">
July 25


</doc>
<doc id="9523" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9523" title="Welfare state">
Welfare state

A welfare state is where the government has a duty to provide some level of basic support for welfare of its citizens, including Social Security. In politics, conservatives are against welfare states.
Schooling can be free, and it can be a duty of state to help ill people. The government may give money to people who do not have as much as most other people. The state may also give homes to people who do not have them. To make this happen there may have to be taxes, and usually rich people have to pay most taxes. The taxes vary, however, to ensure that the less rich people can afford to pay them. For example, in the UK, poorer people have to pay a smaller part of their income as income tax than the rich. There are also taxes put on things that people do not have to pay if they do not do certain things, such as buying as much. This is called VAT (Value Added Tax), which typically deducts 20% so that there is no fixed amount of tax to pay. A Welfare State could also be paid for if the government borrows money from people, mainly by selling bonds. 
The most known welfare states are Nordic countries. The United Kingdom, Canada, and France are some other examples of welfare states.

</doc>
<doc id="9524" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9524" title="Athlete (band)">
Athlete (band)

Athlete are an English band from South London. Their second album is widely regarded as their breakthrough and they have released two singles so far from the album.
Athlete tracks have appeared on the following compilation CDs:

</doc>
<doc id="9525" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9525" title="Organic chemistry">
Organic chemistry

Organic chemistry is the study of chemical compounds that contain carbon. Carbon has the ability to form a chemical bond with a wide variety of chemical elements and other carbon atoms. This allows a nearly unlimited number of combinations. The subject of carbon compounds is called organic chemistry because all known organisms, or living things, are made up of water and carbon compounds. Organic chemistry largely involves the synthesis, or formation, of organic products by chemical reaction using different reactants and reagents, the substances used up during a reaction. Several different areas of chemistry expand on the concepts and principles of organic chemistry, including biochemistry, microbiology, and medicine.
The term organic originates from Jons Jacob Berzelius, a 19th century Swedish scientist, who used the term to refer to substances present in living things. During Berzelius’ time, the vital force theory was popular. This theory stated that a "life force" was needed to produce the organic compounds found in living things. The vital force theory began losing support after an 1828 experiment conducted by Friedrich Wöhler. His work showed that urea, an organic compound, could be created from ammonium cyanate, an inorganic compound.
The study of hydrocarbons is a very large part of organic chemistry. Hydrocarbons are molecules containing only the elements carbon and hydrogen in the form of chains. Hydrocarbons can be classified into two categories based on the presence of a benzene ring, a circular type of hydrocarbon. Aliphatic hydrocarbons do not contain a benzene ring and aromatic hydrocarbons do.
Organic chemistry reactions happen because electrons are not shared evenly in a chemical bond. Some atoms or molecules, like oxygen, nitrogen, and negatively charged anions, are nucleophilic because they have extra electrons and want to be around positive charges. Others, such as H+ and other positively charged cations, are electrophilic and want to be around negative charges. When an organic molecule has a positive charge, it is called a carbocation. It is also an electrophile. When nucleophiles and electrophiles mix, a reaction can occur. 
A reaction mechanism is a series of smaller reactions that form an overall reaction. Two basic mechanism types are substitution and elimination reactions. They are very important in the study of organic chemistry mechanisms because many more complicated mechanisms use them.
Nucleophilic substitution occurs when an atom or group of atoms detaches from an organic molecule and is replaced by another. If the leaving and adding happens at the same time, it is called a S2 reaction. If the leaving group breaks away from the organic molecule and forms a carbocation before substitution occurs, it is called an S1 reaction.
Elimination occurs when two groups are broken off of an organic molecule by a strong acid and the resulting charges form a double bond. Usually one of the groups is a nucleophile and the other is a hydrogen atom. If both groups are pulled off at the same time, it is called an E2 reaction. If one group is pulled off first and forms a carbocation before the second group is removed, it is called an E1 reaction.
Stereochemistry is the study of molecules in space. It looks into the arrangement of atoms inside of molecules in space relative to one another and how they will interact. Molecules that have the same chemical make up but are arranged differently are called isomers. Famous chemist Louis Pasteur was an early researcher of stereochemistry.
A central part of the study of sterochemistry is chirality. Put simply, chirality looks at the symmetry in chemical molecules. If an object cannot be superimposed onto its mirror image, then it is a chiral object. If it can, it is called achiral.
Spectroscopy is the study of the interactions between light energy and matter. We are able to see colors because of energy absorption by organic and inorganic compounds. When a plant undergoes photosynthesis, it traps energy from the sun, and this is an example of an interaction between energy and organic compounds. 
Spectroscopy is used to identify organic molecules in unknown compounds. There are many types of spectroscopy, but most important to organic chemistry are infrared spectroscopy and nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy.

</doc>
<doc id="9526" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9526" title="Proton">
Proton

A proton is part of an atom. They are found in the nucleus of an atom along with neutrons. The periodic table groups atoms according to how many protons they have. A single atom of hydrogen (the lightest kind of atom) is made up of an electron moving around a proton. Most of the mass of this atom is in the proton, which is almost 2000 times heavier than the electron. Protons and neutrons make up the nucleus of every other kind of atom. In any one element, the number of protons is always the same. An atom's atomic number is equal to the number of protons in that atom. 
Protons are made of quarks. A proton is believed to be made up of 3 quarks, two up quarks and one down quark. One down quark has a charge of -1/3, and two up quarks have a charge of +2/3 each. This adds to a charge of +1. A proton has a very small mass. The mass of the proton is about one atomic mass unit. The mass of the neutron is also about one atomic mass unit. The size of a proton is determined by the vibration of the quarks that are in it, and these quarks effectively form a cloud. This means that a proton is not so much a hard ball as an area that contains quarks.

</doc>
<doc id="9529" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9529" title="July 26">
July 26


</doc>
<doc id="9530" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9530" title="April 7">
April 7


</doc>
<doc id="9532" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9532" title="March 16">
March 16


</doc>
<doc id="9533" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9533" title="1774">
1774


</doc>
<doc id="9534" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9534" title="Clint Eastwood">
Clint Eastwood

Clint Eastwood (born May 31, 1930) is an American actor, movie director, producer and composer. 
Eastwood was born in San Francisco, California on May 31, 1930. He was nicknamed "Samson" by the hospital nurses as he weighed at birth. Eastwood is of English, Irish, Scottish, and Dutch ancestry. He was raised in Piedmont, California. He studied at Piedmont Junior High School and at Oakland Technical High School.
He has appeared in many movies since the 1950s. The most famous are the Dollars trilogy of Spaghetti Westerns (1964–1966), "Dirty Harry" (1972), "Any Which Way You Can" (1979) and similar movies. Eastwood also won critical acclaim as a director with the movies "Unforgiven" (1992), "Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil" (1996), "Space Cowboys" (2000), "Mystic River" (2003), and "Million Dollar Baby" (2005). In recent years, Eastwood directed biopic movies such as "American Sniper" and "Sully".
Eastwood was married to Maggie Johnson from 1953 until they divorced in 1984. They had two children. Then he was married to Dina Ruiz since 1996. They have one child. He now lives with his family in Carmel-by-the-Sea, California. He was the mayor of Carmel-by-the-Sea for two years, starting in 1986.

</doc>
<doc id="9535" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9535" title="Spaghetti Western">
Spaghetti Western

Spaghetti Westerns were a name given to low-budget Western movies, which were made by Italian movie companies in the 1960s. They were different from the American western movies, usually filmed in Italian, had limited budgets, filmed on location in Spain and Italy with minimal sets, and many close-ups and artistic shots. Perhaps the most well-known of these movies is "The Man with No Name" trilogy: "A Fistful of Dollars" (1964), "For a Few Dollars More" (1965), and "The Good, the Bad and the Ugly" (1966). All three of these movies were directed by Sergio Leone, featured music by Ennio Morricone, and starred American actor Clint Eastwood as the main character.

</doc>
<doc id="9536" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9536" title="Disneyland">
Disneyland

Disneyland Park is a theme park in Anaheim, California, United States. It is the first Disneyland. It was opened on July 17, 1955, by Walt Disney, the man who invented Mickey Mouse. It is one of the most popular theme parks in the world. Disneyland Park celebrated its golden, or 50th, anniversary on July 17, 2005.
In 2001, the area around the park expanded into a resort with three hotels, a shopping and dining area called Downtown Disney and a second theme park, Disney's California Adventure. The area is now called Disneyland Resort.
The park offers its guests with numerous ways of enjoying their visit. For instance, prior to visiting the park, guests may expect to find "Hidden Mickeys" found on each ride and attraction all throughout the resort. "Hidden Mickeys" are shaped in the form of Mickey Mouse's head and ears, and displayed through various forms; such as a Hidden Mickey shaped cement, found on the floor of the Daisy Level in the Mickey & Friends Parking Structure, or three speakers—in the shape of a circle—forming Mickey Mouse's head on the Space Mountain ride, in Tomorrowland. Hidden Mickeys provide guests an exciting way of discovering magic throughout the park.
Walt Disney worked very hard to run his movie studio. He liked to spend weekends with his two daughters. The family liked going to carnivals and fairs. Mr. Disney wanted to build a place that had all of the fun of the traveling fairs where parents and children could ride together. That is how Mr. Disney got the idea for Disneyland. In 1953, Disney talked to people at Stanford University. He asked them to find a place that would be a good place to build his park. The Stanford people recommended an orange grove for sale in Anaheim, a farming area south of Los Angeles. Mr. Disney's friends thought the idea was a crazy one. He was sure that his dream would be a good one. After selling land that he loved very much in Palm Springs to help pay for the park, the building of Disneyland began in 1954. He also used a weekly television show called "Disneyland" to make people want to see his park. In only one year, Disneyland Park was open.
When Disneyland Park opened on July 17, 1955, the opening was shown on television as it happened. Mr. Disney asked three of his Hollywood friends to help him: Art Linkletter, Robert Cummings and Ronald Reagan. Many things went wrong that day. 11,000 people were invited to the private event but nearly 30,000 came. The streets were still fresh and many people had their shoes stuck in it. They stepped out of their shoes. Even the running water was a problem. Mr. Disney had to choose between drinking water and water for flushing toilets. Mr. Disney chose the toilets. Disneyland may have had problems when it opened, but it was not long before it became a success. Visitor number one million came to Disneyland less than two years later.
Sunday, July 17, 2005, was the fiftieth anniversary of the opening day. Many people waited to enter the park that morning. Some people spent the night waiting in Disney's California Adventure. A ceremony was held that morning with very important people speaking to the audience. Art Linkletter, who was part of the first television show, was the first to speak. The day was also Mr. Linkletter's 93rd birthday. Michael Eisner and Robert Iger, the top men at the Disney company each gave speeches. California governor Arnold Schwarzenegger gave a speech as did Walt Disney's daughter, Diane Disney Miller. The ceremony was shown on giant television screens placed in the park and were played over the televisions during the day. At 4:45 that afternoon, the exact time the Walt Disney had given his speech on the opening day, his speech was played over speakers all over Disneyland.
Inside Disneyland are several areas called "lands." Each land has its own theme. This is a list of those lands and some of the things in them. Disneyland is called the "Happiest place in America."
Main Street, U.S.A. is the first land people see when they come into Disneyland. It was built to look like a small American town, much like the one Mr. Disney grew up in. A station for the Disneyland Railroad can be found here. It is located at the entrance to Disneyland. Mr. Disney and some of his workers loved trains and wanted a railroad in their new park. Guests can ride steam-powered trains for a ride around the edge of Disneyland. They can also ride a streetcar pulled by a horse, a double-deck bus and even a small fire engine. Many shops and restaurants can be found on Main Street, U.S.A.
Fantasyland is like the places in old fairy tales. There is an antique carousel from 1875. The main entry to Fantasyland is through the Sleeping Beauty castle, the symbol of Disneyland. Attractions (Disneyland does not use the term "rides") include Snow White's Scary Adventures and It's a Small World. It also includes the Alice in Wonderland attractions. The Alice in Wonderland ride allows riders to take the adventure just like Alice did and visit the "creatures" she met in Wonderland. The teacups are another Alice attraction where guests sit in giant teacups and spin as fast or as slow as they want. 
Other attractions include the Matterhorn Bobsleds. It is the only roller coaster in Fantasyland and the world's first steel roller coaster. Mr. Toad's Wild Ride is an attraction that takes riders through the world of Mr. Toad as he drives around in his car. The Casey Jr. Circus Train goes through tunnels and a small stream. Dumbo the Flying Elephant has long been a young children's favorite. "It's A Small World" is a classic Disney attraction boat ride taking guests around the world. Each part of the world has dolls that sing the song "It's a Small World" in their language. In Peter Pan's Flight, one may fly over London in a pirate ship and explore Neverland. Pinocchio's Daring Journey is another ride that allows riders to explore the story of the Pinocchio Disney movie. Guests can see different small villages of classic Disney stories on Storybook Land Canal Boats.
Adventureland is made to look like a jungle in Africa or Asia. One of Disneyland's first attractions can be ridden here. It is called "Jungle Cruise" and takes guests on a boat ride on a jungle river. Tarzan's Treehouse was originally named The Swiss Family Treehouse after an old novel. The Indiana Jones Adventure is a ride in a jeep through "dangerous" caverns that include lava, a giant snake, and other perils. The only other attraction in Adventureland as of now is the Enchanted Tiki Room which is the first ride in the world to feature audio-animatronics.
Frontierland is a land that looks like the old American West. The "Mark Twain," a steam-powered boat called a "paddlewheeler" takes guests for a ride on the "Rivers of America." Guests can also ride "Big Thunder Mountain Railroad," a roller coaster that looks like a mine train.
Tomorrowland was meant to look like the world of the future. An attraction called "Buzz Lightyear Astro Blasters" and it opened there in 2005. The "Space Mountain" indoor roller coaster, built in 1977, reopened in 2005 after two years of rebuilding. An old attraction called "Submarine Voyage" was rebuilt. It re-opened in 2007, as Finding Nemo Submarine Voyage with characters from Disney's "Finding Nemo".
Mickey's Toontown is Disneyland's newest land. It is also its silliest land. Mickey's Toontown is where Mickey Mouse and his friends are supposed to live. It is named "Toontown" after a place in the movie, "Who Framed Roger Rabbit?"
New Orleans Square looks like a place called the "French Quarter" in New Orleans, Louisiana. Two of Disneyland's very popular attractions are in New Orleans Square: "Pirates of the Caribbean" and "The Haunted Mansion", which have both inspired movies.
Critter Country was first named Bear Country. It looks like America's Deep South of more than 100 years ago. "Splash Mountain" is a very popular log ride that guests wait in line for a long time to enjoy. It ends with a very long drop down a waterfall. The Many Adventures of Winnie the Pooh was more recently added to Disneyland.

</doc>
<doc id="9538" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9538" title="Boroughs of Berlin">
Boroughs of Berlin

The German capital Berlin is subdivided into 12 boroughs (German: "Stadtteile"/ "Bezirke"). The boroughs are called "Bezirke" in German. The 12 boroughs have political rights like a town community but they are not a legal city.
On January 1, 2001 there was a Berlin borough reform. The reform cut the number of Berlin's boroughs from 23 to 12. This was the result of combining several of the old boroughs. The reform was done in order to cut down administration costs.
Here are the old and the new boroughs:
"(the data in the table is March 2004)"

</doc>
<doc id="9539" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9539" title="Superhuman">
Superhuman

Superhuman means something that is beyond what people are naturally able to do. It is a word most used in fiction such as superhero comic books, but also sometimes in science fiction and fantasy movies and books.
Any character in books or movies that is much stronger than any real person, or can do things such as fly like Superman, is said to be superhuman or to have superhuman powers.
The word "superhuman" may also mean something that is not human but can do something that humans cannot, like a robot that can think faster than a person can.

</doc>
<doc id="9550" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9550" title="Real Madrid C.F.">
Real Madrid C.F.

Real Madrid Club de Fútbol, sometimes known as Real Madrid C.F. and just Real Madrid, is a Spanish football club. 
The club competes in La Liga (the Spanish top league). It was started in 1902. Its home stadium is Santiago Bernabéu Stadium in Madrid.
Real Madrid has won the La Liga league 32 times and the Copa del Rey cup 18 times. It has also won the European Champions League 10 times and the UEFA Cup twice. The "Real" in its name is Spanish for Royal. The club was blessed by the King of Spain in 1920.
The club has bought and had many famous footballers, including Ronaldo, David Beckham, Zinedine Zidane, Michael Owen, Cristiano Ronaldo, Kaká and other very famous footballers. The most expensive player is Gareth Bale who was bought for 85.3 million pounds from Tottenham Hotspur.
Founded in 1902, Real Madrid has since spent all of its history in the top flight of Spanish football. In the 1940s, the club, the Santiago Bernabéu Stadium and the Ciudad Deportiva were rebuilt after the Spanish Civil War. The club became a major force in both Spanish and European football during the 1950s. In the 1980s, the club had one of the best teams in Spain and Europe (known as "La Quinta del Buitre"). They had won two UEFA Cups, five Spanish championships in a row, one Spanish cup and three Spanish Super Cups.
The club's traditional home colours are all white. Its has been changed several times in attempts to modernise or re-brand. The current crest is a modified version of the one first adopted in the 1920s. Real's home is the 80,354-person-capacity Santiago Bernabéu football stadium in Madrid, where it has played since 1947. Unlike most European football clubs, Real Madrid's members ("socios") have owned and operated the club since it was opened. Real is the world's second richest football club behind Manchester United.
Real Madrid C.F. has reserve team ; Real Madrid Castilla C.F..

</doc>
<doc id="9551" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9551" title="1874">
1874


</doc>
<doc id="9552" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9552" title="Bigfoot">
Bigfoot

Bigfoot, also called Sasquatch, is a rarely-seen primate that some people say lives in remote areas of Canada and the United States. Even though many people claim to have seen a Bigfoot, or seen their tracks, no one has ever captured one, or found a dead body. For this reason, some people do not believe in Bigfoot. Some also believe Bigfoot is a dangerous monster, because of some scary stories told about them. Most people who study Bigfoot, however, agree that the species is probably gentle and intelligent, just like humans.
Bigfoot is said to be very tall, from 7 to 9 feet (about 2 to 2.75 meters) and covered in brown, black, red, or sometimes even white fur or hair. They are said to have very big feet, about 13 inches long (0.3 meters), which is why they are named Bigfoot.
Bigfoots are mostly seen in the forests of the Pacific Northwest, but sometimes people see them in the Great Lakes area, the Midwest, or even in swamps in the Southern United States.
It is thought that Bigfoot may be related to the Yeti of the Himalayas.
The name Sasquatch comes from the Halkomelem language, a Central Salish language in the Salish language family. Stories of this type of creature are known among a number of First Nations groups in south-western British Columbia.
Sometimes, people who see a Bigfoot are able to take a picture or a movie of it. The most famous of these is the "Patterson-Gimlin movie." It was named this because the last names of the men who took the movie were Patterson and Gimlin. In the movie, a large, ape-like creature can be seen walking from a lake to a forest. Because this is the best movie so far of a creature that may be a Bigfoot, scientists argue about it a lot. Some think that the creature is a real Bigfoot, while others think that it is just a person in a gorilla costume. Because of this, people have done experiments with men in gorilla costumes who try to move like the creature in the movie. So far, none has been able to move just like it. This is why there are many Bigfoot hoaxes. He can also be mistaken for a grizzly bear.The evidence obtained from the movie is startling though many have questioned about it. Some experts believe if the movie is played slightly faster it could have been a man wearing a rubber costume. However aspects of the footage are amazing. For example, biotechnology scientists have said that for Bigfoot to walk upright it would need an extended heel. The creature in the movie too has an extended heel.

</doc>
<doc id="9557" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9557" title="The Da Vinci Code">
The Da Vinci Code

The Da Vinci Code is a 2003 book by Dan Brown. 
The book talks about a religious group called Opus Dei, a famous artist named Leonardo da Vinci, and some famous paintings he made called the Mona Lisa and The Last Supper.
According to Sharan Newman in "The Real History behind the Da Vinci Code", Dan Brown based "The Da Vinci Code" on a book called "Holy Blood, Holy Grail" by Baigent and Leigh. This book was based on some papers found in the National Library of France, and which were forgeries. The papers were written to show that the man who wrote them was really the true king of France and head of an ancient secret society.
In 2006, Columbia Pictures made a movie version. It was directed by Ron Howard and stars Tom Hanks as Robert Langdon.

</doc>
<doc id="9558" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9558" title="1959">
1959


</doc>
<doc id="9559" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9559" title="1957">
1957


</doc>
<doc id="9560" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9560" title="1966">
1966

1966 (MCMLXVI) was a common year starting on Saturday of the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="9563" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9563" title="Peugeot">
Peugeot

Peugeot is a French company. They make cars, vans, motorcycles and scooters in France.
The "Peugeot 605" is the name of a car. This was a full-size car. It was made between 1989 and 1999 after the company stopped the production of Peugeot 505. After this, the company made a smaller car named Peugeot 405, and a bigger car named Peugeot 605. The Peugeot is a car of the luxury-family car class.
The Peugeot 306 is the name of a car that started being made in 1993 and stopped being made in 2002. It was a small, family car. There were several verities of this car: from the slowest version, the 1.4, all the way up to the fastest version which was called the GTI-6.
The Peugeot 3008 was launched in 2010 as part of Peugeot's family car range. The design of this crossover aimed to combine the genres of an MPV and a hatchback. The 3008 comes as turbocharged 1.6-litre petrol engines, plus 1.6 and 2.0-litre diesels.
Following the original 3008 model, Peugeot revealed the 3008 diesel hybrid later the same year at the Paris Motor Show.
The Peugeot 306 also came in a diesel veriety, which many people see as an important step in bringing economical diesel oil powered car to people. This version came in 1.8 litre, 1.9 litre, and 1.9 litre turbocharged versions. In 1999, Peugeot replaced these diesel engines with the 2.0 litre HDI engine which was better at saving fuel than all the other engines.
The cars that Peugeot make are the:
Peugeot: 107, 206, 207, 308, 508, 807, 1007, 4007, 5008, 3008, RCZ and the Partner
The vans that Peugeot make are the:
Peugeot Bipper, Expert, Boxer, Partner Van, 207 Van and the Bipper
Peugeot International Website
Peugeot Motorcycles Website

</doc>
<doc id="9564" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9564" title="Milton Keynes">
Milton Keynes

Milton Keynes is a very large town in Buckinghamshire, England. In 1967, the government decided to start a large new town with the idea that it would become a city of 250,000 people by the end of the twentieth century. The place where it was built already included three towns and sixteen villages, with about 45,000 people living there. More and more houses, shops and factories are built every year. By 2011, there were are about 275,000 residents. (In the United Kingdom, no matter how large a town is, it can not just call itself a city. Only the King or Queen can give it that name).
Aeroplanes flying over ordinary towns can see roads that look like a spider's web. But when they fly over Milton Keynes, they see that its big roads look like a net or a grid. The people who live there call the spaces between the busy roads grid squares and that is where they live. Nobody lives right next to the big roads, so there are no trucks going past the front door of people who live there. So really, Milton Keynes often seems more like a 100 little villages than a big city. 
People do not have to cross a busy road to get from one grid square to the next one, because the roads go over bridges and people can cross safely under them. The paths that go under the roads and between the houses are called Redways because they are red in colour. Only people on bicycles and people walking are allowed to use them. Cars, lorries and motorbikes are not allowed to go on them. So people could cycle all the way across the city and never have to go on a busy road.
Before the builders came, there were many fields and a lot of villages. People can still see the old villages because the houses look different. There are many rivers and streams and lakes and a canal. There are no houses on the fields beside the rivers. Nobody can build on these fields because sometimes they get flooded when it rains a lot. But nearly all the time, they are just giant long parks called linear parks. 
When the builders dug up the ground to build on, they found some strange things. The oldest was the fossil of a dinosaur fish, called an Ichthyosaur. They also found a Roman farm - people can still see bits of it because they decided to leave it alone. They also found some buried treasure (the Milton Keynes Hoard) which is now in the British Museum (with copies in the Milton Keynes Museum).
There is one big theatre and four small ones. There are only two cinemas but each one has ten sections, so there are twenty movies on at a time. There is a ski slope with real snow, even in summer. That is because it is indoors, with a giant fridge to keep it cold. There are four big swimming pools. At the National Bowl, people can see their favourite bands and artists. Not very far away, at Silverstone, they can see Formula 1 motor racing - including Milton Keynes's own F1 team, Red Bull Racing. There is a football stadium, where they can see the local football club, Milton Keynes Dons F.C., play. They can see barges going past on the canal. Near the station, there is a covered skateboard place. There is also Planet Ice where there is leisure skating available and the MK Lightning ice hockey team plays. This is also where they train figure skaters and ice dancers at national competition level. Professional skater, Vicky Ogden who has skated internationally and nationally for Great Britain for over 12 years is the head coach.
The road system in Milton Keynes is based on the idea of major roads between districts and minor roads within them. The major roads (often dual carriageways) run almost all the way across the city but the minor roads are just for local use. Most of the major roads have a national speed limit: 60 MPH for single carriageway and 70MPH for dual carriageway - thus traffic passing through Milton Keynes can cross from one side to the other in a relatively short time. The major roads run either north/south or east/west, though not in straight lines. This network is called a grid: the major roads are called 'grid roads'. Roundabouts are used at the junctions of the grid: traffic lights are rare. 
The original design for Milton Keynes expected bus services to use the grid roads, with passengers walking to the nearest 'edge'. In reality, the bus services use the internal minor roads.
The Concrete Cows are an art installation by the American artist Elizabeth Leyh. The artist was working with local children to use found objects to create art. The concrete and armatures came as left-overs from local building sites. People from outside (notably a BBC Radio One disc jockey) jumped to the conclusion that they symbolised 'concrete cows for concrete fields', failing to recognise how green Milton Keynes is and that real cows and sheep graze the linear parks. 
The cows in the field to the north of Monks Way near the junction with Erica Road are a copy. The original set is in the shopping centre in Central Milton Keynes. The copy cows are regularly the subject of vandalism - some more creative than others: in 2012 the cows were all painted to appear as skeletons by a local guerrilla artist in readiness for Halloween. This effort was more artistic than most and generally well received with many people voicing a wish (in the local newspaper) that the council not repaint them - but this has been done.
It is in England. It is about half way between Oxford and Cambridge. It is about half way between London and Birmingham. They can get here on the train because we have five railway stations - the biggest one is Milton Keynes Central. They can come on the M1 motorway - get off at Junction 14. It takes less than an hour to get here in the train from London, maybe half an hour if they take an express train.

</doc>
<doc id="9565" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9565" title="Calais">
Calais

Calais is a commune in the Pas-de-Calais department in the north of France. It is an important ferry port situated opposite Dover. About 73,000 people live there.

</doc>
<doc id="9567" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9567" title="December 2">
December 2


</doc>
<doc id="9569" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9569" title="A Clockwork Orange">
A Clockwork Orange

A Clockwork Orange is an English dystopian novella written by Anthony Burgess and published in 1962. 
Through the exploits and experiences of a teenage boy, Alex, it explores mankind's violent nature. The novel is set in a not-so-distant future society with a culture of extreme youth rebellion and violence. It satirizes trends in youth culture that were around in the 1960s in the West, and to some extent still present today. The dramatic events throw a light on human free will to choose between good or evil, and the weakness of free will as a solution to evil. Alex and his gang steal, rape and beat people up. He is sent to prison for murdering a woman whilst burgling her house. 
Burgess experiments with language by writing in a Russian-influenced argot (slang) called "Nadsat" which is used by the novel’s teenage anti-hero in his first-person narrative, and the younger characters. According to Burgess, the novel was a "jeu d'esprit" written in just three weeks. 
In 2005, "A Clockwork Orange" was included on "Time" magazine's list of the 100 best English-language novels written since 1923, and it was named by Modern Library and its readers as one of the 100 best English-language novels of the 20th century. The original manuscript of the book was bought by McMaster University. Hamilton, Ontario, Canada in 1971.
The best known adaptation of the novel to other forms is the 1971 movie "A Clockwork Orange" by Stanley Kubrick, starring Malcolm McDowell as Alex. A 1965 film by Andy Warhol entitled "Vinyl" was also an adaptation of Burgess' novel.

</doc>
<doc id="9571" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9571" title="False">
False

False means untrue. If something is false, it means it is not real. A falsehood is anything said that is not true. A falsehood can also be a series of lies, told to 'prove' something that is false itself.

</doc>
<doc id="9572" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9572" title="Marine biology">
Marine biology

Marine biology is the study of any living plant or animal in the sea. Marine biologists are the people who study it. Like other scientists, marine biologists must know a lot about the creatures they are studying. They also must understand how the sea works. The study of how the sea works is oceanography. There are many kinds of marine animals and plants to study.
Marine animals include squids, corals, whales and fish. Marine plants include sea grasses and algae. The Census of Marine Life was a major project of marine biology. 

</doc>
<doc id="9574" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9574" title="President of Russia">
President of Russia

The President of Russia is the political leader of Russia. Vladimir Putin is the president of Russia. Boris Yeltsin was the first president of Russia, Vladimir Putin was second and fourth, and Dmitry Medvedev was the third. His duties are listed in the Russian Constitution.

</doc>
<doc id="9575" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9575" title="Silvio Berlusconi">
Silvio Berlusconi

Silvio Berlusconi (born 29 September 1936 in Milan) is one of the most important Italian politicians. He was Prime Minister of Italy from May 1994 to January 1995, June 2001 to May 2006, and May 2008 to November 2011. He is the leader of a coalition named "Popolo della Libertà" (People for Freedom). He created the party "Forza Italia", renamed then "Popolo delle Libertà" in October 2008.
Berlusconi is also the most important manager of Italy, he is the owner of television group "Mediaset", of the editorial group "Mondadori" of the football team "A.C. Milan", of the Bank group "Mediolanum SpA". 
Berlusconi had some problems with justice, including fraud (1994, 1996) and corruption (1998). In the 1990s he entered politics and he has been Head of Government in 1994, in 2001 and since 2008 to 2011. On 26 October 2012, he was convicted of fraud. On 1 August 2013, his jail term got confirmed, he will have to serve 4 years, in house arrest, because of his old age. In 2013, Berlusconi was convicted of paying for sex with an underage girl. This conviction was overturned on 18 July 2014.

</doc>
<doc id="9576" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9576" title="Burundi">
Burundi

Burundi (officially called Republic of Burundi) is a small country in Africa. The capital of Burundi is Bujumbura. The official languages of Burundi are Kirundi and French. There are about eight and a half million people in Burundi. Burundi is one of the poorest countries in the world.
Burundi is divided into 17 provinces, 117 communes, and 2,638 collines (hills). Provincial governments are based on these boundaries. In 2000, the province encompassing Bujumbura was separated into two provinces, Bujumbura Rural and Bunjumbura Mairie.
The provinces are:
These are the largest cities in Burundi:
One of the smallest countries in Africa, Burundi is landlocked. It is bordered by Rwanda in the north, Tanzania in the east and south and the Democratic Republic of the Congo in the west. It has an equatorial climate. Burundi is a part of the Albertine Rift, the western extension of the East African Rift. The country lies on a rolling plateau in the center of Africa. The average elevation of the central plateau is , with lower elevations at the borders. The highest peak, Mount Heha at , is southeast of the capital, Bujumbura. The source of the Nile River is in Burundi province. It is linked from Lake Victoria to its headwaters by the Ruvyironza River Lake Victoria is also an important water source. It serves as a fork to the Kagera River. Another major lake is Lake Tanganyika, in Burundi's southwestern corner.
Burundi's lands are mostly agricultural or pasture. Settlement by rural populations has led to deforestation, soil erosion and habitat loss.
There are two national parks: Kibira National Park and Ruvubu National Park. Both were formed in 1982to keep wildlife populations.

</doc>
<doc id="9579" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9579" title="Espoo">
Espoo

Espoo () is the second largest city in Uusimaa, Finland. As of January 2014, more than 260,000 people lived in Espoo. Other municipalities near to it are Kauniainen, Vantaa, Kirkkonummi, Nurmijärvi, Vihti and the capital Helsinki.
There are several lakes in the northern parts of Espoo. Example Lippajärvi, Pitkäjärvi, Nuuksion Pitkäjärvi and Velskolan Pitkäjärvi.

</doc>
<doc id="9584" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9584" title="Hospital">
Hospital

A hospital is a place where a person goes to be healed when he or she is sick or injured. Doctors and nurses work at hospitals. Doctors make use of advanced medical technology to heal patients. The hospital may charge money for treatments/checkups or the treatment may be free or the money will be paid by the government on behalf of the patient.

</doc>
<doc id="9585" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9585" title="Nose">
Nose

A nose is a body part which allows animals to smell things. The nose also helps animals breathe. It has parts that make it work and send messages to the brain. The nose's parts include smell receptors and nerve connectors to receptors. In humans, the nose is on the front of the face. The power of the nose varies for animals. For example, dogs have a stronger sense of smell than human. It is part of the respiratory system which is the system in animals that help them to breathe.
The nose is important to health. It filters the air breathed in, removing dust, germs, and irritants. It warms and moistens the air to keep the lungs and tubes that lead to them from drying out. The nose also contains nerve cells that help the sense of smell. When there is a problem with the nose, the whole body can suffer. For example, the stuffy nose of the common cold can make it hard to breathe, sleep, or get comfortable.
Many problems besides the common cold can affect the nose. They include

</doc>
<doc id="9586" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9586" title="Love">
Love

Love is the feeling of liking somebody or something very much. People sometimes get married or go on a date when someone loves another. 
Love is usually believed to have something to do with the chemical reactions in the brain.
According to one of the young Pakistani philosopher Engr. Arshad Ali Azeemi, love is not something that is simply understandable. It is a feeling of the heart which one can only observe practically.
There are many kinds of love. There can be self-love, love towards a friend (such as platonic love), love in romance, towards family, toward God, or towards an object or idea. 
Often love can be confused with other feelings. Being sexually or physically attracted is the feeling of lust. Lust and love may be thought of as different. Besides that, normal friendship can be distracted by love. Sometimes, love can be destroyed. When love is destroyed between a dating couple, they may break up with each other. 
Love is based on respect, understanding, and being able to talk with each other. 
People describe the person that they first loved romantically as their "first love." For example, in William Shakespeare's "Romeo and Juliet", Romeo is Juliet's very first love. At that time, she was only 13. In Maria Edgeworth's book "Belinda", Mr. Vincent says, "First loves are silly things."
The biological model of sex is different from love because it is more like hunger or thirst. Helen Fisher, an expert in the topic of love, divides love into three stages: lust, attraction, and attachment. Lust makes people like each other, attraction encourages people to focus on mating, and attachment helps people tolerate the spouse (or the child).
Lust is the passionate sexual desire that promotes mating. This usually lasts only a few weeks or months. Attraction is more for one person specially. Recent studies in neuroscience say that as people fall in love, the brain releases chemicals, including dopamine. These chemicals make people less hungry and sleepy, and also adds an intense feeling of excitement. Research shows that this stage normally lasts from one and a half to three years.
Since these lust and attraction stages are both described as temporary, a third stage might describe long-term love. Attachment can be used to describe the bonding period that helps keep husband and wife together for many years. Attachment occurs in the longer term.
Love has consequences for health and well-being. Joyful activities such as love activate areas in the brain responsible for emotion, attention,
motivation and memory, and it may further lead to reduction of cortisol, which reduces stress.

</doc>
<doc id="9589" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9589" title="Michael Jackson">
Michael Jackson

Michael Joseph Jackson (August 29, 1958 – June 25, 2009) was a American singer, songwriter, actor and dancer. one of the most famous and successful musicians of his time. He was referred to as "The King of Pop" and considered to be one of the biggest and most influential entertainers in the history of pop music. Jackson started performing with The Jackson 5 in 1964. In 1971 he started a solo career while also being a member of The Jackson 5. He made the highest-selling album of all time, "Thriller", in 1982. The video for "Thriller" showed him dancing like a zombie and other dancers around him were zombies as well. "Thriller", which includes famous songs like "Beat It" and "Billie Jean," has sold 110 million copies worldwide. Jackson wrote other well-known songs such as "Bad", "Black or White", "Heal the World" and "Earth Song". He is known for popularizing dance moves such as the robot and the moonwalk. He won a lot of awards and broke many records. He is often cited as the biggest star since Elvis Presley. Guinness World Records says he is the most successful entertainer of all time.
Jackson's personal life was often written about by the tabloids, and still is today over six years since his death. He was accused of child sexual abuse in 1993. Even though that wasn't true, Jackson paid the accuser $25 million. After this there was no trial. In 2003 Jackson was charged with child sexual abuse by Garvin Arvizo. In 2005 Jackson was found not guilty of all charges. Jackson died of an overdose of propofol on June 25, 2009 after having a cardiac arrest. Jackson's doctor was convicted of involuntary manslaughter. On July 7 there was a memorial service for Jackson. It was on television and 2.5-3 billion people watched it. This made it the most watched funeral ever.
Michael Jackson was born on August 29, 1958, in Gary, Indiana to a family of Jehovah's Witnesses. He was the eighth of Katherine and Joe Jackson's ten children. Jackson's father Joseph was a steel mill worker.
On January 1 1964 Jackson and his brother Marlon joined their older brothers Jackie, Tito, and Jermaine's band, The Jackson Brothers, in the band's first public performance. Jackson was six years old.
When Jackson was 8 he started being the band's main singer with Jermaine. The group's name then changed to The Jackson 5. The group won an important talent show in 1966. In 1968 they were signed to a famous record label called Motown Records. Their first Motown single "I Want You Back" was No.1 in the US.
In 1971 Jackson released his first song singing on his own, "Got to Be There" from his album "Got to Be There". It reached No.4 in the "Billboard" 100. Three more singles were released from the album.
On August 4, 1972 his second album "Ben" was released. The single "Ben" was his first solo No.1.
In 1974 Jackson hosted the first American Music Awards with Donny Osmond, Rodney Allen Rippy, and Ricky Segall.
In 1975 The Jackson 5 left Motown. They were signed to CBS Records in June 1975. On CBS Records they changed their name to The Jacksons.
In 1976 The Jacksons got their own TV show on CBS. The show was cancelled in March 1977.
On October 24, 1978 a movie called "The Wiz" was released. The movie was a remake of "The Wizard of Oz" with all black actors. Jackson acted as Scarecrow.
On December 17 1978 The Jacksons' twelfth album was released. It was the first album they had produced. Jackson wrote the album's second single "Shake Your Body (Down to the Ground)" with Randy Jackson. It reached No.7 in the US Hot 100.
In December 1978 Jackson started making his first solo album on Epic Records, "Off the Wall" with Quincy Jones. It was released on August 10, 1979. The album got good reviews and a Grammy Award for Best Male R&B Vocal Performance.
The Jacksons' thirteenth album "Triumph" was released 1980.
In 1982 Jackson sung "Somewhere in the Dark" for the E.T. soundtrack. It won a Grammy for Best Recording for Children in 1984. That year Jackson won seven other Grammys for his album "Thriller".
On October 18 1982 the first single from "Thriller", "The Girl Is Mine", was released. It was sung with Paul McCartney. Some people thought that the album wasn't going to be very good because of the song.
Jackson's sixth solo album "Thriller" was released on November 30, 1982. Jackson didn't do a tour for the album. The album got good reviews.
In 1983 Jackson made three songs with Freddie Mercury.
"Somebody's Watching Me", a single by Rockwell with Jackson singing on the chorus, was released January 14, 1984. It reached number one in Spain and France.
On January 27, 1984, Michael and other members of the Jacksons filmed a Pepsi Cola commercial. Michael's hair caught on fire and he was rushed to hospital. Pepsi gave Jackson $1.5 million. He gave it to the Brotman Medical Center in Culver City, California. In May 1984 "Farewell My Summer Love", a song that Jackson made it 1973, was released as a single. It reached number seven in the UK Singles Chart.
The Jacksons' album "Victory" was released on July 2, 1984. Between July and December 1984 Jackson toured with his brothers. He won eight awards at the 1984 American Music Awards, the most anyone has ever won at once. He also won Best International Solo Artist and Best International Album at the BRIT Awards.
Jermaine Jackson released his tenth album, "Jermaine Jackson". Michael sang on a song from the album, "Tell Me I'm Not Dreamin' (Too Good to Be True)". It was nominated for Best R&B Performance by a Duo or Group with Vocals at the 1985 Grammy Awards.
In August 1985, Jackson bought music publisher ATV Music for $47.5 million. They owned the rights to The Beatles.
Jackson wrote "We Are the World" with Lionel Richie in 1985. The song was recorded by USA for Africa. It was released as a single around the world to make money to give to starving people in Africa. It sold over 20 million copies. It also won four Grammy Awards.
In August 1987 "Bad" was released. Jackson wanted it to sell 100 million copies. It has sold over 30 million copies. Five of the album's seven singles were No.1 in the US. They were "I Just Can't Stop Loving You", "Bad", "The Way You Make Me Feel", "Man in the Mirror" and "Dirty Diana". Until Katy Perry's success with her 2010 album "Teenage Dream", Jackson was the only musician to ever have had that many singles from one album be No.1. From September 1987 to January 1988 Jackson did the Bad world tour. This was the first tour that he did on his own. In 1988 "Moonwalk", a book that Jackson wrote about his life, was published. It took Jackson four years to write. The book sold 200,000 copies. Jackson then released "Moonwalker", a movie he made. In 1989 some video games about the movie were released by U.S. Gold.
In 1986 Disneyland and ETCOT started showing a short film called "Captain EO" that had Jackson in it.
Jackson sang "You Were There" at Sammy Davis Jr.'s 60th birthday. He was nominated for an Emmy Award for it.
The Jacksons released their last album "2300 Jackson Street" in 1989. Michael sung on the album's second single "2300 Jackson Street" with his brothers and two of their sisters, Janet and Rebbie. Michael was also in the music video for the song.
Jackson won the Grammy Award for Best Music Video, Short Form in 1989 for "Leave Me Alone".
Jackson's eighth studio album "Dangerous" was released November 26 1991. It was produced with Teddy Riley. It is a new jack swing album. It was Jackson's first album to have a rapper on it. Nine singles were released from the album. On June 27, 1992 Jackson started the Dangerous World Tour. All of the money Jackson made from the tour was given to charities. The tour was supposed to last until Christmas 1992. However, Jackson ended the tour on November 11, 1993 because he was ill and needed to go to hospital. Jackson performed at the halftime show at Super Bowl XXVII in January 1993.
"HIStory: Past, Present and Future, Book I", Jackson's ninth studio album, was released July 16 1995. The album has two discs. The first disc is a collection of some of his greatest hits. The second disc is fifteen songs recorded in late 1994 and early 1995. Thirteen of the songs are new. Two of them are cover versions. In August 1995 the album's single "You Are Not Alone" became the first single ever to go straight to No.1 in the US. "HIStory" won the Grammy Award for Album of the Year. The video for the single "Scream" went in the Guiness Book of World Records for being the most expensive short film ever made. Jackson released a short film called Ghosts in 1996. He wrote it with Stephen King.
In 1997 "Blood on the Dance Floor" was released. It is the best-selling remix album ever made. There were five new songs on the album. The album's first single was a new song called "Blood on the Dancefloor". The album and its first single were No.1 in the UK.
Jackson won Artist of the 1980s at the American Music Awards in 2000.
On October 30, 2001 "Invincible", Jackson's last studio album, was released. The album got good and bad reviews. It was No.1 in 12 countries and sold 13 million copies around the world. But compared to Jackson's earlier albums, it was unsuccessful. The album's first single "You Rock My World" was nominated for the Grammy Award for Best Male Pop Vocal Performance.
Jackson won his 22nd American Music Award for Artist of the Century in 2002.
On November 17, 2003 an album called "Number Ones" was released. It is a collection of Jackson's hits. There is also a new song on the album called "One More Chance". It was released as a single. It reached number one in three countries. The album was released as a DVD too.
In 2006 Sony released twenty of Jackson's popular singles.
In March 2009 Jackson told the press that he was going to do a tour called This Is It. He said that he might stop making music after this. Jackson practised his singing and dancing for the tour in Los Angeles with Kenny Ortega.
Jackson's voice changed from boy soprano to high tenor between 1971 and 1975. He sang 'come on' wrongly on purpose so that it sounded like 'shamone'. Jackson had a three-octave vocal range. He is the most well known musician to use the 'vocal hiccup'. He first used it in 1973 on "It's Too Late to Change the Time" on The Jackson 5's "" album.
Jackson lived a well-publicized personal life even though he tried to stay private. He was often in celebrity and tabloid magazines. Later in his life he was in magazines because of his personal life more than for his music.
Throughout his life, a lot of people thought that Jackson was gay. 
In a letter to Jackson, his mother called him "faggot", a homophobic slur. Men have said that they had relationships with Jackson. In 1977 Jackson told "Soul" that he was not gay. Over 20 years later Jackson told "News of the World" in 1996 that he was not gay.
Jackson was also called asexual by his ex-girlfriend Brooke Shields and 'presexual' by a biographer.
In 2005 a documentary called "Michael Jackson's Boys" was shown in the UK.
A pedophile activist called Tom O'Carroll wrote a book about Jackson being a pedophile called "Michael Jackson's Dangerous Liaisons". It was published in 2010, a year after Jackson died.
In 1993, he was accused of child molestation, but there was no trial; the case was settled out of court.
In 2003, he was accused a second time of child molestation. This happened after a documentary called "Living with Michael Jackson" was shown on TV. In the documentary Jackson held hands with a 12-year-old boy called Gavin Arvizo and said that he shared his bed with children. His accuser was Gavin Arvizo. He was 13 years old when he made the allegations. This time Jackson went to court and was found not guilty of fourteen charges in 2005. The accusations of child molestation made Jackson less popular.
In May 2013 a dancer called Wade Robson called Jackson a monster on the "Today" show. He said that Jackson sexually abused him for 7 years.
He was married to Lisa Marie Presley, the daughter of Elvis Presley in 1994, before divorcing her in 1995 and marrying nurse Debbie Rowe in 1996. Three months after Rowe and Jackson's marriage she gave birth to a son, Michael Joseph Jackson Jr. The next year she gave birth to a daughter, Paris-Michael Katherine Jackson.
The couple divorced on October 8, 1999. Prince Michael II was born on February 21, 2002. Jackson never said who the mother was. He is better known as Blanket. When Blanket was 8 months old Jackson held him over a balcony. Blanket has a towel over his head. At the time, people did not know that he was called Blanket. Jackson made a public apology after people were upset. After Jackson died his mother Katherine was made the guardian of his children. In August 2012 Jackson's cousin TJ was made the children's co-guardian.
Bubbles (born 1983) is a common chimpanzee, known for being the one-time pet of American recording artist Michael Jackson. Jackson bought the animal from a Texas research facility in the 1980s. The animal was a frequent travel companion to the singer, whose attachment to the animal led to media mockery and, among other factors, to a public perception of Jackson as an eccentric. The chimp, for example, was permitted to use Jackson's personal toilet.
Their human-animal bond, as well as the entertainer's other alleged eccentricities, contributed to the media epithet "Wacko Jacko", a nickname Jackson would eventually come to despise. The media often focused on Bubbles, rather than on Jackson's music, and published many false stories regarding the animal. One such story was an allegation that Bubbles was not a single ape, but one of several.
Over the years his changing facial appearance and lightening skin color attracted much attention. From childhood Jackson had afro hair. His hair caught fire during the filming of a Pepsi commercial in 1983. Jackson got second-degree burns to his scalp. Jackson started taking painkillers for the very bad pain caused by the burns. Jackson always wore a wig in his later years. His autopsy found that his scalp was tattooed black so that it blended in with his wigs.
He claimed to have had only a little plastic surgery to his face. He said that puberty, weight loss, and his vegetarian diet had changed his face. People said that Jackson bleached his skin to make it lighter. In a television interview with Oprah Winfrey in 1993 he said he had a rare skin condition called vitiligo. When Jackson died, the autopsy found that he did have vitiligo. Jackson also had an immune condition called discoid lupus. Dr. Richard Strick said that this "had destroyed part of the skin of his nose". Jackson's nose was the body part that people talked about most.
Jackson was addicted to prescription drugs. In 2009 he died from an overdose of an anaesthetic called propofol. He was given propofol for his insomnia. The insomnia was a side effect of Jackson's addiction to Demerol. Jackson's doctor Conrad Murray said that Jackson took the overdose himself.
In his autopsy it was found that he had an enlarged prostate and osteoarthiritis. His lips were tattooed pink. He used a skin-bleaching cream called Benoquin.
Jackson was physically abused by his father when he was a child. He would also call Jackson "big-nose". As a teenager Jackson had acne. In "Living With Michael Jackson" Jackson told Martin Bashir how he went home and cried after a woman called him ugly because of his acne. Some medical professionals have said that they think Jackson had body dysmorphic disorder. The disorder is often triggered by appearance-related bullying. Some people think that Jackson had anorexia nervosa. In 1984 Jackson weighed 105 pounds. He was 5"9 tall. This would have made his BMI 15.5, which is very underweight. He weighed 136 lbs when he died. This is in the healthy range.
A biographer called Ian Halperin wrote that Jackson had a rare genetic disease called Alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency. By the time of his death it had damaged his lungs so he could not sing. He also wrote that Jackson's genetic disease had caused him to lose 95% of the vision in his left eye.
Jackson's doctor Conrad Murray said that he thought Jackson was "legally blind" and had phlebitis.
Jackson was proclaimed dead at age 50 on June 25, 2009 at 2:25pm at the Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center. It is thought that he went into cardiac arrest, which means his heart stopped. At 4:36 pm local time, the Los Angeles coroner confirmed Jackson's death. However, he was unresponsive by 12:15, even though he was not proclaimed dead at the time of hospital arrival, he already passed on by 1pm. Jackson died just two months before his 51st birthday. Rumors and news of Jackson's death broke web records causing a cyberspace traffic jam. The circumstances of his death and the outpouring of grief which was experienced around the world were on record scales never seen before . His death gave Google, Twitter, Facebook, and Yahoo the most page views they had ever encounted. Jackson arrived at the hospital not showing any signs of life.
A memorial service was held at the Staples Center in downtown Los Angeles on July 7, 2009. It began with a reading of a letter by Smokey Robinson of comments by Nelson Mandela, Diana Ross and other close friends of Michael Jackson who could not be at the memorial. Mariah Carey sang "I'll Be There" at the memorial service, followed by a speech given by Queen Latifah. Lionel Richie performed "Jesus is Love". Berry Gordy, Motown founder, spoke next, offering condolences. Kobe Bryant and Magic Johnson also spoke, with Magic describing the event as a "celebration of Jackson's life and works" rather than a funeral. Jennifer Hudson sung "Will You Be There" accompanied by a music video. Reverend Al Sharpton then gave a speech about how Jackson kept rising and "never stopped". John Mayer played the guitar as he did in Michael Jackson's song Human Nature. This was followed by Brooke Shields speaking. Jermaine Jackson, Jackson's older brother, then performed Smile, Michael's favorite song written by comic drama legend Charlie Chaplin. This was proceeded by speeches by Martin Luther King III and Bernice King. Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee was the next person who spoke at the memorial service, claiming "people are innocent until proven guilty," (reminding those who accused Jackson of unproven child molestations) saying that Jackson's humanitarian efforts need to be praised. Usher then sang "Gone Too Soon," followed by a montage of old videos of Jackson himself. Shahim sang next, with Kenny Ortega introducing him afterwards. Kenny Ortega explained that Michael Jackson saw the Staples Center as his home, a reason for the funeral service to be held there. This was followed by Kenny Ortega doing a tribute to him, including "We Are the World" and "Heal the World". The service ended with speeches by members of his family, including Jermaine, Marlon and daughter Paris who broke into tears and said that "Daddy was the best father anyone could have" and also that "I will miss him" then she left the microphone and turned into Janet Jackson's arms. The memorial lasted over 2 hours.
At first, Michael Jackson's custom made quarter million dollar golden casket, nicknamed "The Promethean" was not expected to appear at the memorial service, however, due to a change in the family's plans the casket was taken to the memorial service.
Viewing parties were held all over the world for the broadcast, including at several movie theaters, in Times Square, the Apollo Theater, Raleigh, and Berlin. The broadcast was replayed a few times the next day. An estimated 1 billion people tuned into the farewell concert.
Over 3,000 police officers were assigned to the event, the largest amount assigned to a single event since the 1984 Summer Olympics. It cost the City of Los Angeles 1.4 million dollars.
His funeral took place in Glendale California on September 3, 2009, 9 weeks after he died. He was laid to rest at 9:45pm in the mausoleum, above the ground. Mother Katherine decided on burial details but some family members and friends wanted him buried below ground in the mausoleum. Jermaine Jackson wanted him buried on Neverland ranch.
Although he died in 2009, Jackson is still often in the news. His music is also still popular.
Jackson won Entertainer of the Year at the 2009 Soul Train Awards. That year he also won five American Music Awards.
On October 26, 2009 a two disc album called "Michael Jackson's This Is It" was released. The album's only single "This Is It" was nominated for the Grammy Award for Best Male Pop Vocal Performance in 2011.
On October 28, 2009 "Michael Jackson's This Is It" was released. It was a documentary movie. The movie showed recordings of Jackson's rehearsals for his This Is It tour. Jackson died before he could do the tour. It made $72,091,016 in the United States. It has made $261,183,588 around the world. It got good reviews from movie critics. On 26 January 2010 the movie was released on DVD. It sold over 1.5million copies in the US in the first week it was released. This was more than any other music DVD had sold in its first week.
Jackson won the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award in 2010. His children, Prince and Paris collected the award for Jackson.
A video game called "Michael Jackson: The Experience" was released in November 2010 for the Nintendo DS, PlayStation Portable and Wii.
In April 2011 Mohamed Al-Fayed, who was friends with Jackson when he was alive, showed the public a 7 ft 6in statue of Jackson outside Craven Cottage football stadium. A lot of people did not like the statue. In July 2013 Fayed sold his football club to Shahid Khan. In September 2013 Khan chose to have the statue was removed. It was given back to Fayed. "Man in the Music: The Creative Life and Work of Michael Jackson", a book written by Joseph Vogel about Jackson's life, was published in 2011.
Jackson was voted as the Greatest Singer of All Time by people who did a poll on NME.com.
In 2011 there was a criminal trial for Jackson's doctor Conrad Murray. Murray was found guilty of involuntary manslaughter of Jackson. He was sentenced to four years in prison. On October 28, 2013 Murray was released from prison. He was interviewed by 60 Minutes. He said that he did not think that Jackson's death was his fault in any way. The journalist Liz Hayes asked Murray if he thought that Jackson was a pedophile. Murray stared at her for 13 seconds and would not give an opinion. He said that he would not answer because he did not want to make anything up.
An extinct species of hermit crab was called Mesoparapylocheles michaeljacksoni after Jackson in January 2012.
"Bad 25", a documentary movie about Jackson's album "Bad", was released in August 2012.
In 2012 he sold almost 819,000 albums in the United States. He is thought to have sold 2.7 million albums around the world in 2012. His estate makes $145 million a year.
Jackson made more money than any other dead celebrity in 2013.
In May 2013 Wade Robson said that Jackson sexually abused him from the age of 7 to 14. In 2005 he had been a defense witness for Jackson's child molestation trial. In June 2014 there will be a hearing where it is decided whether Robson can sue Jackson's estate over the abuse.
In November 2013 "Billboard" magazine's issue 44 did a cover with Michael on it. It said 'Life After Death'. Inside the magazine there was an article about the success of .
In January 2014 a judge ruled that Jackson's family could not have another trial against AEG Live. "Xscape" will be released on May 9, 2014.
Jackson recorded several songs before his death. He had recently released a compilation album called "Michael" featuring remixed songs and new songs such as "Hold My Hand" a duet between him and popular singer Akon, and "Monster", a strong song with lots of attitude and a hint of dislike for the paparazzi. Also "(I Like) The Way You Love Me", "Keep Your Head Up" and "Much Too Soon".

</doc>
<doc id="9593" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9593" title="Portable">
Portable

Something that is portable can be carried or easily moved. The word portable may also refer to:
In computing:
In electronics:
In music:

</doc>
<doc id="9594" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9594" title="History of graphic design">
History of graphic design

Graphics (from Greek ) are visual presentations on some surface, such as a wall, canvas, computer screen, paper, or stone. It includes everything that relates to creation of signs, charts, logos, graphs, drawings, symbols, geometric designs and so on.
Graphic design is the art or profession of combining text and pictures in art, advertisements, publications, or websites. The aim of graphics is to brand, inform, and have a specific effect on its audience.
Hundreds of graphic designs of animals were made by primitive people in Chauvet cave, in the south of France, about 30,000 BC. Also, similar art was done in the Lascaux cave, France, about 14,000 BC. The art of primitive hunters is found in the rocks of Bhimbetka in India, drawn earlier than 7000 BC. Aboriginal rock art in Kakadu National Park of Australia, show that graphics has a long history in many parts of the world. This history (with writing, which emerged in 3000–4000 BC) are the foundation of graphic art.
Religious books have used graphics extensively. Among these books are Bibles that were created in the monasteries in Ireland, Scotland, and England. Spiralling and interlocking patterns, often including small figures, were part of the ancient graphic tradition of the British Isles. From the 6th century onwards these were applied to the decoration of illuminated gospels.
In Islamic countries the graphic designs can be found in their holy book, the Quran. The Quran was first wriiten an angled style called Kufi. This appeared in the 8th century, and reached its peak in the 10th century. Later on decoration of margin, page and other graphic techniques were added to beautify the book. In the 12th century the Naskh script was invented: it used curves instead of angled lines. Other styles were added later on.
From ancient times graphic design has been used for decoration of pottery and ceramics.
William Morris had an influence on modern graphics. In the second half of 19th century his Kelmscott Press produced many graphic designs, and created a collector market for this kind of art. In Oxford he was associated with artists like Burne-Jones, and Dante Gabriel Rossetti. They formed the Pre-Raphaelites group, whose ideas influenced modern graphic design considerably.
The Dutch painter Piet Mondrian in the years 1920–21 courageously introduced the style of minimalism in painting. His simple geometric compositions, together with the use of only three basic colors, blue, yellow, and red, in combination with black and white created
a new venue for the graphic designers. He demonstrated that with simple relocation of these colors, and experimenting with the proportionality of various square surfaces, one can achieve extremely different ambiances and various feelings. For the graphic designers who intend to convey a message with a minimum interference from the extraneous elements his experiment in minimalism was a valuable gift.
A trademark, identified by the symbols ™ and ®, or mark is a distinctive sign or indicator used by an individual, company or other entity to identify its products or services and to distinguish them from those of other producers. A trademark is a type of intellectual property, and typically a name, word, phrase, logo, symbol, design, image, or a combination of these elements.
In 1921, Otto Neurath, an Austrian social scientist, introduced graphic design to help the understanding of social and economical data. In 1925, the Museum of Economy and Society used such graphics for the public. This style of presentation at the time was called the Viennese method, but now it is known as Isotype charts.
Placards and posters existed from ancient times. The Greek "axons" and the Roman "Albums", with their decorative designs and announcements, were quite similar to today's posters. In ancient Greece the names of athletes and games schedules were written on columns that were slowly turning on an axis. Romans used whitewashed walls in their markets in which sellers, money lenders, and slave traders wrote their announcements and advertised for their products, and to attract the attention of customers they added an attractive design.
With the invention of printing, in 1440, and particularly the development of the lithographic process, invented by a Czech named Alois Senefelder in 1798 in Austria, creation of posters became feasible. Although handmade posters existed before, they were mainly used for government announcements. William Caxton, who in 1477 started a printing company in England, produced the first printed poster.
In 1870, the advertising poster emerged.
After the Second World War, with the emergence of new color printing technology and particularly appearance of computers, the art of posters underwent a new revolutionary phase. People can create color posters on their laptop computers and create color prints at a very low cost. Unfortunately, the high cost of sophisticated printing processes can only be afforded mostly by government entities and large corporations. With the emergence of the internet, the role of posters in conveying information has greatly diminished. However, some artists still use chromolithography in order to create works of art in the form of print. In this regard the difference between painting and print has been narrowed considerably.
Today graphic design has penetrated into all aspects of modern life. In particular modern architecture has been influenced by graphics.

</doc>
<doc id="9595" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9595" title="Pornography">
Pornography

Pornography (or porn) is the name for writing, pictures, and films which feature sex for the sole or primary purpose of arousing people sexually, either to help them masturbate, or to prepare them for sex with a partner. 
When, however, writing, images, and movies feature or deal with sex, or images show naked people or people engaged in the sex act, not to arouse readers or viewers sexually, but to deal with sex as a reality that is moral, psychological, cultural, or aesthetic, people do not call such works "pornography," but "erotica." 
In the law of most countries, showing naked people is not called "pornography" unless the people are doing something sexual; even so, material that counts as pornographic may still be legal. When people consider photographs or movies to harm or to disrespect the people depicted or the viewers, or to violate the community's moral or religious standards, they condemn the material as "obscene." Most countries have laws against obscenity. One type of pornography against the law in most countries is child pornography. 
Pornography can made in different media. Some ways include photos, drawings, paintings, animations, and movies. Live shows (like sex shows or striptease) are usually not considered pornography. Pornography is made to entertain adults. Many people are involved in making, selling or showing pornography. People shown in pornographic movies are called pornographic actors (or actresses), and when they become popular enough for any film in which they appear to be sure to make lots of money, the are called "porn stars." 
The word "pornography" comes from the Greek words meaning "prostitute" and "writing". The word was first used for stories about sex, but is now also used for photographs, paintings, illustrations, cartoons, and movies that depict sex to arouse people to sexual activity. It is also called "porn" or "porno" for short. 
There are different ideas about what is and what is not pornography. Diana Russell, a psychologist, says that there is a difference between pornography and erotica. The word "erotica" is often used for pictures, movies or stories that focus on the beauty of sexuality. There is not often a clear difference between "erotica" and "pornography." The dispute over what is or is not pornography can even go to the courts.
Some people believe that anything that shows a naked body is a type of pornography. The laws of the United States and many other countries do not support this. There can be all sorts of reasons for showing a naked or partly undressed body. Some of these reasons include art work or a medical diagram.
There are different kinds of pornography. The term "soft porn" is sometimes used for pictures that show people who may or may not be naked, but who are posed in a sexy manner. Pictures of women like this are sometimes called "cheesecake," and pictures of men are called "beefcake." Pornographic pictures or movies which show people having sex are sometimes called "hard porn."
Businesses have been making pornography for many years. Until the 1970s, businesses making pornography were small because there were many laws against it. In the 1970s, pornographic magazines such as "Penthouse" became a huge and successful business. Pornographic movies also become popular at this time. In the 1980s, the creation of the video cassette recorder caused a rise in the pornography business. A number of companies began making pornographic videotapes in the United States. In the 1990s, as more people began using the Internet, businesses began selling pornographic pictures on the Internet. In the 2000s, the increased speed of computers allowed pornography companies to sell porn videos over the Internet. The pornography brand Mitchell Gaffney was the first website that contained such items. 
Many different kinds of businesses make and sell pornography: magazines such as Playboy and Hustler, movie companies such as Vivid Video, and web sites that make and sell porn. Since "pornography" is a word that many people consider to be the name for something that is morally wrong or ugly, businesses do not say that they are in "the business of pornography," but rather in the "adult entertainment" business.
In the nations of Western Europe and the United States, the law permits people who have reached the legal age of adulthood (the age of majority) to own, buy, sell, make, or participate in pornography. Laws about the public display of pornographic materials for sale may vary in the West: in The Netherlands the very liberal laws allow stores that sell pornography to display books, magazines, photographs, and the covers of videos openly, but in Canada and the United States the laws require that such stores keep pornographic material out of the sight of children. In many nations of the Middle East, however, like Indonesia, Iran, and Pakistan, making or owning pornography is a crime.
In the law of most countries, those people who have not reached the age of majority, or minors, may not buy, let alone sell, pornography of any sort. More importantly, there are laws against showing minors naked in photographs or films meant to arouse others sexually, or showing them engaged in sexual acts. Such material is called "child pornography," and is considered not just illegal, but a very serious crime. Because the laws against child pornography (also called "child porn") are meant to protect children against people who "use" or "exploit" them, the laws also require those who make pornographic photos or films to keep records to prove that their models, actors, and actresses are over the age of legal majority. 
Since the 1970s, many women's groups and feminist writers have criticized pornography, especially hardcore pornography, arguing that such pornography degrades and humiliates women. Some psychologists who have talked with many people in jail for violent sex crimes believe that pornographic depictions of violent sex often make people less caring about other people's feelings, which might make them more likely to commit rape and other sex crimes. Many pedophiles, who sexually assault children, also have collections of child pornography. 
Religious people believe that, because it depicts the sexual act without any relation to love and marriage, pornography is unholy. Most parents do not wish their children to see pornography because they believe that it will make them less capable of romantic love. Special computer programs can be installed on computers to block access to pornographic websites, or websites otherwise objectionable. 
In the novel "Nineteen Eighty-Four" by George Orwell, pornography is described as a tool that is secretly pushed by some evil governments, who believe that use of pornography makes the public less likely to care about injustice, let alone to rebel.
Even though many countries have laws against child pornography, enforcement has become a problem because new computer technologies allow pornographers to make an adult in a photograph look like an adolescent, or in making a film can use actors and actresses who, although they have passed the age of majority, still look much younger. In addition, organized crime makes money from trafficking human beings; they force girls and women into prostitution, and sometimes force them to make pornography.

</doc>
<doc id="9596" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9596" title="Nudity">
Nudity

Nudity (or nakedness) is when a person is not wearing clothes. The word "nudity" can also be used when only part of a person's body is uncovered. It is used particularly if the person's genitals (or a woman's nipples) can be seen, even if other parts of the body are covered.
Nudity can also mean that a person is wearing less clothing that other people would expect. This type of nudity is related to culture. People of different cultures wear different amounts of clothing, and keep different parts of the body covered. For some people nudity is a lifestyle, belief system or a default state of being, which is called naturism or nudism.
The word "nude" is often used in art. A "nude figure" is a figure without clothes on. The nude figure might be a live person who is posing for an artist. A painting or sculpture that shows a nude figure is often just called a "nude".
There are several things that affect how people and societies feel about nudity:
In most cultures it is normal to keep parts of the body covered. The feeling that a person has about covering their body is called modesty. Modesty is different in different cultures. Often, people feel shame if their body is not covered to match their culture's idea of modesty. 
The amount of clothing needed to take away the feeling of shame is different for each culture. With some indigenous peoples like the Yanomami, a piece of string is enough to make that feeling go away.
In some cultures, people nearly always keep their bodies covered. In these cultures, nudity is only normal when a person is alone, for example, dressing or bathing. In other cultures, it is quite normal for people to be naked together, for example, when dressing or swimming. In still other cultures, particularly indigenous ones, people wear very few clothes, and complete nudity is normal.
Even with people from the same culture, different people can have different feelings about nudity. Some people in Western culture (for example the United States) do not mind if a family member sees them naked in the bath. Other people from the same culture would be uncomfortable if anyone saw them naked in the bath. Some women in a Western culture are happy to wear a bikini. Other women feel naked in a bikini and always wear a one-piece swimsuit.
Many societies have rules or laws about nudity, and where they allow it. For example, in some societies, the law allows nudity on a beach, but does not allow nudity in a public street. The same sort of laws can also allow people to be partly naked in some places but not in others, for example, women might be allowed to have naked breasts on the beach, but not in a shopping centre. When a woman uncovers her breasts on the beach, this is called toplessness (because her swimsuit is "topless"). This is allowed in many parts of Europe and Australia. In many other countries, it is not allowed.
The rules about dress and nudity may be set by a government, or by a church or some other organisation. For example, in some Christian churches, a woman must cover her shoulders and a man must not have bare legs. Another example is in many schools, a man must wear a jacket over his shirt, and a woman must wear a dress that has sleeves. Another example is that some hotels that are near beaches will not serve customers who are dressed only in swimsuits.
Some countries have very strict laws about whether a person can be nude in public, and what parts of the body can be shown. In many countries, if a person breaks these laws, they can be charged with indecency (which means that they have acted in a rude way that upsets people). For example, if a man took his trousers off near a school, so that the children would see him, he would be charged with indecency. The reason why a person is nude, affects whether the law says that their nudity is indecent.
"Functional nudity" is when a person is nude for a reason. Even where nudity is generally not allowed, functional nudity often is.
An example of this is when a person at the beach changes from a wet swimsuit to their dry clothes. Often the person who is changing can use a towel so that other people do not see their nudity, and do not become embarrassed or angry.
Another type of functional nudity happens when a woman is breastfeeding in public. A woman who would not usually show her breasts because of modesty, might be quite happy to show her breast while she is feeding her baby.
In some countries, "functional nudity" is usual for people of different genders in some places. An example is in a mixed-gender public sauna. 
In many cultures, "functional nudity" is usual in front of people of the same sex. Places where functional nudity happens, such as public toilets or changing rooms are usually separated by gender. There is one for men, and another one for women. In many cultures it is usual for people of the same sex to undress or take a shower in a public change room. In some cultures, such as Japan, open showers and open urinals in men's toilets are not allowed.
Among people of Western culture around the world, there are several influences on the way societies feel about nudity. In European society, it is not usual for older children or adults to be completely nude in public. In most European societies, when people swim in public, they cover their genitals, and women also cover their breasts. In most European societies, change rooms and toilets are separated for men and women.
Countries in Southern Europe, where the Catholic Church is very important, as well as English-speaking countries which have been affected by Puritanism usually have a lower tolerance towards nudity in public. Countries in Central Europe, and Scandinavia care less about public nudity.
"Naturism" (or "nudism") is a cultural and political movement. Followers of this movement think that nudity should get a higher value, both in the private as well as the public context. It is also a lifestyle based on personal, family and/or social nudity.
Naturists reject current standards of modesty. These discourage people from being naked alone, in the family or at social occasions, they say. They want to create a social environment where people feel comfortable in the company of nude people, and do not fear being seen nude, either just by other nudists, or also by the general public.
The singer Janet Jackson was the cause of a scandal during the Super Bowl in 2004. She was performing during the half-time break, when her robe moved. Her left breast could be seen for a few seconds. Today, this is known as the "Wardrobe Malfunction" or "Nipplegate" by the media, the latter being a comparison to the Watergate scandal.
The Royal Academy of Arts runs some museums in London, and elsewhere. In 2008, they did an advertisement so that more people would visit their museums. In this advertisement, they showed a picture of a naked woman. This painting was done by Lucas Cranach the Elder in the 15th century. It is called "Venus" (shown below). The picture was printed on ads in the London Underground. It caused protests in London. Because of the protests, Transport for London refused to allow the ads to be used in the Underground. On December 7, 2008, the Internet Watch Foundation put the Wikipedia article on Virgin Killer, on their blacklist. This meant that most Internet users in Great Britain could no longer access the article. The foundation did this because they believed the original album cover could be child pornography. The cover is pictured on the Wikipedia article. It shows a naked ten-year-old girl in a sexual pose, with her breasts shown.
There are different traditions about nudity in Africa. Some of Africa south of the Sahara (called "sub-Saharan Africa") is similar to how they were after colonialism. In certain Togolese tribal areas, it is common for big families to not wear any clothes at all for certain festivities. Others do not wear any clothes below the waist. This makes it possible for young men to see women and girls whom they may marry. stick-fighting tournaments are very popular places to do this.
Other people, like the Bantu do not like public nudity at all. A newspaper in Botswana once printed a photograph showing how a thief was punished. He was flogged on his bare buttocks. Many people did not like this. The problem was not the flogging, but the newspaper showing the picture.
The Ugandan Kavirondo tribes are a mix of Bantu and Nilotic immigrants. Traditionally, they went mostly naked. Over time, the men began wearing clothing similar to men in western culture.
Among many Muslim people, a woman is thought to be not properly dressed unless her legs, arms and hair are completely covered. In some Arabic countries, women wear a garment called a Burqa. The burqa fully covers the woman and has only a slit for her eyes to see. If a woman does not wear this garment when she goes out but shows her face, hair and arms, she is thought to be naked. Not wearing the burqa brings shame on herself and family.
There are different levels of nudity. Societies have different moral values for these levels. One such level in English is called "full frontal nudity". This usually is a pose where the nude person faces the viewer. In this pose, there are no things covering parts of the body. Many societies see this as very bad. The image below called "Truth" shows this pose.
Most movies try not to show this type of nudity. This is often done by putting an object somewhere. This object will hide the pubic area of the naked actor or actress. This kind of nudity can also be seen in the picture "Woman Bathing" above.
Since the very early ages, nudity has been a subject of the arts. One of the earliest works of art known is the Venus of Willendorf. It is a statuette (a small statue) of a nude woman. The face of the woman is not visible. The belly of the woman as well as her breasts are exaggerated. It is not known what the statuette meant to the people who made it, or what importance it had. From the Renaissance onward, nude figures were shown in works of art more often. Michelangelo is one of the Renaissance artists known for doing this.
Since the beginning of photography, people have taken photographs of nude people. Some people simply photographed nude people. Some of the photographs were made to sexually arouse people. These are generally called pornography. Some people also photographed nude people because they thought the human body was something beautiful to show. These photos are usually not sexual in nature, and are known as nude photography. The kind of photography that is in between is called erotic photography.
Fashion was relatively constant in Ancient Egypt, and did not change much. In general, Egyptians did not wear much clothing. Men were often topless and bare-footed. They usually wore a tunic around the waist. Women wore loose clothes. People who were showing spectacles, usually did not wear any clothes. This applied to both men and women. In general, children did not wear any clothes, until they reached puberty, that is, until they were about twelve years old. Later cultures did not like these clothing rules.
Europeans also did not like these clothing rules. When Meyers Konversationslexikon (an encyclopedia) was published in the 1880s, the depiction of murals in the Tomb of Ti was changed to the image that can be seen on the right. Other publications were also changed in the same way.
The creation story in the Old Testament of the Bible mentions nudity as a sign of innocence. Only after Adam and Eve have eaten from the tree of knowledge do they become aware of their nudity, and start to feel ashamed. Theologians see this feeling of shame as a consequence of the fall from grace. Because of this, they are later chased away from the Garden of Eden. The Bible does not make a distinction between shame as a consequence of not obeying a rule, and the shame resulting from nudity.
The Old Testament often sees nudity as a consequence of being poor or of being a social outcast. It is not seen as a result of breaking rules, and accepted. Later Orthodox Judaism sees nakedness as a bad thing.
In Ancient Greece, especially Ancient Athens, people did not see a problem with nude men. Nude women were seen as bad, though, and women were forbidden from being nude in public. The Cynics taught that it was bad to have worldly goods. Feelings like shame were also seen as bad. There was nothing wrong with being naked.
The Gymnasion shows by its name alone that public nudity was not common in Ancient Greece. The name comes form "gynós", which means "naked". The gymnasion was used for sports. In Ancient Greece most sports were done totally naked. In most places in Ancient Greece, women were forbidden from doing sports, or from attending sports events.
The only place were women were allowed to do sports was Sparta. There, they also did sports, like the men, but separated from these. They were also naked while doing sports.
Another place where nakedness was tolerated was in the arts.
In Ancient Rome, nudity was nothing special or unusual. It was seen more as a sign of not needing much. People did not attach sexual feelings to it. When the Romans had conquered Ancient Greece, they did not think it was necessary to discuss or forbid that the Olympic Games were done in the nude. Cato the Elder mentions that usually the virtuous Roman worked nude during the summer months.
The Celtic and Germanic tribes bathed nude in rivers and lakes together and that sometimes children grew up nude. Romans also tell us that some of them fought the Romans in the nude.
Both Jainism and Hinduism have special monks. In Jainism these are called Digambars (or Digambarras), in Hinduism they are called Sadhus. Both lead an ascetic lifestyle, and are well-respected in their community. Part of this lifestyle is that they wear little or no clothes.
Many cultures that expect some level of modesty associate nudity with sexuality. These cultures usually know striptease in some form. When the difference between the sexes is shown in the main stream media of these cultures this is often seen as sexually related. In Latin cultures the common definition of modesty does not generally allow genital nudity, but the definition of what is lewd has changed and women's breasts are now commonly exposed or depicted without scandal.
Nudity in front of a sexual partner is widely accepted, but there may be restrictions — for example, only at the time and place of sex, or with subdued lighting, during bathing with the partner or afterwards, covered by a sheet or blanket, or while sleeping.
In Ancient Greece it was seen as normal that the athletes taking part in sporting events, like the Olympic Games were nude, for most events. At that time, women were not allowed to take part or in the games or watch them. Nudity with women was frowned upon.
At least since the early 20th century there is a movement of people wanting to do some things together, while they were nude. Sometimes it was just seen functionally, like a common bath in a pond or lake. Some people do other activities together (in the nude), where being naked is usually not required. For instance, some people prefer nude sunbathing when otherwise a swimsuit could be worn. There are some nude bicycle tours. This movement is generally known as naturism or nudism. In 2009, Appenzell Innerrhoden, a small Swiss canton, voted to stop nude hiking. German tourists have been walking nude through the Alps wearing only boots, socks, and a back pack. The canton will fine nude hikers 200 Swiss francs.
The Naturism movement of the 20th century claims that being nude is healthy. Starting in 1853, reformer Arnold Rikli said that "Sun- and airbathing" is a good thing, and that it can only give its full potential when done in the nude. Many of these views have been proved wrong today. Not smoking or drinking alcohol is good for health, regardless of whether clothing is worn or not. People suffering from being exposed too little to the sun will also be so if they are clothed. Wearing wet clothes can lead to cystitis (an infection of the urinary bladder).
Some doctors recommend sleeping in comfortable clothes, or sleeping naked. At some points in time, fashion dictates very tight-fitting clothes. These can be bad for health.
In many countries in Europe, being naked in public is not a punishable offense, as long as no one feels molested. Being naked near places where people change clothes is common, and legal in many jurisdictions. Nudity in a public space is often handled by special laws (made for police). In this case, what often happens is the police will fine the offenders, and tell them to go elsewhere. Certain places have started to pass laws, which forbid nudity in certain settings. A well-known case is that of the Canton of Appenzell Inner Rhodes passing a law against hiking naked.
For historical reasons, many English-speaking countries are less tolerant towards naked people. Exhibitionists get sexual pleasure from showing themselves naked or partly naked. In the context of the law, exhibitionism is often handled differently.
Some people use the nudity as a form of protest, like a movement in the United States that wants equal treatment of bare-chested men, and women. This movement fights for the right of women to be topless. Often this is done with topless demonstrations.
One example that nudity was used as a form of protest, even in the Middle Ages is the story of Lady Godiva. She is said to have ridden through Coventry totally naked, only covered by her long hair. She did this to protest against the high taxes.
Nudity is often used to draw the attention of customers to a given product. That way, nude people or people with very little clothing are often shown on covers of magazines, even if the content of the magazine has nothing to do with nudity. Naked people, sometimes in connection with body painting are used to distribute fliers at events.
This uses erotic stimuli, especially to people of the opposite sex. On the other hand, nudity seems to work all by itself in such contexts. Nudity in public places is rare, and people generally do not expect it. The more it is used however, the less it will act on people. At some point it will have become normal.
Most children do not develop a feeling of shame until they are about five years old. For this reason there have been discussions. These discussions try to answer two basic questions:
Different people have different opinions on the subject.
Works of art, such as paintings, statues, or photographs have shown nude children, or nude children with nude adults. In recent years, showing nude children has become more and more problematic, especially with photographs. In a few cases, photographs taken by parents showing their toddler or small child naked have been seen as child pornography by courts. In May 2008, police in Sydney, Australia, raided an exhibition by the photographer Bill Henson. This exhibition showed images of naked children. The raid was done on allegations of child pornography. Incidents such as this one sent a strong message to the community.
People cannot agree if parents should appear naked in front of their children. Gordon and Schroeder say that there is a wide variation on parental nudity from family to family. According to them, "there is nothing (..) wrong with bathing with children or otherwise appearing naked in front of them". In their opinion, doing so may provide an opportunity for parents to give important information. They note that by ages five to six, children begin to develop a sense of modesty, and recommend to parents who wish to be sensitive to their children's wishes that they limit such activities from that age onwards.
Bonner recommends against nudity in the home where children are showing sexual behaviour considered problematic.
A study by Alfred Kinsey found that 75% of the participants stated that there was never nudity in the home when they were growing up, 5% of them said that there was "seldom" nudity in the home, 3% said "often", and 17% said that it was "usual". The study found that there was no significant difference between what was reported by men and by women with respect to frequency of nudity in the home.
In a 1995 review of the literature, Paul Okami concluded that there was no reliable evidence linking exposure to parental nudity to any negative effect. Three years later, his team finished an 18-year longitudinal study that showed that, if anything, such exposure was associated with slight beneficial effects, particularly for boys.
Different cultures have different opinions on whether children should see people other than their parents, and other children naked. In general the opinions are also different, depending on how old the child is, and what context the nudity is placed in.
Many countries have made laws that should protect children from seeing sex scenes by accident. That way, such scenes may usually not be shown during the day. British TV must not show such scenes between 5.30am and 9pm. This is called "watershed". The Broadcasting Code requires that "Nudity before the watershed must be justified by the context."
Sometimes the nudity of children in front of other children has been an issue. In Europe, it is common that all students take a shower together after sports classes. Usually showering is segregated by sex.
In the United States and some of English-speaking Canada, students at tax funded schools have historically been required to shower with classmates of the same sex after physical education classes. In the United States, public objections and the threat of lawsuits have resulted in a number of school districts in recent years changing policy to make showers optional. A court case in the State of Colorado noted that students have a reduced expectation of personal privacy in regards to "communal undress" while showering after physical education classes. According to an interview with a middle school principal, most objections to school showers that he had heard were actually from the student's parents rather than from the student.
Most people feel uneasy or ashamed when they are nude (outside a social context where this is acceptable). This fact has been used both as a means of torture and as a punishment. That way, during witch-hunts, the alleged witches were stripped to discover what was called the witches' mark. It was believed that the devil left this mark as part of the pact the witch had with him. When the mark was found, this was then used as evidence in the trials.
Nakedness can also be part of a punishment or a public humiliation. Torture manuals sometimes make a difference, as men and women react differently when they are disrobed.
The United States and its allies invaded Iraq in 2003. After they had done this, members of the United States Army Reserve abused prisoners. Photographs were circulated that showed that prisoners had to pose naked, were sometimes bound by ropes, and intimidated that way.

</doc>
<doc id="9597" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9597" title="Kingdom">
Kingdom

A kingdom is a country with a king or queen. The type of government is a Monarchy. 
A kingdom can also be a level of taxonomy.
A kingdom is the second level of classification and can also be known an a city town or village belonging to a person of royalty

</doc>
<doc id="9600" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9600" title="Protestantism">
Protestantism

Protestantism is a form of Christian faith and practice. It began in northern Europe in the early 16th century. At that time, they were against some parts of Roman Catholicism. Together with Eastern Orthodoxy and Roman Catholicism, Protestantism became one of the three greatest forces in Christianity. Protestantism much influenced the culture, beliefs, and economy of the place it became important in.
The word "Protestantism" was first used by German princes and free cities at the Diet of Speyer (1529), when they were speaking against the Reformation. Lutherans in Germany began using it. Swiss and French more often used "Reformed". The Anglicans use "Catholic", "Reformed" and "Protestantism", however the Anglican Church is not always regarded as part of Protestantism because it has kept most of the doctrine of the Roman Catholic Church from which it separated from.
Martin Luther, a doctor of theology and a monk, said that the church should return to its roots, and give more weight to what is written in the Bible. Luther thought that the Church had gone too far away from the original teachings. He published 95 theses on the way the Catholic Church was then. Some say, he stuck them onto the door of the church of Wittenberg, but others say this is not true. The 95 theses were published in 1516 or 1517. With the theses, he started the Protestant Reformation.
Protestant churches with a big following are:
Often but not always:

</doc>
<doc id="9610" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9610" title="Algiers">
Algiers

Algiers is the capital city of Algeria, which is a country in northern Africa. It is on the northern coast of the country. The population of the city is 1,519,570.
Algiers has many twin towns all over the world:

</doc>
<doc id="9612" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9612" title="Arles">
Arles

Arles is a city in the south of France. It was BUILT in the 6th century BC by the Greeks. Today about 50,000 people live there. In the 1880s, the famous painters, Vincent van Gogh and Paul Gauguin lived there. Vincent van Gogh painted his famous Sunflowers in Arles.
The city is at the heart of the Camargue. Not many people live in this region, so there is a lot of free land around Arles. Because of this, Arles is the city in France to have the largest area (nearly 760 square kilometres).

</doc>
<doc id="9617" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9617" title="Certificate">
Certificate

A certificate is a document that says something is true. It may be an award that can be given to people. The certificate can be given to people for graduation, for good working skills, or to thank someone who has done good things. Other items, such as patches, badges, lapel pins, watches, and medals can also come with the certificate.
Many other kinds exist. A certificate of authenticity says a thing is real. For example, it can say that a painting was made at a particular time by a particular artist and is not a forgery. A certificate of occupancy says a building is fit for use. A certificate of deposit says someone has money in a bank. A birth certificate is one of the kinds of vital record. 

</doc>
<doc id="9619" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9619" title="Daily Mail">
Daily Mail

The Daily Mail is a large, well-known newspaper. It started in 1896. It is published every weekday and Saturday from a factory in London, England. It is not printed on Sundays. Its sister paper, the "Mail on Sunday", is printed instead.
It is the second-most sold newspaper in the United Kingdom. It sells more than a million copies a day. Its political opinion is right-wing, and it supports the Conservative Party in elections. The newspaper is available in many countries outside the United Kingdom, such as Egypt and the US. There is a different Scottish edition of the newspaper, which is sold in Scotland only and differs mainly in the Sport pages. There is also an Irish version of the newspaper, but the main international version is the English one.
It is the principal publication of the Daily Mail and General Trust, but the company also prints the "Evening Standard", "London Lite" and "Metro" newspapers in the UK.
People often argue about The "Daily Mail, "because a lot of people think it's racist and sexist.
The "Daily Mail" was first published by Lord Northclife in 1896. It started as a broadsheet. It is now a tabloid.

</doc>
<doc id="9624" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9624" title="Rhineland-Palatinate">
Rhineland-Palatinate

Rhineland-Palatinate () is one of 16 states () of Germany. It has an area of and 3.88 million people living in it. The capital is Mainz.
Rhineland-Palatinate was created on 30 August 1946. It was formed from the northern part of the French Occupation Zone (the Rhenish Palatinate or which had been a part of Bavaria) as well as the southern parts of the Prussian Rhine Province, Birkenfeld which formerly belonged to Oldenburg, parts of the Prussian Province of Nassau (see Hesse-Nassau), and parts of Hesse-Darmstadt as well as Rheinhessen on the western banks of the Rhine. 
The people of the new state voted to accept the boundary changes in a referendum on 18 May 1947.
Rhineland-Palatinate borders on (from the north and clockwise) North Rhine-Westphalia (another German state), Hesse (another German state), Baden-Württemberg (another German state), France, Saarland (another German state), Luxembourg, and Belgium.
The main axis of the state is the Rhine river, that forms the border with Baden-Württemberg and Hesse in the southeast before running across the northern part of Rhineland-Palatinate.
The Rhine Valley is bounded by mountains with some of the historically most significant places of Germany.
In the northwest there are the southern parts of the Eifel mountains. Farther south there is the Hunsrück mountain, which is continued by the Taunus mountains on the opposite side of the Rhine.
The hilly lands in the south of the state are called the Palatine Forest ("Pfälzerwald").
These mountains are separated from each other by the tributaries of the Rhine: the Moselle ("Mosel"), the Lahn and the Nahe.
Rhineland-Palatinate is a parliamentary democracy. Every five years, all Germans over the age of 18 elect the members of the Rhineland-Palatinate Parliament, . This regional parliament or legislature then elects the premier and confirms the cabinet members. Rhineland-Palatinate is the only German Bundesland (state) to have a cabinet minister for winegrowing.
This is only some of the castles in Rhineland-Palatine:
There are 7 universities and 13 "Fachhochschulen".
The Ministers President since 1947:
Rhineland-Palatinate is divided into 24 districts, grouped into the three administrative regions: Koblenz, Trier and Rheinhessen-Pfalz.

</doc>
<doc id="9625" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9625" title="Rhine River">
Rhine River

The Rhine River (, , ) is long. can be used by ships. It is one of the longest rivers in Europe. Its name comes from the Celtic word ""renos"". Renos means raging flow.
The Rhine is an important waterway. Many goods are transported over the Rhine, and the Rhine valley is also an important wine producing region. The river Rhine begins at "Tomasee", a lake in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland, and runs through Switzerland, Germany and the Netherlands. It is also the border between Switzerland and Liechtenstein and also the border between Germany and France. It runs through Basel, Bonn, Cologne and Duisburg. It also separates the cities of Mainz and Wiesbaden.
The river runs only into one lake on its way, this is Lake Constance that is on the border of Switzerland, Germany and Austria.
Along its banks are several notorious castles in which several men, known as robber barons lived. 
It was a quiet river, until the Industrial Revolution hit Europe, and factories set up along its banks and emptied all their waste into the River. The Salmon left and every living thing died. Then after World War II, the Rhine Action Programme was set up to boost the Rhine's wildlife and reduce the pollution there.
Together with the Danube it formed most of the northern frontier of the Roman Empire. 

</doc>
<doc id="9626" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9626" title="Robber baron">
Robber baron

The term robber baron was first used in the 12th and 13th centuries to describe rich men who lived in large castles along major transportation rivers, like the Rhine in Europe. They would send ships out onto these rivers to stop anybody who was traveling through who did not know better and collect a tax from them on any money or goods on these ships. They were not officially allowed to collect these taxes. It was only the Holy Roman Emperor who could decide what taxes to be charged, how much and who could charge it.
Second, it is a slang term used of certain rich and ruthless industrialists and bankers, especially in the late 19th and early 20th century U.S.A. 

</doc>
<doc id="9627" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9627" title="Winery">
Winery

A winery is a place or business that makes wine.

</doc>
<doc id="9642" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9642" title="Sugar">
Sugar

Sugar is the common name for a number of chemical substances, some of which have a sweet taste. Mostly, it refers to either sucrose, lactose, or fructose. Sugar is contained in certain kinds of food, or it is added to give a sweet taste. Sugar is extracted from certain plants, such as sugarcane or sugar beet.
Regular sugar (the one commonly added to food) is called "sucrose". Fructose is the sugar that is in fruits. As chemicals, sucrose and fructose are both made by two smaller sugars. Glucose is the more common of these smaller sugars. The human body changes regular sugar into the smaller sugars.
Sugars are a kind of carbohydrate. This is because sugars are made from carbon, hydrogen and oxygen. Carbohydrates can be "simple carbohydrates" or "complex carbohydrates". Simple carbohydrates are made of only one or a few of the smallest sugars. Complex carbohydrates are made of "many" of the smallest sugars.
Starch is a chemical found in foods such as bread, crackers, and potatoes. It is a "complex carbohydrate" that is made from many glucose molecules. When starch is eaten, the human body breaks it apart into smaller sugars. An enzyme is added in the mouth, but it only begins to work in the stomach. Pure starch is actually tasteless in the mouth.
Brazil produces the most sugar per person and India's total consumption of sugar is the highest for a country.
There are other chemical substances that can be used to produce a sweet taste, but that are not sugar. One of them, commonly called Stevia is gained from a plant with the same name. Others, like aspartame, are completely synthetic. In general, these substances are known as artificial sweeteners, or sugar substitutes. People eat them to avoid health problems that sugar causes. 
Sugar can be different colours. For example, brown sugar has molasses in it, and is often used in baking.

</doc>
<doc id="9645" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9645" title="Canterbury">
Canterbury

Canterbury is a city in Kent, England. It is about from London. It was made famous by a book called "The Canterbury Tales". It is also famous for Canterbury Cathedral. Thomas Becket was assassinated by knights who came from Sandlings.
There are two railway stations in the city; Canterbury East and Canterbury West. The A2 road passes near the city. It goes west to London and southeast to Dover. 
The city has an estimated 31,000 students. This is the highest student/permanent resident ratio in the UK. There are three universities, and several other higher education institutions and colleges. At the 2001 census, 22% of the population aged 16–74 were full-time students, compared with 7% throughout England. The three universities: the University of Kent, Canterbury Christ Church University, and the University for the Creative Arts.
The St Lawrence Ground is the home ground of Kent County Cricket Club. It has hosted several One Day Internationals, including one England match during the 1999 Cricket World Cup.
The Canterbury area has been inhabited since prehistoric times. Paleolithic stone axes, and Neolithic and Bronze Age pots have been found in the area. Canterbury was once the main settlement of the Celtic tribe of the Cantiaci, which inhabited most of modern-day Kent. In the 1st century AD, the Romans captured the settlement and named it Durovernum Cantiacorum. The Romans rebuilt the city, with new streets in a grid pattern, a theatre]], a temple, a forum, and public baths. Its position on Watling Street on route to the major Kentish ports of Rutupiae (now Richborough), Dubrae (now Dover), and Lemanae (now Lymne) made it important.

</doc>
<doc id="9650" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9650" title="Huddersfield">
Huddersfield

Huddersfield is a town in West Yorkshire, England. It is famous for its textile industry, Choral Society and as the birthplace of Rugby League.
In the 20th Century it was the birthplace for the Labour Party prime minister, Harold Wilson. It is also known for its football team, who became the first team to win the football league first division title three years in a row (1924-26).
In Huddersfield there are 22 districts, Almondbury, Aspley, Molgreen, Bradley, Clayton West, Scisset, Crosland Moor, Deighton, Brackenhall, Dalton, Rawthorpe, Denby Dale, Edgeerton, Farnley Tyas, Fartown, Holme, Holmbridge, Holmfirth, Honley, Hepworth, Jackson Bridge and Lowerhouses

</doc>
<doc id="9652" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9652" title="Anti-tank dog">
Anti-tank dog

Anti-tank dogs were dogs with explosives placed on their backs. These dogs were trained to run under enemy tanks. The explosives were then remotely detonated in order to destroy the target tank.
These dogs were trained by the Soviet Union during World War II to be used against German armored vehicles. They were trained on Russian tanks, which used diesel fuel. In battle, the dogs often ran toward the smell of diesel fuel from the Soviet tanks instead of the intended German targets. 
The German Army soon learned about the dogs, so all Russian dogs were shot on sight by the Germans. Very few dogs remained in the Eastern Front as a result of this.
After the war better weapons against tanks were made. Therefore, it is unlikely that anti-tank dogs will ever be used again.

</doc>
<doc id="9659" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9659" title="October 2">
October 2


</doc>
<doc id="9661" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9661" title="January 2">
January 2


</doc>
<doc id="9662" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9662" title="January 5">
January 5


</doc>
<doc id="9669" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9669" title="January 6">
January 6


</doc>
<doc id="9670" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9670" title="January 7">
January 7


</doc>
<doc id="9675" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9675" title="Eyeglasses">
Eyeglasses

Eyeglasses (U.S), or spectacles (Brit.) are pieces of glass or clear plastic, called lenses, in a frame that holds them in front of someone's eyes. 
"Corrective" lenses let some people see or read better if they have problems seeing. This is used by person who have poor eyesight. Contact lenses also help people see better.
Sunglasses are a kind of eyeglasses that keep too much sunlight from getting in people's eyes.
Some eyeglasses block blue light from a computer, game, smart phone and TV.
Eyeglasses have many models. So it may be worn for fashion. 

</doc>
<doc id="9676" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9676" title="Goa">
Goa

Goa (गोवा) is a state in the Republic of India. It is India's smallest state. It has the second smallest number of people. The total area is 1,430 mi² (3,702 km²), it is bigger than Samoa but smaller than the Georgian territory of South Ossetia. In traditional Indian geography it falls under the South Indian zone. It is on the west coast of India, in the region known as the Konkan. The state of Maharashtra is its neighbour to the north, and Karnataka to the east and south. The Arabian Sea makes up the state's west coast. Panjim is the state's capital, and Margao its largest town. 
Portuguese merchants first landed in Goa in the 16th century but soon after, colonised it. It was a part of the Portuguese empire for about 450 years. In 1961 India took control of Goa by sending its army and defeating Portuguese army.
The 1961 Indian annexation of Goa , was an action by India’s armed forces that ended Portuguese rule in its Indian enclaves in 1961. The armed action, code named Operation Vijay by the Indian government, involved air, sea and land strikes for over 36 hours, and was a decisive victory for India, ending 451 years of Portuguese colonial rule in Goa. One of the problems vexing the Indian prime minister Jawarhalal Nehru in the 1950s was what to do about Goa. The situation began to come to a head in 1955 when a group of Goanese and Indian protesters staged a ‘liberation march’ in Goa and more than 20 of them were shot and killed.
He announced that Portuguese control of Goa could be tolerated no longer and instituted a blockade, which the Portuguese regime evaded by building an airport into which to fly supplies and by opening up trade with Pakistan and Sri Lanka. Portugese dictator, Antonio Salazar tried to drum up international support from world leaders. President Kennedy wrote to Nehru advising him not to use force and the Portuguese ambassador in London reminded the British government that under the terms of the Anglo-Portuguese alliance of 1899 it was obliged to come to Portugal’s assistance if any Portuguese colony was attacked.
There were more incidents and in November 1961 the Portuguese in Goa opened fire on Indian fishing boats. Nehru lost patience and mounted a military, naval and air attack on Goa using overwhelming force on December 17th. The Portuguese governor, who had at the most 3,000 men to oppose an Indian army of 30,000, blew up a few bridges to delay the invaders but his situation was plainly hopeless and he hoisted the white flag and surrendered. There had been almost no resistance and few casualties. The United States and the UK did not lift a finger to help Portugal in any practical way. Nor did anyone else.

</doc>
<doc id="9679" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9679" title="Second language">
Second language

Second language is a word given to a language that a person learns in addition to their first language. A second language may be learned in a formal or informal way, e.g. at school or in a family. It is possible that a person speaks two or more second languages. 
Adults do not learn languages the same way they did when they were young. So if they learn a second language, it is difficult, and they have little chance of speaking it as well as their native language because learning a second language will require a lot of effort.
Some children have more than one native language like when they live in a foreign country or when their father speaks a different language from their mother.

</doc>
<doc id="9680" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9680" title="Ido">
Ido

Ido is a constructed language, a so-called reformed Esperanto, which was developed in 1907. Ido was made by a group of people that thought Esperanto was too hard to be a world language. They did not like how Esperanto used letters with special diacritic marks over them, because that made it hard to type, and they thought that a world language should be easy to learn and write.
Ido is not as popular as Esperanto, but still about 1000 people in the world speak it. They have a conference every year where people come together and speak the language.
Ido is easy to learn for many reasons:
Each word in Ido comes from a smaller word called a "root word". A root word has a root and an ending. The speaker can take the root and put it on another word to make a new one. For example, "urbo" means "city" and "-estro" means "leader". The root of "urbo" is "urb-", and if -estro is put on the end, it becomes "urbestro", which means mayor (leader of a city). Or the speaker can put something on before; chef- means chief or leader, and if the speaker puts that before the word it becomes "chefurbo", which means capital city.
Here are some of the endings:
Pronouns are the words in a language like I, you, he, she, it, we, they, and so on. Ido was made from Esperanto, and all of Esperanto's pronouns end in -i. The people that made Ido thought that they sounded too much the same and that it might be too difficult to hear sometimes. Also, most languages have two ways of saying "you" so they decided to have two ways of saying you. Lastly, they decided to make a pronoun that can mean "he" or "she". Some languages like the Finnish language and the Estonian language have something like this.
Here is a chart of all the pronouns in English, Ido, and Esperanto.
Ido is a language that came from Esperanto, so they look very similar. Since Esperanto has more speakers than Ido, most people that know Ido first learned Esperanto and then later learned that Ido is a language, too. Sometimes Idists (people who speak Ido) and Esperantists (people who speak Esperanto) do not agree with each other. Luckily they both agree that making a language that everybody can learn is a good idea. Most Idists and Esperantists can understand most of each other's language.
Here are samples of the language Ido to show what the language looks like. On the right is a page from a magazine in Ido called "Adavane!" (forward), written by an Ido group in Spain every two months. This is a page from a diary by a girl named Anne Frank, a Jewish girl from the Netherlands that was killed in 1944 by the German government of Adolf Hitler.
Below is a small part of the book "The Little Prince" called "La Princeto" in Ido.
CHAPITRO XVII
This was a song by a bard from Russia named Alexandr Sukhanov; he used words from the poetry of another Russian person named Yunna Mortis. This is the Ido version, sung with guitar.
People who know Ido come together for a few days every year to meet each other and speak the language. Most Ido speakers live in Europe and so the conventions (a meeting of people) have taken place in Europe.
Information on Ido conferences (the section that says raporto is the report on the convention written in Ido).

</doc>
<doc id="9683" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9683" title="Javier Solana">
Javier Solana

Dr. Javier Solana Madariaga (born July 1942) is the former Secretary General of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) and the current European Union foreign policy chief. Born in Madrid, Spain he became a physicist, studying in both the United Kingdom and the United States before returning to Spain with Nicolás Cabrera, and becoming a Professor of solid state physics in the Complutense University. 
Having already joined the banned PSOE left-wing party in 1964, he became one of its leaders when it became legal in 1977. He became a Cabinet Minister, serving first as Minister for Culture and party spokesman, then Minister for Education, then Minister for Foreign Affairs, before being made NATO boss in December 1995, just as the Dayton agreement saw the IFOR NATO peacekeeping mission enter the former Yugoslavia. He was also involved in the Kosovo bombings, and the negotiations that led to an eventual peace.

</doc>
<doc id="9686" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9686" title="Paragraph">
Paragraph

A paragraph is a group of words put together to form a group that is usually longer than a sentence. Paragraphs are often made up of many sentences. They are usually between four to eight sentences. Paragraphs can begin with an indentation (about five spaces), or by missing a line out, and then starting again; this makes telling when one paragraph ends and another begins easier.
In most organized forms of writing, such as essays, paragraphs contain a topic sentence . This topic sentence of the paragraph tells the reader what the paragraph will be about. Essays usually have multiple paragraphs that make claims to support a thesis statement, which is the central idea of the essay.
A pilcrow mark (¶) is sometimes used to show where a paragraph begins.
Paragraphs are important to essays, papers, columns, whatever you are writing. Paragraphs help separate ideas and let the audience know when you change partial topics. Each paragraph has maybe an average of 3 - 7 sentences, depending on the topic and how much information is required.

</doc>
<doc id="9687" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9687" title="Lansing, Michigan">
Lansing, Michigan

Lansing is the capital city of the U.S. state of Michigan. It is about 1 to 2 hours west of Detroit. It lies in the center of the Lower Peninsula of Michigan. 
The landscape is flat and there is a lot of agriculture.

</doc>
<doc id="9690" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9690" title="Parody">
Parody

A parody is a special piece of art.
Parodies make fun of another piece of art by mocking it.
The parody is an imitation of the original, but exaggerating it, showing clichés which have been used, to make the original look ridiculous or to make a comment about an issue affecting society.
For example, in a serious Western movie, the good guys always seem to shoot better and faster than the bad guys. In a Western parody, this might be exaggerated by showing a good guy firing a single shot, and a dozen of the bad guys falling from their horses as a result.
Mel Brooks is a director who has made many movies which are parodies:
The website Uncyclopedia is also a parody of Wikipedia.
Parodies can be anything from songs to poems to books to movies.
Newspaper columnists are well known for their strip cartoons which can very often parody public opinion on major issues affecting society, such as the recent credit crunch.

</doc>
<doc id="9691" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9691" title="Fact">
Fact

A fact is a statement that is real or true, or a thing that can be shown to be real or true. 
A fact is something that has really happened or is actually the case. The usual test for a statement of fact is whether it can be seen to be true. Standard reference works are often used to check facts. Scientific facts are verified by careful observation or measurement (by experiments or other means).
A fact is a "statement" (what a person says) about something that is true. A fact can answer questions like, "what color is it," or "who made that?"
An opinion is different from a fact. But you can say facts about a person's opinion. For example, someone can ask a question like "What is Alice's opinion about the book?" You can answer this question with a fact, for example "Alice said she likes the book." Then it is a fact that Alice "says" she likes the book. But maybe Alice does not like the book. So it not a fact that Alice likes the book, it is a fact that Alice "says" she likes the book.
It is sometimes hard to know if something a person said is a fact or is an opinion. If you want to learn a fact, is important to ask many different people the same question. Every person will have a different story. But the parts of the story that are the same are possibly facts. The parts of the story that are different are possibly opinions.
One very good way to learn a fact is if a person can help you see it. For example, if you ask, "do you have my book?" To answer this question, a person can let you see your book. Then you can know it is a fact that this person has your book.
A scientific theory is knowledge of important facts about a natural thing. The facts in a scientific theory always have evidence that shows that the fact is not false. 
A person who understands the scientific method can test to see if the facts of a scientific theory are correct. When statements have been tested and shown to be not false, they are said to be "true". The facts of each scientific theory have usually been questioned and tested for a very long time by many people. However, the critical point is that an agreed method has been used to show that the statement is not false. Because of this, we know that the knowledge of a scientific theory is fact and not opinion. Examples of scientific theories include the theory of relativity and the theory of evolution.

</doc>
<doc id="9693" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9693" title="Victim">
Victim

Victim is a term used for the person a crime is committed against. If someone is robbed, they are the victim. If someone is killed, that person is the victim. The person who did the crime is the culprit.
Victim blaming is saying that it is the fault of the victim that a crime was committed against them.

</doc>
<doc id="9695" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9695" title="Culprit">
Culprit

A culprit is a person who commits a crime. If someone robs a person, the robber is the culprit, while the person who was robbed is the victim.

</doc>
<doc id="9697" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9697" title="Shot put">
Shot put

Shot put is an athletics sport where people try to "put" a heavy weighted ball as far as they can. They are not allowed to throw it, but instead they push the ball out into the air. They "put" the ball by holding it at their neck and pushing it through the air. The shot put has been part of the Olympics since 1896. The weight of the ball can vary from 6 to 16 pounds (2.76 to 7.26 kg), depending on level age and gender of the participants. The object of the sport is to throw it as far as possible.
The Shot put is similar to the javelin. It is an official Olympic event and can be seen at the Olympic games. The athlete cannot wear gloves when they are participating. If wearing gloves, the athlete will be disqualified.
The shot put event was first seen in the Middle Ages, when they would throw cannonballs at their enemies.
It is an outdoor event and cannot be played inside. It is a track and field event.
There are two types of putting styles: "glide" and "spin" (rotation). The glide was invented in the US in the year 1876. The spin was also developed in the US. It was invented by Parry O'Brian and made famous by Brian Oldfield.
Shot put was originally used in the Olympics to see who was the strongest athlete. Each athlete threw from a wooden square, and could only stand to throw. The shot put was a large stone ball. That is now a metal not softer than brass.

</doc>
<doc id="9698" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9698" title="Magic">
Magic

Magic can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="9699" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9699" title="Hitchhiking">
Hitchhiking

Hitchhiking is a way that people can travel from one place to another. Usually, a hitchhiker (a person who hitchhikes) will stand at the side of a road and hold his or her thumb in the air waiting for the car to come and pick her or him up. This is a sign that he or she wants a car to stop and pick him/her up. The distance traveled by hitchhiking can be anywhere from walking distance to across a continent. Hitchhiking is against the law in some areas (for example around a prison in the United States).
It was a very common way of travelling in Europe in the 1970s and is still done by many people all over the world.

</doc>
<doc id="9700" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9700" title="Owl">
Owl

Owls are birds in the order Strigiformes. There are 200 species, and they are all birds of prey. Most of them are solitary and nocturnal; in fact, they are the only large group of birds which hunt at night. Owls are specialists at night-time hunting. They feed on small mammals such as rodents, insects, and other birds, and a few species like to eat fish as well. 
As a group, owls are very successful. They are found in all parts of the world except Antarctica, most of Greenland, and some other small islands. 
There are two families of owls: the true owls and the barn owls:
Owls have a suite of adaptations which help them to be successful.
Owls have large eyes and holes for ears, a hawk-like beak, and a rather flat face. Most birds of prey have eyes on the sides of their heads, but the owl's eyes are facing forwards to help it see better in the dark. Their eyes are also fixed inside their sockets, so they have to turn their whole head to look at other things. Owls can rotate their heads and necks up to 270 degrees in both directions. 
Owls are good at looking at things far from its eyes, but it cannot see anything clearly within a few centimeters of their eyes. Owls use small feathers on the beak and the feet that help it feel the prey it catches.
Most owls hunt at night, and in twilight (dawn and dusk). A few owls are also active during the day.
The owls' hunting depends on surprising its prey. Their most important adaptation is their almost silent flight. The feathers are soft, with fringes on the back edge, and the base of each is downy. This all muffles noise, and makes for silence. Also, they glide when coming in for the kill. 
The dull colors of the owls' feathers make them less visible by camouflaging the owl. This helps them as they roost during the day. 
Owls have fantastic hearing. The shape of the head helps slight sounds reach the ears. The feathers of the facial disc are arranged in order to increase sound delivered to the ears. Their ears are asymmetrical allowing the owl to locate a sound. They can hear a mouse move in the grass. 
An owl's sharp beak and powerful talons allow it to kill its prey before swallowing it whole, unless it is too big. Owls usually regurgitate the parts of their prey that they cannot digest. These parts include bones, scales, and fur. Scientists who study the things that owls eat can get clues by studying the parts that the owl spit back out, called "owl pellets". These "owl pellets" are often sold by companies to schools for use in the students' biology and ecology lessons.
Many animals store food during times of plenty to prepare for leaner times. Owls may store dead mice for winter. 
Owls have special adaptations which help them swivel their heads 270 degrees. They have 14 neck vertebrae instead of our seven. Also, the big carotid arteries, instead of being on the side of the neck as in humans, are carried close to the centre of rotation just in front of the spine. So these arteries get much less twisting and stretching, and the potential for damage is greatly reduced. This arrangement is seen in other birds, but in owls the vertebral arteries – the vessels that travel through channels in the neck bones – are given extra space.
Owls also have wide parts in their carotid arteries just under the base of the skull. Researchers found these could dilate and fill with a reservoir of blood. "We believe this is kind of a new structure not really known before", said a researcher. "It's probably a way to pool blood and get some continuity of flow even if there is disruption below at the next level".
Mythology and stories that include owls are: 

</doc>
<doc id="9702" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9702" title="Copyright infringement">
Copyright infringement

Copyright infringement (or copyright violation) is the use of material which is covered by copyright law, in a way that violates one of the original copyright owner's "exclusive rights", such as the right to reproduce or perform the copyrighted work, or to make derivative works that build upon it. The slang term "bootleg" (from the use of boots to smuggle items) is often used to describe illegally copied material.
Some people call copying of movies and music, that copyright does not allow, "piracy" or "theft". Richard Stallman says people should not call copying and distribution "piracy", because piracy is robbery with attacking ships, killing and stealing people, and owners of copyright use the word to say that such copying is same evil as piracy. Some courts say that the word "piracy" may be used, but the word "theft" may not be used. When people use the word "piracy" for copyright infringement, it usually means "selling of many copies without permission", but sometimes any "big copyright infringement".
Almost everybody knows piracy is an illegal behavior. And the system of supervision is becoming more and more complete. But why the copyright infringements are still existing and developing. Here are some motivations that attract people to do that. As we all know, copyright infringement is usually at low price because they don't need to pay for the copyright. So it is easy to more appeal to somebody who can't afford high price of genuine goods. In other words, it may be easy selling. Other important reason is about useless. Genuine goods are not as useful as copyright infringement because of some legitimate limitations sometimes. Many customers will choose copyright infringement instead of genuine goods in this situation. These are the motivation about why to manufacture piracy goods.
Copyright laws have tried to keep up with the development of technology, such as radio, television, and the internet. Now many people upload some articles to websites that allow people to read free articles on it without the permission of the author. In this way, people can read many articles easily, but it is illegal. As a result, many authors prosecute the website.
Here are the normal behaviors of copy infringement.
Piracy goods are usually at low price because they don't need to pay for copyright and carry out research. So it is popular with the people who don't have awareness of copyright. On the surface, it will limit the monopoly of big company. But in fact, it is a means of unfair competition and damages the fair competition pattern. What's more, it will have a bad consequence on the competitiveness of middle or small sized companies.
There are some benefits to society of limiting copyright. One is to expand readership of newspapers and books to a wider section of the public. Newspapers were once relatively expensive, but copies were freely available in coffee houses throughout Europe. The invention of public libraries had the same effect for books. Many great people in the 18th and 19th century came from poor backgrounds. Such people as Michael Faraday (the son of a blacksmith) and Alfred Russel Wallace had no university education, but used libraries to get their knowledge up-to-date. The aim of copyright law is to have a balance between these two sides: the needs of authors and publishers, and the broader needs of society.
1.Well-known writers vs. Baidu On March 15, 2011, HanHan and many other well-known writers prosecuted Baidu Library because it allowed people to read and download their articles for free. They asked Baidu to pay for it but Baidu rejected the compensation.
2.Princeton University Press v. Michigan Document Services (1996)
Michigan Document Services was involved in creating packages of study material for the students of the University. A professor supplied the course material and Michigan Document services, a photocopying organization, took photocopies of the material and converted it into a booklet for sale to students at the University.
Here was a clause of "Fair use" in this case. The photocopying company could have paid a nominal fee to the University and then used the material. This was available to anyone who wished to use the material. However, the photocopying company paid for only the original and then started making photocopies of the study material. The court considered that it was not "fair use" and penalized the photocopying company.
3.A & M Records vs. Napster (2001)
This is one of the most famous cases of copyright infringement related to the music industry. As peer to peer file sharing increased, Napster started a website. This website offered downloads of songs of all genres – new and old. You may know someone who used it. A & M Records brought in a joint copyright infringement case which accused Napster of stealing music and making it available to people worldwide. Before closing the site in 2002, Napster had to settle USD26 million to different recording companies and songwriters. It could have even more if Napster had not apologized and folded the site.Several websites still thrive on offering free music to people who can download it at no cost. As mentioned in our article on "Internet Ethics and Copyright Laws", the music industry faces most copyright infringement cases. The Napster case, though an example of the consequences, still does not act as a deterrent for other music websites that offer free music downloads.
As opposed to the writers, many people think it's convenient and cheap to read books and other articles on the internet. They think free articles are good for them. On the other hand, some people think it is illegal to provide free articles download without authors permission. They think the best way to avoid this problem is to pay for reading on the Internet.
In 2014 selfies taken by a crested black macaque seemed to establish a legal precedent, after the Wikimedia Foundation rejected a copyright claim. 
The photos had been sold widely by David Slater, a professional nature photographer, whose camera was temporarily carried away by a group of macaques. After the photos were uploaded to Wikipedia, the organisation refused to delete them, claiming "This file is in the public domain, because as the work of a non-human animal, it has no human author in whom copyright is vested.

</doc>
<doc id="9706" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9706" title="International Women's Day">
International Women's Day

International Women's Day is celebrated every year on March 8. International Women's Day has been observed since 1909 in the United States. After a while the people of United States stopped celebrating this holiday. In the 1920s Soviet Union, and then some other Communist countries like China and Cuba, started celebrating this day as a holiday for women and world peace. Since then the holiday has become more and more popular around the world.
In many places, the day does not have a political aspect, and is simply a time for men to express their love for women. It is similar to a mixture of Mother's Day and Valentine's Day. Men present their mothers, wives, girlfriends, colleagues, etc. with flowers and small gifts. In some countries International Women's Day is observed like Mother's Day, where children give small gifts to their mothers and grandmothers. In some countries, women get a half day off work. Often, schools will have a celebration where students will honor their teachers.
In 1975, the United Nations also started to recognize this holiday. The UN chooses a political or social theme for the holiday each year. For example, the 2011 theme was ""Equal access to education, training and science and technology: Pathway to decent work for women." In this way, the holiday is a time to look at the social and economic problems women have around the world.
International Women's Day is now an official holiday in Albania, Algeria, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, China, Cuba, Ecuador, Georgia, Italy, Israel, Laos, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Macedonia, Moldova, Mongolia, Montenegro, Poland, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Tajikistan, Ukraine, Uzbekistan, and Vietnam.

</doc>
<doc id="9707" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9707" title="May Day">
May Day

May 1 is known in many countries as May Day or International Labor Day. For several countries, such as China, Cuba, France, Russia, Brazil, Austria, Germany, Serbia, Hungary, Macedonia, Romania, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kenya, Slovenia, Slovakia, Norway, Sweden, Turkey, Portugal, Bulgaria and Argentina this day is a holiday.

</doc>
<doc id="9709" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9709" title="Beirut">
Beirut

Beirut is the capital of Lebanon. It is one of the oldest continuously inhabited cities of the world. It is situated on a hilly promontory on the eastern Mediterranean surrounded to the east by the snow-capped mountains of Lebanon. Before the civil war it was a cultural center of the Arab World, a major international financial, banking and media center and was called the Switzerland of the Middle East. It is called the Paris of the Middle East.

</doc>
<doc id="9710" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9710" title="Nancy Ajram">
Nancy Ajram

Nancy Ajram or Nancy Agram (, born May 16, 1983) is a popular Arab singer from Lebanon. Her musical videos, directed by Nadine Labaki, also Lebanese, revolutionized the Arab music industry.
She had quite a normal childhood with her small family that consisted of her parents, her sister and brother and herself. But when Nancy Ajram was 12, she participated in a television program called "Nojoum Al Mostakbal" (which means "Stars of the Future") and actually won first prize. Soon after, Ajram began studying music under the supervision of some of the finest teachers in her country. When she turned 18, she joined the Syndicate of Professional Artists in Lebanon - after they made an exception because of her age. 
Her first album; "Mehtagalak", was released in 1998 and marked her first official step in the world of show business. But, it took the young singer another 3 years to launch her second album Shil Eyounak Aney in 2001. Then her true hit came with her third album Ya Salam in 2003. The singer stressed the success of the album by shooting four of its songs; Akhasmak Ah, Ya Salam, Yay - Sehr Eyounoh and Nasseto Gar7o in the form of video clips. The clips were a tremendous hit and gained popularity in such a short time and gave the singer incredible fame in the Arab world. 
Her most popular album is Ah we Nos which was released in 2004. Nancy shot again four video clips for this Album. Ah w Noss, Lawn Oyounak, Oul Tani Eih and Enta Eih.
As for other activities besides singing, the Lebanese diva has agreed to be the spokesperson for the international soft drink company Coca Cola. After signing the contract with Nancy Ajram, Coca-Cola sold much more drinks in the Arab world.

</doc>
<doc id="9711" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9711" title="Fairuz">
Fairuz

Fairuz (born Nouhad Haddad (, November 21, 1935) is a Lebanese singer. She is a living legend who has been performing for over 50 years all over the world. Her vocal range is contralto. Her first album was released in 1952. She has released 98 more albums since then.
Fairuz was born Nuhad Haddad in 1933 in Beirut, Lebanon. 

</doc>
<doc id="9713" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9713" title="Sword">
Sword

A sword is a hand-held weapon made for cutting. It is often made of metal. It has a long blade, and a handle called a hilt. Often there is some form of hand protection, such as a cross-guard or a basket. It can be used either for cutting, slashing or stabbing, depending on the type of sword.
Swords were first created from bronze by blacksmiths in Ancient Egypt in 1150 BCE. Soon other cultures adopted them, and they began to spread quite quickly. Before guns were invented, swords were much more common as a weapon. After the invention of the gun, swords remained as "sidearms", as secondary weapons used in man-to-man fight once the battle lines had contacted after shooting. Since after American Civil War, swords have not been used as much by armies, except as a ceremonial part of uniforms. Some guns, however, have bayonets to perform the same function.
Today, Sport fencing, is an Olympic games sport which uses very light swords as a strict scoring system. Western Martial Arts use swords that are much closer to the original blades, such as longswords, rapiers and sabres. The blades used are blunt, but they are much heavier than a sport fencing sword, which means the fencers need much more armour. Likewise, the Japanese sport kendo is swordplay in armour with two-handed bamboo swords called shinai.
There are many kinds of swords. One kind of sword is a "sabre" (or "saber"). A sabre is a curved, light sword, sharpened on one side and at the tip, and was generally used on horseback. A "broadsword" is a straight sword that is sharp on both sides and at the tip. A rapier is long and thin, with a basket protecting the hand. Another type of sword is a "foil", used in sport fencing, and is long and thin, with a button at the tip to protect the fencers from injury. Larger swords, such as Longswords or claymores are used with two hands. In Eastern martial Arts, swords like the Katana are used. A Katana has one sharp edge and a small guard near the handle. Some Katanas are used with one hand, while other larger versions are used with two hands.
The sword of King Arthur, Excalibur, is one of the most famous swords, although it is suspected it is legendary and does not exist.
The Frisian freedom fighters Pier Gerlofs Donia and Wijerd Jelckama are known to have wielded swords of great size. Donias sword was a long as 210 cm (seven feet) and weighed 7 kg (15 lbs). The swords are kept in the Frisian Museum in Leeuwarden.

</doc>
<doc id="9714" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9714" title="Moses">
Moses

Moses (; in both the Septuagint and the New Testament; , "") is a person in Abrahamic religions. He was a religious leader, lawgiver, and prophet according to the Hebrew Bible. Generally, he is also seen as the author of the Torah. 
He is often called "Moshe Rabbenu" in Hebrew (, Lit. "Moses our Teacher/Rabbi") and seen as the most important prophet in Judaism. Christianity, Islam, the Bahá'í Faith, and the Rastafari, also see him as an important prophet. Moses has also been an important symbol in American history, from the first settlers up until the present.
According to the Book of Exodus, Moses was born in a time when his people were increasing in number and the Egyptian Pharaoh was worried that they might help Egypt's enemies. Moses' Hebrew mother, Jochebed, hid him when the Pharaoh ordered all newborn Hebrew boys to be killed, and he ended up being adopted into the Egyptian royal family. After killing an Egyptian slave-master, Moses fled across the Red Sea to Midian where he tended the flocks of Jethro, a priest of Midian on the slopes of Mt. Horeb. After the Ten Plagues were unleashed on Egypt, Moses led the Hebrew people out of Egypt, across the Red Sea, where they based themselves at Horeb and compassed the borders of Edom. It was at this time that Moses received the Ten Commandments. Despite living to the age of 120, Moses died before reaching the Land of Israel.
Moses was born of the Levi tribe. The new Pharaoh, afraid of the ever-growing Israelite population, ordered every new-born Hebrew boy to be thrown into the Nile River, but let every girl live. Moses' mother Jochebed gave birth and kept him hidden for three months from Pharaoh's soldiers. When she could no longer keep him hidden, she fashioned a basket lined with tar and pitch, and placed him in the reeds along the riverbank, while his sister Miriam kept watch from a distance.
A princess, one of pharaoh's daughters went down to the Nile to bathe. There she discovered a crying baby and noticed he was a Hebrew child. Joining the attendants, Moses' sister offered to find a Hebrew woman to nurse the baby for the princess, who agreed. Bringing Moses' real mother, the princess asked her to be the baby's wet nurse, for which she was paid. When the child grew older, she took him to pharaoh's daughter, who named him Moses, saying, "I drew him out of the water."
Moses grew up a privileged member of the court. He was well educated academically and physically. He taught hand-to-hand combat tactics and leadership.
Upon adulthood, he killed an Egyptian guard who was beating a Hebrew slave and had to leave Egypt because Pharaoh tried to kill him
Moses fled to Midian, where he married Jethro's daughter, Zipora. Zipora had two sons. The old Pharaoh died and the Israelites cried loudly. God heard him. One day Moses was tending his father-in-law, Jethro's, sheep and came to Mount Horeb. God's angel made a bush burn with fire, but it did not burn up. When he came nearer, God spoke to him and ordered him to remove his shoes as he was on holy land. God commanded him to be a leader for the Israelites and bring them out of Egypt. At first Moses did not want to do it and said that he was not good with words, but God commanded him and gave Aaron, his brother, to speak for him. 
Moses return to Egypt and told the elders what happened.
Moses then went to the Pharaoh and asked him to let the Israelites go. However the Pharaoh did not agree. Finally God inflicted ten plagues upon the Egyptians before Pharaoh agreed to release the Israelites. The last plague was the killing of all first-born, both human and animals. However, to save the Israelites, they were instructed to mark their doors with blood from a lamb, so that the avenging angel would see it and know to "pass over" that house.
The Pharaoh finally decided to let the Israelites go who then migrated in large numbers from Egypt. The Pharaoh later changed his mind and followed Moses and his people with an army to attack them. But Moses made the Red Sea to part and give way for Israelites to pass. The Israelites were safe but the Pharaoh's army was destroyed.
Moses led the Israelites through the wilderness, and God gave them manna and quails to eat, and water from rocks to drink. He also caused the Amalekites to lose in a battle. When Moses came to Mount Sinai, he went up to receive the Ten Commandments and other laws from God. The Ten Commandments were written by God on two tablets. God also told him the instructions of the priests' duties. Moses was up the mountain for forty days and forty nights.
When the people waited for Moses and did not find him, they made Aaron, his brother, make a calf out of gold and worshiped it. God warned Moses about it, and when Moses came down and saw what they did, he was so angry that the tablets fell and they smashed into pieces. The people of Levi tribes are commanded to kill people who worshiped the calf.
Later on Moses asked God to forgive the people. God wrote for Moses two more tablets, and put them in the Ark. Moses also asked craftsmen to make the Tabernacle as God wanted.
Moses is founder of basis of the philosophy of law as well as such modern legal doctrines as independent judiciary and separation of powers.).
While the Israelites were wandering around the wilderness, Moses was the one whom God spoke to. However, the people kept complaining about the hardships. God instructed Moses to send twelve spies to scout the land God is giving to them; however some of them became afraid because the people living there looked stronger and more powerful than they. They told the others not to go there. Only Joshua son of Nun and Caleb son of Jephunneh reported the truth as God wanted. God decided because of this that the Israelites would wander forty years in the wilderness, and every one except Joshua and Caleb from that generation would die without seeing the promised land.
God gave many laws to the Israelites through Moses. Moses made Joshua take over him before he died.
Moses died before he reached Canaan, the land God was leading his people to. He was 120 years old when he died.
Today Jews around the world follow the laws of the Ten Commandments and the Torah that God gave to them through Moses. He is also believed to be a prophet by Muslims.
The Bible, the Torah, and the Quran have references to a person called "Moses" in them. The name they give to the person, varies. Other people also have written about Moses. These include Tacitus and Strabo. It is not known how much these descriptions have taken from earlier sources, which may now have been lost.
An existing earlier source is the Ipuwer Papyrus, which records the events of the Ten Plagues.
No other written records from countries such as Egypt or Assyria have been found, that are from before about 850 BCE and that tell about the stories of the Bible or its main characters. There is no known physical evidence (such as pottery shards or stone tablets) to say that Moses' really existed. Pharaohs have ordered the destruction of records that put them into a bad light. Several cartouches from monuments have also been destroyed in different epochs of Ancient Egyptian history.
It looks like the story written about Moses in the Bible has two different sources. There were two groups of people who told the story. The two stories were passed on separately. Only later were they combined into the version that can now be found in the Bible. Passing on the stories from one generation to the next has perhaps also introduced inaccuracies. Some people added things to the story when they told it. They also omitted other things.
According to the Torah, Moses ordered the death penalty for many offences. He also had defeated enemies killed. Jews, Christians and Muslims consider him to be a holy figure. For this reason, criticism of these passages of the Hebrew Bible has been left to others.
In the late eighteenth century, for example, the deist Thomas Paine commented at length on Moses' Laws in "The Age of Reason". Paine also gave his view that "the character of Moses, as stated in the Bible, is the most horrid that can be imagined", giving the story at as an example. In the nineteenth century the agnostic Robert G. Ingersoll wrote "...that all the ignorant, infamous, heartless, hideous things recorded in the 'inspired' Pentateuch are not the words of God, but simply 'Some Mistakes of Moses'". In the 2000s, the atheist Richard Dawkins referring to the same passage like Paine, concluded, "No, Moses was not a great role model for modern moralists."

</doc>
<doc id="9715" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9715" title="Canaan">
Canaan

Canaan was an ancient country in the Levant. In the Bible, it was the land promised to Abraham and his children by God. The Canaanite people lived in this area from about 2000 BCE until the time of the Bible. It covers part of the area that is now Israel, Palestine, Syria and Lebanon.

</doc>
<doc id="9716" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9716" title="Prophet">
Prophet

Prophets are people who said that God or gods talked to them. They freely teach other people what they learned. Most of them warn people that something very good will happen if they change their lives.
There are prophets in Christianity, Islam, Judaism, Mormonism, Zoroastrianism, and in other religions. 
For the main Abrahamic religions, there are two kinds of prophets, major and minor. Major prophets gave a lot of teachings while minor just re-teach things other prophets taught or they do not have many teachings.

</doc>
<doc id="9718" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9718" title="Cotopaxi">
Cotopaxi

Mount Cotopaxi is a volcano in Ecuador. The mountain's altitude (height) is . That is high enough for snow to fall on it, even though it is near the equator (a very warm part of the world). If the volcano erupted, it would be very bad for the people living around it because of the destruction and damage it could cause.
Cotopaxi began showing new activity. As of 25 June 2015, it was under active watch by the National Polytechnic School Geophysics Institute.
The Geophysics Institute at the National Polytechnic School in Quito houses an international team of seismologists and volcanologists whose responsibility is to monitor Ecuadors numerous active volcanoes 
and the constant seismic activity in the Andean Volcanic Belt and the Galapagos Islands.

</doc>
<doc id="9720" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9720" title="Israelite">
Israelite

Israelites were a Semitic people of the ancient Middle East. They lived in part of what was Canaan during the time of the Bible. This area came to be called the Land of Israel. It usually refers to a member of one of the Tribes of Israel. The term Children of Israel is also used, especially when talking about the period of the Five Books of Moses.
Israelites lived in the kingdom of Israel, in areas where the modern State of Israel is now. Israel split off from a kingdom called Judah, whose people were later called Jews. Israel was conquered by the Assyrians in 721 BCE. Judah was conquered by the Babylonians in 586 BCE. Many Jews were taken away from Judah. When the Achaemenid Empire defeated the Babylonians they let the Jews return to rebuild the Second Temple in Jerusalem about 70 years later.

</doc>
<doc id="9724" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9724" title="January 11">
January 11


</doc>
<doc id="9725" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9725" title="January 12">
January 12


</doc>
<doc id="9726" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9726" title="January 13">
January 13


</doc>
<doc id="9727" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9727" title="January 14">
January 14

January 14 is celebrated as New Year's Day by those still following the Julian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="9728" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9728" title="January 16">
January 16


</doc>
<doc id="9729" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9729" title="January 18">
January 18


</doc>
<doc id="9730" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9730" title="January 19">
January 19


</doc>
<doc id="9731" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9731" title="January 20">
January 20


</doc>
<doc id="9735" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9735" title="January 21">
January 21


</doc>
<doc id="9736" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9736" title="January 22">
January 22


</doc>
<doc id="9737" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9737" title="January 23">
January 23


</doc>
<doc id="9740" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9740" title="Bali">
Bali

Bali is an island and a province in Indonesia. The province includes the island of Bali and a few other islands. The island is known as an island of a thousand temples. There are about 3,100,000 people in Bali. Bali's most important city is Denpasar. Hinduism is Bali's largest religion. More than 90% of its people are Hindus. Textiles and garments are 45% of their exports. The currency in Bali is the Indonesian rupiah (IDR). Bali's food mainly consists of rice and mostly spicy foods. Tourists often enjoy a local specialty called babi guling (roast pig). Bali has many fruits, such as pineapples, mangos, passionfruits, bananas, coconuts, rambutans, selaks, durians, mangosteens and different kinds of oranges and grapefruits. Bali is also known for its folk music which is played on a group of instruments called a gamelan. The literacy rate for Bali is 45.55%.
Bali is a popular place for tourists. They have lots of historic temples. Bali is known for its great views and its beautiful beaches and volcanoes. Bali has cool days between April and October and hot days from November to March. 
Bali had a major terrorist bombing on October 12, 2002 killing more than 200 people. The attacks were at a local nightclub in the tourist town of Kuta.
Bali is famous for its many lovely rice fields (sawah) and Hindu ceremonies. While half of the tourists never get farther than Kuta, the towns of Padang Bai and Amed are quite popular.
Bali is a volcanic island. The two main volcanos are Mount Agung and Mount Batur. Mount Agung is sacred to the Balinese people. 
A number of tourists are in prison in Bali. Australians Schapelle Corby and a group known as the Bali Nine are serving long terms in Kerobokan Prison and several of the Nine have been sentenced to death.

</doc>
<doc id="9741" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9741" title="Flag of the People's Republic of China">
Flag of the People's Republic of China

The Flag of China has one big star and four small stars on a red background. The big star stands for the communist government, and the four small stars stand for the workers, peasants, middle-class citizens and soldiers. The red background stands for the blood lost while the history of China was made.

</doc>
<doc id="9743" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9743" title="The Prince">
The Prince

The Prince is a book written by Niccolò Machiavelli, who lived in the city of Florence in the country of Italy. The book was published in 1513. 
The book talks about politics and government. During his life, Machiavelli saw many changes in the government of Florence. He thought a lot about what a king or prince should do to make a strong government. In the book, he said the ruler had to get a lot of power. 
One of the things he said that made people worried, was that ethics and politics are different. A person might have to do things that are "wrong" to get power, but with power he could then do "good" things. This thought made people upset.
Some people think that Machiavelli was being honest with his advice and saying what he really thought. Other people think that Machiavelli was playing a joke on princes who wanted too much power and did not care about what was right.

</doc>
<doc id="9744" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9744" title="Round">
Round

Round or rounds may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="9747" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9747" title="512">
512


</doc>
<doc id="9750" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9750" title="February 9">
February 9


</doc>
<doc id="9779" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9779" title="United Russia">
United Russia

United Russia (Russian: "Единая Россия") is a Russian political party, which usually labels itself centrist and conservationist. Dmitry Medvedev is leader of this party.
The party currently has 238/450 seats in the State Duma and 2,838/3,785 seats in the Regional Parliaments. Because of this, United Russia is the most popular political party in Russia. There has also been a decrease in votes to United Russia since the last elections.

</doc>
<doc id="9791" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9791" title="August 5">
August 5


</doc>
<doc id="9793" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9793" title="February 17">
February 17


</doc>
<doc id="9795" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9795" title="October 30">
October 30


</doc>
<doc id="9796" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9796" title="Tiger">
Tiger

The tiger ("Panthera tigris") is a carnivorous mammal. It is the largest living member of the cat family, the Felidae. It lives in Asia, mainly India, Bhutan, China and Siberia.
Bengal tigers live in the watery jungle called the Sundarbans that is in Bangladesh and West Bengal of India. They are also found in other south-east Asian countries. They have orange fur with black stripes, and a white belly. The black stripes usually extend to the white underside. The stripes are used to keep them camouflaged while hunting. No two tigers have the same pattern of stripes.
Sometimes there are tigers with different colors. There are white tigers that have white fur with black stripes, or that even have pure white fur. They have blue or green eyes. Most Bengal tigers have orange fur. The white coat only appears once in every 10,000 births. The Bengal tiger is the national animal of Bangladesh and India.
Tigers vary in size depending on their subspecies. Siberian tigers are the largest. Males can grow to at least long (body length) and weigh about . Females are a bit smaller. Record weight for males is claimed as 700 lbs (318 kg), but this cannot be confirmed.
The tiger has 6 living subspecies, and 3 recently extinct (†) subspecies.
Tigers are becoming very rare, because people hunt them for their skin and destroy the habitats they live in. The Bengal tiger has the largest population with 3,500 left in the wild. The South-Chinese tiger has the smallest population with only 20 or 30 left in the wild and about 60 in captivity.
Tigers eat lots of different types of prey, mostly other large mammals. Some examples are deer, monkeys, wild pigs, tapirs and other animals found in Asia. All tigers are carnivores (meat eaters). Some tigers may eat up to of meat a day. Tigers kill their prey by clamping down on the prey's throat and suffocating it.

</doc>
<doc id="9797" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9797" title="1735">
1735


</doc>
<doc id="9798" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9798" title="Leopard">
Leopard

A leopard ("Panthera pardus") is a big feline of the genus "Panthera". It lives in Africa and Asia. 
Unlike lions, they do not live in groups. The adult males live separately, and the females live only with their cubs. They live in habitats where there are some trees. They climb trees well, and do so regularly. They can carry prey up a tree and keep it safe from hyaenas and lions. Trees are its main escape from attacks by lions or packs of dogs. It is an ambush predator, and operates best where it has some cover. 
The most similar cat in its lifestyle is the jaguar, which lives in Central and South America. 
Leopards generally have yellow fur with dark rosettes and spots, and a lighter colored underside. But there can be a lot of differences in the different leopard subspecies. There are also often leopards who are completely black, those are also called black panthers. Male leopards are about 30% larger than female leopards.
Originally the leopard lived in all of Africa (but not in the Sahara) and southern Asia. But today many leopard subspecies, especially in Asia, are endangered. Leopards live in a lot of different environments: rainforests, forests, mountains and savannas.
The leopard is mostly active at night. It is basically an ambush hunter. It can climb very well, and it stays up in trees a lot of its time. Leopards usually live alone and try not to meet another leopard. They only come together to mate. Young leopards leave their mothers after 13 – 18 months.
Leopards hunt at different times, and they also use different methods for hunting. Most often leopards will secretly move towards their prey and attack it when they are close, or hide and wait for it to come close. 
Leopards are versatile, opportunistic hunters, and have a very wide diet. They feed on a wider range of prey than other members of the "Panthera" genus. Their diet consists mostly of ungulates and primates (mainly monkeys). However, they also eat rodents, reptiles, amphibians, insects, birds (some ground-based types), fish and sometimes smaller predators (such as foxes, jackals, martens and smaller felids). In one instance, a leopard killed a sub-adult Nile crocodile that was crossing over land. Leopards are the only natural predators of adult chimpanzees and gorillas, though probably not the large male silverback gorillas. Leopards do not usually eat humans, but sometimes leopards that are hurt or sick can eat people when they do not have enough to eat. A leopard in India is believed to have eaten more than 125 people.
There are nine subspecies of leopards recognized today, one in Africa and eight in Asia. They are:

</doc>
<doc id="9799" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9799" title="Jaguar">
Jaguar

The jaguar ("Panthera onca") is a large feline (big cat) which lives in South and Central America. 
The jaguar is the third-largest feline after the tiger and the lion. It is also the largest and most powerful feline in the Western Hemisphere.
Because of its spots, jaguars look like leopards, though it is usually larger and stronger, and its behavior is more like that of a tiger. It likes to stay near water, and like the tiger, it is famous for being a big cat that enjoys swimming. It usually hunts alone. 
The jaguar has a very powerful strong bite, even compared to other big cats. Because of its strong bite, jaguars can bite through armoured reptiles like caimans, crocodiles, turtles and tortoises. Jaguars kill their prey in an unusual way: they bite directly through the skull between the ears and into the brain.
Jaguars have yellow or sometimes yellow-orange fur with brown and black rosettes and spots. They are big and heavy and also have very strong muscles which makes them really powerful.
Sometimes there are jaguars who are completely black, but if you look closely you can still see the spots. They are called "black panther" or just "panther".
This is a 'colour morph' of the same species, a kind of polymorphism.
Jaguars live in South and Central America. They mostly live in rainforests, but also in savanna, swamp,grasslands,forest and deserts and open areas.
They cannot climb well, but they swim very well.
Jaguars are not specialized with their food, but eat almost anything they get: big and small mammals, birds, reptiles, fish and livestock. It is an ambush predator. When hunting, they usually try to secretly get very close to the prey, and then the jaguar suddenly jumps at it and throws it down. The jaguar bites the skull of its prey to kill it. It then takes the prey to a safe place and eats it.
After a pregnancy of about 100 days the female gives birth to usually 1 - 4 babies. The young leave their family after 1–2 years, and they become mature at about 3 years. Jaguars can live up to 10–12 years old in freedom, but in captivity (such as in zoos) they can live to 20–22 years old.

</doc>
<doc id="9800" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9800" title="Cheetah">
Cheetah

A cheetah ("Acinonyx jubatus") is a large cat which lives in Africa. It is the fastest land animal and can run up to 112 kilometres per hour for a short time. Most cheetahs live in the savannas of Africa. There are a few in Asia.
The cheetah compared to other big cats is light and slimly built. Its long thin legs and long spotted tail are necessary for fast running. Its lightly built, thin form is in sharp contrast with the robust build of the other big cats. The head-and-body length ranges from . The cheetah stands 70 to 90 cm at the shoulder, and weighs .
The slightly curved claws are only weakly retractable (semi-retractable). This is a major point of difference between the cheetah and the other big cats, which have fully retractable claws.
Cheetahs are active during the day, and hunt in the early morning or late evening. Their main prey are small to medium-sized antelopes. Duiker, Grant's gazelle, impala, reedbuck, springbok and Thomson's gazelle are some of the common targets of the cheetah. Male cheetahs, which are larger and heavier than females, can go after larger prey.
When the cheetah hunts, it slowly and secretly moves toward its prey. When it is close to the prey (about 10–30 meters), it runs after it very quickly. Cheetahs kill their prey by tripping it during the chase. To kill medium- to large-sized prey, the cheetah bites the prey's throat to suffocate it to death. A bite on the back of the neck or the snout is enough to kill smaller prey.
The cheetah cannot defend itself against lions or hyenas who would take the cheetah's prey away. The prey is taken to a shaded place. The cheetah, exhausted after the chase, rests beside the kill and pants heavily for some time. Once they recover, cheetahs eat fast, and consume large quantities as soon as they can.
Pregnant females give birth to about 3 to 5 cubs after three months pregnancy. It takes two years of full-time supervision by the mother before the cubs are ready to live independent lives. They need to learn how to catch prey, and that takes time. The young are vulnerable to larger predators: lions especially try to kill cheetahs.
The cheetah has unusually low genetic variability and a very low sperm count. Their sperms also suffer from deformed flagellae, and so their movement is damaged. Apparently, cheetahs went through a great reduction in numbers during the last ice age. Inbreeding after the event further reduced the variation (Evolution#Genetic drift).

</doc>
<doc id="9807" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9807" title="January 28">
January 28


</doc>
<doc id="9808" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9808" title="October 16">
October 16


</doc>
<doc id="9809" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9809" title="1794">
1794


</doc>
<doc id="9813" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9813" title="September 18">
September 18


</doc>
<doc id="9817" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9817" title="Quartz">
Quartz

Quartz is the second most common mineral in Earth's continental crust. Its crystal structure is a framework of SiO silicon–oxygen tetrahedra. Each shares an oxygen atom oxygen with another tetrahedron, so the overall chemical formula is SiO or silica.
There are many different varieties of quartz, some of which are semi-precious gemstones. Varieties of quartz have been used for a long time in the making of jewelry and hardstone carving. Agate, amethyst, rose quartz are all forms of quartz. 
Quartz is a component used to make quartz clocks.
Sand often has a lot of small quartz bits. This mineral contains silica. Quartz has a mineral hardness of 8. (mohs scale). 
The word "quartz" comes from the German word "quarz".
'Fused quartz' is glass made of silica in non-crystalline form. It does not contain other ingredients. These are usually added to glass to lower the melt temperature. Fused silica has high working and melting temperatures. The properties of fused quartz are superior to those of other types of glass due to its purity. The glass is used in a number of high-tech products.

</doc>
<doc id="9818" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9818" title="Pink Floyd">
Pink Floyd

Pink Floyd were an English rock band that became famous in the 1960s and 1970s. They performed for more than 30 years, and have sold more than 200 million (200,000,000) albums. They are famous for their live shows and deep music. Most of their albums are concept albums, which means every song is linked through a theme. Their first album was the "Piper at the Gates of Dawn", which was released in 1967. Their latest album is "The Endless River, "which was released in November 2014.. The band were named after the blues artists "Pink Anderson" and "Floyd Council" by Syd Barrett, one of the band's founding members. In 2005, they played at a concert called Live 8 after 24 years of not playing together. The line up was David Gilmour, Roger Waters, Nick Mason and Richard Wright. They have made some very popular albums including "The Dark Side of the Moon" and "The Wall". After Richard Wright died in 2008, David Gilmour has said that he does not want to reunite, despite Roger saying he might want to. It is now believed that David Gilmour and Roger Waters are friends after becoming enemies for a long time.
Syd Barrett started the group, and played guitar and sang in the band. He left soon after, at the start of 1968, because of a mental illness that was made worse by heavy drug use. The other people in the band were Roger Waters (bass guitar and vocals), David Gilmour (lead guitar and vocals), Richard Wright (keyboard and vocals), and Nick Mason (drums). David Gilmour joined the band in 1968. Roger Waters quit the band in 1985. 
During most of their career, they played a kind of rock music that some people call "progressive rock".
The original members of Pink Floyd met in an architectural college. The band started as a blues band. Later, under Syd Barrett's leadership, they played music that was psychedelic in style. After Barrett left the band, they started to play longer and more complicated songs, and to play at a lot of colleges and universities. Soon, they were famous as studio musicians who loved to experiment with music. On the album "Atom Heart Mother", from 1970, they used a brass band and a choir.
They used a lot of things to make their concerts interesting to watch. They had a round movie screen on the stage. They would show videos on the screen when they played. They also used lighting and lasers in a much fancier way than many bands do. They also had big balloon puppets. The most famous is in the shape of a pig, which first appeared on the cover for their album, "Animals". The pig has since become a symbol of Pink Floyd. Another symbol that reminds people of Pink Floyd is a prism with light shining through it. This was on the cover of "Dark Side of the Moon", one of their most popular albums. The album was released in 1973, and stayed on music charts for a very long time. Millions of people bought it.
The album "The Wall", recorded in 1979, was also famous. It was made into a movie, directed by Alan Parker, in 1982. That album is important to the history of the group. It talks about the distance they put between them and their fans. It was the last album they all worked on together before starting to split up. 
Roger Waters forced Richard Wright to leave the band in 1979, but Wright came back in 1987, after Waters quit. Waters tried to sue the other members so that they could not call themselves Pink Floyd without him, but he did not succeed. Because of this and other reasons, there was a lot of anger and bitterness between Waters and the other members of the band, especially Gilmour.
The last album of new songs that Pink Floyd released is called "The Division Bell". It was made in 1994, when Pink Floyd also played their last concert tour. The very last time that Pink Floyd played was in 2005, as part of the Live 8 concerts for charity. Waters sang with the band for the first time since leaving the band. It was a big surprise to many people who thought Pink Floyd would never play together again, especially not with Roger Waters.
Syd Barrett died of pancreatic cancer in 2006. Richard Wright died of cancer in 2008.
In 2014, Pink Floyd released their first album in over 20 years: "The Endless River".

</doc>
<doc id="9819" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9819" title="Pope John Paul I">
Pope John Paul I

Pope John Paul I (; , 17 October 1912 – 28 September 1978), born Albino Luciani, was an Italian priest of the Roman Catholic Church and the 264th Pope for 33 days in 1978. His name was a combination of the names of the two popes who came before him. The name "John Paul" honors Pope John XXIII who made him a bishop and Pope Paul VI who raised him to the rank of cardinal. 
Luciani was born in Canale d'Agordo, a small town between Venice and the Austrian border with Italy. His father was a migrant worker in Switzerland.
Luciani began his priesthood in the parishes of his home region. In 1937, he became a professor of theology and vice-rector of Belluno seminary. 
He was made Bishop of Vittorio Veneto in 1969. He understood his role as bishop in a modest way:
In 1972, Pope Paul VI made Luciani a cardinal. and the Patriarch of Venice.
Cardinal Luciani was elected Pope in 1978, John Paul I was the first pope to combine the names of John and Paul as a Pope as his way of paying tribute to Pope John XXIII and Pope Paul VI. He was the first Pope to call himself by a new name since Pope Lando in 913.
He was known as "the Smiling Pope".
John Paul I died of a heart attack on 28 September 1978, 33 days after his election.
In a statistical overview derived from writings by and about John Paul I, OCLC/WorldCat encompasses roughly 250+ works in 370+ publications in 17 languages and 11,300+ library holdings.

</doc>
<doc id="9820" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9820" title="October 17">
October 17


</doc>
<doc id="9821" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9821" title="1912">
1912

1912 (MCMXII) was a leap year starting on Monday of the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="9822" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9822" title="Ted Cassidy">
Ted Cassidy

Ted Cassidy (July 31, 1932 - January 16, 1979) was an American actor. He was best known for his roles as Lurch and Thing on "The Addams Family".

</doc>
<doc id="9823" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9823" title="July 31">
July 31


</doc>
<doc id="9824" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9824" title="Aileen Wuornos">
Aileen Wuornos

Aileen Wuornos (February 29, 1956 – October 9, 2002) was an American serial killer. She was born in Rochester, Michigan. She confessed to killing six men in Florida and was executed in Florida State Prison by lethal injection for the murders. Wuornos said that the men she killed had raped her or tried to rape her while she was working as a prostitute.
Wuornos was diagnosed with antisocial personality disorder and borderline personality disorder.
The movie, "Monster" is about her life. Two documentaries were made about her. 
Wuornos was born Aileen Carol Pittman in Rochester, Michigan. She never met her father. Wuornos was adopted by her grandparents. When she was 13 she became pregnant. She started working as a prostitute when she was 14.

</doc>
<doc id="9825" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9825" title="May 20">
May 20


</doc>
<doc id="9827" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9827" title="June 11">
June 11


</doc>
<doc id="9835" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9835" title="April 5">
April 5


</doc>
<doc id="9836" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9836" title="January 26">
January 26


</doc>
<doc id="9837" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9837" title="January 27">
January 27


</doc>
<doc id="9838" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9838" title="February 1">
February 1


</doc>
<doc id="9839" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9839" title="February 5">
February 5


</doc>
<doc id="9840" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9840" title="February 8">
February 8


</doc>
<doc id="9841" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9841" title="February 15">
February 15


</doc>
<doc id="9842" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9842" title="February 10">
February 10


</doc>
<doc id="9843" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9843" title="February 16">
February 16


</doc>
<doc id="9844" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9844" title="February 19">
February 19


</doc>
<doc id="9845" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9845" title="February 23">
February 23


</doc>
<doc id="9846" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9846" title="February 25">
February 25


</doc>
<doc id="9847" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9847" title="February 26">
February 26


</doc>
<doc id="9848" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9848" title="February 27">
February 27


</doc>
<doc id="9849" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9849" title="February 28">
February 28


</doc>
<doc id="9850" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9850" title="Crater">
Crater

A crater is a round dent on a planet. They are usually shaped like a circle or an oval. They are usually made by something like a meteor hitting the surface of a planet. Underground activity such as volcanoes or explosions can also cause them but it's not as likely.

</doc>
<doc id="9852" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9852" title="Store">
Store

Store has several meanings:

</doc>
<doc id="9853" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9853" title="1930">
1930


</doc>
<doc id="9855" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9855" title="1857">
1857


</doc>
<doc id="9856" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9856" title="1887">
1887


</doc>
<doc id="9860" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9860" title="March 1">
March 1


</doc>
<doc id="9861" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9861" title="March 2">
March 2


</doc>
<doc id="9862" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9862" title="March 9">
March 9


</doc>
<doc id="9863" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9863" title="March 10">
March 10


</doc>
<doc id="9864" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9864" title="March 30">
March 30


</doc>
<doc id="9865" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9865" title="March 27">
March 27


</doc>
<doc id="9866" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9866" title="March 25">
March 25


</doc>
<doc id="9867" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9867" title="March 23">
March 23


</doc>
<doc id="9868" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9868" title="March 19">
March 19

March 19 is usually the last day of the winter season in the Northern Hemisphere, and the last day of the summer season in the Southern Hemisphere.

</doc>
<doc id="9869" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9869" title="March 15">
March 15

In the Roman calendar March 15 was known as the Ides of March, and it was on this day that Julius Caesar was murdered.

</doc>
<doc id="9870" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9870" title="March 14">
March 14


</doc>
<doc id="9871" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9871" title="March 13">
March 13


</doc>
<doc id="9872" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9872" title="March 12">
March 12


</doc>
<doc id="9873" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9873" title="March 11">
March 11


</doc>
<doc id="9874" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9874" title="April 3">
April 3


</doc>
<doc id="9876" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9876" title="April 6">
April 6


</doc>
<doc id="9877" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9877" title="April 9">
April 9


</doc>
<doc id="9878" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9878" title="April 25">
April 25


</doc>
<doc id="9879" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9879" title="April 26">
April 26


</doc>
<doc id="9880" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9880" title="April 24">
April 24


</doc>
<doc id="9881" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9881" title="April 27">
April 27


</doc>
<doc id="9882" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9882" title="April 18">
April 18


</doc>
<doc id="9883" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9883" title="April 19">
April 19


</doc>
<doc id="9884" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9884" title="April 22">
April 22


</doc>
<doc id="9885" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9885" title="April 21">
April 21


</doc>
<doc id="9886" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9886" title="April 29">
April 29


</doc>
<doc id="9887" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9887" title="April 30">
April 30


</doc>
<doc id="9888" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9888" title="April 16">
April 16


</doc>
<doc id="9889" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9889" title="April 10">
April 10


</doc>
<doc id="9890" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9890" title="April 11">
April 11


</doc>
<doc id="9891" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9891" title="April 12">
April 12


</doc>
<doc id="9892" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9892" title="April 13">
April 13


</doc>
<doc id="9893" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9893" title="May 9">
May 9


</doc>
<doc id="9894" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9894" title="May 7">
May 7


</doc>
<doc id="9895" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9895" title="May 6">
May 6


</doc>
<doc id="9896" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9896" title="May 5">
May 5


</doc>
<doc id="9897" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9897" title="May 4">
May 4


</doc>
<doc id="9898" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9898" title="May 2">
May 2


</doc>
<doc id="9899" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9899" title="May 23">
May 23


</doc>
<doc id="9900" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9900" title="May 22">
May 22


</doc>
<doc id="9901" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9901" title="May 31">
May 31


</doc>
<doc id="9902" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9902" title="May 15">
May 15


</doc>
<doc id="9903" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9903" title="May 16">
May 16


</doc>
<doc id="9904" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9904" title="May 10">
May 10


</doc>
<doc id="9905" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9905" title="May 11">
May 11


</doc>
<doc id="9906" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9906" title="May 14">
May 14


</doc>
<doc id="9907" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9907" title="May 21">
May 21


</doc>
<doc id="9908" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9908" title="May 27">
May 27


</doc>
<doc id="9909" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9909" title="May 26">
May 26


</doc>
<doc id="9910" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9910" title="May 25">
May 25


</doc>
<doc id="9911" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9911" title="May 17">
May 17


</doc>
<doc id="9912" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9912" title="July 3">
July 3


</doc>
<doc id="9913" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9913" title="July 6">
July 6


</doc>
<doc id="9914" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9914" title="July 7">
July 7


</doc>
<doc id="9915" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9915" title="July 2">
July 2

In a Common year of the Gregorian calendar, this date marks the half-way point of the year. This would be at 12 noon (or 1 p.m. if Daylight Saving Time is used). In a Leap year, the half-way point is at midnight between the 1 and 2 July (or 1 a.m. on July 2 if Daylight Saving Time is used).
Every year, this date falls on the same day of the week as New Year's Eve, and it also falls on the same day of the week as New Year's Day in Common years.

</doc>
<doc id="9916" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9916" title="July 9">
July 9


</doc>
<doc id="9917" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9917" title="July 8">
July 8


</doc>
<doc id="9918" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9918" title="June 6">
June 6


</doc>
<doc id="9919" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9919" title="June 2">
June 2


</doc>
<doc id="9920" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9920" title="June 3">
June 3


</doc>
<doc id="9921" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9921" title="June 9">
June 9


</doc>
<doc id="9922" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9922" title="June 8">
June 8


</doc>
<doc id="9923" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9923" title="June 7">
June 7


</doc>
<doc id="9924" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9924" title="November 7">
November 7


</doc>
<doc id="9925" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9925" title="November 6">
November 6


</doc>
<doc id="9926" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9926" title="November 5">
November 5


</doc>
<doc id="9927" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9927" title="November 2">
November 2


</doc>
<doc id="9928" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9928" title="November 3">
November 3


</doc>
<doc id="9929" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9929" title="November 4">
November 4


</doc>
<doc id="9930" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9930" title="December 1">
December 1


</doc>
<doc id="9931" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9931" title="December 4">
December 4


</doc>
<doc id="9932" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9932" title="December 5">
December 5


</doc>
<doc id="9933" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9933" title="December 6">
December 6


</doc>
<doc id="9934" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9934" title="December 7">
December 7


</doc>
<doc id="9935" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9935" title="December 8">
December 8


</doc>
<doc id="9936" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9936" title="December 9">
December 9


</doc>
<doc id="9937" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9937" title="November 8">
November 8


</doc>
<doc id="9938" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9938" title="November 9">
November 9


</doc>
<doc id="9939" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9939" title="May 13">
May 13


</doc>
<doc id="9940" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9940" title="October 9">
October 9


</doc>
<doc id="9941" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9941" title="October 7">
October 7


</doc>
<doc id="9942" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9942" title="October 6">
October 6


</doc>
<doc id="9943" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9943" title="October 5">
October 5


</doc>
<doc id="9944" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9944" title="October 3">
October 3


</doc>
<doc id="9945" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9945" title="October 1">
October 1


</doc>
<doc id="9946" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9946" title="September 2">
September 2


</doc>
<doc id="9947" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9947" title="September 4">
September 4


</doc>
<doc id="9948" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9948" title="September 5">
September 5


</doc>
<doc id="9949" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9949" title="September 6">
September 6


</doc>
<doc id="9950" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9950" title="September 8">
September 8


</doc>
<doc id="9951" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9951" title="August 6">
August 6


</doc>
<doc id="9952" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9952" title="August 4">
August 4


</doc>
<doc id="9953" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9953" title="August 3">
August 3


</doc>
<doc id="9954" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9954" title="August 2">
August 2


</doc>
<doc id="9955" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9955" title="August 1">
August 1


</doc>
<doc id="9956" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9956" title="August 7">
August 7


</doc>
<doc id="9957" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9957" title="August 9">
August 9


</doc>
<doc id="9958" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9958" title="Transgender">
Transgender

Transgender is a term used to describe people who may act, feel, think, or look different from their biological (birth) sex. The word transgender is used to include many groups of people who share one important "trait" (a way of feeling or behaving) but may not be the same in other ways. The common trait for transgender people is that they call themselves "transgender" and feel that their sex assigned at birth does not accurately describe them as a person.
An antonym of the word transgender is cisgender.
Because the word "transgender" is used to cover a wide variety of people, it is called an umbrella term. Many different types of people think of themselves as transgender. Different English speakers define words in different ways. For these reasons, the term "trans people" is often used.
Some common definitions of the words used in this article are listed here. These are common ways but not agreed to by everyone:
These definitions are important to help understand that what people look like outside (sex) is not always the same as how they feel inside (gender). Some people do not fit well into the "gender binary" idea. People who are transgender should be called by the pronoun (he or she, among others) that matches their gender identity, so this article will do that.
There are many groups who are included under the umbrella term transgender. Some of the bigger groups are:
The following groups of people may or may not personally identify as transgender:
The following groups of people do "not" fall under the definition of transgender:
People like those who, in modern Western societies, are now identified as transgender or transsexual, have been documented in many cultures and for thousands of years. However, only in the last century have science and medicine been able to meet some of the needs for bodily change of trans people who want to change their body.
People who have traits that are different from the sex they are born with, have been accepted in some societies, both historically and now. For example, some Native American tribes accepted "two-spirit" people. Similarly a Tongan person born with a male body who acts and dresses in a female way is known in the local dialect as a "fakaleiti".
The "hijra" in India are born physically male, but live as women, including dressing and socializing as female. In the past they used to castrate themselves and even remove the penis in order to urinate through a small hole. Now, with the arrival of western medicine, many hijari choose to take hormone therapies and sometimes have sex reassignment surgery. Many of these people still call themselves "hijari", but some now call themselves "transsexuals" or "transgender women". The role of hijari in society is complex and varied throughout all of India.
In Western Society, there have often been people who have chosen to act and dress in a way that was not gender specific, or was not that of the sex they were assigned at birth. This is not the same as being transgender. Cross dressing actors were very popular in the theatre of the late 19th century.
An example of a transgender person is the 19th century military surgeon who was known as James Barry. It is now believed that Barry was born female but disguised his sex all his adult life. Barry's work, which saved, and helped thousands of lives by improving treatment of wounds to stop amputations, would not have been possible, as a woman, because as a female he could never have attended medical school or entered the army.
A 20th century example of a transgender person is Jan Morris, a geographer, explorer and journalist, who began life as James Morris. As "James", Morris married and had children, but felt female and eventually became Jan Morris.
Transgender people are not accepted in every society. They suffer discrimination, violence, and even murder. Transgender people have fought for and have gained many rights and protections in some societies. In many places the fight for transgender rights is associated with the fight for gay and bisexual rights. Together these groups are sometimes described by the acronym "LGBT" for lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender especially since the Declaration of Montreal.
However, some transgender people do not want to be a part of the LGB (lesbian, gay and bisexual) community, as they may see themselves as heterosexual and not feel like they belong with gay or queer people, and some LGB people do not want to be a part of the transgender community, as they may be transphobic, which means that they may have a fear or dislike of transgender people, or they may not want heterosexuals to see sexuality and gender identity as the same thing. However, non-heterosexual and transgender people often have some of the same problems in society. So many gay, lesbian, bisexual, and transgender people try to work together to solve all of their problems.
A 2012 study of British transgender people found that 84% had considered suicide. 55% had been diagnosed with depression. 33% had not been diagnosed with depression, but thought that they had it in the past or at the time of the survey. 46% of the people who had self harmed had self harmed every day at some time in their lives. 38% of the transgender people had been diagnosed with anxiety. 53% had self-harmed at some time in their lives. 44% had used antidepressants and 31% were using antidepressants.
A study of 164 Irish transgender people found that 80% per cent had also considered suicide. 40% of those had attempted suicide at least once. 44% had self-harmed.
Transgender people who wish to take medicine and have surgery to change their bodies face several problems. In order to change their bodies, they must have doctors who are willing to help them and make the changes. They sometimes cannot do this because doctors will not help them. They may also not be able to do this because even if a doctor would treat them, they may not be able to afford the medicine or surgery. But the Declaration of Montreal affirms that such medical care be provided for them by public health insurance.
Many transgender people do not like being labelled as having a disease or gender identity disorder. In some places, the government labels being transgender a disease. One of the international human rights laws of the Yogyakarta Principles (Principal 18), disagrees with any use of a medical disease label.
However, many transgender people depend on this diagnosis. Some people can only get medical and surgical treatment paid for by their government if it is to "treat a disease," so if it is not considered a disease, they will not get the medicines and surgery they need. Also, some laws protect transgender people from transphobia and discrimination. In places that do not have these laws, transgender people may only be protected under laws that protect people with diseases or disabilities, so their condition needs to be labeled one of these.
Doctors do not agree on one way of viewing being transgender. Some doctors view the condition as a birth defect that can easily be fixed, others may not even recognize being transgender as a medical condition.
This argument still goes on in both the transgender community and in the medical community that treats them.
About 50% of transgender people have been sexually assaulted.
Transgender people have problems with laws and regulations about sex. To be seen and treated as the sex they wish, transgender people usually have to change their first name. They also may want to change their identity documents to say the correct sex. For example, a transgender woman may wish to change her birth certificate or driving license to say her new female name and to say that she is a female.
These changes can protect transgender people from discrimination. For example, transgender people often have difficulty traveling because their appearance does not match their identity papers. These changes can also be necessary for transgender people to be allowed to marry their spouses in places where it is illegal for homosexual people to marry. These changes can even protect transgender people from a wide variety of violence. Some transgender people are only recognized when their documents reveal them. Being revealed as transgender can put people in danger because of transphobia (fear and/or hatred of transgender people).
Unfortunately, in many places this is hard or impossible for transgender people to change their identity documents, with or without undergoing genital surgery, which is required in many places, contrary to the definition of the Yogyakarta Principles. This is changing, however. Recently the United Kingdom passed the Gender Recognition Act of 2004. This act allows people to have their change of sex officially recognized without surgery. Once changed, they have all the rights, privileges, and responsibilities of their new gender.

</doc>
<doc id="9959" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9959" title="August 28">
August 28


</doc>
<doc id="9960" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9960" title="August 21">
August 21


</doc>
<doc id="9961" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9961" title="August 23">
August 23


</doc>
<doc id="9962" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9962" title="August 30">
August 30


</doc>
<doc id="9963" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9963" title="August 31">
August 31


</doc>
<doc id="9964" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9964" title="August 24">
August 24


</doc>
<doc id="9965" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9965" title="August 25">
August 25


</doc>
<doc id="9966" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9966" title="August 26">
August 26


</doc>
<doc id="9967" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9967" title="August 27">
August 27


</doc>
<doc id="9968" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9968" title="August 20">
August 20


</doc>
<doc id="9969" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9969" title="August 19">
August 19


</doc>
<doc id="9970" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9970" title="August 18">
August 18


</doc>
<doc id="9971" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9971" title="August 17">
August 17


</doc>
<doc id="9972" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9972" title="August 15">
August 15


</doc>
<doc id="9973" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9973" title="August 14">
August 14


</doc>
<doc id="9974" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9974" title="August 13">
August 13


</doc>
<doc id="9975" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9975" title="August 11">
August 11


</doc>
<doc id="9976" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9976" title="August 10">
August 10


</doc>
<doc id="9977" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9977" title="August 22">
August 22


</doc>
<doc id="9981" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9981" title="1485">
1485


</doc>
<doc id="9984" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9984" title="Noon">
Noon

Noon is the time exactly halfway through the day, written 12.00 or 12:00 in the 24-hour clock and 12:00 pm in the 12-hour clock. Midday also means noon, although this also means "around" noon, or very early afternoon.
Solar noon is when the sun appears the highest in the sky, compared to its positions during the rest of the day. It occurs when the Sun is exactly halfway between sunrise (dawn) and sunset. This is also the origin of the terms a.m. and p.m., "ante meridiem" and "post meridiem". At solar noon, the sun is due south seen from the Northern Hemisphere, and due north seen from the Southern Hemisphere. The sun is directly overhead at solar noon at the equator on the equinoxes; at Tropic of Cancer (latitude 23½°N) on the summer solstice in June; and at Tropic of Capricorn (23½°S) on the winter solstice in December.
Because of the use of time zones and daylight saving time, the highest point of the sun and a clock time of noon are usually different. 
The opposite of noon is midnight.
In traditional magical thinking, noon represents with heaven, order and life. 

</doc>
<doc id="9985" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9985" title="24-hour clock">
24-hour clock

The 24-hour clock is a way of telling the time in which the day runs from midnight to midnight and is divided into 24 hours, numbered from 0 to 24. It does not use a.m. or p.m. This system is also referred to (only in the US and the English speaking parts of Canada) as military time or (only in the United Kingdom and now very rarely) as continental time. In some parts of the world, it is called railway time. Also, the international standard notation of time (ISO 8601) is based on this format.
A time in the 24-hour clock is written in the form hours:minutes (for example, 01:23), or hours:minutes:seconds (01:23:45). Numbers under 10 have a zero in front (called a leading zero); e.g. 09:07. Under the 24-hour clock system, the day begins at midnight, 00:00, and the last minute of the day begins at 23:59 and ends at 24:00, which is identical to 00:00 of the following day. 12:00 can only be mid-day. Midnight is called 24:00 and is used to mean the end of the day and 00:00 is used to mean the beginning of the day. For example, you would say "Tuesday at 24:00" and "Wednesday at 00:00" to mean exactly the same time.
However, the US military prefers not to say 24:00 - they do not like to have two names for the same thing, so they always say "23:59", which is one minute before midnight.
To convert between the 12-hour clock and the 24-hour clock, use the table to the right.
24-hour clock time is used in computers, military, public safety, and transport. In many Asian, European and Latin American countries people use it to write the time. Many French, Italian, German, and Romanian people use it in speaking.
Many models of digital wristwatches and clocks are available that display the time of day using the 24-hour clock.
In railway timetables 24:00 means the "end" of the day. For example, a train due to arrive at a station during the last minute of a day arrives at 24:00; but trains which depart during the first minute of the day go at 00:00.
To write shop opening hours until midnight use, for example, "00:00–24:00", "07:00–24:00".
Advantages over the 12-hour clock system:

</doc>
<doc id="9986" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9986" title="Fifth Avenue">
Fifth Avenue

Fifth Avenue is a large avenue in New York City (U.S.). Running from Greenwich Village in southern Manhattan to Harlem in the north, the avenue marks the line dividing Manhattan into two parts, called the East Side and the West Side. The nearest avenues, on either side, are Madison Avenue (east) and Sixth Avenue (west), also known as the Avenue of the Americas.
There are many famous sights, such as the New York Public Library, St. Patrick's Cathedral, Rockefeller Center and Central Park (which runs along the west side, between 59th and 110th Street). On Fifth Avenue there are many expensive shops like Gucci.

</doc>
<doc id="9987" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9987" title="Yarm">
Yarm

Yarm is a small town in North East England, in Stockton-on-Tees, North Yorkshire. It is next to the River Tees and the River Leven. It has a railway station. From 1974 to 1996 it was part of Cleveland, England.

</doc>
<doc id="9990" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9990" title="Ulster Volunteer Force">
Ulster Volunteer Force

The Ulster Volunteer Force (UVF) is a Loyalist paramilitary (civilians trained as soldiers) group based in Northern Ireland. It was formed in 1966. It takes its name from the UVF of World War I. The Ulster Volunteer Force was started as a Protestant/Unionist militia (citizen military force) in 1912 to oppose the Home Rule campaign for a separate Irish parliament. Many UVF members formed the 36th (Ulster) Division that fought with the British Army in World War I. The Progressive Unionist Party is the political wing of the outlawed Ulster Volunteer Force and Red Hand Commando. Although the PUP is called a loyalist fringe party, it has more moderate unionist views than any of the traditional unionist parties.
During The Troubles in Northern Ireland (1969-1998), the UVF carried out a number of atrocities:
After a continuous campaign of 28 years, the UVF called a ceasefire in October 1994. They stated in October 2007 that they had ended their campaign and in June 2009 they announced they had decommissioned (destroyed their weapons), however the UVF have been involved in a number of incidents since then, which has put the announcement in doubt.
From the organization's creation in 1966 and ending of campaign in 2007, the UVF were responsible for at least 400 murders, however it is believed the actual figure is closer to 1,000. The UVF stated that their mission was to destroy Irish republican paramilitary groups, however over 80% of their victims were Catholic civilians.

</doc>
<doc id="9992" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9992" title="June 12">
June 12


</doc>
<doc id="9993" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9993" title="1254">
1254

Year 1254 (MCCLIV) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="9994" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9994" title="1473">
1473

Year 1473 (MCDLXXIII) was a common year starting on Friday of the Julian calendar. It was the 473rd year of the 2nd millennium, the 73rd year of the 15th century and the 4th year of the 1470s decade.

</doc>
<doc id="9995" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9995" title="1898">
1898

The year of 1898 was a common year (a year that had 365 days), and began on a Saturday.

</doc>
<doc id="9996" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9996" title="Spanish–American War">
Spanish–American War

The Spanish–American War was a war fought between Spain and the United States of America in the year 1898. This war was fought in part because a lot of people wanted Cuba to become independent and also because many Americans wanted their country to get a colonial empire. Spain lost the sea war and had to give up its colonies of Cuba, the Philippines, Puerto Rico, and part of Guam. All of these colonies, except for Cuba, would become U.S. colonies at the end of the war. 
Following reports of Spanish abuse and killing of Cubans, the United States sent warships to Cuba. Spain was losing control of Cuba and had been putting Cubans into concentration camps. The United States sent ships to Cuba to try to force Spain to give up Cuba. The U.S. battleship "Maine" exploded in Cuban waters, killing about 260 people on board. "Remember the Maine" became a common wartime saying. U.S. newspapers blamed Spain for the explosion. Spain tried to avoid going to war, but pressure from U.S. newspapers, called "yellow journalism," and ordinary people, persuaded U.S. government to go to war. Some of these people just wanted Cuba to become independent, but others hoped that the United States could build a colonial empire overseas, like many European countries had done.
Volunteers throughout the country signed up for the war. Future president Theodore Roosevelt raised troops and became famous in leading the Rough Riders during the Battle of San Juan Hill. 
A major attack occurred in the Philippines. An American fleet commanded by George Dewey destroyed the Spanish fleet. Ground battles took place in Cuba and Puerto Rico.
The war was won by the United States and they soon began to occupy and take control of these colonies after Spain surrendered. Almost 400 American soldiers died during fighting, but more than 4,000 Americans died from diseases such as yellow fever, typhoid, and malaria.
The war stopped when the Treaty of Paris was signed on December 10, 1898 by the United States and Spain. The United States became the owners of Puerto Rico, Guam, and the Philippines.

</doc>
<doc id="9998" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9998" title="Infection">
Infection

Infection is the invasion of an organism's body tissues by disease-causing agents. The disease is caused by the invading agents multiplying. As they multiply, they produce toxins and damage host tissues. Infectious disease, also known as 'transmissible disease' or 'communicable disease', is illness resulting from an infection.
Some infections are caused by different infectious agents at different times. For example, some diarrhea is caused by bacteria. Some is caused by viruses.
This is a very short list. There are many more diseases from infection and other causes: common diseases.
Some diseases can be passed from one person to another easily. Other infectious diseases are harder to get. If a person kiss or touches another person who is infected with the flu, a cold, measles, or a sore throat, he or she may get their disease. They may also give the person their disease if they cough on them. Other medical conditions such as AIDS, herpes, and hepatitis B, are only passed by closer contact. Having sex with an infected person, blood transfusions, or touching their blood or urine can sometimes pass on these conditions or diseases.
People can stop disease by:
Bacteria are usually treated with antibiotic medicines like Tetracycline and Penicillin. Viruses will not be killed by antibiotics. They must be treated with special medicines called antivirals. Medicines to treat HIV/AIDS like zidovudine are antivirals. Antifungals like miconazole and fluconazole treat infections from fungus. Anti-parasitic medicines like Praziquantel and mebendazole.
Some infectious diseases have no treatments that work well. For example, there is no medicine that works well to cure West Nile Virus and Rabies. So it is important to avoid getting these diseases.
Some infectious disease goes away on its own. These mild diseases do not need to be treated. For example colds are caused by viruses and they do not need medicines.
Some diseases can be prevented by immunizations. Immunizations try to make a person have an immune reaction to an infectious agent. This is usually done before the person gets the disease. Examples of diseases prevented by immunizations are: polio, tetanus, and pertussis. In some cases, if all of the disease can be removed from society, we can get rid of the disease completely. An example of this is smallpox. This virus used to kill people, cause blindness, and bad scars. Now there has not been a person who had smallpox in over thirty years.

</doc>
<doc id="9999" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9999" title="Minesweeper (video game)">
Minesweeper (video game)

Minesweeper is a strategy game that comes with most Microsoft computer operating systems. It is available for many other operating systems and desktop environments as well. The object of the game is to clear a minefield of mines. By clicking on bricks, the player learns if the brick contains a bomb. If they do not see a bomb, the game continues. When the player clicks on a brick, a number may appear. The number shows how many bombs are next to this square. This helps the player find out where the bombs are.
The game is won when every brick that does not contain a bomb has been clicked.
There are many versions out there:

</doc>
<doc id="10000" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10000" title="Fishing">
Fishing

Fishing is the activity of trying to catch fish. Fishing can be done in the sea, or in a lake or river, and by boat or from the shore.
Fish are normally caught in the wild. Techniques for catching fish include hand gathering, spearing, neting, angling and trapping.
The term fishing may be used for catching other aquatic animals such as molluscs, cephalopods, crustaceans, and echinoderms. The term is not normally used for catching farmed fish. With aquatic mammals, such as whales, the term whaling is better.
According to FAO statistics, the total number of commercial fishermen and fish farmers is estimated to be 38 million. Fisheries and aquaculture provide direct and indirect employment to over 500 million people in developing countries. In 2005, the worldwide per capita consumption of fish captured from wild fisheries was 14.4 kilograms, with 7.4 kilograms more got from fish farms. In addition to providing food, modern fishing is also a recreational sport.
Fishing for money is a very dangerous job, because people can die or be badly hurt. Fishing gives a lot of food to many countries around the world, but those who take it as a job must often go far into the ocean under bad conditions. Commercial fishermen get many kinds of sea animals. This includes fish such as tuna, cod, and salmon, as well as invertebrates such as shrimp, lobster, clams, and squid. Alaskan king crab fishing is a famous example. Ways to fish for money have become very simple, using large nets and machines to catch the animals. Many countries have made rules limiting how much fish people can catch, because some kinds have become scarce.
Raising fish in the forms of aquaculture and mariculture add to the free-range catch of fish.
Sport fishing is normally done with a fishing rod and line with any number of hooks to get the fish. This method is called "angling". There may be rules that say how many lines and hooks one fisherman can use and how many fish he can catch. Anglers in fresh water catch many Black Bass (Black Bass includes the entire range of Bass fish), Pike, Muskellunge, Perch, Carp, Trout, Salmon, and Sunfish. Fish people get in saltwater include Swordfish, Marlin, Tuna, and others. 
Rules generally do not allow the use of nets and catching fish with hooks not in the mouth. However some kinds of fish can be taken with nets for bait and a few for food. Non-sport fish that are not said to be worth as much can sometimes be taken by many ways like snagging, bow and arrow, or even gun, because they are seen as competing with more valuable fish.
Recreational fishing laws also include other life that lives in water, such as frogs and turtles.
Sport fishing can be a contest where fishermen try to get more fish than other fishermen. This sport came from local fishing contests into a large contest in the U.S.A. where skilled fishermen can compete and be helped out by companies giving prize money, and other large contests around the world.
Catch-and-release fishing is increasingly practiced especially by fly fishermen, as well as spin and bait casting fishermen, to increase conservation and to protect rare fish such asmarlin. The practice is however disputed as it by some is considered unethical to perform painful actions to the fish for fun and not for the reason of food production. Because of this, catch-and-release practice is illegal in Norway.
Fish can also be collected in ways that do not injure them (such as in a seine net), for observation and study or for keeping in Aquarium. There is a substantial industry devoted to the collection, transport, export and farming of wild and domesticated live fish, usually freshwater or marine tropical fish.
Fish can also be collected in ways that do not injure them (such as in a seine net), for observation and study or for keeping in Aquarium. There is a substantial industry devoted to the collection, transport, export and farming of wild and domesticated live fish, usually freshwater or marine tropical fish.
In the past, fishing has been so good for getting money that people began overfishing (fishing too much) - a serious problem that does lots of damage (bad). Overfishing does not always mean extinction, but simply that a fish type has been harvested so that there cannot be as many of that kind of fish as before. As more boats are sent out to catch the fish, many population levels of a type of fish can drop. Then, there are not enough of that kind of fish left to have new kinds of fish.
Many times, fishing boats catch fish they do not mean to catch, called "bycatch". All kinds of fish can become bycatch, and they are usually thrown back into the sea after they have died. Drift net fishing sometimes catches creatures like seals, dolphins, whales, and sea turtles. This kind of fishing made people complain. In the 1980s, it was guessed that 18 miles (30 km) of nets were lost every night, tangling up boats and animals.

</doc>
<doc id="10002" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10002" title="Confederate States of America">
Confederate States of America

The Confederate States of America (CSA) was a short-lived government that existed in the southern United States during the American Civil War. It was established in 1861 by seven southern states in which slavery was legal, after Abraham Lincoln was elected president of the U.S., but before he took office. South Carolina, Mississippi, Florida, Alabama, Georgia, Louisiana, and Texas declared their secession (independence) from the United States. After war began, Virginia, Arkansas, Tennessee, and North Carolina joined them. The first capital of the Confederacy was Montgomery, Alabama, but for most of the war the capital was Richmond, Virginia.
The government of the Confederacy was much like the United States government. The Confederate States Constitution was similar to that of the United States; however, it emphasized states rights and clearly protected the enslavement of black Americans. Jefferson Davis was chosen as president, and Alexander Stephens as Vice-President. As in the United States, the CSA president had a cabinet of advisors.
The United States government (also known as the Union) did not agree that the states could leave and start a new government. Thus, the Union government refused to abandon all its forts in the states that wanted to secede. War began when the CSA attacked one of those forts, Fort Sumter in Charleston, South Carolina. This war is known as the American Civil War, and it lasted from 1861 to 1865. After some of the deadliest battles in U.S. history, Union forces gradually regained control of southern states. As Confederate forces surrendered, the Confederacy fell apart and the Civil War came to a close in 1865. Following the war, slavery was outlawed everywhere in the United States. The process of restoring the states of the CSA to the Union, called the Reconstruction of the United States, continued until 1877.
It is still undecided if the Confederate States of America was ever a country. The Union never said that the Confederacy was really a country. Although British and French companies sold ships and materials to the Confederacy, no nation officially recognized the CSA as an independent country.
The CSA was also called "the South", "the Confederacy", and "Dixie".

</doc>
<doc id="10003" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10003" title="A Tale of Two Cities">
A Tale of Two Cities

A Tale of Two Cities is a book written by Charles Dickens. It was published (printed) in 1859. It is set during the time of the French Revolution (1775-1793). The story happens in France and England. It talks about the French Revolution and the troubles the poor go through and how the rich ignore them. The main characters are Sydney Carton, Charles Darnay and their love interest, Lucie Manette. The story's main theme is society. 

</doc>
<doc id="10005" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10005" title="Fiji">
Fiji

Fiji is a small country in the Pacific Ocean. It has 322 islands. The most important islands are Vanua Levu and Viti Levu. The capital city of Fiji is Suva, and the city with the most people is Nadi. There are about 844,330 people in Fiji.
The official languages of Fiji are Fijian, English and Hindustani (a mix of Hindi and Urdu). Fiji is part of the Pacific Rim. About 313000 speak Fiji Hindi.
In the 17th and 18th centuries, the Dutch and the British explored Fiji. Fiji was a British colony up until 1970; British occupation lasted almost a century. They have many forest, mineral, and fish resources.
Fiji is divided into Four Major Divisions:
These divisions are divided into 14 provinces:
"Fijian law defines "towns" as urbanized areas incorporated as municipal bodies, governed by Town Councils."
"The following localities are urbanized, but have not been municipally organized."
Fiji has a lot of tourism and many people go to the Nadi and Denarau islands. Most visitors are from Australia, New Zealand and the USA. Fiji has many soft coral reefs. Scuba diving is a common tourist activity. More budget resorts are being opened in remote areas, which provides more tourism opportunities.

</doc>
<doc id="10006" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10006" title="Fijian language">
Fijian language

The Fijian language is a Austronesian language. It is one of the official languages of Fiji. It has about 350 000 speakers.

</doc>
<doc id="10008" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10008" title="1922">
1922


</doc>
<doc id="10010" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10010" title="Legend">
Legend

Legends are usually very old stories with little or no evidence to prove them. Legends are often passed on by word-of-mouth. They are very similar to myths.
Legends can also be famous or historically significant people, places, art, etc.. We sometimes say of someone who is extremely famous that they are a "legend" or "of legendary fame".
Examples of legends are Ali Baba, the Fountain of Youth, and the Loch Ness Monster. Some legends are stories about real people; others are not. Robin Hood for example might have been real but most the stories about him are definitely fiction.
The current Emperor of Japan is considered the 125th monarch according to Japan's traditional order of succession.
The earliest Japanese emperors are believed to be mythical or . These historical figures have been included in the traditional list of emperors since the reign of Emperor Kammu, who was the 50th monarch of the Yamato dynasty.
There is very little information for study from before the rule of the 29th monarch, Emperor Kimmei who reigned in the 6th century. Historians consider details about the life of Emperor Kimmei might not be true, but probably are. 
Some details of the lives of the early emperors are considered likely to be untrue.
These legends are found in the earliest written records which date from the 8th century—the "Kojiki" (711) and the "Nihonshoki" (720).

</doc>
<doc id="10011" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10011" title="Fountain of Youth">
Fountain of Youth

The Fountain of Youth is a legendary spring. People used to think its water could make people young and healthy. A Spanish explorer, Juan Ponce de Leon, was said to have looked for it while in present-day Florida. No one ever found it.

</doc>
<doc id="10012" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10012" title="Ho Chi Minh City">
Ho Chi Minh City

Ho Chi Minh City () is a city in the south part of Vietnam. It is governed as a municipality and includes a large rural area. It is the biggest city in Vietnam. About 6.2 million people live in the city. The city was formerly called "Saigon", a name still used in casual conversation. 
It used to be a Khmer port city called Prey Nokor, or “Jungle City”. The city was taken over by the Vietnamese and eventually took the name of"(Sài Gòn)". It was invaded by the French in 1859. As (French) Saigon it was the capital of French Indochina and became an important city in French colonial trade. After independence(from France), in 1954 to 1975, Saigon became the capital of the Republic of Vietnam. After the end of the US campaign (1973) in the Vietnam War, Saigon was overtaken by the North Vietnamese army on 30 April 1975 and renamed after Hồ Chí Minh. The tradition of naming places in Vietnam after great people is very common. Many streets bear the names of epic heroes. Hai Ba Trung street is named after heroic sisters.
Ho Chi Minh City (HCMC) has expanded with industrialization. It now includes all of the surrounding towns. The city center is old Saigon. Old Saigon has two main districts (One and Three). The new city districts used to be rice fields and fish farms. There are fish all over the city.
Ho Chi Minh City is as flat as the river plain it sits on. Nearly all roads are built flat. Bicycle riding around the Mekong delta is very easy in dry weather. Because of the flatness, roads and buildings sink into the draining soil. Lying water keeps pollution very close to city homes. The rising tides can flood many districts when the moon is fullest. 
Because rainwater can't be kept in valleys or mountains, the city-water is dangerous to drink. Most people drink from large bottles of water - . 
When the streets flood (in rain or tides) the dirt from drains returns back onto the city. This has caused a lot of problems for the health of the people living in the city. Escaping sewer water makes people very sick in the tropical countries. Older people may avoid drinking more than a few drinks a day.
It's very tropical in the city. The trees in streets are cut down to half every year - but they grow back. Fresh food markets are all over the city. The city has so much rain, that drains and rivers surround every district.
The southeast of the province has the . It's a 752 square kilometre mangrove area between Ho Chi Minh City and the sea. 
Inside the wetlands there are birds, deer, fish, frogs, insects, lizards, monkeys, otters, and snakes. The centipedes all around the city are very dangerous (maybe deadly to tiny animals). People catch and consume the snakes.
The wetlands and ecosystem has been designated as a biosphere reserve. Ho Chi Minh people get education on how to look after their biosphere reserve and wetlands.
The city is a river port on the Saigon River. Several larger terminals operate outside and inside of the city. Many small docks operate around the city. The river system leads out to sea at Vung Tau, or onto the Mekong delta.
Delivery of materials for the city can be made by boat. Farm produce distributors can arrive by boat in many districts outside the city.
The use of English is rising in HCMC. Many HCMC people will travel around the world by using English as their international language. Many other languages are studied. French was previously the most popular. Chinese is also very well known to many people. 
The city has international schools that teach foreign children. All classes (except for languages) are given in the chosen language. Many international schools have chosen English as the primary language. Some of the international schools are named by their country of origin. The schools named after a country use the national language of that country. 
English is a subject taught in all national schools. 
Many HCMC parents use to improve their children's English. HCMC adults attend colleges to learn English.
Some HCMC people will go overseas to get foreign education. It can be through staying with relatives, attending boarding schools, joining programs, or with family.
English is taught at university in HCMC. It doesn't replace the national language at most universities. International universities might set a requirement for English or another language.
Wealthy people live a fantastic life in the city. But, others are very poor. Poor does not always mean without food, clothing, shelter, or work in HCMC. The cost of living in Vietnam helps even the poorest people to survive. Many temples, churches, charities, and government organizations help people that are even more misfortunate than the poor. But still, some ultra-poor people struggle with homelessness, and the tropical weather - they get very dark skin compared to other people.
There is a lot of entertainment for the people in the city. Many discos, bars, and clubs operate all around the city. Food is also a source of entertainment for people in HCMC. Very strange restaurants sell very strange food: scorpions, bats, rats and more. Tourists are amazed by what is eaten in HCMC.
The Mekong River delta is accessible from HCMC. It has a many rice, coconut, fish, and prawn farms. The main city is Can Tho City. 
The mountain range of Vietnam is accessed via Dalat City.
The beaches of Vietnam are accessed via Vung Tau City or Phan Thiet City when leaving HCMC.
The border to Cambodia is the closest international exit point for tourists. This exit border takes people to Phnom Penh City.
Bien Hoa City is another industrial city to the northeast. Around there, the province of Binh Duong is growing through strong financial investment.

</doc>
<doc id="10013" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10013" title="Apricot">
Apricot

Apricot is a drupe fruit. It is closely related to the plum.

</doc>
<doc id="10016" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10016" title="Contraction">
Contraction

A contraction is a word that is made up of two or more words that are connected together. One or more letters are removed from the words when they are connected. One or more apostrophes are added in the location letters are removed. For example, an apostrophe goes in place of the o in "not" when "do not" is shortened to "don't".

</doc>
<doc id="10017" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10017" title="Tonga">
Tonga

Tonga is a country in Pacific Ocean. It has 169 islands. Only 36 islands have inhabitants. The most important island is Tongatapu. George Tupou V is the king of Tonga and the Prime Minister is ʻAkilisi Pohiva. The capital of Tonga is Nuku'alofa.
The official languages of Tonga are Tongan and English. Tonga had 102,321 inhabitants in 2000. It is a very hot country.Tonga became independent in 1970.
About 3000 years before, the Polynesians had settled in Tongatapu. In 1845, Tāufaʻāhau united Tonga into a kingdom. He declared Tonga a constitutional monarchy. Between 1845 and 1893, slavery was stopped. Also, constitution was made up.
In 1900, Tonga became a protected state of the United Kingdom. Tonga maintained its sovereignty. It remained the only Pacific nation never to have given up its monarchical government. Foreign affairs was managed by the UK. Tonga was no longer a protected state and became independent in 1970. Tonga joined the Commonwealth of Nations in 1970. It became a member of the United Nations in September 1999. Tonga has never lost indigenous governance.
Tonga is a constitutional monarchy.
Tonga provides for its citizens:
Tongans have universal access to a national health care system. The Tongan constitution protects land ownership. Land cannot be sold to foreigners. While there is a land shortage on the urbanised main island of Tongatapu, there is farmland available in the outlying islands.
The majority of the population engages in some form of subsistence production of food. Women and men have equal access to education and health care. They are fairly equal in employment. Women are discriminated against in land holding, electoral politics, and government ministries.
Tonga is in Oceania. It is an archipelago in the South Pacific Ocean. It has 177 islands. Thirty-six of them are inhabited. The islands are divided into three main groups – Vava'u, Ha'apai, and Tongatapu. The largest island is Tongatapuon. The capital city of Nukuʻalofa is on Tongatapuon.
The climate is tropical with a distinct warm period (December–April) and a cooler period (May–November). The average wettest period is around March. The average daily humidity is 80%.

</doc>
<doc id="10018" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10018" title="Filippo Azzaiolo">
Filippo Azzaiolo

Filippo Azzaiolo (1530 - 1569) was an Italian composer. He lived in 16th century. Azzaiolo worked in Bologna.
All his known songs were composed between 1557 and 1569. Azzaiolo's most famous song is "Chi passa".

</doc>
<doc id="10020" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10020" title="June 10">
June 10


</doc>
<doc id="10021" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10021" title="June 25">
June 25


</doc>
<doc id="10022" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10022" title="June 13">
June 13


</doc>
<doc id="10023" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10023" title="June 14">
June 14


</doc>
<doc id="10024" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10024" title="June 15">
June 15


</doc>
<doc id="10025" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10025" title="June 16">
June 16


</doc>
<doc id="10026" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10026" title="June 17">
June 17


</doc>
<doc id="10027" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10027" title="June 18">
June 18


</doc>
<doc id="10028" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10028" title="June 19">
June 19


</doc>
<doc id="10029" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10029" title="June 26">
June 26


</doc>
<doc id="10030" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10030" title="June 30">
June 30


</doc>
<doc id="10031" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10031" title="June 28">
June 28

This is the only date in the Gregorian calendar where the day and the month (28 and 6) are different Perfect numbers.

</doc>
<doc id="10032" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10032" title="June 27">
June 27


</doc>
<doc id="10033" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10033" title="June 22">
June 22


</doc>
<doc id="10034" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10034" title="June 23">
June 23


</doc>
<doc id="10035" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10035" title="June 24">
June 24


</doc>
<doc id="10036" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10036" title="June 29">
June 29


</doc>
<doc id="10037" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10037" title="July 24">
July 24


</doc>
<doc id="10039" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10039" title="July 11">
July 11


</doc>
<doc id="10040" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10040" title="July 12">
July 12


</doc>
<doc id="10041" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10041" title="July 10">
July 10


</doc>
<doc id="10042" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10042" title="July 21">
July 21


</doc>
<doc id="10043" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10043" title="July 22">
July 22


</doc>
<doc id="10044" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10044" title="July 14">
July 14


</doc>
<doc id="10045" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10045" title="July 15">
July 15


</doc>
<doc id="10047" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10047" title="July 18">
July 18


</doc>
<doc id="10048" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10048" title="July 19">
July 19


</doc>
<doc id="10049" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10049" title="July 27">
July 27


</doc>
<doc id="10050" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10050" title="July 28">
July 28


</doc>
<doc id="10051" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10051" title="July 29">
July 29


</doc>
<doc id="10052" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10052" title="July 23">
July 23


</doc>
<doc id="10053" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10053" title="September 10">
September 10


</doc>
<doc id="10054" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10054" title="September 30">
September 30


</doc>
<doc id="10055" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10055" title="September 27">
September 27


</doc>
<doc id="10056" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10056" title="September 25">
September 25


</doc>
<doc id="10057" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10057" title="September 20">
September 20


</doc>
<doc id="10058" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10058" title="September 21">
September 21


</doc>
<doc id="10059" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10059" title="September 22">
September 22


</doc>
<doc id="10060" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10060" title="September 23">
September 23


</doc>
<doc id="10061" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10061" title="September 24">
September 24


</doc>
<doc id="10062" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10062" title="September 12">
September 12


</doc>
<doc id="10063" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10063" title="September 13">
September 13


</doc>
<doc id="10064" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10064" title="September 15">
September 15


</doc>
<doc id="10065" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10065" title="September 16">
September 16


</doc>
<doc id="10066" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10066" title="September 17">
September 17


</doc>
<doc id="10067" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10067" title="October 10">
October 10


</doc>
<doc id="10068" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10068" title="October 11">
October 11


</doc>
<doc id="10069" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10069" title="October 23">
October 23


</doc>
<doc id="10070" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10070" title="October 26">
October 26


</doc>
<doc id="10071" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10071" title="October 20">
October 20


</doc>
<doc id="10072" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10072" title="October 27">
October 27


</doc>
<doc id="10073" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10073" title="October 29">
October 29


</doc>
<doc id="10074" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10074" title="October 22">
October 22


</doc>
<doc id="10075" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10075" title="October 15">
October 15


</doc>
<doc id="10076" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10076" title="October 13">
October 13


</doc>
<doc id="10077" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10077" title="October 19">
October 19


</doc>
<doc id="10078" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10078" title="October 18">
October 18


</doc>
<doc id="10079" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10079" title="November 10">
November 10


</doc>
<doc id="10081" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10081" title="November 11">
November 11


</doc>
<doc id="10082" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10082" title="November 14">
November 14


</doc>
<doc id="10083" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10083" title="November 28">
November 28


</doc>
<doc id="10084" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10084" title="November 25">
November 25


</doc>
<doc id="10085" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10085" title="November 21">
November 21


</doc>
<doc id="10086" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10086" title="November 24">
November 24


</doc>
<doc id="10087" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10087" title="November 22">
November 22


</doc>
<doc id="10088" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10088" title="November 23">
November 23


</doc>
<doc id="10089" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10089" title="November 20">
November 20


</doc>
<doc id="10090" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10090" title="November 27">
November 27


</doc>
<doc id="10091" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10091" title="November 29">
November 29


</doc>
<doc id="10092" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10092" title="November 30">
November 30


</doc>
<doc id="10093" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10093" title="November 26">
November 26


</doc>
<doc id="10094" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10094" title="November 15">
November 15


</doc>
<doc id="10095" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10095" title="November 16">
November 16


</doc>
<doc id="10096" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10096" title="November 17">
November 17


</doc>
<doc id="10097" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10097" title="November 18">
November 18


</doc>
<doc id="10098" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10098" title="November 19">
November 19


</doc>
<doc id="10099" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10099" title="December 10">
December 10


</doc>
<doc id="10100" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10100" title="December 12">
December 12


</doc>
<doc id="10101" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10101" title="December 13">
December 13


</doc>
<doc id="10102" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10102" title="December 15">
December 15


</doc>
<doc id="10103" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10103" title="December 16">
December 16


</doc>
<doc id="10104" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10104" title="December 17">
December 17


</doc>
<doc id="10105" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10105" title="December 29">
December 29


</doc>
<doc id="10106" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10106" title="December 21">
December 21


</doc>
<doc id="10107" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10107" title="December 27">
December 27


</doc>
<doc id="10108" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10108" title="December 19">
December 19


</doc>
<doc id="10109" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10109" title="December 26">
December 26


</doc>
<doc id="10110" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10110" title="December 20">
December 20


</doc>
<doc id="10111" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10111" title="December 28">
December 28


</doc>
<doc id="10112" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10112" title="1724">
1724


</doc>
<doc id="10113" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10113" title="1914">
1914

1914 (MCMXVI) was a common year that started on a Thursday of the Gregorian calendar. It was the year that saw the start of what became known as World War I.

</doc>
<doc id="10114" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10114" title="February 29">
February 29

February 29 is the 60th day of a leap year in the Gregorian Calendar. It is sometimes called "leap day" or "bissextile day". Only leap years have February 29. This date only occurs every four years, in years that can be exactly divided by 4, such as 1988, 1996, or 2008, except century years that can not be divided by 400 without leaving a remainder, such as 1700, 1800 or 1900.
A person who was born on February 29 may be called a "leapling". In non-leap years they usually celebrate their birthday on February 28 or March 1.
Different countries have different laws about people who are born on February 29. In Taiwan, the law says that the birthday of a leapling is February 28 in years that are not leap years.
The well-known superhero Superman is often said to have his birthday on February 29.

</doc>
<doc id="10118" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10118" title="Torah">
Torah

Torah () is a Hebrew word that means "instructions". When most people say the word Torah they are either referring to the whole Jewish Bible, the Tanakh, the first 5 books of the bible or all of the Jewish teaching in general.
These five books are the beginning of both the Jewish and Christian bibles. 
The five books are:
Other names for this set of books are the "Five Books of Moses," or "Pentateuch" (a Greek word)
Some people may use the word Torah as a name for all the main Jewish teachings.
Each of the books in the Torah are separated into parts called ""Parshiyot"." "Parsha" is a Hebrew word meaning "portion." Every Shabbat one "parsha" is read in the synagogue, but sometimes two are read. This is so that all the "parshiyot" are finished every year, on the Jewish holiday of Simchat Torah.

</doc>
<doc id="10119" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10119" title="2010s">
2010s

The 2010s, pronounced "twenty-tens", "two thousand (and) tens", or simply "the Tens", is the second decade of the 21st century. It began on January 1, 2010 and will end on December 31, 2019. It is the current decade.

</doc>
<doc id="10121" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10121" title="Rainforest">
Rainforest

A rainforest is a forest that gets a lot of rain. The most notable rainforests are tropical or sub-tropical. A typical rainforest is the Amazon rainforest. Most rainforests are in Brazil, though Peru, Ecuador, Colombia and Bolivia also have some. Forests like this have extraordinary biodiversity. Biologists say over half of all plant and animal species live in the rainforest. Also more than 1/4 of all medicines come from here. Covering only 6% of the Earth's land area they are still an important source of oxygen.
The rainforest gets an average of 50 to 250 inches of rain through the year. It is warm year round rarely getting above 33°C (93°F) or getting below 20°C (68°F). It has an average humidity of 77 to 88%. Tropical rainforests occur in three major geographical areas around the world.
A less-used term is temperate rainforest. For temperate rain forests of North America, annual precipitation is over , and the mean annual temperature is between 4 and 12 °C (39 and 54 °F).
However, definitions in other countries differ considerably. For example, Australian definitions are ecological-structural rather than climatic:
This definition would not suit the forests of western North America, and so the term "temperate rainforest" is not so widely agreed.
The characteristics of the tropical rainforests are:
Most scientists think of the rainforest in five layers. The top layer is the "emergent" layer. Then there is the "canopy" layer. Under the tall canopy is the "understory". The understory is made up of smaller trees, vines and shrubs. The next layer is called the shrub layer, it is mainly made out of bushes. The bottom layer is the " forest floor". This is made up of the small plants on the ground.
The emergent layer is the farthest from the ground. High in the trees eagles perch. Their keen eyes search constantly for small monkeys and other prey. Butterflies, parrots, toucans, and hundreds of other colourful birds constantly fly through the tops of the trees.
The canopy is like a huge green roof over the forest. The trees grow up thin and straight, like pillars seeking the sun. They do not put out branches until they are very tall. Then, they spread out like an umbrella in the sunlight. The trees are so close together that very little light penetrates through to the lower layers. Many kinds of monkeys, birds, and insects live in the layer. The animals that call this layer home often never touch the ground throughout their entire lives. They find everything they need existing within the canopy. Water can be accessed from the boles of trees, if not, the leaves and epiphytes that grow in the canopy can supply that need. The animals eat the leaves and fruit of the trees, insects, or other animals. The tall canopy trees must be able to reach the sunlight high in the air and still get nutrients from the thin soil on the forest floor. Their roots do not go deep into the soil because there is nothing there for the plants to reach. Instead, the roots spread out in all directions along or just under the ground. That way they can quickly make use of the nutrients from the recycled plants and animals that have fallen to the floor.
The understory is usually a dark, humid place, under the canopy. There is very little light and no breeze because they are blocked out by the canopy. The plants under the canopy must be able to live with very little sunlight. Bushes, large green plants, and small trees make up this layer. Often they will only grow in open patches where a big tree has fallen down. Other plants, like vines, grow on the big trees.
The shrub layer is mainly made out of bushes. It contains most of the rainforests orchids, because the orchids use water from the forest floor, vegetation from the understory and sunlight that is reflected from the canopy layer leaves. It is the smallest layer of the rainforest, yet contains over 84% of the rainforest's orchids. It is normally very dark in the shrub layer, apart from little spots of sunlight that comes through empty spaces of the emergent layer. Despite not having very much sunlight, the shrub layer is very humid [wet and warm]. Many insects live in the shrub layer such as scorpions, beetles and tarantulas.
The ground level is called the forest floor. Snakes, Tapirs, Jaguars, Tamanduas, and Gorillas are just a few of the species that live here. It is dark on the rainforest floor. Insects, giant centipedes, spiders, ants, and beetles are also very abundant here. The floor of the rainforest is often very open and easy to walk across. That is because so little light reaches the floor that very few plants can grow there.
One type of plant in the rainforest does not need soil. These plants are called "epiphytes", or air plants. Air plants live on the branches of other trees in the canopy or understory, with their roots out in the air. In the humid rainforest, they collect water from the rain that falls on them.
One kind of air plant is a flower called an orchid. There are thousands of different kinds of orchids in the rainforest. Some air plants store water in pools in and around their roots. These pools can become homes for frogs and salamanders. Frogs usually need to lay their eggs in ponds, but some rainforest tree frogs lay their eggs in the pools in air plants. That way, the frogs never have to go down to the ground.Some plants are made for medicine for humans.
Millions of kinds of insects live in the rainforest. It never gets cold enough to kill them. There are bees, butterflies, termites, beetles, and many kinds of flies. There are ants everywhere. One kind of ant is the army ant. Army ants do not have nests. They march out in a line every day to hunt for other insects, which they eat. At night they hook themselves together to form a living nest around their queen and larvae, or baby ants.
Snakes live in the trees and on the forest floor. They eat frogs, eggs, birds, insects, and small animals. Some of the snakes, like the fer-de-lance of Latin America, are poisonous, but others are not. One large non-poisonous snake is the anaconda of South America. It is one of the largest snakes in the world. A full-grown anaconda kills its prey by wrapping itself around the animal and squeezing it until it cannot breathe. Then the snake swallows the prey whole. If the animal is big enough, the snake may not eat again for weeks.
Monkeys are a very common animal in the rainforest. Most live their lives up in the canopy and the understory. They have long arms to swing from branch to branch, and some use their tails to hold onto the trees while they eat. They are fast and agile, jumping easily from tree to tree for food. Different monkeys eat different things. They can eat nuts, flowers, roots, and frogs. Their hoots and howls are heard throughout the rainforest, even when they cannot be seen among the trees.
Many colorful birds also live among the canopy of the rain forest, and there are also animals that live on the forest floor. The tapir is a forest animal that looks like a large pig. It is actually in the same animal family as the horse and the rhinoceros. They live in South American and Asian rain forests, eating leaves, twigs, and fruit. Tapirs are the only one of the animals hunted by the big cats of the rain forest. Jaguars, leopards, and tigers are the largest predators of the rain forest. All of these cats have beautiful fur coats that have made them desired by hunters for years. The spotted coats of the jaguar and leopards were especially popular for fur coats. Today most countries are trying to protect their big cats, but many are still hunted illegally.
These are only a few of the animals and plants in the rainforest. About half of all of the different kinds, or species, of plants and animals in the entire world live in rain forests. Many of the plants, animals, and insects do not even have names, because they have never been classified by a scientist.
There are many tribes of people who have lived in the rainforests for thousands of years. These forest dwellers usually belong to one of two groups. They are usually hunter/gatherers or slash-and-burn farmers.
Hunter/gatherers live as they do in every other region of the world. They kill animals and gather what the forest provides for part of their food. Unlike in the Arctic, tools are always available. Unlike in the desert, water is always available. The people do not need clothes to protect them from the weather. The forest even provides a way to make hunting easier. Many of the people hunt with poisoned arrows. The poisons come from the plants of the forest. That makes the animals easier to kill.
Most of the forest people are slash-and-burn farmers. They raise crops in small clearings as well as hunting and gathering in the forest. This provides them with food year-round. They start by cutting (slashing) down the trees and the other plants in an area. They let the dead plants dry out, then they burn them. The ash from the burned plants goes into the soil and makes it fertile for a little while. This is called slash-and-burn farming.
The small clearings grow food crops for a few years, then the family or group moves on and clears a new field. The old field is left to be overgrown by the forest. In a few years, it once again looks like the rain forest that surrounds it.
This type of farming does not harm the rain forest when only a few people are doing it. The small clearings become rain forest again without any damage. The land is used and recycled for use again some other time. The rain forest easily regrows to fill in the clearings after the people leave. That is changing today. Today, the rain forests are getting smaller because too many people are burning them.
There are some serious problems concerning the rainforests that need to be fixed. Rainforests are being cut down too quickly. Every year an area about the size of West Virginia is being destroyed. This is a problem for everyone.
Rainforests are so large and thick that for many years very few people lived or went there. Today, however, that is changing. Millions of poor, often hungry, people live near the rainforests of the world. These people are desperate for a better life, and they think they can find it in the forests.
Settlers can get into the rainforests because modern machines have opened roads deep into the jungle. The roads are usually built by businesses who want to cut down trees or dig up minerals in the forest. Governments build other roads for trade and to allow settlers into the forest. Poor people come into the forest by the thousands on the roads and take land to raise food. They burn off the trees and plants to make a field. Then they plant crops for food and to sell. All around them other farmers do the same, so there is no forest left to grow back.
The new farms can only grow crops for a few years in the poor soil. The farmers then sell the land to a cattle rancher or just leave and clear a new piece of land. The soil is so poor that it will not even grow grass to feed cattle for more than a few more years. By then, the ground is hard packed and grows only a few weeds. The rainforest is destroyed and nothing can be done with the land.
If this continues long enough, the forests will be destroyed and the farmers will have no place to move. Then those people will 
, because there will be no land left where they can grow food. Forcing them to stop cutting down the forest will not help, because they would just starve now instead of later. New ways need to be found for these people to live on the rainforest land without destroying it.
Also, no one knows how destroying the rainforests will change the earth. We know that less rain will fall once the trees are gone. That may cause some rivers, which supply water to cities around the rainforest, to dry up during part of the year. Also, burning trees puts carbon into the air. Carbon absorbs heat from the sun. Will the burning of so many trees change the air and make the climate on the earth warmer? Experts are arguing about it, but it might be happening.
The rainforests are also the source of many things that are useful to human beings. As many as one out of every four drugs bought at the store were discovered in rainforest. Coffee, chocolate, bananas, corn, tea, sweet potatoes, Brazil nuts, rubber, and tapioca all came from the rainforest. Very valuable wood is taken from the trees of the rainforest. Mahogany, teak, and balsa wood come from there. Those trees can not be grown without the thick, wet, warm rainforests. Thus, the loss of the rainforests would hurt other people besides those that must live there.
Tropical rainforests are located in a band around the equator (Zero degrees latitude), mostly in the area between the Tropic of Cancer (23.5° N latitude) and the Tropic of Capricorn (23.5° S latitude). This 3,000 mile (4800 km) wide band is called the "tropics."

</doc>
<doc id="10124" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10124" title="Welsh language">
Welsh language

The Welsh language is a Celtic language and the national language of Wales, a country that is part of the United Kingdom. In Welsh, it is known as "Cymraeg", or "yr iaith Gymraeg", which means "the Welsh language". 
Welsh is still spoken throughout the region: around 21% of the people of Wales (about 600,000 people), as well as some people outside Wales, including those in nearby England, can speak Welsh. Many people in Wales say they can understand some form of Welsh, such as spoken, written, or can read Welsh, even if they do not speak it all the time.
Even though almost all Welsh people can understand and use the English language, the Welsh language is still an important part of Welsh culture and so children in all schools in Wales have to study it. There are some schools that have almost all of their classes in Welsh, but most schools teach mainly in English and Welsh is taught as a second language in these schools.
Welsh has mutations. Mutations are when a sound (in speech) or a letter (in writing) changes at the start of a word. An example is the Welsh word ""gwneud"", which in English it means "to do", and ""dod"", which means "to come" "dewch i mewn" which means "come in". Sometimes the word changes from ""gwneud"" to ""wneud"", and from ""dod"" to ""ddod"". These sounds (in speech) or letters (in writing) changes also occur within, and at the end, of words, although the simplified classification found in ordinary books does not mention this.
In Welsh, there is formal and informal Welsh. Formal Welsh is used when writing, in formal documents, and when speaking to a group (because it also includes the plural), when speaking to someone older than yourself, speaking to someone you have just met, or someone you would like to show respect towards. Formal words and phrases use variations of "chi", meaning "you." Sometimes, people will ask you to call them "chi."
Informal Welsh is used when sending e-mails or sending text messages to your friends or family, and when talking with people you have known for a long time. Informal words and phrases use variations of "ti", meaning "you." Sometimes, people will ask you to call them "ti."
There are some sounds and letters that exist in Welsh but not in English, such as the letters (and sounds) ch and ll. The first sound is pronounced like the Scottish "Loch Ness", and an example Welsh word that uses the 'ch' is "bach", which means "small." "Ll" is a voiceless 'l,' and is made by placing the tongue on the top of the top gum, and blowing. A Welsh word that uses the 'll' is "llan", which means "church" and appears a lot in place names, including one called "Llanfairpwllgwyngyllgogerychwyrndrobwllllantysiliogogogoch". Both 'ch' and 'll' are single letters in the Welsh alphabet, along with 'dd,' 'ff,' 'ng,' 'ph,' 'rh,' and 'th.'
Here are some things to say in Welsh. How to say it is in brackets ().
Here are a few other words;
Welsh books and newspapers have been printed for hundreds of years. Some of these books have been translated into English, and some books in other languages have been translated into Welsh. Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone was translated into Welsh, with the translation of "Harri Potter a Maen yr Athronydd", which means the same as the English title.
BBC Radio Cymru is a Welsh-language radio station that is available throughout Wales. Some local radio stations have some Welsh and English programs during the day.
The Welsh television channel, S4C, has been on air since 1982. It broadcasts shows such as the soap opera Pobol y Cwm, and children's programs such as Superted and Sam Tân (known as Fireman Sam in English).
In August 2009, the mobile phone maker Samsung (with provider Orange) unveiled a new Welsh language mobile phone would be available from September 2009. It includes Welsh language predictive text and menus.
The Welsh Alphabet has some extra letters that are not used in English, and does not have some others. Although certain letters do not exist in Welsh, they are used sometimes to make sounds that could not possibly be made otherwise. A good example is the word "garej" (meaning "garage"). The letter "j" does not exist in the Welsh language, and is a lend-word from English. The traditional word for "garage" in Welsh is "modurdy", which means, "motor house". Another lend-word is ""toiled"," which means "toilet" in English. There are now many lend-words in spoken Welsh. Here is the Welsh alphabet;
A"", B, C, CH"", D, DD"", E"", F"", FF"", G, NG"", H, I"", L, LL"", M, N, O"", P, PH"", R, RH"", S, T, TH"", U"", W"" "", Y.
"" These letters are vowels. The letter 'W' can be used either as a vowel (when it is said 'oo' like in the Welsh word 'cwm' (coom) meaning 'valley') or as a consonant (when it is said like it is in English, for example in the Welsh word 'gwyn' (gwin) meaning 'white'). This is the same with letter 'I' which can also be used as a consonant (when it is said like an English Y like in 'iogwrt' (yog-oort) meaning yoghurt. 
<br>"" Letters that are not in the English alphabet, or have different sounds. CH sounds like the 'KH' in Ayatollah KHoumeini. DD is said like the TH in 'There'. F is said like the English 'V'. FF is said like the English 'F'. NG sounds like it would in English but it is tricky because it comes at the beginnings of words (for example 'fy ngardd' - my garden). One trick is to blend it in with the word before it. LL sounds like a cat hissing. PH sounds like the English 'F' too, but it is only used in mutations. RH sounds like an 'R' said very quickly before a 'H'. TH sounds like the 'TH' in 'THin'. W has been explained in the sentences before about vowels.

</doc>
<doc id="10127" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10127" title="Mandarin">
Mandarin

Mandarin might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="10132" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10132" title="Hesse">
Hesse

Hesse () is a state of Germany. It was formed in 1945 as Greater Hesse, and became Hesse in 1946
The capital is Wiesbaden. The main rivers in the northern part of Hesse are Werra, Fulda and Lahn. It is a hilly countryside, the main mountainchains being the Rhön, the Westerwald, the Odenwald, the Taunus and the Spessart. Most inhabitants live in the southernmost part of Hesse between the rivers Main and Rhine.
Hesse is divided into 21 districts. There are also five cities, which belong to no district.
The cities and counties of Hesse are grouped into three "Regierungsbezirk." Car registration is handled by the districts. The two or three letters of the car registration plate are in "italics"

</doc>
<doc id="10133" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10133" title="Schleswig-Holstein">
Schleswig-Holstein

Schleswig-Holstein is the northernmost of the 16 states (German: Bundesländer) in Germany. The Danish name is Slesvig-Holsten, the Low Saxon name is Sleswig-Holsteen and the Frisian name is Sleeswyk-Holstein.
Schleswig-Holstein borders on Denmark in the North, the North Sea in the West, the Baltic Sea and Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania in the East, and Lower Saxony and Hamburg in the South. Kiel is the capital of this state.
There are 4 independent towns:
The countryside is lowlands with virtually no mountains. The highest elevation in the state is the Bungsberg at only . There are many lakes, especially in the eastern part of Holstein called the Holsteinische Schweiz ("Holstein Switzerland") or Schweiziann-Schwezalia. It has thin name because there are many small mountains which came to existence in the last ice age.

</doc>
<doc id="10134" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10134" title="Lower Saxony">
Lower Saxony

Lower Saxony () is a German Bundesland (state).
The capital is Hannover (Hanover).
There are 38 districts:
There are 8 urban districts
Other important towns are Göttingen, Hildesheim and Goslar.

</doc>
<doc id="10135" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10135" title="Mecklenburg-Vorpommern">
Mecklenburg-Vorpommern

Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania () is one of the 16 States of Germany. The capital is Schwerin.
The largest cities in the state are:
All have a population of less than 200,000. Schwerin, the state capital, is the smallest state capital in Germany. Usually Schwerin would not be called a city. In Germany a city has over 100000 people.
Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania was going to change the borders of all of its urban districts (towns) and rural districts (kreise or "counties". The state supreme court stopped the changes. 
Mecklenburg-Vorpommern is currently divided into twelve "Kreise" (districts):
Also there are six independent urban districts:

</doc>
<doc id="10136" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10136" title="1536">
1536


</doc>
<doc id="10138" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10138" title="Thailand">
Thailand

Thailand ( or ; , ), officially the Kingdom of Thailand (, ; ), is a country in Southeast Asia. Its neighbours are Laos, Cambodia, Malaysia, and Myanmar. The country's name was Siam until June 24 1939. It was again called Siam between 1945 and May 11 1949, when it changed back to Thailand. The word "Thai" (ไทย) comes from the ethnic group in the centre of Thailand. The capital city is Bangkok. Thailand is the only country in Southeast Asia that was not ruled by Western countries as it served as a buffer zone between English and French colonies.
Thailand is a constitutional monarchy. It has a King as a head of state. The present king is Bhumibol Adulyadej. He has been the head of state for longer than other heads of state (kings) today.
Most of the people of Thailand (95%) follow the philosophy called Buddhism. However, a small number, mostly in the southern part of the country, follow the religion Islam. Other religions in Thailand are Christianity, Hinduism, and Sikhism. Now, some of the Muslims in the south have begun fighting the government of Thailand, because they want to be more independent (free of the control of another country).
Many people believe that the first Thai state was the Buddhist kingdom named Sukhothai founded in 1238. Sukhothai achieved independence from the kingdom of Cambodia.
A century later, a bigger Thai kingdom named Ayuthaya appeared in the South of Sukhothai. Later Sukhothai became a part of Ayuthaya. Ayuthaya existed for more than 400 years before its fall by the attack of a Burmese kingdom.
A Thai soldier of Chinese origin then founded a new capital city at Thonburi, and became King Tāksin. Thonburi was the capital for a short period.
The current era, Rattanakosin, started on the foundation of Bangkok as the capital city by King Rama I of Chakri Dynasty.
Before 1932, Thailand was an absolute monarchy, meaning the King had total power in the country. On June 24, 1932, a group of people staged a coup and changed Thailand to a constitutional monarchy. It was not until 1973 that Thai people voted for a Prime Minister in an election. There were coups both before and after this year.
On September 19, 2006, the army staged another coup d'état and took control from Thaksin Shinawatra's government.
In May 2014, a new military coup d'état removed another government.
Between 1932 and 2014, Thailand had 12 coup d'état.
Thailand is divided into 76 provinces (จังหวัด, changwat), which make up 5 groups of provinces. There are also 2 special governed districts: the capital Bangkok (Krung Thep Maha Nakhon) and Pattaya. Bangkok is often wrongly counted as a province. The 76 provinces including Bangkok are as follows:
NOTE: In "italics" [1], that province represents the Greater Bangkok sub-region; in "italics" [2], that province represents the West sub-region.

</doc>
<doc id="10139" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10139" title="Hoboken election of 2005">
Hoboken election of 2005

The Hoboken election of 2005 was an election when people living in Hoboken, New Jersey voted for a mayor. They also voted for a person for council of the city. The main people hoping to be mayor were:
The people hoping to join the council were:
The election was on May 10, 2005. Roberts and Marsh got the most votes. Niether of them got 50% of the vote. Because this happened, a second election will happen (June 14, 2005).

</doc>
<doc id="10141" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10141" title="1519">
1519


</doc>
<doc id="10142" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10142" title="1475">
1475


</doc>
<doc id="10143" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10143" title="1564">
1564


</doc>
<doc id="10152" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10152" title="1483">
1483


</doc>
<doc id="10154" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10154" title="Hoboken, New Jersey">
Hoboken, New Jersey

Hoboken is an American city in the state of New Jersey. It is by the Hudson River in Hudson County, across from Manhattan. In 2000, 38,577 people lived there.
Hoboken is at 40°44'41" North, 74°1'59" West (40.744851, -74.032941).
The United States Census Bureau said the city has a total area of 5.1 km² (2.0 mi²). 3.3 km² (1.3 mi²) of it is land and 1.8 km² (0.7 mi²) of it is water. The total area is 35.35% water.
Hoboken was an island, by the Hudson River to the east. To the west was a swamp near the Palisades Sill on the west. Hoboken was a campsite by the Lenni Lenape. Then Hoboken became bad and there was war and disease. Europeans came in the 17th century. The name Hoboken comes from the original Lenape name for "Hobocan Hackingh" or "land of the tobacco pipe."
The first European to find Hoboken was Henry Hudson. He stopped his ship near Weehawken Cove on October 2, 1609. Three Native Americans sold Hoboken to Michael Paauw, Director of the Dutch West India Company on July 12, 1630. The first European settlers of Hoboken were Dutch farmers. Hendrick Van Vorst of Jersey City leased the land to Aert Van Putten, who was Hoboken's first person. In 1643 Van Putten built a farm house and brew house north of Castle Point. The brew house was America's first.
The land was taken by William Bayard. Bayard liked the revolutionary cause but changed to a Loyalist Tory in 1776 when the Rebels lost the New York and New Jersey Campaign. At the end of the Revolutionary War, Bayard's land was taken by the Revolutionary Government of New Jersey.
After the American war for independence, Hoboken was bought by Colonel John Stevens in 1784 for about $90,000. In the early 19th century, Stevens made the waterfront better for Manhattan people. He tested his inventions. Later in the century, Hoboken became better by being a shipping port and industrial center. Hoboken became a city in 1855, and Cornelius V. Clickener became the first Mayor. By the 19th century, shipping lines were using Hoboken as a port, and the Delaware, Lackawanna & Western Railroad (later the Erie Lackawanna Railroad) had became a railroad center at the waterfront. 
In 1832, a cave called Sybil's Cave opened and was popular. At that time, Hoboken was not yet an industrial city, and Hoboken was a country spot. Sybil's Cave was used in one of Edgar Allan Poe's stories in 1841. The water in the cave was bad, so the cave closed in the 1880s. In the 1930s it was filled with stone but in 2005 it was reopened.
Hoboken grew. People got many jobs in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. The Hoboken Land and Improvement Company, started by Colonel Stevens in 1838, created many streets, began housing, and created building sites. The housing was made up of masonry of three to five stories. Many buildings survive to the present day, and the street grid. It was also at this time that German immigrants became the main group in Hoboken. Along with the main industry of creating ships, well-known industries that created a big presence in Hoboken were Maxwell House, Lipton Tea, and Hostess, among others. In 1870, the Stevens Institute of Technology was created at Castle Point, the highest point in Hoboken.
World War I changed Hoboken. People against Germans started the city being placed under law, and many Germans had to move to Ellis Island in nearby New York Harbor. Or they left the city. During the war Hoboken became famous. In Hoboken terminal, American troops got onto ships that went to Europe. More than three million soldiers went through the terminal, and their word phrase was "Heaven, Hell or Hoboken... by Christmas."
After the war, Italians were the city's major group, with the Irish having been a big group.
In the 1960s, other people followed, including Puerto Ricans. High crime rates shortly followed, and many of Hoboken's original residents slowly moved out, including Irish and Italians. In the middle of the 20th century, industries looked for greener areas, port jobs went to larger places in Newark Bay, and the car, truck and airplane relpaced the railroad and ship as the way of moving in the United States. Most of the ports closed around 1975.
In the 1970s and 1980s, Hoboken attracted artists, musicians, and commuters who were going into Manhattan for work. Making Hoboken better was done in the same way as in the Manhattan. Making Hoboken better has continued, with many new places to live now being built on what used to be industrial sites on the waterfront and even more so in the western parts of Hoboken that were wost for the longest time. Although political control of the city is largely influenced by the city's long-term residents, the "yuppies" who have settled in Hoboken are now showing extensive interest. The City of Hoboken is controlled by the Faulkner Act (Mayor-Council).
"Notice: This section of reading material may be too difficult to read."
As of the census of 2000, there are 38,577 people, 19,418 households, and 6,835 families residing in the city. The population density is 11,636.5/km² (30,239.2/mi²). There are 19,915 housing units at an average density of 6,007.2/km² (15,610.7/mi²). The racial makeup of the city is 80.82% White, 4.26% African American, 0.16% Native American, 4.31% Asian, 0.05% Pacific Islander, 7.63% from other races, and 2.78% from two or more races. 20.18% of the population are Hispanic or Latino of any race.
There are 19,418 households out of which 11.4% have children under the age of 18 living with them, 23.8% are married couples living together, 9.0% have a female householder with no husband present, and 64.8% are non-families. 41.8% of all households are made up of individuals and 8.0% have someone living alone who is 65 years of age or older. The average household size is 1.92 and the average family size is 2.73.
In the city the population is spread out with 10.5% under the age of 18, 15.3% from 18 to 24, 51.7% from 25 to 44, 13.5% from 45 to 64, and 9.0% who are 65 years of age or older. The median age is 30 years. For every 100 females there are 103.9 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there are 103.9 males.
The median income for a household in the city is $62,550, and the median income for a family is $67,500. Males have a median income of $54,870 versus $46,826 for females. The per capita income for the city is $43,195. 11.0% of the population and 10.0% of families are below the poverty line. Out of the total population, 23.6% of those under the age of 18 and 20.7% of those 65 and older are living below the poverty line.
With containerization in the 20th century Hoboken lost business as a port town and became rundown. Paterson, Elizabeth, and Camden were other places in New Jersey with similar problems. In the late 1970s, it began to prosper again and many people wanted to live there. 
The city today is known for its excellent views of Manhattan, its fine-grained street grid, its historic architecture, and its restaurants and bars. A car is more of a hindrance than a help in getting around, and people do a great amount of walking. On weekend nights the town swells with young partygoers from nearby New Jersey towns who practice a rowdier style of barhopping than is fashionable across the river in Manhattan. Sundays are quieter.
Hoboken's gentrification has become relatively advanced, though many native residents remain in the city and hold political power. The population of "newcomers" or "yuppies", as they are typically called in the local press, consists of college and post-graduate students, bi-nationals, older artists and, increasingly, well-to-do commuters to Manhattan. However, rising rents and other costs of living, particularly in rental units, has resulted in some of the "bohemian" population moving away.
The Hoboken waterfront is the western shore of the Hudson from Newark Street and the Holland Tunnel to the south, and the Stevens Institute of Technology and Lincoln Tunnel to the north. The waterfront defined Hoboken as a port town and powered its economy from the mid-19th century to the outbreak of World War I when the federal government took control for war purposes. Control of the waterfront was returned to the city in the early 1950s. "On the Waterfront", often listed among the five or ten best American films ever, was filmed here. It dramatized the lives of dockworkers, and the infiltration of unions by organized crime. Today the waterfront is a place to look at the Hudson River and Manhattan, with landscaped parks built on the foundations of former piers (Pier A, Pier C, Sinatra Park and Pier 14).

</doc>
<doc id="10181" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10181" title="1919">
1919

1919 is a normal year beginning with Wednesday.

</doc>
<doc id="10191" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10191" title="Caffeine">
Caffeine

Caffeine is a drug (or chemical) found in plants. It can be harmful for both humans and animals if a large amount is consumed. If a person ate 10-13 grams of caffeine quickly, between 80-100 cups of coffee, it would kill them.
Caffeine is the main drug that is in coffee. Coffee comes from a tree. The seeds of the tree are roasted to make coffee.
Caffeine comes from other plants as well. It is in guarana, yerba maté, cacao, and some plants used to make tea. The plants use caffeine as a "pesticide". This is a chemical that kills insects if they eat the plant. It is the way the plant protects itself.
It is called guaranine when it comes from the guarana plant and theine when it comes from a tea plant. It is called mateine in the mate drink. This drink is an infusion made with Yerba mate.
Caffeine is a "stimulant" drug. A stimulant is a drug that increases body actions like heart rate, blood pressure, and metabolism. It makes a person feel more awake and alert.
Caffeine also is a diuretic. This means it makes a person make more urine (the waste liquid a person makes).
The caffeine chemical is called a "xanthine alkaloid". This is a group of chemicals that are stimulants. Some xanthine alkaloids (like theophylline) are used to help asthma.
The biggest use of caffeine is as a stimulant. People drink coffee and other drinks with caffeine to stay awake.
Doctors sometimes use caffeine as a medicine. It is used for headaches (head pain). It is sometimes used to help premature (born "very" early) babies to breathe. The short-term risk of this treatment seems to be that the babies treated gain less weight than usual.
Caffeine is sometimes given to people after a lumbar puncture. This is a test to see if someone has meningitis."
In the beginning caffeine was found to relieve hunger, so it was used for weight loss. That did not last because people were using too much. Caffeine can be a very dangerous drug when not used in the right way.
Caffeine also has medicinal properties. It is used in many over the counter medicines, such as Excedrin, Midol and Anacin. When combined with other analgesics, caffeine can help to alleviate headaches and cramps.
The largest problem with caffeine is addiction. This is when people get bad symptoms when they do not have the drug. When people have "withdrawal" (feel bad because they do not have the drug) they drink more. This makes them feel better. But if they cannot get more, they are likely to feel some of the symptoms listed below:
Caffeine can also hurt people if they drink a lot at once. If someone takes too much of a drug at once it is called an "overdose". Caffeine overdose is a medical diagnosis. It is called:"Caffeine-Induced Organic Mental Disorder" or "Caffeine Intoxication". People with this can have these symptoms:
250–300 mg of caffeine a day is a "moderate" amount. That is as much caffeine that is in three cups of coffee (8oz each cup). More than 750–1000 mg a day is a significant amount, but is very unlikely to kill someone. The Lethal Dose 50 of caffeine is 192 mg per kilogram, in rats. In humans, it is between 150 and 200 mg per kilogram (70-90 per pound.) 
Caffeine is in many drinks and foods. This is "approximate" amounts of caffeine in some food and drink:
One ounce – abbreviated oz - is 30ml.
A 'cup' is 8 oz (240ml.)

</doc>
<doc id="10193" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10193" title="Chicago">
Chicago

Chicago is the largest city in Illinois, USA. It is the third largest city in the United States, although it used to be the second largest. Chicago is next to one of the five Great Lakes, Lake Michigan. In the 2000 census, almost 2,900,000 people lived there, with six million more people living nearby. 
The city also has about 300 bridges. Chicago is sometimes called the "Windy City". The city was founded by Jean Baptiste Point du Sable. 
Chicago was incorporated as a city in 1837, near a portage between the Great Lakes and the Mississippi River watershed.  The name "Chicago" is the French version of the Miami-Illinois word "shikaakwa" ("Stinky Onion"), named for the plants common along the Chicago River. Today, Chicago is listed as an alpha+ global city by the Globalization and World Cities Research Network, and ranks seventh in the world in the 2012 Global Cities Index. The city is an international hub for finance, commerce, industry, telecommunications, and transportation, with O'Hare International Airport being the second-busiest airport in the world in terms of traffic movements. The first skyscraper in the world was built in Chicago. It was the Home Insurance Building. In September 2013, the FBI named Chicago "The Murder Capital of the United States" with 550 murders recorded in 2012.
Chicago was founded in the early 1700s by Jean Baptiste Point du Sable. The city was founded to create a canal that allowed steamboats and sailing ships on the Great Lakes to connect to the Mississippi River. The city later became a trading center for food, crops, and fur. The city grew very fast because of how the river back then was clean and healthy to drink. In 1837, Chicago became a city. The city grew until the Great Chicago Fire happened in 1871. The fire lasted for almost a week. Almost half the city and its population were lost in the fire. After the fire Chicago grew faster than ever.
Also after the fire happened the city's economy grew and also more people migrated here from parts of the world. The immigrants include, Germans, Jews, Irish, Swedes, Poles, and Czechs. The immigrants made almost two-thirds of the city's population. In 1889, Jane Addams had built the first Hull house in Chicago for children and the poor. The city's public health became better, so that the city would be healthy. In 1893, the city hosted the World's Columbian Exposition. And later the University of Chicago was founded in 1892.
In 1919 the city later became known for its gangsters such as Al Capone, Dean O’Banion, Bugs Moran and Tony Accardo. Later the city also became known for one of the most infamous massacres, the Saint Valentine's Day Massacre when Al Capone ordered many gangsters to be shot on St. Valentine's Day in 1929. Shortly after that the city became known for John Dillinger, a bank robber who could rob an entire bank under two minutes. Dillinger was shot and killed at the Biograph Theatre in 1934.
During a Democratic party convention in 1933, the 44th Mayor of Chicago, Anton Cermak was shot and killed when a man tried to shoot at Franklin D. Roosevelt when Cermak blocked the bullet so that the President would not be hurt. Cermak died hours later. In 1955, Mayor Richard J. Daley became one of the most powerful and well known Democrats in the country. He also helped Martin Luther King and other activist share their thoughts and opinions without being arrested in Chicago. 
In 1968, during the 1968 Democratic National Convention led to a massive protest and riots that happened where the convention was held. Richard J. Daley helped create the construction sites for the Willis Tower, O'Hare International Airport, the McCormick Place, and the University of Illinois at Chicago. Jane Byrne helped Chicago to become one of the most popular tourist attractions in the United States. She was the first female mayor of Chicago. 
In 1983, Harold Washington became the first African American mayor of Chicago and helped clean all dangerous and poor neighborhoods in the city. He was later re-elected, but died of a heart attack. He would become the second mayor of Chicago to die from a heart attack while in office, the first was Richard J. Daley. Washington's second full term was finished by Eugene Sawyer, the second African American Mayor of Chicago.
In 1989, Richard M. Daley, the son of Richard J. Daley, became the mayor of Chicago. He helped fix the Chicago Loop, helped fix parks, and made the Chicago Skyline the second most beautiful skyline in the world, behind Hong Kong. Daley was the longest serving Mayor of Chicago. 
In 2011, Rahm Emanuel became the first Jewish Mayor of Chicago. Emmanuel helped fix the Chicago Public School system and helped fix the Chicago Police Department. In 2012, the NATO Summit was held here in Chicago and lasted for three days. The city would also host the 38th G8 summit, but was moved to Camp David because the city was already hosting the NATO summit in Chicago.
Chicago has the fourth-largest gross domestic product (GDP) in the world, just behind Tokyo, New York City, and Los Angeles, and it is ahead of London and Paris.
Chicago is the largest city in the United States to have a female mayor since 2012.
Chicago has a very well-known culture. Some of the many things Chicago is famous for are: Chicago-style hot dogs, Chicago-style (deep dish) pizza, Maxwell Street Polish Sausage, jazz music, and 1920s gangsters like Al Capone. Chicago is also known for interesting architecture like the Sears Tower, many museums, and many loyal sports fans.
Chicago was home to the Bijou Theater, the longest-running gay adult theater and sex club in the United States. It opened in 1970, and it permanently closed its doors in September 2015.
For many years, the Sears Tower was the tallest building in the world. It is the second tallest building in the United States.
Chicago is home to the largest population of Poles in the world, outside of Warsaw. Historic U.S. Route 66 starts in Chicago by Grant Park in front of the Art Institute of Chicago.
Chicago is a major world financial center, with the second largest central business district in the United States. The city is the headquarters of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago (the Seventh District of the Federal Reserve). The city is also home to major financial and futures exchanges, including the Chicago Stock Exchange, the Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE), and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (the "Merc"), which is owned, along with the Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT) by Chicago's CME Group. The CME Group, in addition, owns the New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX), the Commodities Exchange Inc. (COMEX) and the Dow Jones Indexes. Perhaps due to the influence of the Chicago school of economics, the city also has markets trading unusual contracts such as emissions (on the Chicago Climate Exchange), and equity style indices (on the U.S. Futures Exchange). Chase Bank has its commercial and retail banking headquarters in Chicago's Chase Tower.
There are many museums in Chicago. These include:<br>Adler Planetarium - built in 1930, it is the oldest planetarium in the world<br>Art Institute of Chicago - has a large collection of American and Impressionist art<br>Field Museum of Natural History - has "Sue", the largest and most complete "Tyrannosaurus" fossil known<br>Museum of Science and Industry - has many exhibits including a real Boeing 727 jet plane which was given to the museum by United Airlines<br>Polish Museum of America - Museum haunted by famous piano player Ignace Paderewski, has large collection of Polish art in the biggest Polish city outside of Poland<br>Shedd Aquarium - at one time the world's largest aquarium. Has 19 million liters (5 million gallons) of water and 22,000 fish
Sports are a big part of the cultural life in Chicago. Chicago is home to 15 sports teams. All of the city's major sports teams play within the city limits.
Chicago is one of only three cities in the United States to have two Major League Baseball teams: the Chicago White Sox and the Chicago Cubs. The White Sox play at the U.S. Cellular Field and the Cubs play at Wrigley Field. The White Sox won the World Series in 2005. The Cubs won the World Series in 1908.
Chicago's National Basketball Association (NBA) team is the Chicago Bulls. For many years, Michael Jordan played for the Bulls and he helped them win six Championships during the 1990s.
At American football, Chicago is the home of the Chicago Bears (National Football League) and the Chicago Rush (Arena Football League). 
Chicago has two ice hockey teams, the Chicago Blackhawks (who play for the National Hockey League) and the Chicago Wolves (who play for the American Hockey League).
Chicago also has a Major League Soccer team, the Chicago Fire.
Many people and things travel through Chicago to get to other places. Chicago has a complex network of trains and buses, which help people who live in Chicago travel across the city. Chicago's commuter train system is called the Metra. It runs within the city and also into the suburbs that are around Chicago. The Chicago Transit Authority (CTA) is a system of buses and elevated trains (called the 'L') that run inside the city.
O'Hare International Airport, one of the busiest airports in the world, is a major center for air travel. Chicago has another airport called Midway Airport. Many trains use Chicago as a place to change loads and to change directions. There is also a canal between Lake Michigan and the Mississippi River called the Chicago River. The Chicago River is the only river to travel backwards.
The city lies within the humid continental climate zone, and has four distinct seasons. Summers are hot and humid, with a July daily average of . In a normal summer, temperatures exceed on 21 days. Winters are cold and snowy with many sunny days, and with a January daytime average of . Spring and autumn are mild seasons with low humidity.
According to the National Weather Service, Chicago's highest official temperature reading of was recorded on July 24, 1934, although it is unknown about the reading of was also recorded at Midway Airport during that month. The lowest temperature of was recorded on January 20, 1985, at O'Hare Airport. The city can experience extreme winter cold waves and summer heat waves that may last for several consecutive days. There are also many mild winter and summer days. Thunderstorms are usually common during the spring and summer months; sometimes they may produce tornadoes which are more likely in the far suburban areas than the city itself. The heaviest snowfall record that Chicago had was in January 1999 when it snowed 18.6 inches.
Although Chicago is known as the Windy City, it is in fact less windy than many other major American cities. Average wind speeds range from 8 miles per hour (13 km/h) in late summer to 12 miles per hour (19 km/h) in spring months. The "Windy City" moniker is believed to actually be a reference to the boostering politicians of Chicago from the 1800s. The phrase may have also been created by Chicago tourism boosters promoting the city, suggesting that the cool breezes from Lake Michigan make Chicago an ideal summer destination.
Some famous people who lived in or are from Chicago.
Chicago is the county seat of Cook County. The government of the City of Chicago is divided into executive and legislative branches. Civil and criminal law cases are heard in the Cook County Circuit Court of the State of Illinois court system, or in the Northern District of Illinois, in the federal system. In the former, the public prosecutor is the Illinois State's Attorney, in the latter, the United States Attorney.
The Mayor of Chicago is the chief executive, elected by general election for a term of four years, with no term limits. The mayor appoints commissioners and other officials who oversee the various departments. In addition to the mayor, Chicago's two other citywide elected officials are the clerk and the treasurer. The City Council is the legislative branch and is made up of 50 aldermen, one elected from each ward in the city. The council enacts local ordinances and approves the city budget. Government priorities and activities are established in a budget ordinance usually adopted each November. The council takes official action through the passage of ordinances and resolutions.
Chicago had a murder rate of 14.5 per 100,000 residents in 2012. This pales in comparison to smaller cities, including New Orleans, Newark, and Detroit, which saw 53 murders per 100,000 residents in 2012. The total number of murders in the city peaked in 1974, with 970 murders when the city's population was over 3 million people (resulting in a murder rate of around 29 per 100,000), and came close to peaking again in 1992 with 943 murders, resulting in a murder rate of 34 per 100,000. Chicago, along with other major US cities, experienced a significant reduction in violent crime rates through the 1990s, eventually recording 448 homicides in 2004, the lowest total since 1965 (15.65 per 100,000.) Chicago's homicide tally remained steady throughout 2005, 2006, and 2007 with 449, 452, and 435 respectively.
Chicago is a major transportation hub in the United States. It is an important component in global distribution, as it is the third largest inter-modal port in the world after Hong Kong and Singapore.
The Kennedy Expressway and Dan Ryan Expressways are the busiest state maintained routes in not only the City of Chicago and its suburbs, but also the entire state of Illinois.
The Regional Transportation Authority (RTA) coordinates the operation of the three service boards: CTA, Metra, and Pace.
Greyhound Lines provides inter-city bus service to and from the city, and Chicago is also the hub for the Midwest network of Megabus.
Amtrak long distance services originate from Union Station. Chicago is one of the largest hubs of passenger rail service in the nation. The services terminate in San Francisco, Washington, D.C., New York City, Indianapolis, New Oreleans, Portland, Seattle, Milwaukee, Quincy, St. Louis, Carbondale, Boston, Grand Rapids, Port Huron, Pontiac, Los Angeles, and San Antonio. An attempt was made in the early 20th century to link Chicago with New York City via the Chicago – New York Electric Air Line Railroad. Parts of this were built, but it was ultimately never completed.
Chicago appeared in many movies such as "The Blues Brothers"; "Ferris Bueller's Day Off"; "Home Alone"; "The Fugitive"; "The Untouchables", "I, Robot"; "Wanted"; "Batman Begins"; "The Dark Knight"; ""; and "Man of Steel".
Sister cities
Partner city

</doc>
<doc id="10195" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10195" title="Woodrow Wilson">
Woodrow Wilson

Thomas Woodrow Wilson (December 28, 1856 – February 3, 1924) was the President of the United States between 1913 and 1921. He was born in Virginia and grew up in Georgia. In 1917, after the U.S. had been neutral, it got involved with the First World War. Because of Wilson, the League of Nations was founded. Therefore, he received the Nobel Prize for Peace in 1919. Between 1890 and 1902, Wilson worked as professor for law at the Princeton University.
He was one of the of the League of Nations, the creation of which he strongly supported.
Woodrow Wilson, son of Joseph Ruggles Wilson and Janet "Jessie" Woodrow Wilson, was born in Staunton, Virginia, United States. Wilson's father was a Presbyterian minister. Wilson had one brother and two sisters. He studied from 1875 to 1879 at the University of Princeton in New Jersey. Between 1879 and 1883, Wilson studied law at the University of Virginia. In 1885, he did a doctorate at the Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore. His dissertation was about the "Congressional Government". In the same year, Wilson was married to Ellen Louise Axson.
Wilson started to teach political science at Princeton University in 1886. He became the director of Princeton University in 1902. Wilson kept in this position until 1910. Wilson's goal was to change the pedagogical system, the social system and the style of the campus. 
He was elected to be the Governor of New Jersey for the Democratic Party in 1911. On November 4, 1912, Wilson became the 28th President of the United States. He won with 42% against the incumbent president William Howard Taft. His time being president started in March 1913.
Wilson mostly handled domestic matters during his first term. He passed laws to prevent monopolies from forming, started a few business regulations, passed laws protecting workers, and created the Federal Reserve. During his second term, he also helped women gain the right to vote.
In 1914, his wife Ellen died of Bright's Disease. His doctor, Cary Grayson, introduced him to a girl named Edith Galt, whose husband was also dead. After two months they fell in love and got married. For a long time he focused on her instead of his job as President. But soon, he got back to work.
In 1917, Wilson entered the country in World War One. America was previously neutral, but German submarines kept sinking American ships sailing in British waters and even tried to encourage Mexico to invade the United States, which was the final straw for Wilson. World War One was a war against the Central Powers (Germany, Austria-Hungary, and the Ottoman Empire) and the Allied Powers (England, France, and Italy). America was on the Allies' side. The Allies won the war a year later. 
Wilson took a ship to Europe to talk with the leaders of the other Allies about what to do with Germany. They came up with the Treaty of Versailles. A part of the Treaty of Versailles said that there will be a group of countries called the League of Nations. A lot of people in America did not like the League of Nations because they thought that it was none of America's business to mess with other countries' problems. 
Wilson's political enemy, Senator Henry Lodge from Massachusetts, made a different version of the Treaty of Versailles. Even though Wilson was very sick, he traveled around the country asking people to like the Treaty and the League. Wilson ended up having a stroke. It was the first time he had one. It was very bad and Wilson was not able to run the country as best he could. His thinking also was not great because of the stroke. But, he stayed President and told Congress not to vote for Henry Lodge's new treaty. Congress listened but also said no to Wilson's treaty.
Wilson received criticism for many of his decisions. Theodore Roosevelt criticized him for entering the war too late. Overall, for his leadership during World War I, and for his plans for peace after the war, historians consider him a great president.

</doc>
<doc id="10197" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10197" title="Brown">
Brown

Brown is the color that is made when gray or black is mixed with orange, red or rose (Brown is not a color of light, and mixing all the colors of light together gives white). 
Brown is the color of:

</doc>
<doc id="10198" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10198" title="Yoda">
Yoda

Yoda is a character from the "Star Wars" universe. He is a Jedi Master who plays an important part in the films. Frank Oz voices Yoda. Originally he was a puppet, played by Oz. But in the last two movies, Episodes II and III, Yoda is made with CGI.
Yoda has lived for over 900 years and not much of his history before "" is known. He is an alien, but his race and where he is from are never said. He speaks the same language as everyone else but says his sentences sort of backwards. For example, "Teach you, I will" instead of "I will teach you".
Yoda is the oldest and wisest member of the Jedi Council. Even though he is very small, he is very good with a lightsaber and uses the 4th jedi style known as Ataru.

</doc>
<doc id="10199" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10199" title="Magenta">
Magenta

Magenta is a color in between red and purple or pink and purple. Sometimes it is confused with pink or purple. In terms of the HSV (RGB) color wheel, it is the color halfway between red and purple and is composed equally of red and blue (50% red and 50% purple). Another name for "magenta" is fuchsia, named after the fuchsia flower.
This colour is one of the three colours of ink used by an inkjet printer, along with cyan and yellow. The tone of magenta used in printing is called "printer's magenta" (Magenta (CMYK)) and it is shown in the colour chart below.
The first written use of "magenta" as a colour name in English was in 1860.
Although magenta and fuchsia are the same colour, the chart below (the colors displayed on which are also shown in the magenta colour chart above) shows those tones of magenta which are specifically named fuchsia. 
If the visible spectrum is wrapped to form a color wheel, magenta (additive secondary) appears midway between red and violet:

</doc>
<doc id="10200" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10200" title="The Monkees">
The Monkees

The Monkees were an American pop-rock band. The band was created originally for a comedy television series of the same name which aired on NBC, from 1966 to 1968. The members of the group were Davy Jones, Michael Nesmith, Peter Tork, and Micky Dolenz. They had hits with "Last Train to Clarksville", "I'm a Believer", and "Daydream Believer". Tommy Boyce and Bobby Hart were songwriters and producers who worked with the Monkees. Another writer/producer for the Monkees was Chip Douglas. Many of the songs recorded by the Monkees came from the Brill Building writers in New York City.
Four actors with musical skills were chosen, out of 437 hopefuls who auditioned for the series. Britisher Davy Jones was under contract to Columbia Pictures, had issued records, and performed on British and American television. Columbia was looking for a project for Jones, and Screen Gems, who would produce the show, was their TV division. Nesmith was from Texas, played in country and rock bands, and had published his own songs. Dolenz was a grown-up from Los Angeles, California, who sang and played in cover bands. Tork had been a working folk musician in New York's Greenwich Village. Each had their own wit and personality, could entertain an audience, and could also sing.
Other young men who auditioned for the show included Stephen Stills (who showed great talent, but looked too old for a role; he referred Tork, an old friend who looked a little like him), Danny Hutton (who later found fame with Three Dog Night), Harry Nilsson (who later met the Monkees, wrote for them, and recorded with them), and Paul Williams (who had lost a role in "Circus Boy" to Dolenz ten years earlier; the Monkees later recorded his song "Someday Man"). Charles Manson was later rumored to have auditioned, but he was imprisoned at the time.
Bob Rafelson and Bert Schneider wanted to make movies, but had little experience in that. Schneider's father was president of Columbia Pictures, and offered them the chance to make a for a television series. If the series was sold to a network, they could produce and direct , and gain experience.
Rafelson had already wanted to produce something involving musicians, and their life. When the Beatles appeared in the movies "A Hard Day's Night" and "Help!", people enjoyed watching them onscreen, both playing out their lives and performing comedy, along with playing music. Rafelson and Schneider adapted what they saw in the Beatles movies, and also in American movies and television. While the Beatles were always shown as a popular, well-known band, their show would be about an unknown band, looking for the chance to become famous.
The pilot episode was filmed in the fall of 1965. A first playing for a test audience did not score well, but a re-edited version scored very well, and the series was sold to NBC. To make sure there was enough music for the series, Don Kirshner was hired. His Brill Building songwriters were among the best young talent.
Actor James Frawley, the son of William Frawley (from "I Love Lucy" fame), wanted to become a movie director. He worked with Rafelson and Schneider, then with the Monkees as they were selected. Before the series began filming, Frawley spent six weeks working with the members, teaching them about in acting and comedy, and helping them learn to play characters.
"The Monkees" appeared for two seasons on NBC television, with 58 episodes made in all. The show won two Emmy Awards in 1967, for Outstanding Comedy Series, and Outstanding Directorial Achievement in Comedy. The series gave promotion to the Monkees's records, while their music made people interested in watching the show. While the show's natural audience was children and teenagers, there were also jokes and other things that older viewers could enjoy. The band sometimes talked directly to the audience, and made fun of the fact that they were on a television show. Many episodes ended with short interviews with the Monkees, where they talked about their careers and things that were important to them. This made their fans feel like they knew the members of the band.
Each episode featured two songs. One was normally a single side, and the other was a new song. The band lip-synched to recordings on camera, and also filmed unrelated scenes, in random places with whatever objects were there. These were edited together and called "romps". The romps looked much like music videos.
A large problem the Monkees faced was that none of them could play a musical instrument, because the music on their first records was mostly made by studio musicians. Nesmith and Dolenz played guitar, and Dolenz took drum lessons, so he could play drums on camera. Tork played guitar, keyboards and banjo. Jones learned to play drums and guitar, and a custom bass guitar was made specially for him. He also played percussion instruments, like tambourine.
The band had little experience playing together though, and were not able to make the music needed to begin the show. The producers planned at first to use prerecorded music, and went ahead with that plan. Don Kirshner had good for knowing what would sell well, and took charge of the recordings, limiting the input the Monkees themselves had in making the music. For most of the first season's songs, the members only sang, and did not play on the records. Boyce and Hart also noticed that when all four Monkees were together in the studio, they would try to make each other laugh during takes, and things did not get done. They began bringing the band to record in ones and twos. Kirshner also okayed Nesmith to produce two of his own songs, for each Monkees album. Nesmith could choose musicians and sing, but could not play on the records himself.
In time, the band improved musically, and wanted another chance to play on their own recordings. They also began to perform live for audiences. Kirshner would not change his mind, issued a whole album without even telling the band, and planned to issue a new single. Nesmith argued with Kirshner and his attorney (putting his own fist through a wall to show his anger), and called a , telling the media about his unhappiness with how the music was made. Many people thought this proved the Monkees were , and did not deserve to be popular. To prove themselves, the Monkees recorded a new single, then a new album, with each member playing instruments. Their new records did not sell as well as their first ones, but they felt better knowing the music was really theirs, and they still had hit records.
Kirshner issued the single "A Little Bit Me, A Little Bit You" (written by Neil Diamond), without getting an OK first. This was reason enough to fire him from the Monkees production team. Kirshner's career was not harmed, and he went on to produce other music his way, including songs for The Archies. He later hosted a show, "Don Kirshner's Rock Concert", which featured bands in a live setting.
The Monkees became tired of the same "formula" used in episode after episode of the series (Davy Jones would fall in love with a girl, and the rest of the band would help him get together with her), and wanted to try doing a variety show instead. NBC and the show's producers did not want to change the way the show was done. The two sides could not agree, and the show was cancelled, even though it was still popular.
After the television series ended, the Monkees starred in a movie, "Head", and a TV special, "33 1/3 Revolutions per Monkee". Neither was successful, and the band's later records were not hits. The Monkees kept performing for audiences, but less and less people went to their shows. The band members each quit one by one. Tork left at the end of 1968, saying he was . Nesmith left in 1970, to start his own band. Jones left during 1970, and went back to performing solo. 
"The Monkees" appeared in reruns on CBS from 1969 to 1972, first during lunchtimes and later alongside Saturday morning cartoons. ABC later aired the series, from 1972 to 1973.
Each former Monkee tried different things during the next decade. Tork worked as a musician, teacher and singing waiter. Nesmith pursued a country music career, then began to make videos. Jones and Dolenz both sang on records. Jones did more theater work, while Dolenz made cartoon .
Dolenz and Jones teamed up with Boyce and Hart in 1976, to tour and perform the Monkees' old hits. They also made a new album together. Later Jones and Dolenz went to England, to appear in a production of Harry Nilsson's "The Point!" Both stayed in England. Jones appeared in "Godspell" and other musical plays, and retrained as a jockey. Dolenz became a television director and producer. During these same years, Nesmith started his own company, to produce music and videos. Tork went back to performing and sometimes making records.
"The Monkees" appeared in from 1975 on, usually playing on local television stations during afternoons. A compilation album, "The Monkees Greatest Hits", was issued, and their old hits still played on radio stations. A second "Greatest Hits" album appeared later.
In 1986, Tork, Jones and Dolenz reunited, as part of an "oldies show" tour. MTV aired nearly every episode of their old series one Sunday, to promote the tour, and it became a surprise hit. Twenty years after they started, a new generation of young people were interested in the Monkees. The tour went from a small one to a major one, and the Monkees were back. MTV and the Monkees worked well together. Nickelodeon, a sister network to MTV, aired their series, and the band appeared on Nickelodeon and MTV during the late 1980s. Nesmith mostly did not join the reunion, because of his production career, but he did make a few rare appearances with them. The other members also kept their solo careers, between tours.
During the 1990s, the reunited Monkees continued to tour, and appear as guests on television. Nesmith rejoined them for a new album, "Justus", a TV special, and he appeared with them onstage in England. He left when they began to tour the United States, though, and did not return. After 2000, they toured less often. Tork left again in 2001, and Jones and Dolenz last worked together in 2002. 
Every episode of the TV series is for sale on DVD (as is their movie "Head"), and all their record releases are for sale on compact disc. Rhino Records bought the rights to all their works, and still oversees Monkees releases.
Dolenz, Tork and Jones toured the UK and USA throughout 2011. Davy Jones died on February 29, 2012 in Stuart, Florida. Since then The Monkees have continued to tour with Nesmith, Dolenz, and Tork.

</doc>
<doc id="10202" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10202" title="Abu Dhabi">
Abu Dhabi

Abu Dhabi (, "ʼAbū Ẓaby") is the capital city of the United Arab Emirates. It is in the emirate of Abu Dhabi. The city is on a T-shaped island going into the Persian Gulf from the central western coast. The city had a population of 921,000 in 2013.

</doc>
<doc id="10258" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10258" title="1927">
1927


</doc>
<doc id="10261" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10261" title="1944">
1944


</doc>
<doc id="10262" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10262" title="The Rolling Stones">
The Rolling Stones

The Rolling Stones are an English rock band that formed in London, England in 1962. The band members were: Mick Jagger (vocals), Keith Richards (guitar), Brian Jones (guitar), Bill Wyman (bass), and Charlie Watts (drums). The band were influenced by American blues and rock musicians like Howlin' Wolf, Chuck Berry, Bo Diddley and Muddy Waters. In the beginning they had their first hits with covers versions of songs of those artists. Along with The Beatles, they helped to lead the British Invasion of the early to mid 1960s.
Their fame rose quickly in 1965 with the song "The Last Time." The song "(I Can't Get No) Satisfaction" became a world-wide hit for the band. It was followed up by songs like "19th Nervous Breakdown" and "Paint It Black". In the 1967 they experimented with a psychedelic music style. But in 1968 they went back to a harder rock style with songs like "Sympathy for the Devil" and "Jumpin' Jack Flash" and "Honky Tonk Women."
In 1969, Brian Jones was fired from the band due to his growing drug addictions. A few weeks later Jones was found dead in his swimming pool. A highly respected young blues guitarist named Mick Taylor was named as his replacement. Taylor played on some of the band's most successful songs of the late 1960s and early 1970s including the hits "Brown Sugar", "Tumbling Dice", and "It's Only Rock n' Roll." Taylor left the band in 1974. Ronnie Wood was hired as Taylor's replacement and he has been with the band ever since. Long time bassist Bill Wyman retired from the band in 1992.
The band remained active as a consistently successful recording and touring act throughout the 1980s and 1990s and into the 2000s. In total they have released 25 studio albums, 10 live albums and 92 singles.
In 1989 The Rolling Stones were inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. And in 2004 they were ranked number 4 in "Rolling Stone Magazine's list of the "100 Greatest Artists of All Time."
In 2013 the group performed on the main stage at the Glastonbury Festival for the first time.

</doc>
<doc id="10264" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10264" title="Black Sabbath">
Black Sabbath

Black Sabbath is an English heavy metal band. They are considered to be an influential heavy metal band which helped start the genre in the late 1960s and early 1970s. They have sold over one hundred million albums worldwide. The original line up was Ozzy Osbourne (vocals), Tony Iommi (guitar), Terence "Geezer" Butler (bass) and Bill Ward (drums).
Black Sabbath formed in 1968. The band was originally named Earth and they played blues-rock music. In the band's early days Tony Iommi had a work accident that cut off the tips of his middle and ring finger on his right hand. He began tuning his guitar lower to slacken his strings to make playing easier on his wounded fingers. The result was a darker, deeper tone to his guitar sound which the band felt made their music sound dark and scary. They released their first album "Black Sabbath" in 1970. Their most successful single, titled "Paranoid", produced by Rodger Bain, came off their second album of the same name, also released in 1970.
The third album in 1971 was called 'Master of Reality' and sounded even more doomy than the previous two albums. After that album, the band members became addicted to cocaine, and wrote a song called 'Snowblind' to celebrate this. Their fourth album in 1972 was meant to be named after the song, but their label did not want to release an album named after an illegal drug, so they gave it the name 'Black Sabbath Vol. 4' instead. Their fifth album 'Sabbath Bloody Sabbath' came out in 1973 and was the first of their albums to get good reviews from critics, although their opinion of the first four albums also changed to become much more positive over time.
In 1975, Sabbath released 'Sabotage', which featured some longer more progressive songs, and had a less doomy feel. This change in direction continued with 1976's 'Technical Ecstasy' which received mixed reviews. Ozzy lost some interest in the band and left for a short time, but decided to rejoin in time for an eighth album, 'Never Say Die!' which received bad reviews.
Ozzy Osbourne was fired from the band in 1979 because of his drug and alcohol addiction. American vocalist Ronnie James Dio was hired to replace him. The band recorded two studio albums and one live album with him. The first studio album of the two, 'Heaven And Hell' was considered a return to success and musical form, with 'Mob Rules', recorded with drummer Vinny Appice after Bill Ward left, also getting a good reaction. Dio and Vinny parted with Black Sabbath in 1982 over different musical ideas. Bill rejoined and the band hired Deep Purple singer Ian Gillan for the critically unsuccessful 'Born Again'. 
Over the next few years after Bill left again along with Geezer, Iommi would hire several different singers to front the band, such as Glenn Hughes and Tony Martin, along with a variety of bassists (Dave Spitz, Neil Murray etc.) and drummers (Eric Singer, Cozy Powell etc.). Many of the albums released during this time were not meant to be released as Black Sabbath, with Tony Iommi wanting them to be his solo albums. 
In 1991 Ronnie James James Dio and Vinny Appice rejoined the band again for one album and tour. After that, Tony Iommi once again hired Tony Martin alongside other different musicians. In 1997 the original line up reformed and continued to perform occasionally until 2006, when the band members were busy focusing on individual projects.
In 2005, Black Sabbath were inducted into the "UK Music Hall of Fame". In 2006 the band were inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.
In 2011, the original line up announced they were getting back together to tour and record a new album. However, Tony Iommi was diagnosed with cancer, forcing the band to cancel most tour dates, and Bill Ward left after being unsatisfied with the contract. Tony Iommi has since been recovering, and Sabbath hired drummer Tommy Clufetos to tour with them. However, Brad Wilk is drumming on the new album, which is called '13' and was released in June 2013.

</doc>
<doc id="10265" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10265" title="Watt">
Watt

The watt (symbol: W) is the SI unit of power. It is named in honour of the physicist James Watt (1736–1819).
Basically, the watt is a method of measuring the rate of energy transfer of an appliance. A one watt lightbulb, for example, will change one joule of electrical energy into light energy (and some heat/sound) every second. It is a measure of an appliance's power.
The watt is the rate a source of energy uses or produces one joule during one second, so the same quantity may be referred to as a joule per second, with the symbol J/s. It can also be written as kg·m·s. The more watts, the more energy used per second. That is why a higher-watt electrical appliance works faster than a lower-watt appliance.
It is equivalent to one volt ampere (1 V·A) or 1/746 of a horsepower. The power of a light bulb is measured in watts. LEDs have much smaller consumption of power. Example small led can be used by 0.015 watts what can be also written 15 milliwatts.
1000 watts is called a kilowatt, written as kW. It is also known as (10) watts. In many countries, electric bills are based on how many kilowatt-hours are being used.
1000000 watts is called a megawatt, written as MW. It is also known as (10) watts. This is used to describe how much electricity is needed by a large town.
Watt is a unit of power, joule is a unit of work and energy, and time is a unit of time. An equation for solving Power, Work and Time is Power = Work ÷ Time, Work = Power × Time, or Time = Work ÷ Power.
If 1000kJ of energy was used to power one lightbulb of 100W, how long will the lightbulb last for using that energy?
Because Time is unknown, but you know the other two, the correct equation would be "Time = Work ÷ Power", then 1,000,000J ÷ 100W = 10000 seconds. Then convert it into proper time and you'll get 2 hours, 46 minutes and 40 seconds.

</doc>
<doc id="10266" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10266" title="Koblenz">
Koblenz

Koblenz is a city in northern Rhineland-Palatinate, Germany with about 107,000 inhabitants. It is the third biggest city in the state of Rhineland-Palatinate and one of its main centres. Koblenz is the base of the Campus Koblenz of the University of Koblenz-Landau and the seat of the Mayen-Koblenz municipality.
Koblenz is situated at the meeting of the Rhine and Moselle rivers, between Bonn ( downstream the Rhine) and Mainz ( upstream the Rhine). Parts of Koblenz belong to a UNESCO World Heritage site.

</doc>
<doc id="10268" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10268" title="Delta">
Delta

Delta (uppercase/lowercase Δ δ), is the letter of the Greek alphabet, used to represent the "d" sound in Ancient and Modern Greek. In the system of Greek numerals, it has a value of 4. Letters that came from it include the Roman D and Cyrillic Д.
The upper-case letter Δ can be used as symbol representing "change".
In molecular chemistry the lower case Greek letter δ is used to represent a partial charge. This is always less than the unit charge associated with an ion but has no real fixed value.
A river delta is so named because its shape approximates the upper-case letter delta.

</doc>
<doc id="10270" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10270" title="Elbe">
Elbe

The Elbe River ( , , , ) is one of the major waterways of central Europe. It comes from the North West Czech Republic.It flows through much of Germany. At Cuxhaven, it flows into the Wadden Sea, which is part of the North Sea. Important big cities on the boards of the river are Hradec Králové, Pardubice and Ústí nad Labem in the Czech Republic, and Dresden, Magdeburg and Hamburg in Germany. Each of mentioned cities in the Czech Replublic has almost 100.000 inhabitants. There are about 500.000 people living in Dresden, and 250.000 in Magdeburg. With 1.8 million people in the city proper, Hamburg is the second largest city in Germany, and the sixth laergest city in the European Union. Hamburg is still away from the estuary. The port in Hamburg is the second most important seaport in the European Union, after Rotterdam, and the third most important for container ships in the EU (after Rotterdam and Antwerp). Ships can travel up to Pardubice. The Elbe is an important river, and is classified as a stream. Up to Cuxhaven, it is long, are in the Czech Republic. Officially, its length is , which is a point in the open sea. 

</doc>
<doc id="10271" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10271" title="Danube">
Danube

The Danube (Latin name "Hister") is the second-longest river in Europe (the Volga is the longest). It is the longest river of the European Union. The river is 2,860 km (1,777 mi) long. Brigach and Breg join together in Donaueschingen (near the Black Forest) to "make" the Danube. The Danube flows through or makes part of the border of 10 countries: Germany, Austria, Slovakia, Hungary, Croatia, Serbia, Romania, Bulgaria, Moldova and Ukraine. The river ends in the Black Sea through the Danube Delta. 
Bigger cities include Ulm, Regensburg in Germany; Linz, Vienna in Austria; Bratislava in Slovakia, Budapest in Hungary; Vukovar in Croatia; Novi Sad and Belgrade in Serbia. 
The Danube is named in many other languages: Esperanto "Danubo", Bulgarian "Дунав (Dunav)", German "and" Plattdüütsch "Donau", Greek "Dounavis", Ancient Greek: "Ister", Hungarian "Duna", Turkish "Tuna", Latin "Danuvius" or "Danubius", Romanian "Dunăre", Croatian "Dunav", Serbian "Дунав", Slovak "Dunaj", Ukrainian "Dunay".
The Danube is an important waterway. Ocean ships can go up to Brăila in Romania. River boats can go Kehlheim in Bavaria. Smaller ships can go up to Ulm. 
There are three artificial waterways built on the Danube: 

</doc>
<doc id="10272" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10272" title="Main">
Main

The Main (pronounced in German like the English word "mine") is a river in Germany, 524 km in length, and one of the bigger tributaries of the Rhine river. Its average discharge at Frankfurt East Harbour is 190 cubic metres/second. It flows through the Bundesländer (states) of Bavaria, Hesse and 25 Kilometers along the border of Bavaria with Baden-Württemberg. The biggest city on the Main is Frankfurt, others are Bayreuth, Bamberg, Würzburg, Hanau and Offenbach. The mid Main valley is characterised by many vineyards. It is part of the region of Franken. 
The name of the river has nothing to do with the English word "main", which means "most important", or the French word "main", which means "hand". The river was named "Mogin" by the ancient celts after their god Mogon. Later, the Romans called the river "Moenus" in their language. In the Middle Ages, this name became "Meyn" and later "Main".

</doc>
<doc id="10274" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10274" title="Weser">
Weser

The Weser is a river of north-western Germany. Formed at Hannoversch Münden by the confluence of the Fulda and Werra rivers, it flows through Bremen to the North Sea, and has a length of 440 km. Together with the Werra, its length is 730 km.

</doc>
<doc id="10277" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10277" title="Suicide">
Suicide

Suicide is when a person chooses to kill themselves. When someone kills themselves, people say that they have "committed suicide" or "completed suicide." When a person thinks about killing themselves, the person is described as suicidal. 
When people start having thoughts about killing themselves, it is a medical emergency. They should get a suicide risk assessment as soon as possible. They should not be left alone.
There are many reasons why a person might think about committing suicide. Most people who are suicidal have some type of mental condition or illness. They may have a chronic condition, which means it has been going on for a long time. But it may be an acute condition which means the first symptoms of mental illness happened rather quickly.
Depression is the mental illness that most often causes a person to have suicidal thoughts. Depression may also be a symptom of other mental or medical disorders.
Depression, which can lead to suicidal thoughts, has many possible causes. For example, it may also be caused by stress, and difficult events in a person's life, like losing a job or getting sick.
Suicide is one of the top three causes of death for young people aged 15–35 years-old. It is the second most common and the second leading cause of death for college students. Every 3 seconds, a person somewhere in the world tries to kill themselves. Every 40 seconds, some commits suicide. For every suicide, at least six other people are seriously affected.(WHO 2000)
Although depression is the main factor in suicide, it is also treatable and suicide is often preventable.
There are many risk factors for suicide. However, it is important to remember that risk factors are not the same as causes. Risk factors do not "cause" suicide or suicidal thoughts. They only make it more likely that some people with those risk factors "may" become suicidal. If a person has a risk factor, that does not mean they are going to become suicidal.
Most people who commit suicide have a mental disorder. Different studies found different rates, between 85%-95%. Depressive disorders account for about 80 percent of these numbers; schizophrenia, ten percent; and dementia and delirium about five percent.
Among people who have a mental disorder, 25% also have alcohol abuse issues. People who abuse alcohol have a 50% greater risk of suicide compared to those who do not.
While acts of self-harm are not considered suicide attempts, a person who self-harms may be more likely to commit suicide.
Substance abuse is the second most common reason for suicide and feeling suicidal. Only two serious mental illnesses - depression and bipolar disorder - cause more harm. A person is at greater risk for suicide whether they have been using drugs for a long time or just a short time. When a drug abuser is also sufffering from great sadness or grief, suicide is even more common.
More than half of suicides are at least partly due to alcohol or drug use. About one-fourth of suicides are committed by those sick with drug addiction or alcoholism. In teenagers and youth, the percent is even higher.
Problem gamblers have more suicidal ideation and make more suicide attempts compared to the general population. (Problem gambling is gambling that causes major problems in a person's life.)
If a person becomes a problem gambler earlier in life, they have a higher risk of suicide for the rest of their life. Gambling-related suicide attempts are usually made by older people with gambling problems. Substance use and mental disorders increase the risk of suicide even more in people with problem gambling.
There is a link between suicidality and medical conditions, including chronic pain, mild brain injury, (MBI) or traumatic brain injury (TBI). People with these conditions had a higher rate of suicide that was not caused by depression or alcohol abuse. People with more than one medical condition had an even higher risk of suicide.
Problems with sleeping, such as insomnia and sleep apnea, may be risk factors for depression and suicide. In some people, the sleep problem itself, not depression, may be what increases their risk for depression.
People being treated for mood disorders should be checked by a doctor. This should include a physical examination and blood tests. This can make sure the person's mood disorder is not caused by a medical problem. Many medical conditions can cause problems with mood and thinking. Seeing a doctor will also help make sure that it is safe to prescribe medications for the person's mood disorder.
Some mental disorders that are risk factors for suicide may be partly caused by problems in the brain and body.
Even if they have the same risk factors, some people are at a higher risk for suicide than others. This is partly because of genetic inheritance. Genetics causes about 30–50% of the difference in suicide risk among different people. For example, a person whose parent committed suicide is much more likely to try to kill themselves. Epigenetics may also affect suicide risk.
How the media shows news stories of suicide may have a negative effect and trigger the possibility of copycat suicides (this is called the Werther effect). This risk is greater in teenagers and young adults.
The opposite of the Werther effect is the Papageno effect. This means that the media can help make suicide less likely if they cover good ways of dealing with stress and difficult things in life.
A person is also more likely to complete suicide if:
Protective factors make it less likely that a person will commit suicide. They help "protect" a person from the risk of suicide. They can also help protect a suicidal person from the effects of suicidal thinking.
Protective factors can be "internal", such as a person's personal strengths and beliefs. For example:
Protective factors can also be "external," such as a person's relationships and life situation. These factors can include:
Protective factors are as important to identify as risk factors. Just as risk factors can be reduced, protective factors can be increased. 
Suicide prevention tries to decrease the number of suicides by using protective measures. Some prevention strategies make it harder for people to get the most common things used to commit suicide. This includes taking away guns, poisons, and drugs.
Studies have shown that good treatment of depression, alcohol abuse, and drug abuse can decrease the number of suicides. So does follow-up contact with those who have made a suicide attempt.
In many countries, people who are at high risk of hurting themselves can check themselves into a hospital emergency department. In some countries or states, a doctor, judge, or police officer can force a person to go to the hospital if they seem suicidal, even if the person does not want to go. The person will be watched closely at the hospital to make sure they do not hurt themselves. A doctor or mental health professional will decide whether the person needs to go to a psychiatric hospital.
"SOS Signs of Suicide" is a suicide prevention program used in secondary schools for students between 13 to 17 years old. The program educations students about suicide, and tests them for suicide risk. Students who have done this program make less suicide attempts than students who have not done the program.
Suicide hotlines and crisis intervention centers help students who are at high risk. They help people who have suicidal thoughts.
A suicide risk assessment looks at how likely a person is to attempt suicide. A good assessment can help prevent a suicide. It is also the first step in coming up with a treatment plan. Even though suicide risk assessments are very important, they are usually not done. Many mental health care workers have little or no training in how to do a suicide risk assessment.
Worldwide suicide rates have increased by 60% in the past 45 years, mainly in the developing countries. As of 2006:
According to 2007 information, suicides happen twice as often as homicides in the United States. Suicide is the 11th leading cause of death in the country, ahead of liver disease and Parkinson's disease.
Suicide rates vary a great deal across the world. Lithuania has the highest suicide rate.
30% of deaths by suicide are by people who are intoxicated.(
The most common ways of committing suicide are not the same in every country. In different areas, they include hanging, pesticide poisoning, and firearms.
A 2008 report compared 56 countries, using information from the World Health Organization. It found that:
Other people in the world commit suicide by:
Sometimes, suicidal people do something that will make another person kill them. For example, a suicidal person might point a gun at a police officer, so the police officer will shoot the person in self-defense. This is commonly called "suicide by cop."
Modern medicine treats suicide as a mental health issue. When a person starts having many thoughts about killing themselves, it is considered a medical emergency.
The Abrahamic religions (like Christianity, Judaism, and Islam) think that life is sacred. They believe that when a person kills themselves, they are murdering what God has made. For this reason, many followers of Abrahamic religions thinks that when a person commits suicide, they will go to Hell.
The Dharmic and Taoist religions (like Buddhism, Hinduism, Jainism, Taoism, Confucianism, and Shinto) believe that someone who commits suicide will be reincarnated in the next life with a less enlightened soul. However, many people of these religions are more likely to commit suicide because they believe that there will be a next life. They think that by committing suicide, they may have a better chance in the next life.
There are several famous examples of suicide attacks in history. The Kamikazes were one example. They were Japanese fighter pilots during World War II, who would try to kill American soldiers by crashing their planes into American ships. By crashing their planes, they would kill themselves as well.
The September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks on the United States were also done by suicide attackers. They flew planes into the World Trade Center buildings and the Pentagon.
Learn more about suicide and how to get help for yourself or others
Hotlines

</doc>
<doc id="10278" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10278" title="Balkans">
Balkans

The Balkans is the historic and geographic area, a peninsula in southeastern Europe. The region has a combined area of 550,000 km² and an approximate population of 55 million people. The region takes its name from the Balkan Mountains which run through the centre of Bulgaria into eastern Serbia.
The Balkans are connected by water on three sides: the Black Sea to the east and branches of the Mediterranean Sea to the south and west (including the Adriatic, Ionian, Aegean and Marmara seas).
The identity of the Balkans is dominated by its geography; historically the area was known as a crossroads of several cultures. It has been a meeting point between the Latin and Greek parts of the Roman Empire. It became an area where Orthodox and Catholic Christianity met, as well as the meeting point between Islam and Christianity. Many Jewish people fled here from Inquisition.
In most of the English-speaking, western world, the countries commonly included in the Balkan region are:
Other countries not included in the Balkan region that are close to it and/or play or have played an important role in the region's geopolitics, culture and history:
 
See also the Black Sea Regional organizations
The region's principal nationalities include:
The region's principal religions are (Eastern Orthodox and Catholic) Christianity and Islam. A variety of different traditions of each faith are practiced, with each of the Eastern Orthodox countries having its own national church with its own patriarch.
Eastern Orthodoxy is the principal religion in the following countries:
Roman Catholicism is the principal religion in the following countries:
Islam is the principal religion in the following countries:
The following countries have many religious groups which exceed 10% of the total population:
For more detailed information and a precise ethnic breakdown see articles about particular states:

</doc>
<doc id="10281" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10281" title="Bicentennial">
Bicentennial

A bicentennial is the two hundredth year of something. In the United States, bicentennial is commonly is used to refer to the year 1976. This is because 1976 is two hundred years after the country was started in 1776. In Australia it commonly means on of two bicentennials. The first, in 1970, was the two hundredth anniversary of James Cook finding Australia. The second, in 1988 was the two hundredth anniversary of the first white settlement on the continent.

</doc>
<doc id="10282" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10282" title="Shropshire">
Shropshire

Shropshire is a county in England. It has no cities and only a few large towns - Shrewsbury, Telford, Ludlow and Oswestry. The county is very rural and there are many hills, forests, farms and rivers. The county is also landlocked (has no coast).
Shrewsbury is the county town of Shropshire, but Telford is the largest town in the county. Ironbridge Gorge is a famous area of the county and is a tourist location, because it was here where industry began and spread across the world, over 200 years ago. There is the very first iron bridge there, as well as many museums.

</doc>
<doc id="10286" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10286" title="Kermit the Frog">
Kermit the Frog

Kermit the Frog is a Muppet created by Jim Henson. Kermit was Henson's trademark fictional character. He was originally performed by Henson himself. Since Henson's death, Kermit has been performed by Steve Whitmire. 
Kermit has appeared on many TV shows including "Sesame Street", "The Muppet Show", Sam and Friends, The Ed Sullivan Show, and "Muppet Babies". Kermit has also appeared in several films and has been a guest speaker.

</doc>
<doc id="10288" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10288" title="Cotton">
Cotton

Cotton is soft fiber that grows with the seeds of the cotton plant. (Fiber is long and thin, like hair.) After the cotton fiber is gathered from the plant, it can be made into thread. The cotton thread can then be made into cloth. The cloth can be used to make clothes for people and many other things. Cotton clothing is very nice to wear, especially in hot weather, and is easy to move around in cotton sweaters and etc.
There are different types of cotton plants. Some cotton plants grow wild in tropical and subtropical areas of the world. This is how cotton was discovered many years ago. Most of the cotton gathered to make cloth comes from crops grown on cotton farms. Cotton farms can be found in Africa, Asia, Europe, Australia, and the Americas. Cotton soaks up to 24-27 of its own weight in water (very absorbent). All parts of cotton plants are useful.
Cotton is in the mallow family and produces delicate, lovely flowers. Other members of the mallow family include hollyhocks and hibiscus, used to brighten gardens all over the world. The cotton fiber forms around the seeds of the cotton plant and is helps carry the seeds long distances on the wind so that the plant can distribute itself. Early humans realized that the soft, fluffy fibers might be suitable for textile use and began to breed the plant, selecting for fluffy, easily spun varieties.
Cotton is a natural fiber harvested from the cotton plant. Cotton is one of the oldest fibers under human cultivation, with traces of cotton over 7,000 years old recovered from archaeological sites. Cotton is also one of the most used natural fibers in existence today, with consumers everywhere wearing and using cotton for various purposes. Millions of acres globally are devoted to the production of cotton, whether it be new world cotton, with longer, smoother fibers, or the shorter and coarser old world varieties.
After harvesting, cotton must be combed to remove the seeds. This was a laborious process until the industrial revolution and invention of the cotton gin, which quickly separates the seeds from the fiber and combs them for spinning. While a single cotton fiber is not terribly strong, when multiple curling fibers are straightened and twisted together, they form a strong, smooth thread that can be knitted or woven, as well as dyed.

</doc>
<doc id="10289" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10289" title="Windows 1.0">
Windows 1.0

Windows 1.0 was one of the first operating environments that used pictures instead of text. As well as being the first ever Microsoft Windows Operating system It was made by Microsoft. It was released in 1985 for microcomputers that were "PC compatible "and running MS-DOS.

</doc>
<doc id="10290" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10290" title="Hewlett-Packard">
Hewlett-Packard

Hewlett Packard (HP) is a computer technology company founded in 1939 by Bill Hewlett and Dave Packard. It is based in Palo Alto, California. They are best known for making computers and computer hardware such as inkjet printers, laser printers, all-in-one printers, scanners and digital cameras.

</doc>
<doc id="10291" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10291" title="Eminem">
Eminem

Marshall Bruce Mathers III (born October 17, 1972) better known by his stage name Eminem (written as EMINƎM) and also as Slim Shady, is an American rapper, record producer, and songwriter. Eminem released his eighth studio album on November 5, 2013. It is called "The Marshall Mathers LP 2" and is a sequel to "The Marshall Mathers LP". Eminem is currently signed to Interscope Records.
Eminem started rapping for a group in his hometown of Detroit called Soul Intent in 1992. In 1996, he made his first studio album which was called "Infinite", released by Web Entertainment. It did not sell many copies. In 1999, he released his world-renowned album "The Slim Shady LP" after he was signed to Aftermath Records with Dr Dre. A year later, he released his controversial third album "The Marshall Mathers LP."
His fourth album, "The Eminem Show", was released in 2002. It also got critical and commerical success. "Encore" was released in 2004 and sold well depsite being seen as a step down in quality. Eminem then went on hiatus for a few years while dealing with personal issues. He returned in 2009 with the album "Relapse".
His seventh album "Recovery" came out in 2010 and received huge commercial success. His eighth album is "The Marshall Mathers LP 2" from 2013.
Eminem is often called the 'Best Rapper Alive' and was named 'King Of Hip-Hop' of 2011, beating fellow hip-hop stars Lil Wayne, Jay-Z and Kanye West. He is the best-selling hip hop artist of all time and one of the best-selling artists of all time.
Eminem starred in a movie called "8 Mile", which is semi-autobiographical (a movie about himself but not fully). He wrote the song "Lose Yourself" for the movie. The song won the Academy Award for Best Original Song.
Eminem has one biological daughter named Hailie Jade Scott Mathers by ex-wife Kimberly Anne Scott Mathers. Kimberly and Eminem married in 1999. After debuting the 2000 hit, Kim, they separated the following year. He has adopted two of his nieces as daughters. He is the legal guardian of his half-brother, Nathan.
Eminem has released 8 studio albums:

</doc>
<doc id="10292" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10292" title="Bratwurst">
Bratwurst

A bratwurst is a kind of food. It is a type of sausage. It is composed of pork or beef, and sometimes veal. 
"Bratwurst" is German, from Old High German "brätwurst", from "brät" which is a derivative of the Old High German word "brato". "Brato" originally meant "hacked meat", "intestine"s. The other part of the word is "wurst" which means sausage.
Though originally Celtic in origin, the German "Bratwurst" comes from Franconia, specifically Weißenburg-Treuchtlingen. 
There are many different kinds of these sausages. All are special in their own way:
A "Bratwurst meal" often is eaten with sauerkraut, mashed potatoes and roasted onions. Sometimes, it is also served with a potato sauce, or a potato salad.
Today, most kinds of Bratwurst are prepared by roasting them. Depending on the kind of Bratwurst, it may have been cooked beforehand. Sausages that use raw meat, and that are not roasted or cooked before they are eaten are usually not called Bratwurst. 
The sausage is usually eaten with a hot or sweet German mustard or sliced and eaten as Currywurst. Sometimes, some hot French mustard is served as well. Bratwurst is almost always served with a hard German roll and usually accompanied by a beer. It is a popular snack in German-speaking countries, where it is sold at various fast food outlets and is often consumed while standing.
In the United States, bratwurst are usually eaten with bread (a hot dog bun or a hardroll, for example) and topped with mustard and/or many of the other condiments often eaten with hot dogs, including onions (grilled and/or raw), relish, sauerkraut, etc. The bratwurst is occasionally eaten with a pair of brat links nestled in a buttered hardroll with these same toppings, which is called a 'double brat'.
Within the US, bratwurst is strongly identified with Milwaukee, Wisconsin, and other areas in a band stretching from the north side of Chicago up through Minnesota and scattered pockets elsewhere in the Midwest. 
They are especially popular in areas of the US where German-Americans settled in large numbers, like Sheboygan, Wisconsin, which is informally known as the "Bratwurst Capital of the World" because of the city and county's very strong German roots and connections to bratwurst. Johnsonville Foods, the nation's largest bratwurst maker, is based in the nearby unincorporated village of Johnsonville. The city also celebrates Sheboygan Bratwurst Days, a community festival held on the first Thursday-Saturday of August each year that celebrates the bratwurst. Other traditional Wisconsin brat manufacturers include Klement's Sausage Company and Usinger's, both of which are based in Milwaukee.
The city of Madison, Wisconsin, holds an annual festival billed as the World's Largest Brat Fest. The four-day charity event sees tens of thousands of brats sold by "celebrity" cashiers, usually local television, radio, and government personalities. Brat Fest's self-proclaimed world record is 189,432 brats consumed during the 2004 event.
Another town with German-American roots associated with bratwurst is Bucyrus, Ohio, which is known for its unique recipe incorporating fennel. It holds a bratwurst festival annually in mid-August attracting over 100,000 visitors annually. 
Bratwurst(s) is/are often simply called "brat(s)".

</doc>
<doc id="10294" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10294" title="1909">
1909

1909 (MCMIX) was a common year starting on Friday of the Gregorian calendar. It was the last year of the 1900s.

</doc>
<doc id="10298" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10298" title="Guatemala">
Guatemala

Guatemala is a country in Central America. 
It is known for its mixed culture, a product of both Mayan and Spanish cultures, from the colonial period. Guatemala is known for its ever-changing weather, a product of the mountain range which crosses the center of the country. Guatemala has many languages, a total of 23. Because of its natural beauty, it is a popular tourist destination.
The capital of Guatemala is Guatemala City. The country suffers from extreme poverty, corruption, drug traffication, and discrimination. 
Guatemala is the world's largest producer and exporter of cardamom.
It is the country with the largest population in Central America. Its neighbors are the countries Belize, Mexico, El Salvador and Honduras. More than fourteen million people live in the 22 Guatemalan departments. Most of the population is made up of mestizo (mixed race) people, who are a combination of Native and European people. The population of the Mestizo people make up 42% of the population. The native Mayan people make up for 39% of the total population, while 20% are direct descendants of Spanish and German people.
Most people believe that Guatemala City was the first choice, but the capital was moved several times. This was caused by the natural disasters. The first city was destroyed when the volcano Volcan de Agua erupted, forcing the move to what today is called Antigua Guatemala. This was destroyed by earthquakes. Finally, the capital was moved to what we know as Guatemala City.

</doc>
<doc id="10306" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10306" title="Tenochtitlan">
Tenochtitlan

Tenochtitlan was the capital city of the Aztec Empire. The Aztecs built Tenochtitlan around 1325, right on a lake called Lake Texcoco.
As the Empire grew, so did Tenochtitlan. By the early 1500s, at least 200,000 people lived in the city. This made Tenochtitlan the largest city in the Americas before Christopher Columbus arrived.
Tenochtitlan was the center of the Aztec government and religion. It was also a very big trading center. When the Spanish arrived in 1519, they guessed that 60,000 people came to the market in Tenochtitlan every day. People bought and sold many things there, including slaves (prisoners of war from states the Aztecs had taken over). The entire city was decorated with art, architecture, and stone sculptures.
The city had a huge pyramid called the Templo Mayor (Great Temple). At the top of the Temple, there were two small rooms. In these rooms, the Aztecs sacrificed people to two of their most important gods: "Huitzilopochtli", the god of war and the sun, and "Tlaloc", the rain god. The Aztecs believed that if they did not feed their gods blood, the gods would wither and die, causing the end of the world as they knew it.
The Aztecs had created canals all across the city. By bringing water to Aztec crops, these canals made it possible for the Aztecs to grow much more food than they normally could have. The Aztecs had also made levees to protect the city from flooding, and reservoirs for fresh water.
The Aztecs also built chinampas (small rectangular crops floating on lake beds) so that they could create more food to feed the thousands of people who lived around Tenochtitlan. In addition, they built waterways and dams so that they could receive fresh water, and block out the salty brackish water.
In 1519, Spanish conquistadores led by Hernan Cortes arrived in Tenochtitlan. Cortes was impressed with the city, but still decided to attack it. The Spanish and their Tlaxcalan allies invaded Tenochtitlan, and the city fell in 1521.
Mexico City was built over the ruins of Tenochtitlan.

</doc>
<doc id="10317" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10317" title="Eurovision Song Contest">
Eurovision Song Contest

The Eurovision Song Contest is a song contest run by the European Broadcasting Union that started in 1956. Different singers representing countries in Europe compete every year. 
Famous past winners include ABBA (representing their native Sweden) and Céline Dion (though Canadian, she represented Switzerland).
The latest winner of the Eurovision Song Contest is Jamala of Ukraine. She won the 2016 contest in Stockholm, Sweden, with the song "1944".

</doc>
<doc id="10318" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10318" title="Malleability">
Malleability

Malleability is a substance's ability to deform under pressure (compressive stress). If malleable, a material may be flattened into thin sheets by hammering or rolling. 
Malleability is a physical property of matter, usually metals. It usually applies to the family groups 1 to 12 on the modern periodic table of elements. It is the ability of a solid to bend or be hammered into other shapes without breaking. Examples of malleable metals are gold, iron, aluminum, copper, silver, and lead.
Gold and silver are highly malleable. When a piece of hot iron is hammered it takes the shape of a sheet. The property is not seen in non-metals. Non-malleable metals may break apart when struck by a hammer. Malleable metals usually bend and twist in various shapes.

</doc>
<doc id="10321" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10321" title="Gay">
Gay

Gay is a word whose original meaning was happy or joyful. In modern English it usually means homosexual. This meaning is more common now. The word "gay" describes a person who is sexually attracted to people of the same sex. They are often also romantically interested in people of the same sex. This means males who like other males or females who like other females. The word "gay" can mean any homosexual person, but sometimes it specifically means homosexual men. Homosexual women are sometimes called "lesbian" instead.
Most people in the gay community use "gay" only when talking about gay people. Outside the gay community, it is sometimes used as slang by young, illiterate, , and bigoted people to mean something is weak, stupid, or less important. For example, "That is so gay!" is used to say something looks or acts stupid. They may also use the word "queer" in the same way. This is considered immature and is not often used by adults. It is also considered offensive to homosexual people.
Sometimes people also use this to mean something is very colorful. This is because of the original meaning of the word. Sometimes even gay people themselves use the word this way. 

</doc>
<doc id="10324" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10324" title="Potsdam">
Potsdam

Potsdam is a German city near Berlin. It is 26 km southwest of Berlin. It is the capital of the state of Brandenburg. In 2005 about 146,635 people lived in this city.

</doc>
<doc id="10325" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10325" title="Bremen">
Bremen

Bremen is a city in the north of Germany. It is the capital of the state of Bremen.
Bremen has about 545,000 inhabitants. It has an oceanic climate ("Cfb" in the Koeppen climate classification).
The city' official name today includes the name "Hansestadt" (hanseatic city) in memory of its history, where it has been important part in the hanseatic league. The architecture of the city and the region as well is influenced by this historic period.
Other hanseatic cities today are: Hamburg, Rostock, Wismar, Stralsund, Lübeck, Greifswald and Demmin.

</doc>
<doc id="10326" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10326" title="Wiesbaden">
Wiesbaden

Wiesbaden is a German city near Frankfurt am Main. It is the capital of the federal state of Hesse. Wiesbaden is situated on the right (north) bank of the Rhine (German: "Rhein"), near the city of Mainz (about away from Wiesbaden centre) the opposite side of the river, and a short distance, about , from Frankfurt am Main, to the east. Wiesbaden has about 274,000 inhabitants (2005).
Wiesbaden has an oceanic climate ("Cfb" in the Koeppen climate classification).

</doc>
<doc id="10327" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10327" title="Hanover">
Hanover

Hanover (German: Hannover) is a German city. It is the capital of the federal state of Lower Saxony. Hanover has 522,944 inhabitants (1 February 2007).
In Hanover there are some big industry companies like Volkswagen (Cars and Vans), Continental (tyres), Varta (batteries) and TUI (tourism).
Hanover has a very modern zoo and an international airport.
There are some very big fairs in Hanover like the CeBIT - "Ce"ntre of "O"ffice, "I"nformation and "T"elecommunication (B is for Büro that means office) and the traditional Hanover fair that shows classical industrial products.
In the year 2000 the Expo-2000 was in Hanover.
Hanover has a large forest near the inner city, it is called the "Eilenriede". There is also a lake (the "Maschsee") of about three km length and 500 m width near the city centre. The famous gardens of Herrenhausen (Herrenhäuser Gärten) are also in Hanover. The gardens were heavily destroyed in WWII, but they are currently under reconstruction.
People in Hannover get around town by using the Hannover Hauptbahnhof, which has been around since 1843.
The mayor of the city is Stefan Weil who followed Herbert Schmalstieg in 2006. Both are from the social democratic party SPD. The city has been administered by social democratic city councils since the 1950s.
The (new) town hall is one of the famous buildings in the city, others are the Marktkirche (market church), the old (medieval) town hall, some castles like the "Leineschloss" and the "Welfenschloss".
Hanover is located at the river Leine.
Some internationally famous inhabitants of the town are:
The classic rock band "Scorpions", the former German chancellor Gerhard Schröder and the association football player Per Mertesacker.
Hannover has an Oceanic climate (Köppen climate classification).
Hanover has a famous football club, Hannover 96, since 2002 (again) a member of the first German football league, the Bundesliga. Its home stadium is the AWD-Arena (capacity: 49000). Hanover is also a center for ice hockey.

</doc>
<doc id="10328" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10328" title="Düsseldorf">
Düsseldorf

Düsseldorf is a German city. It lies on the east bank of the river Rhine. It is the capital of the state of North Rhine-Westphalia. Düsseldorf has about 580,000 inhabitants in an agglomeration of about 1.3 million people. The city has 1 international airport, a university and is the seat of a lot of international companies.
In the 7th or 8th century there was a fishing or farming settlement at the place where the little river Dussel (which gave the name to the city) flows into the Rhine. Kaiserswerth is the first part of the city to be mentioned in writing. This was in 1135. Kaiserswerth became part of Düsseldorf in 1927.
In 1186 the Counts of Berg got to rule Düsseldorf and they made it their residence in 1280.
On 14th of August 1288 there was a great battle between the Archbishop of Cologne and the Duke of Limburg against the Duke of Brabant and the Count of Berg. The Duke of Brabant won and the Archbishop of Cologne became a prisoner of the Count of Berg. So he could not do anything against Düsseldorf getting the status of a city. So Düsseldorf became a city with full City Rights in 1288.
The Counts of Berg became more and more powerful and Düsseldorf became the capital of the Duchy of Berg-Mark-Kleve-Jülich in 1380.
in 1680 the Dukes of Berg-Kleve-Mark-Jülich died out and after some struggles the Earls of Palatine (they were Prince-Electors) became the new rulers of Düsseldorf. The most important duke of this line was Johann Wilhelm II. (1690-1716), called Jan Wellem. After Johann Wilhelm the Dukes moved to their new seat in Heidelberg, because they also got to rule the Duchy of Bavaria.
In the Napoleonic Wars the French won the Duchy and Düsseldorf. Napoleon gave the Duchy of Berg-Jülich to one of his generals, who married one of his nieces. This general became later King of Naples.
In the Industrial Revolution in the 19th century Düsseldorf grew a lot and had more than 100,000 inhabitants in 1882. This number had doubled by 1892.
Düsseldorf was almost completely destroyed in the World War II. In 1946 Düsseldorf became capital of North Rhine-Westphalia.
Düsseldorf is one of the most important commercial centres in Germany. It has an International Airport, which is the 3rd largest in Germany (after Frankfurt and Munich) with more than 16,000,000 passengers per year. The airport offers 180 destinations on 4 continents, and is served by 70 airlines.
Düsseldorf has two stations in the German high speed train network (Intercity, ICE) - its Central Station and the Airport Station. The Main Station offers international trains to the Netherlands, Belgium, France and Switzerland, too.
North Rhine-Westphalia has the closest network of motorways in Europe. Düsseldorf is one of the crosspoints. Düsseldorf is joined to the interstate motorways A3, A44, A46, A52, A57, A59 and A524.
Düsseldorf is one of the most important economical centres in Germany. It has a regional stock exchange.
More than 170 national financial institutions and 130 insurances work in Düsseldorf.
Two of the four leading mobile phone companies of Germany have their seat in Düsseldorf like 18 internet providers and more than 400 advertising agencies. Düsseldorf is one of the European centres of fashion industry and has one of the most important trading shows.
The TV channels CNN and NBC Giga have their German centres in Düsseldorf.
There is a lot of manufacturing industry too - like the chemical company Henkel.
Düsseldorf is the most important seat for Japanese companies in Europe.
Düsseldorf is one of the cultural centres in Germany. The poet Heinrich Heine was born in Düsseldorf in 1797. The classical musicians and composers Clara and Robert Schumann lived most of their lifetime in Düsseldorf and the romantic composer Felix Mendelssohn-Bartholdy spent two years in the town in the mid-1830s.
The Arts Academy of Düsseldorf is very famous. The modern artist Paul Klee and the modern sculptor Joseph Beuys worked there.
Düsseldorf has a lot of museums, especially for Arts of the 20th and the 21st century. Most important is the Arts Collection of North Rhine-Westphalia. "Kraftwerk", the first techno band worldwide and the punk rock band Die Toten Hosen come from Düsseldorf, too.
Düsseldorf has a university, the Heinrich-Heine-University with nearly all subjects in mathematics, sciences, philosophy, history, languages, economy, law, and medicine. Düsseldorf has also a university of applied sciences, the Fachhochschule Düsseldorf. These two institutes have almost 30.000 students.
The Clara und Robert Schumann Musikschule is a well-known college for classical music education. There is one technical college and a lot of other colleges, too.
Düsseldorf has an opera, more than 30 cinemas, a well-known theatre, and a rich cultural scene.
The traditional sport in Germany is Football (soccer). For a long time Fortuna Düsseldorf 1895, the most traditional football team in Düsseldorf (est. 1895), was very successful and won, for example, the European Cup, after one year back in the Bundesliga Fortuna went down to the German 2nd division in 2013.
Most successful sports team in Düsseldorf is the icehockey team of the DEG Metro Stars, former DEG - Düsseldorfer Eislauf Gemeinschaft, the most successful icehockey team in Germany for a long time with famous players like John-Peter Lee, Chris Valentine or Helmut de Raaf.
Another very successful sports team from Düsseldorf was Rhine Fire, the American footballers of the city, who won the World Ball four times until the European Football League, called NFL Europa was closed down in 2007.
Düsseldorf has one university, the Heinrich-Heine-University with subjects in sciences, arts, medicine, languages, history, laws, social sciences and economics, an colllege with subjects in engineering and social siences, the Fachhochschule Düsseldorf, an well-known academy of fine arts, the Kunstakademie Düsseldorf, a musics college, the Robert-Schumann-Musikhochschule and a lot of other colleges in applied fields.

</doc>
<doc id="10330" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10330" title="Mainz">
Mainz

Mainz is a German city. It is the capital of the state of Rhineland-Palatinate.
Mainz is on the left side of the river Rhine, on the right side is the city Wiesbaden. Mainz has about 203,000 people. Its main economic product is wine. It has an oceanic climate ("Cfb" in the Koeppen climate classification).
Mainz has some universities:

</doc>
<doc id="10331" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10331" title="Kiel">
Kiel

Kiel () is a city in the north of Germany. It is the capital of the state of Schleswig-Holstein. It has a population of 239,526 people. It has an oceanic climate ("Cfb" in the Koeppen climate classification).

</doc>
<doc id="10332" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10332" title="Frankfurt (disambiguation)">
Frankfurt (disambiguation)

Frankfurt is the name of two cities in Germany:
Historical territories and entities, centered in Frankfurt am Main:
Historical territories and entititie, centered in Frankfurt (Oder):
There is a city with a similar spelling:
Franfurt is the family name of:

</doc>
<doc id="10333" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10333" title="Fred Rogers">
Fred Rogers

Fred McFeely Rogers (March 20, 1928 – February 27, 2003) was an American television personality, puppeteer, educator, Presbyterian minister, composer, songwriter, author, and activist. Rogers was known for creating, hosting, and composing the theme music for the educational preschool television series "Mister Rogers' Neighborhood". He hosted the show from 1968 until his retirement in 2001.
Rogers was born in Latrobe, Pennsylvania. Originally he studied to be a minister, but Rogers did not like the way television was for children. He made an effort to change this when he began to write for and perform on local Pittsburgh-area shows dedicated to youth. WQED created his own show in 1968 and it was shown nationwide by Eastern Educational Television Network. Over the career of thirty years on television, Rogers became an icon of American children's entertainment and education. He was also known for his activism of various public causes.
Rogers received the Presidential Medal of Freedom, some forty honorary degrees, and a Peabody Award. He was added into the Television Hall of Fame, was recognized by two Congressional resolutions, and was ranked No. 35 among "TV Guide"'s Fifty Greatest TV Stars of All Time. Several buildings and artworks in Pennsylvania are dedicated to his memory, and the Smithsonian Institution displays one of his trademark sweaters as a "Treasure of American History".
Rogers was born in Latrobe, Pennsylvania, 40 miles (65 km) southeast of Pittsburgh. His parents were James and Nancy Rogers. He had one sister, Elaine. Early in life he spent much of his free time with his maternal grandfather, Fred McFeely, who liked music. He would often sing along as his mother would play the piano and he himself began playing at five.
Rogers graduated from Latrobe High School (1946). He studied at Dartmouth College from 1946 through 1948, then transferred to Rollins College in Winter Park, Florida, where he earned a B.A. in Music Composition in 1951. In 1963, Rogers graduated from Pittsburgh Theological Seminary and was ordained a minister in the United Presbyterian Church in the U.S.A..
Rogers found children's television programming of his day demeaning. For example, he saw people throwing pies at each other. He thought this was not nice. So he created "Mister Rogers' Neighborhood" for preschoolers. 
His programme featured a cast of hand puppets, live actors (such as the postman), and live guests. They explored wholesome, meaningful values in skits and quiet talk. "Mister Rogers' Neighborhood" began airing in 1968 and ran for 895 episodes; the last set of new episodes was taped in December 2000 and began airing in August 2001. At its peak, in 1985, 8% of U.S households tuned into the show. Rogers also performed much of the programme's music. 
"Mister Rogers' Neighborhood" won four Emmy awards, and Rogers himself was presented with a Lifetime Achievement Award at the 1997 Daytime Emmys.
At Rollins, he met Sara Joanne Byrd, an Oakland, Florida native. They married on June 9, 1952. They had two sons, James (b. 1959) and John (b. 1961). 
Rogers had an apartment in New York City and a summer home on Nantucket island in Massachusetts. Rogers was red–green color blind, swam every morning, and neither smoked nor drank. He was a vegetarian on ethical grounds, stating "I don't want to eat anything that has a mother." Despite rumors, he never served in the military.
Rogers was diagnosed with stomach cancer in December 2002, not long after his retirement. He had surgery on January 6, 2003, which was unsuccessful. A week earlier, he served as grand marshal of the Tournament of Roses Parade, with Art Linkletter and Bill Cosby.
Rogers died on the morning of February 27, 2003, at his home with his wife by his side, less than a month before he would have turned 75. 
More than 2,700 people went to his memorial service at Heinz Hall, including former "Good Morning America" host David Hartman, Teresa Heinz Kerry, philanthropist Elsie Hillman, PBS President Pat Mitchell, "Arthur" creator Marc Brown, and "The Very Hungry Caterpillar" author-illustrator Eric Carle. Speakers remembered Rogers' love of children, devotion to his religion, enthusiasm for music, and quirks. Teresa Heinz Kerry said of Rogers, "He never condescended, just invited us into his conversation. He spoke to us as the people we were, not as the people others wished we were." Rogers is buried at Unity Cemetery in Latrobe.

</doc>
<doc id="10337" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10337" title="Sri Yukteswar Giri">
Sri Yukteswar Giri

Sri Yukteswar Giri (May 10, 1855 - March 9, 1936) was an Indian guru and swami. His real name was Priya Nath Karar and was born in Serampore, West-Bengal, India.
He is one of the famous people who appears on the cover of the Beatles' Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band. 
He became known through "Autobiography of a Yogi" as the guru of the author Paramahansa Yogananda. 
George Harrison, the beatle, was initiated in kriya yoga in USA in Self-Realization Fellowship, an organization created by the known writer and great spiritual master in the west Paramahansa Yogananda. 

</doc>
<doc id="10338" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10338" title="Aleister Crowley">
Aleister Crowley

Aleister Crowley (12 October 1875 – 1 December 1947) was a British mystic, occultist, writer, poet, mountain climber and nicknamed "The Wickedest Man In the World.".
He was an influential member in some occult organizations, such as the Golden Dawn, the A∴A∴, and Ordo Templi Orientis (O.T.O.), and is better known today for his occult books and papers. He was bisexual.
Crowley also started a mystical philosophy known as Thelema, the "Abbey of Thelema", and revived the term magick.
Edward Alexander Crowley was born at 36 Clarendon Square in Royal Leamington Spa, Warwickshire, England, between 11:00pm and 11:59 p.m. on 12 October 1875.
In 1895, he went to Trinity College, Cambridge after going to Malvern College and Tonbridge School. In his three years at Cambridge, his father died and left him a large sum of money.
In December 1896, Crowley took interest in occultism and by the next year, he began reading books on alchemy and mysticism. A year later, he published his first book of poetry ("Aceldama"), and left Cambridge, only to meet Julian L. Baker who introduced him to Samuel Mathers and the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn.
In November 1899, Crowley bought Boleskine House in Foyers on the shore of Loch Ness in Scotland.
Samuel Mathers, acting leader of the Golden Dawn organization, acted as his early mentor in western magic. Crowley lost faith in his mentor's abilities in 1900 but did not officially break with Mathers until 1904.
Crowley died of a respiratory infection in a Hastings boarding house on 1 December 1947 at the age of 72. He had been addicted to heroin after being prescribed morphine for his asthma and bronchitis many years earlier.
Readings at the cremation service in Brighton included "Hymn to Pan", and newspapers referred to the service as a black mass.

</doc>
<doc id="10339" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10339" title="Karlheinz Stockhausen">
Karlheinz Stockhausen

Karlheinz Stockhausen (22 August 1928-5 December 2007) was a German composer. He was the most important German composer in the years after World War II. During this time composers were exploring many new ideas. Stockhausen used serialism in new ways, and he invented many ways of composing electronic music. His works include an opera cycle "Licht" which consists of seven operas.
Stockhausen was born near Cologne. His father was a village school teacher. His mother was put in a sanatarium in 1933 where she died in 1942. She was probably killed there because the Nazis thought people who were mentally ill should not be allowed to live.
Stockhausen was a young man during the war. He trained to be a teacher and was sent to work in a military hospital near where the army was. His father died fighting in the war. After the war, with no parents, he went to work on a farm. Then, in 1947, he went to study at the Cologne Musikhochschule. He played the piano in bars and clubs and he improvised at the piano when playing for a magician’s magic shows. He was thinking of becoming a writer.
At this time many of Germany’s important composers met every summer in Darmstadt. The course was called Darmstadt Holiday Course for New Music. Stockhausen went there in 1951. There he performed some modern music and met important people such as the music critic and philosopher Theodor Adorno. He heard the music of Messiaen and, soon after marrying, he went to Paris to study with Messiaen. In Paris he met Pierre Boulez and Pierre Schaeffer who was working on musique concrète. He experimented with different sounds that percussion instruments can make, and he started composing electronic music. When he went back to Cologne he worked in a studio for electronic music where he studied communications theory. By this time Stockhausen, Boulez and Nono were the leading composers of avant garde (experimental) music.
Stockhausen made Cologne an important centre for electronic music. He also helped to make the Darmstadt Summer Courses a famous centre for modern music. He did not invite John Cage to lecture there in 1958. This led to disagreements with Boulez and Nono. In California in 1967, Stockhausen married his second wife who was a painter. During the 1960s he bought land in the country near Cologne and had a house built there. Stockhausen did not design the house himself, because he was not an architect.
Stockhausen was by now world famous. He toured the United States and many other countries with a small group of musicians performing modern music. His music was not only listened to by fans of classical music but was also becoming part of popular youth culture. His picture was included on the front cover of the Beatles’s record Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band. The record company Deutsche Grammophon sold more copies of his music than of any other modern composer except Stravinsky.
During the 1970s Stockhausen became even more popular. This was partly because other music, like the other arts, had become political and very left-wing in the 1960s, which made people angry. It was also partly because audiences wanted a change from music that was very complicated, and Stockhausen's music had become much simpler. His most popular compositions are "Tierkreis" (1974–75) and "In Freundschaft" (1977). Stockhausen broke with his publisher and started to publish his music himself. From 1977 to 2003 Stockhausen composed "Licht" ("Light"), a set of seven operas named for the days of the week.
Stockhausen died of heart failure on 5 December 2007 in Kuerten.
In some student works Stockhausen used twelve tone composition. He became interested in Messiaen and his composition "Kreuzspiel" shows Messiaen’s influence. In "Kontra-Punkte" (1953) the music starts with very small bits played by ten instruments. Gradually these little bits come together and at the end the music concentrates on the piano.
From 1953 he worked seriously at electronic music. He thought that electronic music was going to be the music of the future. His "Gesang der Jünglinge" is a multi-track work, using 5 tracks (later reduced to 4). "Gruppen" ("Groups") is a work for three orchestras and three conductors. They sit in different parts of the concert hall and play at different speeds at the same time. His piano piece "Klavierstück XI" ("Piano Piece eleven") shows no influence of John Cage at all. The music is written on a huge sheet of paper and the pianist decides as he plays which part of the music to go to next and how to play it. This means that each performance of the work is different. This is not “chance” music, but "mobile" music.
He continued to experiment with new ideas. "Kontakte" is a work for piano, percussion and electronic music (the tape has been prepared beforehand). He composed “live electronic” music beginning in the 1960s. This means using electronics to change the sound of normal instruments that are amplified. His operatic cycle "Licht" was started in 1977 and took him 26 years to complete. There are seven operas: one for each day of the week. Some of the music for this includes microtonal scales, in which the notes are tuned so that they are less than a semitone apart.

</doc>
<doc id="10340" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10340" title="W. C. Fields">
W. C. Fields

W. C. Fields (January 29, 1880 – December 25, 1946) was an American comic actor. He was known for his recognizable and unique style on stage, movies, and radio. His real name was William Claude Dukenfield and he started his career when he ran away from home at the age of 11.

</doc>
<doc id="10341" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10341" title="Carl Jung">
Carl Jung

Carl Gustav Jung (26 July 1875 – 6 June 1961) was a Swiss psychiatrist and writer. He created many theories and ideas that are still used in psychology today. Psychology is the science of how people think and feel. His kind of psychology was called analytical psychology or "Jungian Analysis".
Jung worked for years with Sigmund Freud, but they stopped working together. This was because they had some arguments about what was more important in psychology.
Jung is famous for many things that he did for psychology. The work he did was important for measuring what kind of personality people have. The test called the Myers Briggs Type Indicator is based on his ideas. He is also famous because of his ideas about the ancients - people from many years ago.
Jung liked to study strange books and sciences. He thought he could learn important things about psychology from them. For example, he liked to study alchemy. Alchemy was an old kind of magic that tried to create gold.
He wrote in academic German, for doctors and psychologists, meaning he could be hard to understand. Most people who study Jung start with his book "Man and His Symbols". Jung wrote this book so that people would be able understand him.
Jung died of an illness in Kuesnacht, Canton of Zurich.

</doc>
<doc id="10342" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10342" title="Edgar Allan Poe">
Edgar Allan Poe

Edgar Allan Poe (January 19, 1809 – October 7, 1849) was an American writer. He wrote horror stories and poems. 
Edgar Allan Poe was born on January 19, 1809. His parents were two touring vaudeville actors, David Poe Jr. and Elizabeth Arnold Hopkins. David left the family under unknown circumstances whilst Poe was an infant. When Poe was two his mother died of tuberculosis, leaving Edgar an orphan. The wealthy John Allan took Edgar into his home in Richmond, Virginia. In 1815, the Allan family moved to England. Young Poe went to an English private school. After five years, the family moved back to Richmond, Virginia.
After moving back to Virginia, Poe entered the University of Virginia in 1826. While there, he gambled, lost money, and went into debt. John Allan became angry, and cut off all contact with Poe. In 1827, Poe published his first work, a collection of poetry titled, "Tamerlane and Other Poems". Poe did not have his name published in the book; it was attributed to "a Bostonian."
Poe enlisted in the army. He used the name Edgar A. Perry and lied about his age. He was successful as a soldier and quickly became a sergeant major. While in the army his foster-mother Frances Allan died. Poe attempted to mend his relationship with John Allan. Poe soon left the army and enrolled at West Point in New York state.
Poe did not enjoy his time at West Point and got very bored. He was expelled in March 1831. At this point, John Allan disowned him. Poe was well-liked by other cadets. They contributed money to pay for Poe to publish a book of his poems called "Al Aaraaf, Tamerlane, and Minor Poems". He soon moved to Baltimore, Maryland.
In Baltimore, Poe lived with his aunt, Maria Poe Clemm. She was the sister of Edgar's real father. Clemm also had a daughter named Virginia Clemm. Virginia admired Poe very much. In 1836, when Virginia was thirteen, she married Poe.
Poe was writing a lot by this time. He sold his first short story in 1832. His writing did not earn very much money. He also worked as an editor for various magazines over the years, becoming very well known for his literary criticism. Poe also was drinking off and on during these years.
In 1842, while Poe was living with Clemm and Virginia in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Virginia became sick with tuberculosis. The family moved to the New York City area in 1843 before settling in The Bronx. On January 29, 1845, Poe published his most famous poem, "The Raven", making him very popular. Virginia died a couple years later on January 30, 1847.
Poe's death is very mysterious. On September 27 1849, Poe left Richmond after a short visit. It is unknown what happened to him until October 3, when he was discovered outside of Gunner's Hall by a man named Joseph W. Walker in Baltimore. He was taken to Washington College Hospital. While in the hospital he became delirious and started seeing hallucinations. He died on October 7 1849, in the hospital. Though it is not known what was his cause of death, there are several possible theories, including congestion of the brain, alcohol withdrawal, tuberculosis, and rabies.
Poe was buried in the grounds of the Westminster Church and Burying Ground after a small funeral with only a few people. On May 17, 1875, Poe was reburied at the front of the churchyard after a city-wide campaign to raise money to build a large monument. He is buried there alongside his wife Virginia, and Virginia's mother Maria Clemm.

</doc>
<doc id="10345" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10345" title="Fred Astaire">
Fred Astaire

Fred Astaire, born Frederick Austerlitz (10 May 1899 – 22 June 1987), was an American dancer, singer and actor. He was the most famous stage, movie and television dancer of his day. 
Astaire started dancing on the stage with his sister Adèle, and when she married he started a movie partnership with Ginger Rogers. After that, he danced with a succession of talented American dancers on movie and on television. He appeared in 32 movies. His movie partners included Eleanor Powell, Ann Miller, Vera-Ellen, Cyd Charisse: all high-class dancers, and on TV with Barrie Chase. Their "An evening with Fred Astaire" won nine Emmy Awards in 1958. 
Many male dancers of the 20th century were influenced by him, and said so. He owed something to the choreography of Hermes Pan, but more to his own perfectionism and relentless practice.
Astaire was also an excellent actor, and a successful, though personally modest, singer. He introduced some of the most celebrated songs from the Great American Songbook. He married Phyllis Potter in 1933; they had two children. After her death, he remarried in 1980 to Robyn Smith, a female jockey 45 years his junior.

</doc>
<doc id="10369" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10369" title="Game Boy Advance">
Game Boy Advance

The Game Boy Advance, commonly abbreviated as GBA, is a 32-bit handheld video game console. It was manufactured by Nintendo. The predecessors to the Game Boy Advance were the Game Boy and Game Boy Color. The Game Boy Advance was eventually succeeded by the Nintendo DS. 
The Game Boy Advance was released in Japan on 21 March, 2001. Nintendo released it in North America on 11 June, 2001 and for Europe on 22 June, 2001.
The Game Boy Advance SP is one of the two Game Boy Advance variations, released in February 2003. It is similar to the original, but it has a "clamshell" design, meaning that it can be folded to open and close. The Game Boy Advance SP has a rechargeable battery, and it does not run on two AA batteries. The Game Boy Advance SP has a backlit screen, meaning it has a bright screen (older versions of the GBA SP have a frontlit screen).
The Game Boy Micro is one of the two variations of the Game Boy Advance. It is smaller than most handhelds and is designed to fit inside coin pockets. It retains a rechargeable battery and backlit screen from the Game Boy Advance SP. The Game Boy Micro removed compatibility with original Game Boy and Game Boy Color games. It also is incompatible with the Nintendo e-Reader. The Game Boy Micro also has a removable face plate for alternative designs.
The Game Boy Micro has a switch on its right side to adjust the volume. If the player presses the L shoulder button, it can be used to adjust the backlit screen between five different brightness levels.

</doc>
<doc id="10375" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10375" title="Ameriie">
Ameriie

Ameriie or Amerie (born Amerie Mi Marie Rogers, January 12, 1980) is an American R&B singer.
Amerie was born to a South Korean mother and African American father. Her first language is Korean.
In 2004, Amerie began dating her manager, Lenny Nicholson. On March 1, 2010, they were engaged. The couple married on June 25, 2011, in an oceanfront ceremony in Anguilla.

</doc>
<doc id="10376" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10376" title="Ben Stein">
Ben Stein

Ben Stein (November 25, 1944) is an American attorney, writer, actor, comedian, and television personality.
He was a lawyer, then speech writer for Richard Nixon and Gerald Ford. He went into show business helping some liberal writers write accurate portrayals of conservatives for a television show. He soon turned to acting, landing his most famous role as a boring teacher in the movie "Ferris Bueller's Day Off". He was also the main person in the 2008 movie "". His nerdy appearance and dead-pan manner have made him a popular fixture on movies and TV till this day. From 1997 to 2003 he had his own game show, "Win Ben Stein's Money". He also wrote many books and had articles that appeared in popular magazines and newspapers. He is also spokesperson for a product named "Clear Eyes".

</doc>
<doc id="10395" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10395" title="Soft rock">
Soft rock

Soft rock is subgenre of rock music. Some people find it lighter and more relaxing than rock and roll while some cannot stand it. Some singers and musicians who sing soft rock are: Bread, The Carpenters and Chicago.

</doc>
<doc id="10405" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10405" title="Angela Merkel">
Angela Merkel

Dr. Angela Dorothea Merkel (born Angela Dorothea Kasner on 17 July 1954, Hamburg) is a German politician, and has been Chancellor of Germany since 22 November 2005.
She was born in Hamburg, and grew up in the German Democratic Republic where she lived until the Reuniting of Germany in 1990. Merkel is now married to Joachim Sauer, a professor of chemistry. She chairs (is in charge of) the German conservative party, the Christian Democratic Union of Germany (CDU).
Merkel became Germany's first female chancellor on 22 November 2005 in a coalition of the two biggest German political parties CDU/CSU and SPD. After the election 2009 she formed a coalition with FDP. She again emerged as the winner in 2013 Federal Elections. 
In December 2015, she was named as "Time" magazine's Person of the Year.

</doc>
<doc id="10436" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10436" title="Chinese dragon">
Chinese dragon

A Chinese dragon was the symbol of the Emperor of China. The dragon in the Qing Dynasty came out on national flags.
Dragons are often found in Chinese art and stories. Since people discovered dragons in Chinese art and stories, dragons are sometimes thought of as a symbol for China.
There are people inside Chinese dragons. Dragons are very popular in China. The phoenix is a dragon that has five claws and was a powerful symbol for the emperors in China.

</doc>
<doc id="10454" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10454" title="Robert Duvall">
Robert Duvall

Robert Selden Duvall (born January 5, 1931) is an American actor and director. Duvall won an Academy Award for Best Actor for his role in "Tender Mercies" (1983). He has also won the Screen Actors Guild Award, several Golden Globe Awards, and a BAFTA Award.
Duvall was born in San Diego, California. His parents were Mildred Virginia Hart and William Howard Duvall. He studied at Severn School in Severna Park, Maryland and The Principia in St. Louis, Missouri. He graduated, in 1953, from Principia College in Elsah, Illinois.
Duvall's career began in 1952. His first role was as Arthur "Boo" Radley in the 1962 movie "To Kill A Mockingbird". He then appeared on "Captain Newman, M.D." (1963). 
He landed many of his most famous roles during the early 1970s, such as Major Frank Burns in the blockbuster comedy "MASH" (1970) and the lead role in "THX 1138" (1971), as well as Horton Foote's adaptation of William Faulkner's "Tomorrow" (1972). This was followed by a series of critically lauded performances in commercially successful films.
Duvall's political views are variously described as libertarian or conservative. 
Duvall was married to Barbara Benjamin from 1964 until they divorced in 1975. Then, he was married to Gail Youngs from 1982 through 1985. Then he was married to Sharon Brophy from 1991 through 1996. He has been married to Argentine actress Luciana Pedraza since 2005. 
Duvall has no children. He lives in The Plains, Virginia.
He has appeared in many other films including:
In 2015, at age 84, Duvall became the oldest person ever nominated for Best Supporting Actor at the Academy Awards, with a nomination for the movie "The Judge."

</doc>
<doc id="10459" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10459" title="Stevie Wonder">
Stevie Wonder

Stevland Hardaway Judkins (born May 13, 1950) known by his stage name Stevie Wonder, is an American musician, singer-songwriter, record producer, and multi-instrumentalist. 
Wonder became one of the most successful and well-known artists on the Motown label. He has recorded 23 albums and many hit singles, and written and produced songs for many of his labelmates and other artists as well. Wonder plays the drums, guitar, synthesizers, congas, and most famously the piano, harmonica, and the keyboard.
He was born on May 13, 1950 in Saginaw, Michigan. His real name is Stevland Hardaway Judkins but he later dropped the name Morris and it has been his name ever since.
He has been blind nearly since his birth. 
Wonder's first album, "The Jazz Soul of Little Stevie", was released by Motown Records in 1962 when Wonder was 12 years old. He released his second album "Tribute to Uncle Ray" later that year. His first live album "Recorded Live: The 12 Year Old Genius" reached number one in the "Billboard" 200. This made him the youngest musician ever to have a number one album in the United States.
Wonder won his first four Grammy Awards in 1973. Two of the awards were for his single "Superstition". In 1974 Wonder's seventeenth album "Fulfillingess' First Finale" was released. Wonder won another four Grammys for the album that year. It was Wonder's second number one album. Wonder's next album "Songs in the Key of Life" also reached number one.
In 1984 Wonder's single "I Just Called to Say I Love You" reached number one in the United States. It was Wonder's only number one in the UK. It was number one there for six weeks. In 1985 Wonder sung on Dionne Warwick's single "That's What Friends Are For" with Elton John and Gladys Knight. It reached number one in the US. Wonder shared the Grammy Award for Best Pop Performance by a Duo Or Group With Vocal. In August 1987 Michael Jackson's album "Bad" was released. Wonder sang on the album's fifth song "Just Good Friends". In December 1987 Wonder released a single called "Get It". Michael Jackson sung on the song. 
In 1995 Wonder released "Conversation Peace". It was his first album that was not a soundtrack since 1987. One single, "For Your Love", was released from the album. It won 2 Grammy awards for Best R&B Male Vocal Performance and Best R&B Song. 
In 2005 Wonder released his first album in ten years, "A Time to Love". On June 25, 2011, Wonder performed at the opening ceremony of the 2011 Special Olympics World Summer Games in Athens, Greece.
Wonder said in 2013 that he will release 2 new albums in 2014, and is making a third.

</doc>
<doc id="10460" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10460" title="Littleton, Colorado">
Littleton, Colorado

Littleton is a community in Colorado, near Denver. It is most famous in 1999 because of the Columbine High School massacre at Columbine High School, which is not actually in the city of Littleton, but is in a ZIP code assigned to Littleton.

</doc>
<doc id="10462" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10462" title="Motown">
Motown

Motown is a famous record label founded in Detroit, Michigan in the late 1950s by Berry Gordy. It is known for signing many well-known rhythm and blues singers and groups. Some of the artists who sang on the label include:
"Motown" can also refer to the city of Detroit itself, or to the genre of music made by artists like those listed above.

</doc>
<doc id="10469" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10469" title="1893">
1893


</doc>
<doc id="10471" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10471" title="Mustelid">
Mustelid

Mustelids are a family of carnivorous mammals. They are the family Mustelidae, in the order Carnivora.
They are one of the largest and oldest mammal families. It includes a wide diversity of animals, from weasels who eat mice to wolverines that can kill prey much larger than themselves. Mustelids live in many habitats: otters for example, live mostly in the water, while one species of weasel lives in the arctic.
One kind of mustelid, the ferret, has been tamed and used for hunting for a long time. These days it is mostly kept as a pet, though. Because the ferret looks a bit like a rat that has been stretched out in the middle, it is sometimes called a tube rat.
The following are other well-known animals from the mustelid family.

</doc>
<doc id="10474" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10474" title="Vanilla Ninja">
Vanilla Ninja

Vanilla Ninja is a music group made up of four girls named Lenna Kuurmaa, Katrin Siska, Piret Järvis. Previous members are Triinu Kivilaan & Maarja Kivi.
The band has had some popular songs in Europe and they were in the Eurovision Song Contest in 2005. 

</doc>
<doc id="10477" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10477" title="1835">
1835


</doc>
<doc id="10481" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10481" title="Haile Selassie I of Ethiopia">
Haile Selassie I of Ethiopia

Haile Selassie I of Ethiopia (July 23, 1892 - August 26, 1975) was the Emperor of Ethiopia. He is also known as the religious symbol for God incarnate (in the flesh) among members of the Rastafari movement, who call themselves by his name before becoming Emperor - Ras Tafari.
Tafari was made into local governor of Sidamo in 1907, and Harar province in 1911. As governor of Harar, he had a huge following, but he agreed not to remove Lij Iyasu from power as regent, in exchange for Lij Iyasu not removing him as governor of Harer. However, Iyasu became a Muslim, and also he did try to remove Tafari as governor, breaking the agreement. Tafari said that now the agreement was broken, he did not have to keep it either, and so he did remove Iyasu as regent. Because Iyasu had gone over to Islam, the nobles replaced him with Empress Zauditu on September 27, 1916 and made Tafari regent. From this time onward, he controlled Ethiopia. He was made "negus" (king) in 1928, and was crowned "Haile Selassie I, King of Kings of Ethiopia, Conquering Lion of the Tribe of Judah, Elect of God" on November 2, 1930. His coronation was given widespread publicity throughout the world, especially through two TIME Magazine articles in a row. This publicity created interest on the far-away island of Jamaica, where a belief in his divinity (Godliness) soon arose because of his titles, and because they saw him as a symbol of black liberation. 
In 1936 he left Ethiopia after the invasion by Mussolini's Italy. He gave a speech at the League of Nations, asking the world to stop the Italians, but they failed to act. With the help of the British in World War Two, he was able to return to Ethiopia in 1941. In 1963, the Emperor did everything he could to help start the Organisation of African Unity (OAU) with its headquarters in Addis Ababa. In 1966, he visited Jamaica, where he met the Rastafarian community of Jamaica. On September 12, 1974, he was overthrown by a Marxist coup, and, they said, died of natural causes the following August. However, there is some disagreement around why he died, and many Rastafarians claim he is still alive.

</doc>
<doc id="10484" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10484" title="Ethiopia">
Ethiopia

Ethiopia is a country in the Horn of Africa. It has one of the most well known histories as a country in Africa and the world. Unlike other African countries, Ethiopia stayed together during the Scramble for Africa, except for 5 years when it was ruled by Italians. Ethiopia used to be called Abyssinia. The word "Ethiopia" is from the Greek word Αἰθιοπία meaning sun light burned face. BNP per capita 1370 $ (IMF) (2008).
The Kingdom of Aksum, the first known kingdom of great power to rise in Ethiopia, rose during the first century AD. The Persian religious figure Mani listed Axum with Rome, Persia, and China as one of the four great powers of his time. It was in the early 4th century that a Syro-Greek castaway, Frumentius, was taken to the court and over time changed King Ezana to Christianity, making Christianity Ethiopia's religion. For this, he received the title "Abba Selama". At different times, including a time in the 6th century, Axum ruled most of modern-day Yemen just across the Red Sea.
The line of rulers from the Axumite kings was broken a few times: first by the Jewish Queen Gudit around 950, then by the Zagwe dynasty. Around 1270, the Solomonid dynasty came to control Ethiopia, claiming that they were related to the kings of Axum. They called themselves "Neguse Negest" ("King of Kings," or Emperor), basing their claims on their direct relation to Solomon and the queen of Sheba.
During the rule of Emperor Lebna Dengel, Ethiopia made its first good contact with a European country, Portugal. This was a good development. When the Empire was attacked by Somali General and Imam, Ahmad ibn Ibrihim al-Ghazi, Portugal responded to Lebna Dengel's request for help with an army of 400 men, which helped his son Gelawdewos beat al-Ghazi and remake his rule. However, Jesuit missionaries over time offended the Orthodox faith of the local Ethiopians, and in the mid-17th century Emperor Fasilidos got rid of these missionaries. At the same time, the Oromo people began to question the Ethiopian Christian authorities in the Abyssinian territories, and wanted to keep their own religion.
All of this led to Ethiopia's isolation during the 1700s. The Emperors became figureheads, controlled by warlords like Ras Mikael Sehul of Tigray. But Amharic is the national language of Ethiopia. Ethiopian isolationism ended following a British mission that made friendship between the two nations; however, it was not until the reign of Tewodros II that Ethiopia began to take part in world matters once again.
Before 1996, Ethiopia was divided into 13 provinces. Ethiopia now has ethnically based regional countries, zones, districts, and neighborhoods.
There are nine regions, sixty-eight zones and two chartered cities. Ethiopia is further divided into 550 "woredas" and several "special woredas".
The nine regions and two chartered cities (in italics) are:

</doc>
<doc id="10485" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10485" title="Utah">
Utah

Utah is a state in the west United States. The capital and largest city is Salt Lake City. Utah became a state in the U.S. on January 4, 1896.
Utah is bordered by Idaho and Wyoming in the north and Colorado in the east. It touches a single point of New Mexico to the southeast at Four Corners. Utah is bordered by Arizona in the south, and by Nevada in the west. It covers an area of 84,899 square miles (219,887 km²).
Utah is mostly rocky with three distinct geological regions: the Rocky Mountains, the Great Basin, and the Colorado Plateau. Utah is a great geographical tourism place. Utah is known for its natural diversity and is home to features ranging from arid deserts with sand dunes to thriving pine forests in mountain valleys.
Utah has a dry, semi-arid to climate, although its many mountains have large, wide, differences of climates, with the highest points in the Uinta Mountains being above the . The dry weather from the state lying mostly in the rain shadow of the Sierra Nevada in California. The eastern half of the state is in the rain shadow of the Wasatch Mountains. The primary source of rain for the state is the Pacific Ocean, with the state normally lying in the path of large Pacific storms from mid-October through April, although northern Utah often sees these large storms earlier and later. In summer, the state, normally southern and eastern Utah, is in the path of monsoon from the Gulf of California. Most of the lowland areas get less than 12 inches (300 mm) of rain a year. The Great Salt Lake Desert is the driest area of the state, with less than 5 inches (125 mm). Snowfall is common in all but the far southern valleys. Although St. George only gets about 3 inches (7.5 cm) per year, Salt Lake City sees about 60 inches (150 cm), enhanced by the lake-effect snow from the Great Salt Lake, which increases snowfall totals to the south, southeast, and east of the lake. Some areas of the Wasatch Range in the path of the lake-effect get up to 700 inches (1,770 cm) per year. The dry, fluffy, snow led Utah's ski industry to get the slogan "the Greatest Snow on Earth" in the 1980s. In the winter, temperature are a phenomenon across Utah's low basins and valleys, leading to thick humidity and fog that can sometimes last for weeks at a time, normally in the Uintah Basin.
The center of population of Utah is in Salt Lake County in the city of "Salt Lake City." As of July 1, 2008 the Census Bureau believes Utah has a population of 2,736,424. In 2008, the US Census Bureau determined Utah to be the fastest growing state in the country in terms of population growth.
Much of the population lives in cities and towns along the Wasatch Front, a region that runs north-south with the Wasatch Mountains rising on the eastern side. Growth outside the Wasatch Front is also increasing. The St. George metropolitan area is right now the second-fastest growing in the country after the Las Vegas metropolitan area, while the Heber metropolitan area is also the second-fastest growing in the country (right in front of Palm Coast, Florida).
The University of Utah says that the gross state product of Utah in 2005 was $92 billion, or 0.74% of the total United States GDP of $12.4 trillion for the same year. The per capital personal income was $24,977 in 2005. Major companies of Utah are: mining, cattle ranching, salt production, and government services.
In eastern Utah petroleum making is a big industry. Near Salt Lake City, petroleum refining is done by a number of oil companies. In central Utah, coal making accounts for much of the mining activity. 
Utah has a high total birth rate, and the youngest population of any U.S. state. It is also one of the few non-Southern states that has more males than females.
In 2000, the gender percents of Utah were estimated as:
Most of the state's people are members of "The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints", commonly referred to as the Mormons or the LDS Church. As of 2007, 60.7 percent of everyone in the state are members of "The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints". Mormons are not as common as they used to be in Salt Lake City. Usually, rural areas are almost all Mormon. Though the LDS Church does not support or oppose any political parties, the church's doctrine has a strong connection with politics. In the past, many of Utah's lawmakers have been church members; the effect has contributed to the state's towards alcohol (sales and content) and gambling. Another effect can be seen in Utah's high birth rate (25 percent higher than the national normal; the highest for a state in the U.S.). The Mormons in Utah normally have conservative views when it comes to most political . Most voter-age Utahns do not belong to a political party (60%), but vote mostly for Republicans. John McCain got 62.5% of the vote in the 2008 Presidential Election while 70.9% of people of Utah chose George W. Bush in 2004.
Utah's population is concentrated in two areas, the Wasatch Front in the North-Central part of the state, with a population of over 2 million; and southwestern Utah, locally known as "Dixie", with nearly 150,000 people who live there.
According to the 2000 Census, Utah was the fourth fastest growing state (at 29.6 percent) in the United States between 1990 and 2000. St. George, in the southwest, is the second-fastest growing area in the United States, right behind Greeley, Colorado.
The state's two fastest growing counties are: "Summit" (at 91.6 percent; ranking it 8th in the country) and "Washington" (at 86.1 percent; ranking it 12th). The cities (defined as having at least 9,000 people living there in 2000) that saw the greatest increases between 1990 and 2000 were: "Draper" (248 percent), "South Jordan" (141 percent), "Lehi" (125 percent), "Riverton" (122 percent), and "Syracuse" (102 percent). Between 1990 and 2000 the five fastest-growing cities of any size were "Cedar Hills" (302 percent), "Draper" (248 percent), "Woodland Hills" (213 percent), "Ivins" (173 percent), and "South Jordan" (141 percent). The U.S. Census Bureau estimates, the five fastest-growing cities of any size between 2000 and 2008 were "Saratoga Springs" (1,501%), "Herriman" (1,061%), "Eagle Mountain" (934%), "Cedar Hills" (209%), and "Lehi" (146%).

</doc>
<doc id="10486" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10486" title="The Times">
The Times

The Times is a large well-known newspaper founded in 1785. It is printed in London, England.

</doc>
<doc id="10487" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10487" title="The Bahamas">
The Bahamas

The Bahamas (officially called Commonwealth of The Bahamas) is a group of islands in the West Indies. The country's capital, Nassau, is on New Providence Island.
The Taino were the first people living there. In 1492, Christopher Columbus found the Americas by landing on another of the islands, San Salvador. The Eleutheran Adventurers soon came along, making a home in Eleuthera.
The islands' mostly black population speaks English, the country's main language.
The Bahamas are a popular place for people to visit for holidays, the 700 islands and cays attract a large number of visitors from nearby America, as well as Europe and other countries.
Taínos were the first people to arrive in the Bahamas. They moved into the southern Bahamas from Hispaniola and Cuba around the 11th century AD, having come there from South America. They came to be known as the Lucayan. About 30,000 Lucayan lived the Bahamas when Christopher Columbus arrived in 1492. Columbus' first landfall in the New World was on an island named San Salvador, which some scholars believe to be present-day San Salvador Island.
The Spanish forced much of the Lucayan population to move to Hispaniola. They were used for forced labour. This and the exposure to foreign diseases led to most of the population of the Bahamas dying. Smallpox alone wiped out half of the population in what is now the Bahamas.
In 1670, King Charles II rented out the islands to the Carolinas, along with rights of trading, tax, and governing the country. During this time, the Bahamas became a haven for pirates, including the infamous Blackbeard. To restore proper government, Britain made the Bahamas a crown colony in 1718. The first governor was Woodes Rogers.
After the American War of Independence, the British resettled some 7,300 Loyalists and their slaves in the Bahamas from New York, Florida, and the Carolinas. The first group of loyalists left St. Augustine in East Florida in September 1783. These Loyalists established plantations on several islands. British Americans were outnumbered by the African-American slaves they brought with them, and ethnic Europeans remained a minority in the territory.
Nearly 500,000 people live in the Bahamas. The ethnic groups of the population is: 82.1% African descent 15.4% European descent 2.5% Asian and other.
The official language of the Bahamas is English, but they also speak a local dialect called Bahamianese. The Bahamian dialect is based based on the West Country England accents along with South Hiberno English dialects with strong influences from West African languages.
In 1864 the Governor of the Bahamas reported that there were 29 islands, 661 cays, and 2,387 rocks in the colony.
The closest island to the United States is Bimini. The southeasternmost island is Inagua. The largest island is Andros Island. Nassau, capital city of The Bahamas, is on the island of New Providence.
All the islands are low and flat. The highest point in the country is Mount Alvernia on Cat Island. It is high.
The climate of The Bahamas is subtropical to tropical. The Gulf Stream can be very dangerous in the summer and autumn. This is when hurricanes pass near or through the islands. Hurricane Andrew hit the northern islands during the 1992 Atlantic hurricane season. Hurricane Floyd hit most of the islands during the 1999 Atlantic hurricane season.
There has never been a freeze reported in The Bahamas. The temperature can fall as low as .
The Bahamas are divided into 32 districts and the town of New Providence.
The districts are:
The Bahamas does not have an army or an air force. The Royal Bahamas Defence Force (RBDF) is the navy. The Defence Force has a fleet of 26 coastal and inshore patrol craft along with 2 aircraft and over 850 personnel including 65 officers and 74 women.

</doc>
<doc id="10489" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10489" title="Vanuatu">
Vanuatu

Vanuatu is a country in the Pacific Ocean. The official languages of Vanuatu are Bislama, English and French. Vanuatu has a population of about 202,609 people (2004). The capital of Vanuatu is Port Vila. The country was ruled as a colony by England and France until it got its freedom in 1980. During the colonial time, it was named the "New Hebrides" or "Nouvelles Hebrides".
Vanuatu is an island archipelago. It has about 82 small islands. The islands were made from Volcanos. 65 of the islands are lived on. There is about north to south distance between the outermost islands. Two of the islands (Matthew and Hunter) are also claimed by France. Fourteen of Vanuatu's islands have surface areas of more than .
The highest point in Vanuatu is Mount Tabwemasana, at , on the island of Espiritu Santo.
Even though it has tropical forests, Vanuatu has a small number of plant and animal species. There are no large mammals. The 19 species of native reptiles include the flowerpot snake, found only on Efate. The Fiji Banded Iguana ("Brachylophus fasciatus") was introduced as a feral animal in the 1960s. There are 11 species of bats and 61 species of land and water birds.
The region is rich in sea life. There are more than 4,000 species of marine molluscs. Coneshell and stonefish carry poison that will kill humans. The giant East African land snail arrived only in the 1970s but already has spread from the Port-Vila region to Luganville.
There are three or possibly four adult saltwater crocodiles living in Vanuatu's mangroves and no current breeding population. It is said the crocodiles reach the northern part of the islands after cyclones. This is because of the island chain's closeness to the Solomon Islands and New Guinea where crocodiles are very common.
The national dish of Vanuatu is the lap lap.
There are six provinces in Vanuatu. They are Malampa, Penama, Sanma, Shefa, Tafea and Torba.
Some of the cities are:

</doc>
<doc id="10496" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10496" title="Jack">
Jack

Jack is a male given name. It might also mean:

</doc>
<doc id="10497" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10497" title="Stuff">
Stuff

Stuff is a mass of many things listed below, matter, or events.
In computing:
In sports:

</doc>
<doc id="10500" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10500" title="Crayola">
Crayola

Crayola is brand of crayons and other writing and drawing utensils, such as markers, chalk and colored pencils made by the Binney & Smith Inc. company, which is part of the card company Hallmark.
Binney and Smith made industrial products before 1900, but in 1903 started to make Crayola crayons. The name came from a word used by the wife of Mr. Binney. The first box had eight colors: blue, green, red, yellow, black, brown, orange and violet. They became well-known because they were the best crayons at that time. Later, the company made more products, including boxes of 48, 64, 96,120 and 202 Crayons, colored pencils and markers.
In 2003, the company built a huge blue crayon that was 15 feet tall and weighed almost a ton.
Here are the 133 standard Crayola crayon colors. According to its chronology page, Crayola considers each "core color" to have been introduced in a specific year. These dates are reflected in the table below. The hex triplets below are representative of the colors produced by the named crayons.
The following is a list of colors included in the 12, 24, 36, 50 and 64 packs of Crayola's standard colored pencils. Color values are approximate. Colored Pencils from "Guppie Green" to "UFO Green" are 14 of the ultra-cool and super-hot colored pencils that will be issued on July 2010.
In commemoration of the 50th anniversary of the 64-box of Crayola crayons in 2010, a 64-box of Crayola colored pencils was issued. It had the same colors as the current 64 box.
All 44 colors are on this list.

</doc>
<doc id="10505" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10505" title="Ringo Starr">
Ringo Starr

Ringo Starr (born Richard Starkey II on 7 July 1940) is an English musician and actor. He is most famous as a member of the Beatles. He joined the group in 1962 as a replacement for their first drummer Pete Best. He quickly became well-liked and very popular. He sang lead on some of the band's songs including "Yellow Submarine", "Act Naturally", "Don't Pass Me By", and "Octopus's Garden".
After the group broke up he became a solo artist; his songs included "It Don't Come Easy", "Photograph" (written with George Harrison), "You're Sixteen" (featuring Paul McCartney and Harry Nilsson), and "Only You (And You Alone)" (with John Lennon and again with Nilsson).
Starr acted in several movies aside from the ones he did with the Beatles, including "The Magic Christian" (1969), "That'll Be The Day" (1973), "Caveman" (1980), and the role of Mr. Conductor on the children's show "Shining Time Station", during its first season (1989). (Comedian George Carlin later took over the role). He also narrated the children's show "Thomas the Tank Engine and Friends" for the first two seasons (1984). He also made a movie with the Beatles called "A Hard Day's Night" in 1964

</doc>
<doc id="10506" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10506" title="Oslo">
Oslo

Oslo is the capital city of Norway. It is Norway's largest city, with a population of 647,676 people in 2015. The area near the city has a total population of 1,546,706. The city government of Oslo and the county are the same thing.
The city is an economic and cultural epicenter. Many important institutions are in Oslo. Among these are the Norwegian government and parliament, the University of Oslo and Ullevål Stadium, the stadium of Norway's soccer team. The city also has many museums, theaters and concert venues. Some good cultural places are Frognerparken, the Oslo Opera, the National Museum and the National Theatre. Travelling inside the city is easy with public transportation. Using tram, subway and bus is easy.
Oslo feels divided into to two parts. West end and East end, with the West traditionally being the upper/middle class area and the East end being a working class and poor area. This has faded in the last 50 years. Fewer people are manual workers and more people are employed in better paid middle-class jobs. Oslo is a very expensive city, with high prices in bars and restaurants, as well as high prices for houses and apartments.
Currently, the mayor of Oslo is Fabian Stang from the Conservative Party.
Oslo has a humid continental climate ("Dfb" in the Koeppen climate classification).
The Saga of Norwegian Kings (written by Snorre Sturlason) says that king Harald III Sigurdsson founded Oslo around 1048. Recent archaeological research has found Christian graves from before 1000. Because of these two facts, Oslo celebrated its 900 year anniversary in 1950 and its 1000 year anniversary in 2000.
One of the more famous landmarks in Oslo is Akershus Fortress. It was first built around 1290. Oslo was destroyed in fire in 1624, and the fortress was rebuilt closer to Akershus Fortress by the order of King Christian IV of Norway. The king gave the new city the name Christiania, which later also written as Kristiania. In 1925 the name of the city was changed back to Oslo.

</doc>
<doc id="10510" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10510" title="Lincoln Thompson">
Lincoln Thompson

Lincoln Thompson (June 18, 1949 - January 23, 1999) was a Jamaican reggae musician, songwriter and Rastafarian. He spent 2 years in the Tartans as a teenager before working under Coxsone Dodd in the early 1970s. In 1974 he released his first record, "Humanity". The album had popular singles but it did not sell many copies until Thompson made a deal with Ballistics Records, a part of the record label United Artists, in 1979. This album was released commercially and there were 2 other albums recorded with Ballistics. These albums were recorded in 1979 and 1980. "Experience" was recorded in Jamaica. The next album, "Natural Wild", was recorded in England with Joe Jackson. Ballistics went bankrupt, and Thompson returned to Jamaica. There, he recorded the album, "Ride with the Rasses" in 1982. The next year, he took his family to live in London where he recorded a 5th album, "Rootsman Blues". He then set up an Ital grocery shop named "The Rasses Fish and Grocery Store" in London. Thanks to an American sponsor, a 6th album came out in 1996, called "21st century". He died in 1999 of cancer.

</doc>
<doc id="10512" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10512" title="Tom Hanks">
Tom Hanks

Tom Hanks (born July 9, 1956) is an American actor, movie producer, writer, director, screenwriter and speaker.
Many of Hanks' early movies were comedies. He was made famous by his roles in "Splash" and "Big". He made his way into drama with "A League of Their Own" and "Philadelphia". He combined the two genres with "Forrest Gump". Hanks has starred in many more famous movies since, including "Apollo 13", "Saving Private Ryan", "Toy Story" (only his voice was used), "Cast Away", "The Terminal", "The Da Vinci Code", "The Green Mile" and "Captain Phillips".
Hanks has won several awards for acting. He won both a Golden Globe and an Academy Award for Best Actor for his role in "Philadelphia". He also won a Golden Globe, an Academy Award, a Screen Actors Guild Award, and a People's Choice Award for Best Actor for his role in "Forrest Gump".

</doc>
<doc id="10513" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10513" title="Hook">
Hook

Hook can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="10516" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10516" title="Sir Mix-A-Lot">
Sir Mix-A-Lot

Sir Mix-a-Lot (born Anthony Ray on August 12, 1963) is an American rapper and producer.
His style of music is called "hip-hop." He was born in Seattle, Washington. He is best known for his hit song "Baby Got Back". That song has catchy phrases and cheap humor, and it talks about liking women with big buttocks. This made it popular in the United States during the 1990s.
Sir Mix-a-Lot is not actually a peer of the realm but has assumed the title 'Sir' for humorous or ironic effect.

</doc>
<doc id="10517" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10517" title="Dick York">
Dick York

Dick York (September 4, 1928 – February 20, 1992) was an American actor. He is best known for his role as Darren Stephens on the television series "Bewitched". York left the series in 1969 and was replaced by Dick Sargent.

</doc>
<doc id="10519" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10519" title="James Earl Jones">
James Earl Jones

James Earl Jones (born Todd Jones on January 17, 1931) is an American actor and voice actor. He is famous for doing the voice of Darth Vader in the "Star Wars" movies, for doing the voice of Mufasa in "The Lion King", and for the CNN tagline ("This...is CNN"). He starred in "Lincoln Portrait" which has music by Aaron Copland.
Jones has won two Tony Awards for his live theatre work on Broadway. He won an Emmy Award for his role on the television series "Gabriel's Fire".
He is a son of actor Robert Earl Jones.

</doc>
<doc id="10520" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10520" title="Calvin and Hobbes">
Calvin and Hobbes

"Calvin and Hobbes" is a comic strip by Bill Watterson about a boy called Calvin and a tiger called Hobbes. When Calvin looks at Hobbes, he sees a real tiger. However, everyone else sees Hobbes as a toy. This comic began in 1985 and has been in over 2,400 newspapers. Readers bought almost 23 million Calvin and Hobbes books.
In the comic, Calvin spends a lot of time with Hobbes. In pictures with only Calvin and Hobbes in them, Hobbes looks like a cartoon tiger. He stands on two legs. In pictures with any other person, Hobbes looks like a stuffed animal. Calvin meets Hobbes in the first story. Calvin catches him with a string and a tuna fish sandwich as bait. Calvin and Hobbes have all sorts of trouble and adventures. The comic strip continued from November 18, 1985 until December 31, 1995.
Calvin is a 6-year-old boy. He is named after a religious thinker, or theologian, John Calvin. His last name is never in the comic.
Calvin often pretends, and he has a powerful imagination. He also does things without thinking. He is often very excited and is curious about everything. Sometimes he is selfish and rude. Calvin does not get good grades in school, but he knows very many complex words that usually only adults know. "You know how Einstein got bad grades as a kid?" he says. "Well, mine are even worse!"
Calvin usually wears a shirt with red stripes on it. He has blond hair that stands up on his head. Watterson has described Calvin this way:
In classic comic tradition of sidekicks, Hobbes is like Calvin's 'good side' because he is more mature and makes smarter decisions than Calvin does. When Calvin does something like throw a snowball at a girl, Hobbes will say "You think she's cute, right?"
From most characters' point of view, Hobbes is Calvin's stuffed tiger. However, from Calvin's point of view, Hobbes is as alive and real just like other characters in the comic strip. He is named after 17th century philosopher Thomas Hobbes, who had what Watterson called "a dim view of human nature." Hobbes is much more alert and aware of the bad things that can happen than Calvin is. But, he does not stop Calvin's trouble making. All that he really does is warn him. Calvin will be the one to get in trouble for doing something wrong, not Hobbes. Hobbes also likes to surprise Calvin. He approaches him quietly and then jumping on Calvin. Calvin hates this.
From Calvin's point of view, Hobbes is a real, intelligent, loyal, and cunning tiger, much larger than Calvin and full of his own attitudes and ideas. But when the view changes to any other character, readers see merely a little stuffed tiger. Watterson explains it like this:
Although the first strips clearly show Calvin capturing Hobbes by means of a trap (with tuna fish as the bait), a later comic (August 1, 1989) seems to imply that Hobbes is, in fact, older than Calvin, and has been around with him his whole life. Watterson decided that it was not important to explain how Calvin and Hobbes had first met.
Calvin's mom and dad are mostly American middle-class parents; like many other characters in the strip, their relatively realistic and sensible manners act as a contrast to Calvin's childish and selfish behavior. Both parents go through the entire strip without names. They are only called "Mom" and "Dad", or nicknames such as "hon" and "dear." Watterson has never given Calvin's parents names "because as far as the strip is concerned, they are important only as Calvin's mom and dad." This ended up being somewhat problematic when Calvin's Uncle Max was in the strip for a week and could not refer to the parents by name, and was one of the main reasons that Max never reappeared.
Susie Derkins, the only character in the strip with both first and last names, is a classmate of Calvin who lives in his neighborhood. She first appeared early in the strip as a new student in Calvin's class. Unlike Calvin, she is polite and very smart and eager to improve in her studies and grades at school, and her imagination usually seems mild-mannered and calm, consisting of a standard young girls' games such as playing house or having tea parties with her stuffed animals. Her approach to these games is arguably more modern, however, some might say even skeptical. (In a game of "house" she usually casts herself as the traditional working wife while Calvin is the lousy and useless husband or some version similar to that.) "Derkins" was the nickname of Watterson's wife's family beagle, and he liked the name so much he named this character after it. As much as either of them hate to admit, Calvin and Susie have quite a bit in common. (Susie is shown on occasion with a stuffed rabbit known as "Mr. Bun," and Calvin always has Hobbes.)
Watterson admits that Calvin and Susie have a bit of a wild crush on each other (Said by Calvin, "It's shameless the way we flirt."), and that Susie is inspired by the type of women Watterson himself finds attractive (which has led to speculation that Susie is based on Watterson's wife). Her relationship with Calvin, though, is frequently conflicted, and never really becomes sorted out, and the closest things are times when Calvin sends dead flowers and hate-mail as Valentine's Day gifts for his own enjoyment. (She feels he likes her enough to send her that gift, and he rejoices in her noticing.)
Sometimes Hobbes does something to attract Susie's romantic attention. He is often successful and this makes Calvin angry and jealous. Although on the surface these events take the form of Hobbes teasing Calvin and showing off his charms, they may be Calvin's way to disguise his own crush on Susie, by pretending that it is Hobbes' crush instead.
Moe is a bully, "a six-year-old who shaves" who is always pushing Calvin against walls, forcing to give him to give away his lunch money, and calling him "Twinky." Moe is the only regular character who speaks in an unusual font: his (frequently monosyllabic) dialogue is shown in rough, lower-case letters. Watterson describes Moe as "every jerk I've ever known." And while Moe is not smart, he is, as Calvin puts it, streetwise. That means, as Calvin says, "he knows what street he lives on".
Miss Wormwood is Calvin's bored and depressed teacher, named after the apprentice devil in C.S. Lewis's "The Screwtape Letters". She continuously wears polka-dotted dresses, and serves like others as a foil to Calvin's rude behavior. Calvin's response to the boring studies of schoolwork is endless dreams of his imagination. She is eagerly waiting to retire, taking a large amount of medication, and is apparently a heavy smoker and alcohol drinker.
Although time does change in the Calvin and Hobbes universe, which is mostly seen in the changing of the season, Calvin (and Susie) returns to Ms. Wormwood's first-grade class every fall.
As usual, for an adult entering Calvin's world, Miss Wormwood sees things differently from Calvin. For example, when she talks to Calvin about his missing homework, Calvin's Spaceman Spiff persona sees her as a large slimy threatening snarling alien. "Slowly, carefully, Spiff draws his death-ray blaster".
Rosalyn is a teenage high school senior student and the person who watches Calvin whenever Calvin's parents go on a night out together. She is the only babysitter able to put up with Calvin's bad behavior, which she uses to demand raises and advance payment from Calvin's desperate parents. She is also, according to Watterson, the only person Calvin truly fears— certainly she is his equal in sneakiness, and is willing to play as dirty as he does. Rosalyn has a habit of sending him to bed at 6:30, which he refuses to do, and only makes more trouble. Rosalyn's boyfriend, Charlie, never appears in the strip, but calls her on the telephone sometimes. Calvin often cuts short these calls. Originally, she was created as a nameless, one-time only character with no plans to appear again; however, Watterson decided he wanted to keep her unique ability to scare Calvin, which led to many more appearances.
At one time during the strip shown in the book collection "The Revenge of the Babysat", Calvin's parents prepare to go out on a night with a dinner and a movie while leaving Calvin with Rosalyn. When he finds out she is coming, Calvin runs up to Hobbes and explains the situation. Later when Rosalyn appears, Calvin and Hobbes hear that Rosalyn needs to study for a big science test. They decide to ruin her studying. After Calvin's parents leave, Calvin approaches Rosalyn, curious about what she's doing. After slyly talking her away from her science notes, he quickly grabs them, runs to the bathroom door with Hobbes, and locks the door while Rosalyn yells from he outside demanding her notes back. Once they "flushed" her notes (in which they only pretended to and flushed an empty toilet). Moments later when the wonder if Rosalyn has gone, Calvin opens the door only to find Rosalyn pounce upon him and throw him to bed at 7 o'clock which Hobbes notes that they went to bed 30 minutes later than usual. The ending shows Calvin's parents coming back home to find Rosalyn charge extra money for the job while Calvin's parents argue if there's another babysitter in town.
During the winter, Calvin likes to make ugly or frightening snowmen when once Calvin created the "Deranged Mutant Killer Monster Snow Goons". Also, his snowmen creations have had snowmen with missing or multiple heads, snowmen taking another's head for a bowling ball, and snowmen being "knocked over" by his family's car.
Also, Calvin frequently throws snowballs at Susie, most likely having himself being chased by Susie. Once Calvin (while in his "Stupendous Man" alter-ego) also made a gigantic snowball and dropped it at Susie while on top of a tree, as where Susie's mom described it as a "the size of a bowling ball".
The monsters under the bed are described as scary, octopus-tentacled shaped creatures that lived under Calvin's bed every time he went to sleep. Often, they would try to bribe Calvin to come under the bed by giving him a new toy or by urging Hobbes to push Calvin over in return for a fresh piece of salmon. According to Calvin he'd usually describe them as "all fangs and no brains". They often lie to Calvin when he asks "how many monsters are under my bed?, when they'd usually reply there's "only one" or "none and go to sleep". Although various monsters were known to exist under Calvin's bed, two named monsters "Maurice" and "Winslow" appeared and re-appeared during the strip's middle times.
Get Rid Of Slimy Girls is Calvin's anti-girl club. The club's goal is to annoy and bother girls, and Calvin's main target is Susie Derkins. The club has only two members, Calvin and Hobbes. Calvin is "supreme dictator-for-life" and Hobbes is the "first tiger". They two usually make plans like throwing water balloons or snowballs at Susie. Often these plans have a bad ending. However, every time G.R.O.S.S finishes a mission or meeting, they always get awards such as medals, honors, and promotions. Of course, the word "gross" also means disgusting.
Calvin hates school and homework so much. He usually tries to avoid them. His Mom always makes him ride the school bus even though he does not want to, and sometimes tries to run home and not go to class. In one Sunday comic strip, Calvin's imagination became so wild and creative that he imagined getting in a F-15 Eagle airplane and blasting his elementary school to pieces with many missiles.

</doc>
<doc id="10521" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10521" title="Tony Randall">
Tony Randall

Tony Randall (February 26, 1920 - May 17 2004) was an American actor. He was best known for his role as Felix Unger on the television series "The Odd Couple".

</doc>
<doc id="10522" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10522" title="Lesbian">
Lesbian

A lesbian is a homosexual woman. This means a woman who is sexually attracted to other women, and not to men.
The word lesbian comes from Lesbos (), an island in Greece. An ancient poet, Sappho, lived on Lesbos. Sappho wrote mostly poems about love. Many of her love poems are written to women. So her name and the island where she lived make people think about women who love women. Sometimes lesbians are also called "Sapphists" from the name Sappho.
Lesbians were involved in the early feminist (a movement of women who want to be treated equally to men) movement. Feminism is the political and social movements that promote women's equality and rights. However, there was conflict between lesbians and straight (heterosexual) women in the feminist movement. In the 1960s and 1970s some straight (women who like men) feminists wanted the lesbians out of the women's rights movement. They wanted feminism to be accepted by society. They believed lesbians were less accepted by society and might hurt the feminist movement.
Eventually, the women's rights movement accepted its lesbian members. Now many important feminist leaders are out (out means that they make it known that they are lesbians) lesbians.
Many lesbian couples want to have children of their own. In order to raise children, they sometimes adopt. However some places do not allow homosexual couples to adopt children, so many of them want to be able to adopt children.
Some lesbian couples also have their own biological children. To do this they may have artificial insemination. This is when sperm from a donor male is placed in a woman to make a pregnancy. Some lesbian women do this at home with a friend they choose to be the donor. However many may use "sperm banks". These are medical businesses that match couples who need donor sperm with men who will donate. Sometimes this is done "anonymously" which means the couple does not know the donor. Sometimes this is done with the donor known and even chosen by the couple.
Unlike gay sex between males, lesbian sex is not against the law in as many places. Some religions that condemn gay male sex say nothing about lesbian sex. Abrahamic religions usually see gay as well as lesbian relations as immoral. Saint Paul in Epistle to the Romans 1:26 describes lesbianism as 'unnatural' and 'shameful'. There are some religions, however, mostly new religious movements that accept lesbian relations.
In most parts of the world lesbians cannot marry. This means they do not have the legal benefits and protection of marriage. This can cause lesbians, and gay men, many problems. A lesbian relationship wherein one of the partners is underage is called "korephilia".

</doc>
<doc id="10523" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10523" title="Maine">
Maine

Maine is the northeast-most state in the United States. The capital is Augusta, although the city of Portland, farther south, is the largest in the state. Maine became a state on March 15, 1820, making it the 23rd state. It was previously part of Massachusetts. Commercial Fishing, including lobster trapping, is a traditional and still vital part of the coastal economy. Tourism is a large industry in southern Maine because of its many beaches and picturesque coastal villages. Southern Maine is the part of the state that has the most people. Many other areas, to the North, are far more rural.
To the south and east is the Atlantic Ocean and to the north and northeast is New Brunswick, and the country of Canada. The Canadian city of Quebec is to the northwest. Maine is both the northernmost state in New England and the largest, accounting for nearly half the region's whole land area. Maine also has the distinction of being the only state to border just one other state (New Hampshire to the west). The municipalities of Eastport and Lubec are the easternmost city and town in the United States. Estcourt Station is Maine's northernmost point and also the northernmost point in the New England region of the United States.
Maine's "Moosehead Lake" is the biggest lake that is completely in New England (Lake Champlain is located between Vermont and New York, which is not considered part of New England). A number of other Maine lakes, like as South Twin Lake, are said by Thoreau. Mount Katahdin is both the northern terminus of the Appalachian Trail, which to Springer Mountain, Georgia, and the southern of the new "International Appalachian Trail" which, when finished, will run to "Belle Isle", Newfoundland and Labrador.
Maine has a humid climate (Köppen climate classification Dfb), with warm (although mostly not hot), humid summers. Winters are cold and snowy all over the state, and are mostly more severe in the northern parts of Maine. Coastal areas are moderated somewhat by the Atlantic Ocean. Daytime highs are mostly in the 75–80 °F (24–27 °C) range all over the state in July, with overnight lows in the high 50s°F (around 15 °C). January temperatures range from highs near 32 °F (0 °C) on the southern coast to overnight lows below 0 °F (−18 °C) in the far north.
Maine is mostly safe from hurricanes and tropical storms. By the time they reach the state, many have become and few hurricanes have made landfall in Maine. Maine has fewer days of thunderstorms than any other state east of the Rockies, with most of the state with less than 20 days of thunderstorms a year. Tornadoes are rare in Maine, about two per year, mostly happening in the southern part of the state.
In January 2009, a new record low temperature for the state was set at −50 °F, tying the New England record. The state's record high temperature is 105 °F, set in July 1911.
As of 2008, Maine has an estimated population of 1,321,504, which is an increase of 6,520, or 0.5%, from the past year and an increase of 46,582, or 3.7%, since the year of 2000. This has a natural increase since the last census of 6,413 people (that is 71,276 births minus 64,863 deaths) and an increase because of "net migration" of 41,808 people into the state. Immigration from outside the United States made a net increase of 5,004 people, and migration within the country made a net increase of 36,804 people. The population density of the state is 41.3 people per square mile.
The Bureau of Economic Analysis estimates that Maine's total gross state product for 2007 was $48 billion. Its per capita personal income for 2007 was $33,991, 34th in the country.
People in Maine produce agricultural goods like poultry, eggs, dairy products, cattle, wild blueberries (the state makes 25% of all blueberries in North America, making it the largest blueberry maker in the world), apples, maple syrup and maple sugar. "Aroostook County" is known for its potato crops. Commercial fishing, once a mainstay of the state's economy, maintains a presence, mostly lobstering and groundfishing. Western Maine and springs are a big source of bottled water. Maine's company outputs make paper, lumber and wood products, electronic stuff, leather things, food products, textiles, and bio-technology. Naval shipbuilding and building remain key as well, with Bath Iron Works in Bath and Portsmouth Naval Shipyard in Kittery. Naval Air Station Brunswick is also in Maine, and serves as a large support base for the U.S. Navy. However, the BRAC campaign recommended Brunswick's closing, despite a new government-funded effort to upgrade its facilities.
Maine has four types of school departments: the first is a "local school." It serves only one municipality, and is headed by a . Normally, it serves kindergarten through grade 12, although some only go to grade 8. Normally, lone school districts which do not have a high school are not totally lone; they are part of a "school union", which is the second type of school.
A "school union" is two or more school departments that share a superintendent but nothing else; each town has a lone school board. Normally, only one of the schools in the school union has a high school, but unlike MSADs (talked about below), students in the whole school union are not forced to be at that school. School union students are given a choice of bordering school districts, and the school union pays for the student's tuition.
The third type is a "MSAD" (Maine School Administrative District). This is a school district that has two or more towns into one school department with one high school and middle school. These towns do not have lone school boards, but instead have one central board governing the entire district. Students are forced to be at the central high school. Normally, a MSAD comprises one larger town and one or more smaller towns. The larger town has a high school and middle school, while the bordering towns have elementary schools as well, but no secondary schools. The elementary schools normally cut off after grade 5 or grade 6. Sometimes, towns in a MSAD do not have an elementary school but a high school and/or middle school, but the bordering towns have the elementary schools.
The last type of school is a "CSD" (Community School District, sometimes called a Consolidated School District). This mostly happens in school districts with such a small student population between many towns that the school district cannot justify an elementary school outside the largest town in the district. In not common cases, a CSD refers to only a high school of a school union. Sometimes, in towns that do not have other towns bordering it for miles and miles (such as island towns), the entire student population gos to one school grades PK–12.
Students can choose to go to a school in another district if the parents agree to pay the school .
"Private schools" are less common than public schools. A big number of private elementary schools with under 20 students exist, but most private high schools in Maine are actually semi-private high schools. This means that while it costs money to send children there, towns will make a contract with a school to take children from a town or MSAD at a slightly downed rate. Often this is done when it is seen cheaper to subsidize private tuition than make a whole new school when a private one already exists.

</doc>
<doc id="10526" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10526" title="1884">
1884


</doc>
<doc id="10531" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10531" title="Niuatoputapu">
Niuatoputapu

Niuatoputapu is an island in Tonga. It has a population of about 1200 people. Niuatoputapu is located in the north of the country, near to Samoa.

</doc>
<doc id="10532" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10532" title="Samoa">
Samoa

The Independent State of Samoa is a country in Pacific Ocean. It became independent from New Zealand in 1962. It has two islands, including Upolu and Savai'i. The capital of Samoa is Apia. It is on the island of Upolu. The head of the country is Malietoa Tanumafili II. 
The languages spoken in Samoa include Samoan and English. 
The sport that is most popular in Samoa is Rugby, and many Samoan people play Rugby.
Samoa was admitted to the United Nations on 15 December 1976.
Samoa has eleven political districts. These are called "itūmālō". These are the traditional eleven districts that were made well before European arrival.
Samoa is south of the equator. It is about halfway between Hawai‘i and New Zealand in the Polynesian part of the Pacific Ocean. The main island of Upolu is home to nearly three-quarters of Samoa's people
The two large islands of Upolu and Savai'i are 99% of the total land area. There are eight small islets. These are the three islets in the Apolima Strait: Manono Island, Apolima and Nu'ulopa. There are four Aleipata Islands off the eastern end of Upolu. They are: Nu'utele, Nu'ulua, Namua, and Fanuatapu. And there is Nu'usafe'e.
East of Samoa is a group of islands called American Samoa. They are part of the United States, but they are similar to the country Samoa, because they also speak Samoan.
Samoa used to be east of the international date line. In 2011, the line changed, so that Samoa would be to the west of the date line. This change took effect on the night of 29 December. Friday was skipped altogether and the following day was Saturday 31 December. 
Samoa has 194,320 people. 92.6% are Samoans, 7% Euronesians (people of mixed, European and Polynesian ancestors) and 0.4% are Europeans.
Religion in Samoa includes the following: Christian Congregational Church of Samoa 35.5%, Roman Catholic 19.6%, Methodist 15%, Latter-day Saints 12.7%, Samoan Assemblies of God 10.6%, Seventh-day Adventist 3.5%, Worship Centre 1.3%, unspecified 0.8%.There is also about 522 Jehovah's Witnessses in Samoa since 1931. Samoa has one of seven Bahá'í Houses of Worship in the world. It is in Tiapapata.
Many people say that Samoan people are related to Māori people because lots of the language words are very similar to Maori language.
As with other Polynesian cultures (Hawai'ian, Tahitian and Māori), Samoans have two gender specific and culturally important tattoos. For males, it is called the Pe'a, It is intricate and geometrical patterns tattooed on areas from the knees up towards the ribs. A male who has such a tatau is called a soga'imiti. A Samoan girl or "teine" is given a malu. It covers the area from just below her knees to her upper thighs.

</doc>
<doc id="10533" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10533" title="Davy Jones (singer)">
Davy Jones (singer)

Davy Jones (December 30, 1945– February 29, 2012) was an English singer and actor. He was born in Manchester, England. 
His father wanted him to be a jockey, but he wanted to be a performer. He appeared in the television programme, "Coronation Street" and in the London and Broadway versions of "Oliver!". In 1966, he joined The Monkees, a musical group created for a television series of the same name. The series was cancelled in 1968 and the group disbanded in 1970. 
Jones continued to perform until his death from a heart attack caused by atherosclerosis in 2012 in Stuart, Florida.

</doc>
<doc id="10534" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10534" title="Michael Nesmith">
Michael Nesmith

Michael Nesmith (born December 30, 1942) is an American musician, songwriter, actor, producer, novelist, businessman and philanthropist.
He was born in Dallas, Texas on December 30, 1942. His mother, Bette Nesmith Graham invented Liquid Paper in 1951 and made the family very rich. In the 1960s, he moved to Los Angeles to start a recording career, he wrote the song "Different Drum" which was a hit for Linda Ronstadt and the Stone Poneys. In 1966, he became a member of the Monkees, a made-for-TV rock band, he left the group in 1969 and started a solo career. He is considered one of the forefathers of the country-rock movement of the 1970s with his song "Joanne", he also worked as a producer and is considered one of the pioneers of the music video industry. Nesmith's 1981 video-movie "Elephant Parts" won the first Grammy award for a music video

</doc>
<doc id="10535" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10535" title="Peter Tork">
Peter Tork

Peter Tork (born February 13, 1942) is an American actor and musician. His real name is Peter Halsten Thorkelson. He was born in Washington, D.C. He started as a folk musician in Greenwich Village. In 1966, he became famous as a member of The Monkees. He was recommended for the group by his friend Stephen Stills. Shortly after The Monkees television series ended 1968, he the band. He played with the other members of the group at times, but still plays with his own bands and tours often.

</doc>
<doc id="10537" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10537" title="Micky Dolenz">
Micky Dolenz

George Michael Dolenz, Jr. (born March 8, 1945), better known as Micky Dolenz is an American actor, singer, director, and voice artist. He is most famous as a member of The Monkees.

</doc>
<doc id="10539" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10539" title="Goldstar beer">
Goldstar beer

Goldstar is an Israeli beer that has been brewed in Israel since the 1950s.
It is defined as a Munich-style beer. Goldstar contains 4.9% alcohol.

</doc>
<doc id="10547" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10547" title="1797">
1797


</doc>
<doc id="10548" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10548" title="1851">
1851


</doc>
<doc id="10554" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10554" title="Dominique de Villepin">
Dominique de Villepin

Dominique Marie François René Galouzeau de Villepin (born November 14, 1953), simply known as Dominique de Villepin, was Premier (or Prime Minister) of France from 31 May 2005 to 17 May 2007. He was made Premier by Jacques Chirac after the French President removed Jean-Pierre Raffarin from the premiership. Raffarin failed to gain the support of the French people for the European Constitution.
Dominique de Villepin said that his government's most important task would be job creation. He knew that the French people were concerned about the condition of the French economy. This was one of the reasons they had voted against the European Constitution in the referendum on 29 May 2005.
On 15 May 2007, the last full day of President Jacques Chirac's term, Villepin gave his resignation from the office of Prime Minister and it was accepted by the President. He was replaced two days later by François Fillon.

</doc>
<doc id="10575" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10575" title="Francis Drake">
Francis Drake

Vice Admiral Sir Francis Drake (1540 – 27 January 1596) was an English sea captain, privateer, navigator, slaver, and politician of the Elizabethan era. Elizabeth I of England awarded Drake a knighthood in 1581. He was second-in-command of the English fleet against the Spanish Armada in 1588. He also carried out the second circumnavigation of the world, from 1577 to 1580, during which he attacked towns of the Spanish Empire. 
He died of dysentery in January 1596 after unsuccessfully attacking San Juan, Puerto Rico. His exploits were legendary. He was a hero to the English but a pirate to the Spaniards. King Philip II was reported to have offered a reward of 20,000 ducats, about £4,000,000 (US$6.5M) by modern standards, for his life.

</doc>
<doc id="10576" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10576" title="House of Commons of the United Kingdom">
House of Commons of the United Kingdom

The term House of Commons is used by many countries to describe part of their parliament. In the United Kingdom, the House of Commons is the part of the parliament which has the most power. It is made up of Members of Parliament elected by the people. Sometimes it is called the 'lower house'. (The 'upper house' is called the House of Lords.) Other countries also have parts of parliament called the House of Commons which work in the same way.
In the British parliament, there are 650 Members of Parliament or MPs. Each MP represents a constituency, which covers an area of the country. The people of each constituency vote at a general election or a by-election to choose one person to represent them in the House of Commons. Usually, the people choose someone who belongs to a political party. When all the parties get together, the party which has the most members is the government and runs the country. The leader of that party is called the Prime Minister. 
The House of Commons hold their meetings in the Palace of Westminster. Their chief officer is the Speaker of the House elected by MPs. The Clerk of the House of Commons is the Principal Advisor of the Speaker and is in charge of the security.

</doc>
<doc id="10577" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10577" title="Wank">
Wank

Wank is a mountain in the Bavarian Alps, by Garmisch-Partenkirchen in Germany, close to the Austrian border.
Wank is 1780m tall, and has a cable car, the "Wankbahn", which takes people almost all the way to the top. Near the peak, there is an inn called the "Wankhaus" which was built in 1911 that allows people to spend the night.

</doc>
<doc id="10588" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10588" title="1685">
1685

Year 1685 was a common year that started on a Monday when using the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="10589" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10589" title="Hank Aaron">
Hank Aaron

Henry Louis Aaron (born February 5, 1935) is a baseball player. He played baseball professionally for 22 years, and hit 755 home runs. . Even though he has 755 home runs in his career, he never hit 50 or more in a season. He was selected for 25 All-Star games. He was put into the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1982.

</doc>
<doc id="10590" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10590" title="Vishnu">
Vishnu

Vishnu is one of the three main gods in Hinduism. Vaishnavas believe that Vishnu is the highest God. Vishnu is the preserver god, which means he protects the earth from being destroyed and keeps it going, according to this religion, and he has come to earth in nine forms (called avatars) so far, with one yet to come. His most famous forms are Rama and Krishna. Vishnu's wife is Lakshmi, the Hindu goddess of fortune.
Vishnu is usually shown with light blue skin and four arms. He holds a lotus, mace (gada), conch (shankha) and disc (chakra) in each of four hands.
There are ten avatars of Vishnu (in the order they appeared):
Vishnu holds items in his four hands. He holds a conch in the lower right hand, a discus in the upper right hand, a lotus (flower) in the upper left hand and a mace in the lower left hand. 

</doc>
<doc id="10593" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10593" title="Money laundering">
Money laundering

Money laundering is something some criminals do to the money they make from crime. When a criminal does money laundering, the criminal tries to make it hard for the police to find out where the criminal got the money.
One way criminals launder money is by using the money earned from illegal activities to buy things (like gold and silver, shares or casino chips, other legitimate business activities like food or liquor stores) and then selling those items to get the money back. If a criminal buys and sells things many times it is hard for the police to find out where the criminal got the money.
Some countries have laws to try to stop money laundering. These laws help the police to find out when criminals try to do money laundering. Under the laws in some countries, business people must:
In 1989, some countries set up a group of people from different Governments to tell countries the best ways to stop money laundering. This organization is called the Financial Action Task Force on Money Laundering.

</doc>
<doc id="10594" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10594" title="Zeus">
Zeus

Zeus (Latin: "Iuppiter" or "Jove"; Ancient Greek: "Ζεύς") is the King of Gods, ruler of Mount Olympus in Greek mythology, and one of the Twelve Olympians. He is the sixth child of his parents Cronus, ruler of the Titans, and Rhea. His father, Cronus swallowed every child he had with Rhea because he feared the prophecy that his children will overthrow him as ruler of Mount Olympus. When Zeus was born, Rhea gave a stone instead of Zeus for Cronus to swallow. Rhea then hid Zeus in safety. When Zeus grew up, he overthrew Cronus with his allies, the Cyclopes. The battle was known as Titanomachy. Because they could not die, Zeus imprisoned Cronus in the Underworld, and became the King of the gods as predicted. 
He was praised all throughout Ancient Greece. He was regarded with utmost respect. He was the most important god of all the twelve Olympians. Zeus controlled the weather and can order any god or mortal, except the Fates. It is said that he had a powerful lightning bolt that he used when angered.
He married his sister Hera, but had many affairs and children with many other women, both goddesses and mortals. This irritated Hera greatly, who often tried to have revenge on his half god children.
His brothers were Poseidon and Hades. He agreed to split the world with them, and Zeus got the sky, Poseidon the sea, and Hades the Underworld.
Zeus' sisters were Hera, Demeter, and Hestia. The first two were members of the Twelve Olympians.

</doc>
<doc id="10595" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10595" title="Evolutionary biology">
Evolutionary biology

Evolutionary biology is a subfield of biology that studies how species start and change over time; or in other words, how species evolve. Someone who studies evolutionary biology is known as an evolutionary biologist.
Evolutionary biology became an academic subject as a result of the modern evolutionary synthesis in the 1930s and 1940s. It was not until the 1970s and 1980s that universities had departments that used the term "evolutionary biology" in their titles.
In the United States, as a result of the rapid growth of molecular and cell biology, many universities have split their biology departments into "molecular and cell biology"-style departments and "ecology and evolutionary biology"-style departments. These have included older departments such as paleontology, zoology and the like.

</doc>
<doc id="10596" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10596" title="1488">
1488


</doc>
<doc id="10597" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10597" title="1695">
1695


</doc>
<doc id="10598" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10598" title="1767">
1767


</doc>
<doc id="10599" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10599" title="1848">
1848


</doc>
<doc id="10600" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10600" title="222 BC">
222 BC


</doc>
<doc id="10601" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10601" title="Mozilla Firefox">
Mozilla Firefox

Mozilla Firefox is a free open source web browser for the computer. It displays web pages written in the computer language HTML. It is made by the Mozilla Foundation. It works on all common operating systems. The makers did not put in all possible features by design, instead extra features can be added. This was done to make Firefox simple to use and safe.
The name for Firefox 3.0 while it was being made was "Gran Paradiso". "Gran Paradiso", like other Firefox development names, is an actual place; in this case the second-highest mountain group in the Graian Alps.
In 2006, the development team asked people who use Firefox to submit feature ideas that they wanted to be in Firefox 3.
NetApplications says that the use of Firefox 3 has been going up very fast to a usage share of 23.75% in September 2009. They think that this increase means that Firefox 3 is stable and that users are using it as their main browser.
The date for the launch of Firefox 3 was June 17, 2008, named "Download Day 2008." Firefox was aiming to set the record for most Firefox downloads in 24 hours. As of June 18, 2008, more than 6.88 million people have downloaded Firefox 3.
Many people tried going to the Mozilla website on June 17, making it unavailable for at least a few hours. The site was not updated for the download of Firefox 3 until 12:00 PDT. "Download Day" ended at 11:16 AM PDT June 18. Firefox 3 has been downloaded 28,340,281 different times.
Extensions let a user add new things to the browser or change how it does something. They are created by other users. Because extensions are able to access all parts of the computer that Firefox can, extensions that can harm a computer could be made. However,the extension can only change system settings if you have administrator privileges.
Firefox also has themes or skinning which change the way the browser looks to the user. Some themes that can make Firefox look like other browsers, such as Internet Explorer and Netscape.
Tabbed browsing is a feature used in the browser where many webpages can be opened in one window, with labeled tabs on top to select the webpage. To make a new empty tab, type control-T.
There is a search box in Firefox that can be seen in the top right corner of the window. When someone using Mozilla Firefox types something in the search box and presses enter, the browser will search the Internet using a search engine like Google or Yahoo!.
There are ""search suggestions"" in Firefox 2. When words are typed in the search box, suggested words will appear. For example, if ""wiki"" is typed, the browser will suggest ""Wikipedia"".
Firefox can use spell checking, if a word is typed badly into a text box, like the one where someone changes a Wikipedia page, the program will underline the word that is spelled wrong with a red line. If you scroll over that word and right click, Mozilla Firefox will list words which use the right spelling. For example: the wrong word "chekc" will have "check" as a suggestion.
Mozilla Firefox has been given a number of awards by many organizations. These awards include:

</doc>
<doc id="10602" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10602" title="Lenny Kravitz">
Lenny Kravitz

Leonard Albert "Lenny" Kravitz (born May 26, 1964) is an American rock singer, songwriter and musician. His mother, Roxie Roker (1929-1995), was an actress on "The Jeffersons" in the 1970s. Some of his biggest hit songs include "It Ain't Over Til It's Over", "Again", and "Fly Away". He sung on "(I Can't Make It) Another Day" Michael Jackson's 2010 album "Michael". He also wrote and produced the song.

</doc>
<doc id="10605" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10605" title="1854">
1854


</doc>
<doc id="10606" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10606" title="1900">
1900

1900 (MCM) was an exceptional common year starting on Monday, in accordance with the Gregorian Calendar. It was the last year of the 19th century but the first of the 1900s.

</doc>
<doc id="10607" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10607" title="Birdbox">
Birdbox

A birdbox is a human-made, usually wooden box used as a house for birds. It is suitable as a bird home because it is similar to a natural bird home, such as a hollow tree, and birds often make nests inside birdboxes. Birdboxes are often put on trees. They are often made by people who are fond of birds, but they are also useful for studying birds. For domesticated birds, birdboxes are often used for breeding.
Most birdboxes feature a simple design with of six planks ordered in a cube, with a hole in a wall where birds can go in and out. Common additions include a small stick outside the hole on which birds can sit on, and a sloping roof to make rainwater run off. Some can however be highly detailed and decorated, depending on the maker's preferences. They can also be made from things like logs or gourds. They come in many sizes, depending on the size of the bird type the box is made for. Most birdboxes are small, but some, such as ones made for owls or parrots, can be quite large.
Although birdboxes are intended for birds, many other animals can inhabit them as well. Examples include bees that make beehives inside them, and squirrels.

</doc>
<doc id="10610" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10610" title="Accent">
Accent

An accent is the way a person speaks.
Sometimes people will talk about someone's accent. They might say that the person has a German accent, or an Australian accent. An accent is the way words are said.
The way a person says words usually comes from where he or she was a child, and other people where he or she lives. People learn how to say words and sentences so that they sound the same as when others speak.
People speaking the same language can have different accents. Even people in the same country can have different accents. Sometimes people can tell what city someone lived in when as a child, by the way that person speaks. (e.g. a New York City accent)
When first trying to learn a new language, often a person will still have his or her old accent. People may be able to guess what country or place that person lived in before. 
If someone can learn another language well enough, he or she may not have the old accent anymore. These people may get a new accent in the new language. If someone studied German in Austria, people in Germany may think that person was Austrian.

</doc>
<doc id="10623" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10623" title="Louis Braille">
Louis Braille

Louis Braille (4 January 1809 - 6 January 1852) was a French inventor. He was born in Coupvray. He invented the script braille system, which helps blind people to read. Braille is read by passing one's fingers over characters made up of an arrangement of one to six embossed points. It has been adapted to almost every known language.
Braille was the child of a leather maker. He was the youngest of four children. He had three older siblings, two sisters and a brother. He became blind at the age of three. He accidentally stuck a stitching awl into one eye while he was in his father's workshop. There were no antibiotics and soon his injured eye was infected. It spread to his other eye and soon, he became blind in both eyes. He went to the Royal Institute of Blind Youth at the age of ten. Braille was a good student, especially when it came to science and music. Later he became a church organist. He was also a teacher at the Institute of Blind Youth. Braille died in Paris at the age of 43 of tuberculosis.

</doc>
<doc id="10624" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10624" title="Marsupial">
Marsupial

Marsupials are the main part of an infraclass of mammals called the Metatheria. This consists of the marsupials and their extinct ancestors.
Marsupials give birth to living babies. The babies are called "joeys". The babies feed on milk. Their babies are born very small. 
Marsupials have a special pouch where they carry their babies. After the birth the baby goes into its mother's pouch, where it can drink milk and is kept warm and safe. When the babies are young they stay in the pouch all the time, but when they are older they can leave it for short times. When they are old enough and too big for the pouch they do not go into their mother's pouch anymore.
Marsupials evolved before the southern supercontinent Gondwana broke off from Pangaea 100 million years ago. Early marsupial fossils have been found in Asia, from 125 million years ago. 
They were outcompeted on Laurasia by placental mammals, but the placentals did not get into the Australasian part of Gondwana before it broke away into a separate supercontinent. That is why marsupials now found native only on the southern continents of Australasia and South and Central America, with the single exception of the "Virginia Opossum". 
Some of the 100 living species of South American marsupials have migrated north: 13 species to Central America and one to North America. 
There are 334 species of living Australasian marsupials. They are mostly in Australia and New Guinea, and some are on the smaller islands.
In more recent times the land bridge between the Americas, and reintroductions to Australia, have brought in placental mammals. They have caused the recent extinction of many marsupial species.
The extinct genus "Yalkaparidon" (Order Yalkaparidontia) is a bizarre fossil found in the Oligocene/Miocene deposits of Riversleigh, NE Australia. Its teeth are so strange that palaeontologists call it a 'Thingodont'.
The borhyaenids and the sabertooth "Thylacosmilus" are no longer considered to be marsupials. They are sparassodont metatherians, the sister group of the marsupials.

</doc>
<doc id="10625" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10625" title="B.J. Thomas">
B.J. Thomas

Billy Joe "BJ" Thomas (born August 7, 1942) is a country singer. His most famous songs are "Hooked upon a feeling" and "Raindrops Keep Falling On My Head", which was in the movie "Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid". He sang throughout the 1970s. He changed to Christian music in the 1980s.

</doc>
<doc id="10632" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10632" title="Laws of war">
Laws of war

The Laws of war are some simple rules which most people accept about fighting. Many people think that because there is fighting, there should be no rules. This is called "total war". However, laws of war have been made so that wars do not get worse than they need to be.
These laws come from various treaties. Some of these treaties are:

</doc>
<doc id="10648" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10648" title="Maharashtra">
Maharashtra

Maharashtra () is the name of a state of India and its language is Marathi. It is the third-biggest state of India (the size of only two states are bigger). Only one Indian state has more people. Mumbai is the capital of Maharashtra. (Name ‘Mumbai’ comes from original name of the city, Mumbapuri.)
Maharashtra is in the west part of India on the coast of the Arabian Sea. Seven other states of India have borders with Maharashtra. It covers an area of 118,530 mi² (306,993 km²), it is bigger than Italy but smaller than Oman. In traditional Indian geography it falls under the West Indian zone.
Maharashtra has more business than any other one state of India.
Most people in Maharashtra are Hindus and you can see it in the culture of Maharashtra. There are many temples in Maharashtra and some of them are very old. The architecture of these temples is a mixture of architecture from North and South India. The temples also have ideas from Hindu, Buddhist and Jain cultures. Maharashtra has many forts like Raigad and Pratapgad which were very important in the early history of the Maratha empire and also sea forts like the one at Sindhudurg.
The folk music of Maharashtra is mixed.
An early piece of Marathi literature is Bhawarthadeepika (known as Dnyaneshwari) by Dnyaneshwar. The religious songs called bhajans by Dnyaneshwar, Tukaram, Namdev are very popular. Modern Marathi literature also has some great poets and authors like P. L. Deshpande, Kusumagraj, Prahlad Keshav Atre, and Vyankatesh Madgulkar. Many books are published every year in Marathi.
The theater, movies, and television in Maharashtra are mostly made in Mumbai, and the actors in each area (like television) can work in the others. Some important people in the movie industry are Dadasaheb Phalke, Dada Kondke, Ashok Saraf, Laxmikant Berde, Sachin Pilgaonkar, Mahesh Kothare and V. Shantaram. Early Marathi theatre had important playwrights (people who write plays) like Kolhatkar, Khadilkar, Deval, Gadkari and Kirloskar. They wrote musical plays called Sangeet Naatak. The music from those plays is called Natyasangeet. Important actors at this time were Bal Gandharva, Keshavrao Bhosle, Bhaurao Kolhatkar, and Dinanath Mangeshkar.
Some of the popular Marathi television channels are Mi Marathi and ETV Marathi. They have many kinds of shows: soap operas, cooking, travel, political satire, and game shows.
The food of Maharashtra is different in each place. The people in the Konkan region eat more rice and the ones near the ocean eat a lot of fish. In eastern Maharashtra, most people eat a lot of wheat, jowar, and bajra. Other important things people eat in Maharashtra are lentils, onions, tomatoes, potatoes, chilies, garlic, ginger, and aamras. Many people also eat chicken and mutton.
In the past, women wore a long sari and men wore a dhoti or pajama with a shirt. Today, women in the cities often wear other clothes like Salwar kameez (dresses from the Punjab), and men in the cities wear trousers and a shirt.
Cricket is very popular in Maharashtra. Many people play it and many others watch it. Kabaddi is also popular. Children play Viti-Dandu and Pakada-pakadi (Tag).
Hindus in Maharashtra follow the Saka era calendar. Gudi Padwa, Diwali, Rangapanchami, Gokulashtami, and Ganeshotsav are some of the festivals that are celebrated in Maharashtra. Ganeshotsav is the biggest festival. The Hindus celebrate it with reverence and festivity in Maharashtra and it has also become popular in other parts of India. The festival which lasts ten days is in honor of Ganesha, the Hindu god of learning and knowledge.

</doc>
<doc id="10655" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10655" title="Pete Best">
Pete Best

Randolph Peter Best or Pete Best was The Beatles's original drummer. He was born on 24 November 1941 in Madras, India to an Indian mother and an English father. His mother, Mona, later owned the Casbah Club in Liverpool, where The Beatles would sometimes perform. Best was drummer for the group from 1960 until 16 August 1962, when the band and their new manager, Brian Epstein, fired him and replaced him with Ringo Starr. The reason was because when the band auditioned for EMI, record producer George Martin was not satisfied with Best's drum skills, and planned to replace him on their recordings.
Best was devastated, and tried to form other bands with little success. He attempted suicide in 1965. He went on to work as a civil servant. In 1995, when The Beatles released their "Anthology" albums, which featured Best on some recordings, he received a large sum of money from the sales. He also found a new career, appearing at Beatles-related events such as conventions, where he sometimes played drums, with more skill than he showed in earlier days.

</doc>
<doc id="10656" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10656" title="Dionne Quintuplets">
Dionne Quintuplets

The Dionne Quintuplets were the first quintuplets (five babies born at the same time from the same mother) to survive after being born. They were born in Ontario, Canada on May 28, 1934 to Elzire and Oliva Dionne. They were: 
The babies were delivered by Dr. Allan Roy Dafoe, who later was given custody of the girls by the Canadian government and the Ontario government housed them in a special theme park-like area, just across the street from the house their parents and 6 other siblings lived in. At one time 6,000 people visited Quintland each day to see the sisters, they also had dolls made out of them, and appeared in commercials for products like corn syrup and Quaker oats like oatmeal. Then in 1943, the girls' father, Oliva, finally got custody of them again and the girls moved back to live with their real family. Dr. Dafone died soon after that. The girls later claimed their father abused them. In 1998 the surviving sisters sued the government of Ontario for being exploited as kids and were rewarded 4 million Canadian dollars.

</doc>
<doc id="10677" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10677" title="All's Well That Ends Well">
All's Well That Ends Well

All's Well That Ends Well is a play by William Shakespeare. It is a comedy. It was based on a story in Boccaccio's "Decameron". The date "All's Well" was written is uncertain, but it was probably written between 1600 and 1603. It was probably first performed about 1602-1603, and probably first printed in the First Folio of 1623. The play is about Helena's love for the unresponsive Bertram.

</doc>
<doc id="10707" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10707" title="Fag">
Fag

Fag can mean different things:

</doc>
<doc id="10713" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10713" title="Christ">
Christ

In Christianity, the Christ (; ) is a title for the savior and redeemer who would bring salvation to the Jewish people and mankind. Christ is the Greek translation of "Messiah" (), used through the Hebrew Bible. Christians believe that Jesus of Nazareth is the Jewish Messiah (or Christ) of the Christian Old Testament. "Christ", used by Christians both as a name and as a title, is synonymous with Jesus.

</doc>
<doc id="10722" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10722" title="Christian Bale">
Christian Bale

Christian Charles Philip Bale (born January 30, 1974) is a English actor. He is from Haverfordwest in Pembrokeshire. Bale is best known for playing the part of Batman in Christopher Nolan's "The Dark Knight Trilogy". He began in a movie of Steven Spielberg Empire of the Sun at the age of 13. He also played in "American Psycho" and "The Machinist". He is married to Sandra Blažić since 2000 and they have one child together.

</doc>
<doc id="10744" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10744" title="Eric Clapton">
Eric Clapton

Eric Patrick Clapton (born 30 March 1945, in The Green, Ripley, Surrey, England) is an English guitarist, singer and composer. Clapton is the son of a sixteen-year-old, Patricia Clapton, and Edward Fryer, a Canadian soldier stationed in England.
Clapton's father, who already had a wife, returned to Canada after World War II. His mother, was not able to bear the shame of raising an illegitimate child (a child of unmarried parents) in post-war Britain. She left Clapton with his grandparents Jack and Rose Clapp (Clapton by her first marriage) and moved to Germany where she married another Canadian soldier. Clapton was raised believing his mother was his sister. His grandmother did not tell him the truth until he was nine years old.
A polite and well-behaved boy, the young Clapton was an above-average student, though in 1956 he failed the eleven-plus and went to St. Bedes Secondary Modern School. Two years later however, he passed the review and went to 13-plus on the strength of his art accomplishment and got a scholarship to a school in Tolworth, near Surbiton. He liked art very much. He wanted to learn to play the guitar after watching Jerry Lee Lewis on television. Clapton's obsession with playing blues music caused him to be expelled from Kingston College of Art because he was playing the guitar in class.
Working as a labourer to pay his way, Clapton spent most of his free time playing his electric guitar. Eventually he joined a local band, The Roosters. He later joined Casey Jones And The Engineers with fellow band member Tom McGuiness. In 1963, Clapton was asked to join The Yardbirds. It was in the Yardbirds that he earned his nickname of 'Slowhand'. The name came from his forceful string-bending that often caused broken guitar strings. He would replace the strings on stage while the crowd slowly clapped their hands.
After about 18 months with the Yardbirds, musical differences led Clapton to move on to John Mayall's Bluesbreakers, where his talent grew even more. It was at this part in his career that Eric's fans gave him his second, and ultimate, nickname - "God"!
In mid-1966 he left the Bluesbreakers, whose members had grown to include Jeff Beck and Jimmy Page. The band he formed with bassist Jack Bruce and drummer Ginger Baker would become Eric's best-known band, The Cream. Cream became the "pre-eminent (best) rock trio of the Sixties"; the name came from its members being among the top session musicians in England. They played both their own songs ("Strange Brew", "Sunshine Of Your Love", "White Room") and cover versions of other people's songs ("I'm So Glad").
Clapton became friends with Beatle George Harrison, who asked him to play guitar on "While My Guitar Gently Weeps", for 1968's "White Album". Clapton also played on John Lennon's "Yer Blues", in a filmed performance.
While Cream were popular and had several hit records, problems between Baker and Bruce, and the increasing drug use of all three caused tensions that eventually broke the band up in 1969. George Harrison teamed with Clapton, to write and record "Badge" for Cream's final album.
Clapton played again with John Lennon and his new wife Yoko Ono, as a member of the Plastic Ono Band. He appeared with them onstage in Toronto that September, and played guitar on "Cold Turkey", Lennon's song about heroin addiction. At that time, the Beatles were getting ready to break up. Lennon thought about asking Clapton to join his and Ono's new band, but decided not to have a permanent lineup.
Clapton and Baker joined with Rick Grech and Steve Winwood to form rock's first ever supergroup, Blind Faith. Blind Faith lasted only a few months, and released one album. After Blind Faith broke up, Clapton formed another band, called Derek and the Dominoes. Their most popular song was "Layla". He performed a concert at the Rainbow Theatre in London on 13 January 1973, thanks to his friend Pete Townshend of The Who. He started work on a new album, "461 Ocean Blvd", which was released July 1974. 
The inspiration for "Layla" was fashion model Pattie Boyd. She was married to Clapton's friend, George Harrison. Clapton was in love with Boyd. He was not happy because he could not be with her because she was married to his friend. In time, Boyd and Harrison grew apart, and Clapton and Boyd got together. They married in May 1979. All three remained friends, and Clapton and Harrison called themselves "husbands-in-law", though for some years afterwards, the friendship between them was understandably strained. Clapton and Boyd were divorced in 1989, after they also grew apart.
Along with his drug problems, Clapton had trouble with alcohol, sometimes drinking a whole bottle or more of liquor in a day. In the 1990s, he was finally able to stop drinking alcohol. He also found out more about his father, who had died, and about a half-brother (by his mother) he had never met, who was mentally challenged and lived in a hospital.
Clapton is still making music and performing, sometimes with other musicians such as B.B. King.
Clapton also enjoys fishing at Eastlodge fishing. 

</doc>
<doc id="10745" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10745" title="Buenos Aires">
Buenos Aires

Buenos Aires is the capital and largest city in the South American country of Argentina.
Buenos Aires city is also known as "Capital Federal" to differentiate the city from the Buenos Aires Province.
Until 1994 Buenos Aires city was under the presidential government, but after a constitutional reform in that year, the city became self-governed, allowing citizens to elect their city authorities.
Buenos Aires has a population of 3,040,000 inhabitants. Spanish is the main language, but English is widely well spoken. Italian is also widespread.
Buenos Aires has a humid subtropical climate ("Cfa" in the Koeppen climate classification). The average temperature is 17 °C. During the 20th century the temperature went up because of the urbanization. Rainfall is 1222.6 mm. per year. Summers are hot and humid. Winters are mild, the highest medium temperature is 13.7 °C during this season. Temperature rarely reaches 0 °C or below. Fog is frequent.
Buenos Aires is divided into 48 neighborhoods. Most populated areas are:
Buenos Aires is the most visited city in South América. Most touristic areas are the historical center, Palermo, Recoleta and San Telmo. 
The fifth Wikimania was hosted in this city in 2009.

</doc>
<doc id="10747" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10747" title="Lyndon B. Johnson">
Lyndon B. Johnson

Lyndon B. Johnson (August 27, 1908 – January 22, 1973) was a member of the Democratic Party and the 36th president of the United States serving from 1963 to 1969. Johnson took over as president when President Kennedy was killed in November 1963. He was then re-elected in the 1964 election. 
His time as head of government had two chief parts, his policies inside the country which included Civil rights and caring for the poor, and also his policies that were open to argument which resulted in the United States fighting the Vietnam War. 
Johnson was born in Texas. His father was a politician who had worked for the Texas state government. As a young adult, he was a teacher. He was elected to the House of Representatives in 1937, then to the Senate in 1948. He won the Senate election by just 87 votes.
In the Senate, Johnson very quickly became powerful and in 1955 became leader of the Senate and was the youngest to have ever held that position. He started great programs for the public. It helped that he knew the other Senators well and could often persuade them to support his ideas. In 1960, he ran for President, but during the contest to see who the Democrats would support, he lost to John F. Kennedy. Johnson was then selected by Kennedy as the candidate Vice President. Kennedy narrowly won the election and Johnson became Vice President. Like most Vice Presidents, Johnson did not like the job. It gave him too little power.
Lyndon B. Johnson was well known as someone who could persuade other lawmakers in Congress to pass laws. To gain more support for his ideas, he often arm-twisted other politicians (meaning he would threaten them if they didn't agree with him).
Johnson took over as President after Kennedy was assassinated. He finished Kennedy's term as president then in 1964 he ran for re-election and won easily against Barry Goldwater. Johnson won 61.1% of the vote. This is the highest percentage of the vote ever won by someone running for President since 1820.
Johnson began a "war on poverty". He created the Great Society (a series of government programs intended to improve the living standards of the country). These programs include public broadcasting, protecting the environment, Medicare (health care for the elderly), Medicaid (health care for the poor). He supported civil rights for African Americans and continued where Kennedy left off in giving them freedom. The Voting Rights Act in 1965 gave the government powers to stop them from being denied the right to vote. Compared to Kennedy's weak relationship with Congress, Johnson was able to convince politicians to support some of the same policies which they opposed under Kennedy. 
At the same time, Johnson increased the United States involved in the Vietnam War. Johnson increased the number of soldiers in Vietnam from 16,000 to 500,000 in order to stop the Viet Cong - the Communist rebels in South Vietnam. As the years passed, Johnson became more and more unpopular as the war kept on going without an end in sight. By 1968, almost 1000 American soldiers were being killed in Vietnam every month and the enemy still hadn't been defeated. In March Johnson said he would not run for re-election.
Johnson's time as president ended in January 1969. He went back to Texas to live his ranch in Stonewall. 
Johnson died at his ranch on January 22, 1973, at age 64 after having a heart attack. Johnson had a state funeral. The final services took place on January 25. The funeral took place at the National City Christian Church in Washington, D.C. Despite the disaster in Vietnam, Johnson is still thought of as being a good president by historians because of what he achieved with civil rights. In 1973 The Manned Spacecraft Center in Houston was renamed the Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center.

</doc>
<doc id="10754" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10754" title="Catholic Church">
Catholic Church

The Catholic Church is a denomination of Christianity. It is the largest denomination of Christians, with over 1 billion people in the Church. It is the world's second-largest religious group after Sunni Islam. It teaches that it is the same Church started by Jesus Christ and his followers about 2,000 years ago. The headquarters of the Catholic Church is based in the Vatican City.
The word catholic comes from the Greek word "katholicos", which means "universal." It was first used in the Nicene Creed. Often, the word Roman is added - incorrectly - to the Church as a whole, due to its headquarters in Vatican City, which is a country in itself but is in middle of the city of Rome, Italy.Typically, people who call themselves 'Catholic' mean that they are a member of the Catholic Church. 
The Catholic Church has members all over the world, but many Catholics live in Latin America, but also in United States, Canada, Western Europe, Southern Europe, Sub-Saharan Africa, the Philippines, India, South Korea and Oceania. 
The Catholic Church is led by the Pope, the Bishop of Rome, who lives in Vatican City. According to Catholics, the Church guided by the Holy Spirit, who also guides the Pope. The Church teaches that when the Pope speaks officially on the subject of Catholic faith and morals ('ex cathedra') he cannot be wrong. The Popes have used this infallibility throughout history; some examples include the Tome of St. Leo, the declaration of the Immaculate Conception, and various anathemas (religious condemnations issued by the Popes against certain heresies).
The Catholic Church teaches that the first Pope was Saint Peter, because in the Gospel it is written that Jesus Christ would make Peter the "rock" (foundation) of the Church (Gospel of Matthew 16:18, "you are Peter ('rock'), and upon this rock I will build my church"). The current pope is Pope Francis.
Like other Christians, Catholics believe Jesus Christ is a divine person, the Son of God. They believe that because of his love for all people, he died so that all of us will live forever in heaven.
The Catholic Church also recognizes the Trinity, i.e. that the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit are together the only God.
Catholics should follow the example of love Jesus Christ both teaches and gives: to love each other so much that one is even willing to die for another.
The leader of the Roman Catholic Church is called the Pope, which literally means "father". Catholics say Jesus Christ established the Catholic Church, and appointed the first Pope, a disciple of his named Saint Peter, to lead all Christians.
Over the next 2,000 years, different Popes have led the church. The current Pope is the 266th and is called Francis and he lives in the Vatican City, a very small country inside the city of Rome, Italy.
For centuries, Popes have not used their birth names, but instead use a regal name. This custom started in the sixth century when a man named Mercury was elected Pope, it was seen as inappropriate to have a Pope named after a pagan god so he named himself John II, in honor of his predecessor, John I; it became customary in the tenth century. Since the death of Marcellus II 1555, every Pope has taken a Papal name. 
The Catholic Church is made of 23 particular churches, otherwise known as "rites", as well as being head of the Latin Rite of the church (which is the largest with over 1 billion members), the Pope is ultimately the leader of 22 <nowiki>Eastern Catholic Churches</nowiki>, these churches are of the Orthodox tradition of Christianity and it is often the case that they have broken away from their Orthodox mother church to come into communion with (join) the Pope and submit to his authority as successor of St. Peter. The Eastern Catholic Churches are based all over the world, from the United States to the Middle East to India.
Catholics believe that some of the official statements that the Pope makes about faith and morals of their religion are true and cannot be proved incorrect, an idea called infallibility. Infallibility only occurs when the Pope speaks "Ex Cathedra" which is Latin for "from the chair".
Some of the traditional worship practices of Roman Catholics include making the sign of the cross, kneeling, bowing, and receiving the Eucharist during their worship ceremonies.
Their main form of worship is called the Mass. It is celebrated every day. Catholics are required to attend on Sunday and on a few Holy Days of obligation. In the United States, the Holy Days of Obligation are: Mary, Mother of God (January 1), The Assumption of Mary (August 15), The Immaculate Conception (of Mary) (December 8), The Ascension of Jesus (40 days after Easter), Christmas (December 25) and All Saints Day (November 1). These can be remembered by the following phrase: 3 for Mary, 2 for Jesus and 1 for all the saints.
While these are all practices of Roman Catholics, other Christian churches also use many or all of these same practices.
Catholics put more emphasis on the Virgin Mary (Jesus's mother) than many other Christians, calling her the "Mother of God," "The Queen of Heaven," and praying to her regularly, as "Mediatrix of graces" at a level higher than other saints.
The Catholic Church celebrates seven sacraments. A sacrament is "an outward sign instituted (started) by Christ to give grace" (a supernatural gift of God that someone did nothing to deserve).
The seven sacraments are: Baptism, Confirmation, Eucharist, Reconciliation, Anointing of the Sick, Holy Orders and Holy Matrimony (marriage). The Holy Eucharist is the most important of the sacraments, because Catholics believe that Jesus Christ becomes truly present in the form of bread and wine. This happens through transubstantiation which takes place in the Mass.
Catholics believe in the necessity of love, hope and faith in order to gain salvation, but that these all come from grace. This is different from the 16th century interpretation created by Luther.
Catholics interpret the Bible (God-given book) according to Tradition. Tradition is the transmission of the early church's life and teaching, as especially recorded in the writings of the Fathers of the Church who lived in the first centuries. At that time the holy books where accepted in the Bible, which is the collection of the books considered revealed.
A basic rule for Catholics is that "Truth cannot contradict truth". They translate the Bible with this in mind. No interpretation can be accepted if it contradicts another revealed truth.
Catholics, like many Christians, accept the Nicene Creed, a combination of the Council of Nicaea (AD 325) and the later Council of Constantinople (AD 382) as true:
"We believe in one God, the Father, the Almighty, maker of heaven and earth, of all that is seen and unseen. We believe in one Lord, Jesus Christ, the only Son of God, eternally begotten of the Father, God from God, Light from Light, true God from true God, begotten, not made, one in being with the Father. Through Him all things were made. For us men and our salvation He came down from heaven: by the power of the Holy Spirit, He was born of the Virgin Mary, and became man. For our sake He was crucified under Pontius Pilate; He suffered, died, and was buried. On the third day He rose again in fulfilment of the scriptures: He ascended into heaven and is seated at the right hand of the Father. He will come again in glory to judge the living and the dead, and his kingdom will have no end. We believe in the Holy Spirit, the Lord, the giver of life, who proceeds from the Father and the Son. With the Father and the Son, He is worshipped and glorified. He has spoken through the Prophets. We believe in one, holy, catholic, and apostolic Church. We acknowledge one baptism for the forgiveness of sins. We look for the resurrection of the dead, and the life of the world to come. Amen."
Eastern Orthodox and Protestant people believe many of the same things. They sometime disagree on the role of Mary (the mother of Jesus) and other saints, on what a priest can do, and on how exactly God should be worshipped, among other things.

</doc>
<doc id="10760" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10760" title="Villeneuve-d'Ascq">
Villeneuve-d'Ascq

Villeneuve-d'Ascq (which means "New city of Ascq" in French) is one of the main cities of the metropolis of Lille, in France. It is between Lille and Roubaix, at the crossroads of the principal freeways towards Paris, Ghent, Antwerp and Brussels, 
Villeneuve-d'Ascq has more than 65,000 people and attracts 50,000 students. 
The average age of people there is 29 years.
The city has about 10 km² of greenspace, lakes, forests and farmland.
The roots of the city go up in Celtic Gaul, and are anchored in two feudal mounds, a Gallo-Roman site and a Carolingian one.
Its site was selected in the 1960s to accommodate the new town of Lille-Est, which was to channel the development of the agglomeration. The commune of Villeneuve-d'Ascq was created in 1970 by the amalgamation of the three communes (Ascq, Annapes and Flers). Its name evokes at the same time the new city and the memory of Ascq, martyr city of April 1, 1944, date on which the Nazis massacred 86 men.

</doc>
<doc id="10762" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10762" title="Hillary Clinton">
Hillary Clinton

Hillary Diane Rodham Clinton (born October 26, 1947) is an American politician and the presumptive Democratic Party nominee. She is a former United States Secretary of State, U.S. Senator, and First Lady of the United States. 
From 2009 to 2013, she was the 67th Secretary of State, serving under President Barack Obama. Before that, she was the junior United States Senator from New York from 2001 to 2009. She is married to former President of the United States Bill Clinton in 1975. When her husband was president, she had the title of First Lady of the United States. She was a candidate in the 2008 election of a new President. She is a member of the Democratic Party.
She is a lawyer and was the First Lady of Arkansas before being First Lady of the United States. She began her first term as Senator January 3, 2001.
Hillary Clinton was the first former First Lady to be elected to the U.S. Senate and to hold a federal cabinet-level position. She ran for re-election to the Senate in 2006, which she won, and was considered by many in the media and politics as having a good chance to win in the race for the Democratic Party's US presidential nomination in 2008, but she lost to Barack Obama. 
In April 2015, Clinton announced that she will be running for president once again for the 2016 United States presidential elections. On June 6, 2016, Clinton reached the number of delegates to become the presumptive Democratic Party nominee.
Hillary Diane Rodham was born in Chicago. She was raised in Park Ridge, a suburb located northwest of downtown Chicago. Her parents were Hugh E. Rodham and Dorothy Emma Howell Rodham. She is of Welsh, English, French and French Canadian ancestry. Hillary grew up with two younger brothers, Hugh and Tony.
She studied at Maine East High School and Maine South High School. She finished high school in 1965, and enrolled at Wellesley College in Massachusetts.
In 1969, Rodham entered Yale Law School. She received a Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree from Yale in 1973. Then, she began a year of post-graduate study on children and medicine at the Yale Child Study Center.
When she was First Lady, she tried to change the health care system. Some people did not like it when the planning meetings were kept secret away from the public. In the end, too many people did not want the changes that she wanted.
Another major event during the time she was First Lady was when the public found out in 1998 that Bill Clinton had a sexual relationship with Monica Lewinsky in the mid 1990s. There was stress in the marriage partly because Bill had to go to trial (impeachment) because he was accused of lying to the court (during a deposition).
When she decided that she wanted to be Senator, she chose New York even though she never lived there. Some accused her of "carpetbagging" because of this. She went on to win the election and won a second term in 2006.
When the war between the United States-led coalition and Iraq was about to start, she voted in favor of the war. Now she is opposed to the war and wants American troops to stop fighting rebel Iraqis.
Hillary Clinton had raised more money than anybody else in the 2008 Presidential campaign, but later had big money problems for her campaign by May 7, 2008. She was not picked by her party, the person who did was Barack Obama, but she campaigned for Obama after this.
In mid-November 2008, Obama and Clinton talked about whether she could be the next U.S. Secretary of State in his presidency. On November 21, there were reports that said Hillary Clinton had accepted his offer. 
During her term as Secretary of State, Clinton used her position to make women's rights and human rights a focus of U.S. initiatives. She became one of the most traveled secretaries of state in American history. She promoted the use of social media to convey the country's positions. She also led U.S. diplomatic efforts in responding to the Arab Spring and military intervention in Libya.
Clinton did not want to serve a second term as secretary. Once Barack Obama won his re-election, he announced that John Kerry would succeed Clinton as secretary. Clinton left office on February 1, 2013.
Clinton did not want to run for president in 2016, but after much of a majority support from the Democratic party, on April 12, 2015, speculation ended as Clinton formally announced her candidacy via email and the release of a video saying, "Everyday Americans need a champion. And I want to be that champion." In recent polls, Clinton maintained her lead for the nomination although she faces several challenges from Senator Bernie Sanders. Clinton became the presumptive nominee by Superdelegates on June 6, 2016.
While working as a faculty member at the Law School of the University of Arkansas, she married Bill Clinton on October 11, 1975. He was also working as a faculty member at the same university. Both knew each other and were classmates at the Yale Law School. Their only child is daughter Chelsea Clinton, born on February 27, 1980.

</doc>
<doc id="10776" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10776" title="Andhra Pradesh">
Andhra Pradesh

Andhra Pradesh () is a state in the Republic of India. About 75,727,000 people lived there as reported in census of 2001. The eastern boundary is a coastline along the Bay of Bengal. The state has an area of . It is bigger than Burkina Faso but smaller than Ecuador. In traditional Indian geography it falls under the South Indian zone.
The capital city is Hyderabad.
Andhra Pradesh has a gross domestic product (GDP) of 123,560 (in millions of US dollars). That makes it number 3 in India in terms of GDP, after Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh. It holds a position in the provinces of the world with more than a billion dollars in GDP. Andhra Pradesh is also called "Rice Bowl of India".The latitude and longitude is 17.3660°N and 78.4760°E respectively.

</doc>
<doc id="10777" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10777" title="Alberto Vargas">
Alberto Vargas

Alberto Vargas (1896-1982) was a Peruvian-born painter, best known for his pin-up paintings of beautiful women.
A painting of Alberto's, "Varga Girl", was put on the Beatles - "Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band" album. She is pictured in the upper right-hand corner (next to Richard Menkin, the man in the hat).

</doc>
<doc id="10778" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10778" title="George Lucas">
George Lucas

George Walton Lucas, Jr. (born May 14, 1944 in Modesto, California) is an American movie director, producer, and screenwriter most famous for his Star Wars and Indiana Jones movie series.
He also directed the movies "THX 1138" (1970) and "American Graffiti" (1973). He made the "Indiana Jones" series with Steven Spielberg. He is also an innovator for what he has done with special effects, and has founded companies that make not only movies, but also things like video games, theme park rides, and TV shows.
Lucas founded the Pixar animation studio and later sold it to Steve Jobs in 1986 for $10 million.
He has three children: Katie, Amanda and Jett Lucas (born 1993). Jett is has had cameo appearances in "" and "" as "Zett Jukassa". 
Lucas began dating Mellody Hobson, president of Ariel Investments and chair of DreamWorks Animation, in 2006. Lucas and Hobson announced their engagement in January 2013, and married on June 22, 2013 at Lucas's Skywalker Ranch in Marin County, California.
A George Lucas Cultural Arts Museum was to be built in San Francisco, California, but after talks failed, Lucas decided not to build the museum in San Francisco. 
Soon afterwards, the Chicago Tribune reported that Lucas wanted to build the museum in Chicago, Illinois. Lucas said: ""The city of Chicago has enthusiastically welcomed me and I consider Chicago to be my second home," Lucas said in a statement. "I look forward to working with community leaders to see if Chicago can become home to the Lucas Cultural Arts Museum. "" The office of Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel confirmed that talks between the two were ongoing. A potential lakefront site on Museum Campus in Chicago was proposed in May 2014. On June 24, 2014, the "Chicago Sun-Times" reported that Chicago was selected as the location, pending approval of the Chicago Plan Commission. The commission approved the idea and the museum will be built in Chicago.

</doc>
<doc id="10779" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10779" title="Telugu">
Telugu

Telugu is an Indian language spoken in the southern part of India. It is the official language of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. It is one of the twenty-two scheduled languages of the Republic of India. Telugu is the second most spoken language in India and 15th largest spoken language in the world. As it is one of the oldest languages in the world, Government of India gave it the status of a Classical language.
Aitereya Brahmanyam which is a part of Rigveda (literature dates to 7000 years before CE) written thousands years before CE, has mentioned Telugu. Telugu also finds mention in Rajatarangini, written by Bilhana Kavi. As per Hindu mythology, one of the sons of Bali Chakravarthy (the one who was sent to Pathaala by Vamana) is Andhra or Andhrudu. Telugu region i.e. Andhra or AP was ruled by him, long before the times of Ramayana and Mahabharata (literature is proven to be of the period 3000 years before CE).
Telugu is the only language other than Sanskrit which has the linguistic prakriya (literature game) called Avadhana, which disappeared in other languages with the passage of time. Languages also have become more and more simple and adopted simple pronunciations, the reason for some typical sounds of Telugu being missing in many other languages.
Sri Krishnadeva Raya has said "Desa bhashalandu Telugu Lessa" which means "Among the nation's languages, Telugu is the best". Rabindranath Tagore is said to have stated that Telugu is the sweetest of all (Indian) Languages. The famous Tamil poet Subramania Bharati also has sung thus "Sundara Telunginil Pattisaithu" which literally means "Sing in beautiful Telugu".
Being a mellifluous language, British authors in the 19th century called Telugu, Italian of the East. It is believed that Italian explorer Niccolò Da Conti, who visited Vijayanagara empire during the reign of Vira Vijaya Bukka Raya in the fifteenth century, coined the phrase.
According to linguists, Proto-Dravidian gave rise to 21 Dravidian languages. They can be broadly classified into three groups: Northern group, Central group, and Southern group of Dravidian languages. The central group consists of ten languages, out of which only Telugu became a civilized language and the rest of the nine languages remained tribal languages. Telugu is the most widely spoken language of the Dravidian family which consists of 24 languages spanning all of South Asia, from Baluchistan to Sri Lanka.
In India the history of scripts has been almost independent of the history of languages. The current similarity in scripts between Telugu and Kannada, which falls under the southern group of Proto-Dravidian languages along with Tamil, Malayalam, Tulu and others, has a lot more to do with the rule of the Chalukyas than the similarity between the languages.
Telugu is mainly spoken in the states of Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Yanam district of Puducherry as well as in the neighboring states of Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Orissa, Chhattisgarh, some parts of Jharkhand and West Bengal in India. It is also spoken in the United States, where the Telugu diaspora numbers more than a million, as well as in Australia, New Zealand, Bahrain, Canada, Fiji, Malaysia, Singapore, Mauritius, Ireland, South Africa, the United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom and many western European countries, where there is also a considerable Telugu diaspora. In Tamil Nadu, about 6.3% of the population speak Telugu, where it commonly known as Telungu.It is the largest spoken and most dominating language in South India.
With 56 letters [16 vowels and 36 consonants, 4 removed], Telugu has more letters in its alphabet than any other language. There were letters for sounds Al, Aluu, which were later removed from the alphabet. Every Telugu word ends with an vowel.
అ ఆ ఇ ఈ ఉ ఊ ఋ ౠ ఎ ఏ ఐ ఒ ఓ ఔ అం అః
క ఖ గ ఘ ఙ 
చ ఛ జ ఝ ఞ
ట ఠ డ ఢ ణ
త థ ద ధ న
ప ఫ బ భ మ
య ర ల వ శ
ష స హ ళ క్ష ఱ
౧ ౨ ౩ ౪ ౫ ౬ ౭ ౮ ౯ ౧౦

</doc>
<doc id="10808" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10808" title="PlayStation 3">
PlayStation 3

PlayStation 3 is Sony's third video game console. It was released in Japan on November 11, 2006. It came out on November 17, 2006 in North America, and was released in Australia and Europe on 23 March 2007. It is competing against the Microsoft Xbox 360 and Nintendo Wii consoles. Sony's previous consoles were the PlayStation 2 and PlayStation (PSOne).
The console is sold in two models. One costs $399 and has a 40 gigabyte hard drive. This model cannot play PlayStation 2 games. The other costs $499 and has an 80 gigabyte hard drive. When the PlayStation 3 was released, there were two different models. One had a 20 gigabyte hard drive and cost $399. The other had a 60 gigabyte hard drive and cost $599. Sony stopped making the 20 gigabyte console in North America after the 60 gigabyte version "sold ten times as many" as the 20 gigabyte version.
The PS3 is, according to Sony, the most powerful seventh generation console. However, many people that create computer games have recently stated that both the PS3 and Xbox 360 are about equal. It is more expensive than the Xbox 360 or Wii. An upside is that to access the online mode to play and interact with other people is free unlike the Xbox in which must be paid for.
It is the only seventh generation console that can Play Blu-ray discs.
In July 2007, Sony announced that they would cut the price of the PS3 in the United States. Sony also replaced the 60 gigabyte version with an 80 gigabyte version.
In October, a new version of the PlayStation 3 which is the 40 gigabyte model was introduced and the price of the 60 gigabyte model was further reduced. A white version of the 40 gigabyte model was also set to release in Japan in November.
Currently, the PS3 is sold in a new, slimmer and more efficient model with a 160 GB or 320 GB of Hard Drive memory.

</doc>
<doc id="10812" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10812" title="PlayStation 2">
PlayStation 2

The PlayStation 2 is Sony's second video game console. It was released in March of 2000. The one before this was PlayStation (or PS1). The next PlayStation is PlayStation 3 which was released in November 2006. The controllers of the PlayStation 2 and PlayStation 3 are the same but the PlayStation 3 is used wirelessly. Some games are online e.g Call Of Duty World At War Final Fronts and a few connect with the PlayStation Portable (or PSP). The PS2 is very successful and games are still made for it. The PlayStation 2 is the world's best-selling console. It has sold around 150 million units since its launch in March 2000, and is fully compatible with PlayStation (PS1) games. It competed with the Nintendo GameCube and the Microsoft Xbox. Sony announced that they had discontinued the PlayStation 2 on January 4, 2013.
The PSX was released in 2003. It was a video recorder that allowed you to play PlayStation 2 games. It had a built-in hard drive (up to 250 GB). It did not sell well, because it cost too much money, so was not released outside of Japan. 

</doc>
<doc id="10813" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10813" title="Sony">
Sony

Sony is a technology company, based in Japan, which makes many electric products. Among its most popular products is the video game console PlayStation, which was followed by PlayStation 2, PlayStation 3 and now the Playstation 4. They also sold the Walkman invented by Andreas Pavel - a small music audio cassette player that could fit in your pocket - they later made Walkman systems that could play CDs, MiniDiscs or MP3s instead of tapes, and they often could receive radio too.
The company also makes music players, televisions, headsets, mobile phones (Sony Ericsson) and computers (named Sony Vaio), and game players (PlayStation).
It owns the American movie studios, Columbia Pictures and TriStar Pictures, through Sony Pictures.
Sony began its activity from a department store in Tokyo. At that time, 1946, the store was damaged by bombs. One engineer and one physicist invested a capital of about $1,600 to create a company which would include 20 employees. The name of the engineer was Masaru Ibuka and the name of the physicist was Akio Morita. People working in their new company repaired electrical equipment. Later they started creating their own products.
The company achieved success in 1954, when it received license that allowed producing transistors. Although transistors were already created in United States, they were not used in production of radios. Sony produced its first transistor radio in May of 1954.
From that period Sony started leading in the field of electronics. Its revolutionary devices included: Trinitron Color Television, created in 1968; color video cassette, produced in 1971 as well as the world's second home video system, created in 1975. Other revolutionary inventions of Sony include: 1979 – Walkman; 1981 – Electronic camera; 1982 – CD player; 1983 – Camcorder and the list continuous with many other devices. One of the most popular Sony products was Sony PlayStation, created in 1995. With its help Sony became the leader in videogames. 
In 45 years Sony has grown from a small firm, employing 20 workers, to a multinational corporation, employing about 100,000 workers. The company created its American branch in 1960 and its UK branch in 1968. In recent years the company focused on leadership in software and hardware. Sony acquired, in 1988, CBS Records and formed Sony Music Entertainment. A year later the company bought Columbia Pictures to create Sony Pictures Entertainment.
Sony would later join forces with BMG to form "Sony BMG." BMG Music Publishing was sold to Universal in 2007. Sony bought ALL of BMG's record labels in 2008, ending the "BMG" name.

</doc>
<doc id="10814" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10814" title="Xbox 360">
Xbox 360

The Xbox 360 is the second video game console released by Microsoft, after 2001's Xbox. The Xbox 360 competes against the Nintendo Wii and Sony PlayStation 3. All three are called "next-generation" or "seventh generation" consoles. The Xbox 360 was officially revealed on MTV on May 12, 2005. The successor to the Xbox 360, the Xbox One, was announced on May 21, 2013. Even though the Xbox One was released on November 22, 2013, the Xbox 360 continues to be sold.
Before Microsoft revealed the console's real name, it was called the Xbox 2, Xenon, Xbox Next, NextBox and other names. During the development, Microsoft, said it would launch the "High-Definition" era for video game consoles, promising visuals (looks) that would look better and much more real. The Xbox 360 uses DVDs to play games and other media, although the DVD holds smaller amounts of information in comparison to the "HD DVD" or "Blu-ray".
The Xbox 360 was released in the United States and Canada on November 22, 2005 in Europe on December 2, 2005, and in Japan on December 10, 2005. It was later launched in Malaysia, Mexico, Colombia, South Korea, Hong Kong, Singapore, Taiwan, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, Chile, India, Brazil, Poland, Czech Republic, and Russia. When the console was first released in North America, demand was more than the supplies and the console sold out at many stores. Many people sold the console on eBay for higher prices, and it was not until early 2006 that the Xbox 360 became more available in stores again.
Discontinued:
Current:
A number of accessories can be purchased for the Xbox 360. These include both wired and wireless controllers, custom faceplates that cover the front of the console, headsets for chatting while online,a webcam, a steering wheel for driving games and various other accessories.
Kinect is a major accessory that Microsoft is planning for the Xbox 360. It is a new way to control games without a controller. Kinect is being developed, and may be in stores in late 2010. It has already won many awards. When it was first being made, it was called Project Natal.
The Xbox 360 is a multimedia console. It can play music and videos streamed or downloaded from a computer. It can also play DVDs and HD-DVDs if a HD-DVD Drive is connected. The Xbox 360 plays games on either a disc or on its hard drive. There are many games for Xbox 360.
The NXE (New Xbox Experience) update had many new features. One new feature is an avatar system. You can make the avatar look like you. The avatar is used in games and more. The menus were changed too. The NXE shows your friends and what they are doing. Another new feature is the ability to add people to an Xbox Live Party. People can talk online in a party. It does not matter if you are on the dashboard or playing another game, up to seven of your friends or anyone else can join a party. Another option is to add friends to the party and game, which will invite them to both your game and party.
Xbox Live now has Facebook, Twitter, and Last.fm. You can use them on Xbox Live, but some features are different. 1080p High definition movies are also on Xbox Live. You can pay to download them.
The most recent update on the 360 was allowing users to input a USB memory device, allowing USB drives with memory over 1 GB to be used for storing data such as avatar items, or game saves, up to a maximum of 16 GB of data.
The white Arcade console breaks down a lot. When it does, the "Red Ring of Death" (RRoD) appears. The RRoD is when the three of the four warning lights on console are lit. The Red Ring of Death shows that there is a hardware problem. This means that the console no longer works. On later models (for example, the Xbox 360 S), these three light show that there is an over-heating problem.

</doc>
<doc id="10817" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10817" title="Xbox">
Xbox

The Xbox is a video game console (a machine that plays video games and DVDS). It was made by Microsoft from November 2001 to October 2005. A person plays the games with a controller. The controllers were very large in the beginning, but were made smaller later. The Xbox video game console can play music, DVDs, and games. Microsoft discontinued the Xbox because they made the next version of the Xbox, the Xbox 360. The Xbox is Discontinued just like the PlayStation 1.
In 1998, four engineers from Microsoft's DirectX team, Kevin Bachus, Seamus Blackley, Ted Hase and DirectX team leader Otto Berkes, took apart some Dell laptop computers to construct a prototype Microsoft Windows-based video game console. The team hoped to create a console to compete with Sony's upcoming PlayStation 2.
During development, the original DirectXbox name was shortened to Xbox. Microsoft's marketing department did not like the Xbox name, and suggested many alternatives.
Xbox was the first video game console by Microsoft. It was a very large video game console, and it had a cost of $299.99 in the United States. It launched one year after the PlayStation 2 and at the same time as the Nintendo GameCube. was the first very popular game for the Xbox.

</doc>
<doc id="10821" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10821" title="Nintendo GameCube">
Nintendo GameCube

The Nintendo GameCube is the fourth video game console made by Nintendo. Nintendo's previous console was called the Nintendo 64. Nintendo's next console is called the Wii.
The Nintendo GameCube is the first Nintendo console to use discs to store the games. Unlike other consoles at the time, the GameCube uses small discs instead of full-size DVDs.
The GameCube also had many new features compared to other Nintendo video game consoles, and was the first Nintendo console to officially support Internet play (playing together without wires). It could also connect to the Game Boy Advance to allow special features in some games.
The console was released on September 14, 2001 in Japan, November 18, 2001 in North America, May 3, 2002 in Europe and May 17, 2002 in Australia. The GameCube sold 21.74 million units worldwide.
The GameCube's controllers have two analog joysticks. In many games, one of them is used to control a character, while the other is used to control the camera, or some other secondary function. In addition to the analog sticks and the directional pad (D-pad), there are eight buttons: A, B, Y, X, L, R, Z and Start. 
Nintendo later released a wireless version of the controller, called the WaveBird. Instead of wires, it used RF signals to communicate with the console and was powered by standard AA batteries.
The Nintendo Gamecube was known of its popular first games, which includes:

</doc>
<doc id="10822" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10822" title="Fangame">
Fangame

Fangames are computer games created by fans based on popular video games. They are often made using C++, The Games Factory, Multimedia Fusion Express, and GameMaker.

</doc>
<doc id="10847" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10847" title="Wrocław">
Wrocław

Wrocław is over 1000 years old. It was originally a Slavic town. During the Middle Ages it became a German city, but before that Wrocław was a Czech city. It was called Breslau for a long time. During the Second World War the city was badly damaged. About 70% of the buildings were damaged. Many of them were rebuilt. After the war, the city became Polish, and the German citizens were forced to leave. It has been called by its Polish name Wrocław ever since.
Its population in 2004 was 638,000. There are 10 universities in the city. It is famous for its beautiful historical town square (Polish "rynek") and cathedral (large church).
In 1997 the Oder River flooded, causing a lot of damage. 
10 people from Wrocław have won the Nobel Prize. They are:

</doc>
<doc id="10853" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10853" title="1906">
1906

1906 (MCMVI) was a common year starting on Monday of the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="10857" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10857" title="Lou Albano">
Lou Albano

Louis Vincent Albano (born July 29, 1933 - died October 14, 2009) was a very famous American professional wrestler in the 1980s. Albano is best known as Captain Lou Albano. He also appeared in Cyndi Lauper's music video "Girls Just Wanna Have Fun" and played Mario on "The Super Mario Brothers Super Show", based on the series of video games.

</doc>
<doc id="10858" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10858" title="Lip synching">
Lip synching

Lip synching is when a person moves his or her lips at the same time as a recorded sound or with another person. Some artists lip sync a live performance because they are not as confident and want to avoid hitting possible bad notes.
The word "synch" is short for "synchronize", meaning to do something at the same time.

</doc>
<doc id="10860" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10860" title="Faith Evans">
Faith Evans

Faith Evans (born June 10, 1973 in Lakeland, Florida). She grew up in Newark New Jersey. She is an American R&B singer. Her first husband, "The Notorious B.I.G.", died in a drive-by shooting in 1997 . She has been arrested for cocaine and marijuana. Evans' album "R&B Divas" was nominated for Best R&B Album at the 2014 Grammy Awards.

</doc>
<doc id="10861" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10861" title="Bacteria">
Bacteria

Bacteria (sing. bacterium) are very small organisms. They are prokaryotic microorganisms. Bacterial cells do not have a nucleus, and most have no organelles with membranes around them. Most have a cell wall. They do have DNA, and their biochemistry is basically the same as other living things.
Almost all bacteria are so tiny they can only be seen through a microscope. Bacteria are made up of one cell, so they are a kind of "unicellular organism". They are among the simplest single-celled organisms on Earth, and were one of the earliest forms of life. They include a number of extremophiles which live in extreme habitats.
There are probably more individual bacteria than any other sort of organism on the planet. Most bacteria live in the ground or in water, but many live inside or on the skin of other organisms, including humans. There are about ten times as many bacterial cells as human cells in each of our bodies. Some bacteria can cause diseases, but others help us in everyday activities like digesting food (gut flora). Some even work for us in factories, producing cheese and yogurt.
The founder of bacteriology was a German biologist called Ferdinand Cohn (18281898). He published the first biological classification of bacteria, based on their appearance.
A bacterium reproduces (creates more bacteria) by dividing in half and creating two "daughter" cells. Each daughter is identical in shape to the parent, but smaller.
Bacteria do not have sexes, but they do transmit DNA by several kinds of horizontal gene transfer. It is this which permits them to pass resistance to antibiotics from one strain to another. The complete DNA sequence is known for many bacterial strains.
Bacteria vary widely in size and shape, but in general are at least ten times larger than viruses. A typical bacterium is about 1 µm (one micrometer) in diameter, so a thousand bacteria lined up would be one millimeter long. There are about five nonillion (5×10) bacteria on Earth.
Bacteria are identified and grouped by their shapes. Bacilli are rod-shaped, cocci are ball-shaped, spirilla are spiral-shaped and vibrio are shaped like a comma or a boomerang.
Pathogenic bacteria, the harmful kind, enter the human body from the air, water or food. Once inside, these bacteria attach themselves to or invade specific cells in our respiratory system, digestive tract or any open wound. There they begin to reproduce and spread while using the human body as a source of their own nutrients and energy.
Researchers reported related studies that microbes thrive inside rocks up to 580 metres below the sea floor under 2.6 kilometres of ocean off the Pacific Northwest of the United States. According to one of the researchers, "You can find microbes everywhere — they're extremely adaptable to conditions, and survive wherever they are."
All modern ideas start with the sequence analysis of DNA and RNA. In 1987, Carl Woese, the forerunner of the molecular phylogeny revolution, divided bacteria into 11 divisions based on 16S ribosomal RNA (SSU) sequences:

</doc>
<doc id="10862" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10862" title="Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas">
Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas

Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas is one of the video games for the Grand Theft Auto game series. It was made by Rockstar Games. The game came out on the PlayStation 2 first and later on Xbox and PC. In this game, the player can do whatever they want, including hitting or killing people, damaging cars and properties and such violent things. That's one reason why the game is so famous. So in the U.S. and Canada it was rated mature (17+) by the ESRB. 
It is set in "third-person" which means the player can see the person (in this case it is CJ) on the screen. He is controlled using the left and right analog sticks on the PlayStation 2 controller. CJ is the character who is used to play with and he can perform different moves. These are shooting, kicking/punching, jumping, crouching, and even swimming. He can attack other people by either using hand-to-hand combat or shooting them. Sometimes, the attacked person may fight back and try to kill the player. He can get into a nearby vehicle or steal one from another person if it is being driven. If the police see CJ doing crimes, however, they will chase him and try to stop him. If CJ gets caught by the police he loses all of his weapons and some money and he will appear at the nearest police station (the same happens when the player dies, except he appears at a hospital instead). If CJ loses his weapons, he can buy weapons from different gun shops (although he must pay for them).
There are many missions to be taken; the game as a whole has a plot, and the missions the player solves make the plot go on and help the player for his/her abilities (which are for example swimming, condition but also driving bicycles without falling from them and better shooting. Respect is also an important 'ability' players can earn, as they need it to go on in the plot of the game and take more missions), and helps the player to earn money, which can be spent on cars, food (to stop the player from getting hungry), weapons, and a lot of other things. Besides missions, however, the player can also do a number of different challenges, which are not needed for the story but can be used just to help CJ earn some extra money. The game takes place in a fictional state called San Andreas, which has three cities: Los Santos (Los Angeles), San Fierro (San Francisco), and Las Venturas (Las Vegas). Between the cities are also countryside, and the desert of Bone County, based on the real life Nevada desert.
CJ can drive all sorts of vehicles. He can fly planes, drive cars sail boats and now a jet pack which was not in the previous games. In some vehicles that have hydraulics (where the car 'hops') the analog sticks can be used. If 'nitrous' have been put on (by using a nearby garage) he can drive at incredible speeds which are a lot faster than normal driving. It is also possible to drive around with go-karts or tractors, which was not possible in the previous games; but these vehicles are quite slow and more for fun than for travelling around the map. The player has to be careful, however, not to damage the vehicle too much, because then it might explode, killing or hurting CJ, and causing the vehicle to be useless. Vehicles can also be destroyed by hitting, shooting, setting the vehicle on fire, or driving it into water.
San Andreas Multiplayer and Multi Theft Auto, often shortened to SA-MP and MTA respectively, are popular multiplayer edits of the original game San Andreas. They have thousands of servers online and runs game servers.
Like previous games in the series, Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas has many radio stations that play songs. The player can listen to these radio stations when in most vehicles, or also from the "options" menu. The radio stations also have DJs and commercials to make them more realistic. There is even a talk radio station, where the player can listen to news within the game and entertainment programs. These radio stations include:
K-DST (Classic rock), Playback FM (Old school Hip-Hop), K-Rose (Country), Bounce FM (Funk), K-Jah West (Reggae and dub), Master Sounds 98.3 (Rare groove, jazz), CSR 103.9 (New Jack Swing and soul), Radio Los Santos (Gangsta Rap), SF-UR (House), and WCTR (News & entertainment).
Carl "CJ" Johnson comes back to Los Santos, San Andreas in 1992 for his mother's funeral after living in Liberty City for five years since 1987. On his return to the neighborhood, a couple of corrupt cops frame him for the death of a police officer. CJ is forced on a journey that takes him across the entire state of San Andreas, to save his family and to take control of the streets.

</doc>
<doc id="10866" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10866" title="San Andreas">
San Andreas

San Andreas may mean:

</doc>
<doc id="10870" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10870" title="Barry Switzer">
Barry Switzer

Barry Switzer (born October 5, 1937 in Crossett, Arkansas, USA) was an American football coach. He coached both professional and college football for 32 years. Switzer is one of only three head coaches to win both a college football national championship and a Super Bowl. He has one of the highest winning percentages in the history of college football.
After high school, Switzer went to the University of Arkansas. He played football there from 1956 to 1960. After graduation, Switzer join the US Army for a short time. After the Army, he returned to the University of Arkansas to work as an assistant coach. 
After the 1966 season, Switzer became an assistant coach at the University of Oklahoma. He became head coach there in 1973. During his first two years as head coach, Oklahoma did not lose any games and won the national championship two time. They won the championship a third time in 1985. Switzer left Oklahoma in 1989. His record there was 157 wins, 29 losses and 4 ties.
In 1994, Switzer became the coach for the Dallas Cowboys. He led them to a win in Super Bowl XXX during the 1995 season. Switzer retired from coaching after the following season.
In 2001, Switzer was elected into the College Football Hall of Fame. On September 9, 2007, he began working with the FOX television network on its NFL pre-game show.

</doc>
<doc id="10873" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10873" title="Constant">
Constant

A constant is something that does not change. Constants (numbers) are used in maths and computer programming.
An important fact to remember in calculus is that the derivative of a constant is always zero. 
f ' (constant) = 0 

</doc>
<doc id="10896" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10896" title="Poker">
Poker

Poker is a game which people play with a normal set (or "deck") of 52 cards. Poker is a gambling game which involves some luck, but also some skill. In poker, players make bets against each other depending on the value of their poker hand. Bets are usually made with plastic or ceramic discs called "chips". Bets may also be made with real money, but chips are more often used because they are easier to handle and count. At the end of the game, players either swap their chips for money, or the chips are counted to determine the order of winners.
There are many different kinds of poker. In draw poker, each player is dealt five cards. A player can decide to throw away a number of these cards and then take ("draw") new cards to replace them. 
In stud poker (for example, seven-card stud), some of each player's cards are laid ("face-up") on the table so that the other players can see them. In community card poker (for example, Texas hold 'em), players share some of their cards in the center of the table.
The history of poker is a matter of some debate. The name of the game likely descended from the French "poque", which descended from the German "pochen" ('to knock'), but it is not clear whether the origins of poker itself lie with the games bearing those names. It closely resembles the Persian game of "as nas", and may have been taught to French settlers in New Orleans by Persian sailors. It is commonly regarded as sharing ancestry with the Renaissance game of "primero" and the French "brelan". The English game "brag" (earlier bragg) clearly descended from "brelan" and incorporated bluffing (though the concept was known in other games by that time). It is quite possible that all of these earlier games influenced the development of poker as it exists now.
English actor Joseph Crowell reported that the game was played in New Orleans in 1829, with a deck of 20 cards, four players betting on which player's hand was the most valuable. Jonathan H. Green's book, "An Exposure of the Arts and Miseries of Gambling" (G. B. Zieber, Philadelphia, 1843), described the spread of the game from there to the rest of the country by Mississippi riverboats, on which gambling was a common pastime.
Soon after this spread, the full 52-card English deck was used, and the flush was introduced. During the American Civil War, many additions were made, including draw poker, stud poker (the five-card variant), and the straight. Further American developments followed, such as the wild card (around 1875), lowball and split-pot poker (around 1900), and community card poker games (around 1925). Spread of the game to other countries, particularly in Asia, is often attributed to the U.S. military.
The game and jargon of poker have become important parts of American culture and English culture. Such phrases as "ace in the hole", "beats me", "blue chip", "call the bluff", "cash in", "pass the buck", "poker face", "stack up", "up the ante", "when the chips are down", "wild card", and others are used in everyday conversation even by those unaware of their origins at the poker table.
Modern tournament play became popular in American casinos after the World Series of Poker began in 1970. It was also during that decade that the first serious strategy books appeared, notably "The Theory of Poker" by David Sklansky (ISBN 1880685000), "Super System" by Doyle Brunson (ISBN 1580420818), and "The Book of Tells" by Mike Caro (ISBN 0897461002).
Poker’s popularity has experienced an unprecedented spike in recent years, largely due to the introduction of online poker and the invention of the hole-card camera which finally turned the game into a spectator sport. Viewers can now follow the action and drama of the game, and broadcasts of poker tournaments such as the World Series of Poker and the World Poker Tour have brought in huge audiences for cable and satellite TV distributors.
The game of poker is played in hundreds of variations, but the following overview of game play applies to most of them.
Depending on the game rules, one or more players may be required to place an initial amount of money into the pot before the cards are dealt. These are called forced bets and come in three forms: antes, blinds, and bring-ins.
Like most card games, the dealer shuffles the deck of cards. The deck is then cut, and the appropriate number of cards are dealt face-down to the players. In a casino a "house" dealer handles the cards for each hand, but a "button" (any small item used as a marker, also called a "buck") is rotated among the players to determine the order of dealing and betting in certain games. In a home game, the right to deal the cards typically rotates among the players clockwise, but a "button" may still be used.
After the initial deal, the first of what may be several betting rounds begins. Between rounds, the players' hands "develop" in some way, often by being dealt additional cards or replacing cards previously dealt. During a round of betting, there will always be a "current bet amount", which is the total amount of money bet in this round by the player who bet last in this round. To keep better track of this, it is conventional for players to not place their bets directly into the pot (called "splashing" the pot), but rather place them in front of themselves toward the pot, until the betting round is over. When the round is over, the bets are then gathered into the pot.
After the first betting round is completed (every participating player having called an equal amount), there may be more rounds in which more cards are dealt in various ways, followed by further rounds of betting (into the same central pot). At any time during the first or subsequent betting rounds, if one player makes a bet and all other players fold, the deal ends immediately, the single remaining player is awarded the pot, no cards are shown, no more rounds are dealt, and the next deal begins. This is what makes it possible to bluff.
At the end of the last betting round, if more than one player remains, there is a showdown in which the players reveal their previously hidden cards and evaluate their hands. The player with the best hand according to the poker variant being played wins the pot.
The following are poker hands, from best to worst:

</doc>
<doc id="10897" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10897" title="El Salvador">
El Salvador

El Salvador () is the smallest and most densely populated country in Central America. The country's capital and largest city is San Salvador. Other important cities are: Santa Ana and San Miguel. El Salvador borders the Pacific Ocean on the south, and the countries of Guatemala to the west and Honduras to the north and east.
In 2010 El Salvador ranked in the top 10 Latin American countries in terms of Human Development Index. It was in the top 3 in Central America (behind Costa Rica and Panama). Also, tropical forests and overall forests have expanded by nearly 20% from the year 1992 to 2010, making it one of the few countries experiencing reforestation.
In El Salvador there are only two seasons. The dry season starts in mid-October and it lasts until mid May. During the dry season, it hardly ever rains. The wet season starts in mid-May and ends in mid-October. In this season it rains every day. The dry season is called summer and the rainy season is called winter.
Most of the population is mestizo, a mixture of European and American people.
El Salvador is divided into 14 departments ("departamentos"). These are divided into 262 municipalities ("municipios").
Department names and abbreviations for the 14 Salvadoran Departments:

</doc>
<doc id="10898" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10898" title="Isabelle of Hainaut">
Isabelle of Hainaut

Isabelle of Hainaut (5 April, 1170 - 15 March, 1190) was a Queen of France. She was born in Lille on 5 April 1170. Her father was Baldwin V of Hainaut and her mother was Margaret I of Flanders. She married Philip II of France in 1180.

</doc>
<doc id="10902" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10902" title="1859">
1859


</doc>
<doc id="10903" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10903" title="Paul Simon">
Paul Simon

Paul Simon (born October 13, 1941) is an American musician and song writer. He became famous as a member of Simon and Garfunkel, with his friend, Art Garfunkel. He wrote their songs. The two went their separate ways in the early 1970s and since then Simon has become a successful solo artist.
Paul Simon had his first success in 1958 when his song "Hey Schoolgirl" got to Number 49 on the US charts. He was performing with his friend Art Garfunkel in an act called "Tom and Jerry". His next success was in 1965 with "Sounds of Silence" which went to Number 1. This was also performed with Garfunkel under the name "Simon and Garfunkel.
Some of Simon's most famous songs include "Slip Sliding Away", "American Tune", "Late in the Evening", "Still Crazy After All These Years", "Me and Julio Down By the School Yard" and "50 Ways to Leave Your Lover". His 1986 album "Graceland" is very well-known. He is still producing music. His newest album is called "Surprise".
Simon has received three honorary doctorates in music, including one from Yale University and one from Berklee College of Music. In 2006, "Time" said that he was one of the 100 "people who shape our world".

</doc>
<doc id="10904" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10904" title="Shirley Jones">
Shirley Jones

Shirley Jones (March 31, 1934) is an American actress and singer. She appeared in movie musicals, singing a leading role in movies such as "Oklahoma!", "The Music Man", and "Carousel". 
Jones had a supporting role in the movie "Elmer Gantry", starring actor Burt Lancaster. She is also famous for her role as Shirley Partridge on the television series "The Partridge Family". 
She was married to Jack Cassidy, from 1956 to 1977, and had three sons with him, Shaun, Patrick, and Ryan. Her stepson is David Cassidy who co-starred with her on "The Partridge Family". After she divorced Cassidy she married Marty Ingels on November 13, 1977. Their marriage would last until Ingels' death in October 2015.

</doc>
<doc id="10905" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10905" title="DeForest Kelley">
DeForest Kelley

Jackson DeForest Kelley (January 20, 1920 – June 11, 1999) was an American actor. He is most famous for his role as Dr. Leonard McCoy of the USS "Enterprise" in the television series "Star Trek" and six movies that followed, as well as an older Admiral Dr. Leonard McCoy, Star Fleet Surgeon General Emeritus, in the "" television pilot, "Encounter at Farpoint".

</doc>
<doc id="10906" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10906" title="Scott Bakula">
Scott Bakula

Scott Bakula (October 9, 1954) is an American actor. He is best known for his roles on the television shows, "Quantum Leap" and "".

</doc>
<doc id="10907" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10907" title="Forestry">
Forestry

Forestry means working to look after forests. Someone who has a job looking after forests is called a forester.
Forests are very important for the world today. Many of them are disappearing because there are so many people in the world. A forester has the job of making sure that the forest and all the wildlife that lives there is healthy. He makes sure that forests are not destroyed by wild fires, until they are ready to use for timber production (cutting down trees to use the wood). Forests are important for recreation (letting people enjoy them). They are very important today because humans produce a lot of carbon dioxide and the trees in forests help to turn this back into oxygen which we breathe to live from. In forestry professionals look after forests and advise government on artificial forestry. Many universities offer forestry courses after higher education in zoology and botany.

</doc>
<doc id="10913" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10913" title="List of United States soccer teams">
List of United States soccer teams

The professional division of U.S. Soccer has had three different first-division women's leagues. The first, the Women's United Soccer Association (WUSA), was founded in 2001, but folded due to large debts after the 2003 season. The second, Women's Professional Soccer (WPS), was effectively a successor to WUSA, although it did not begin until 2009. Like WUSA before it, WPS played three seasons, but also lost large amounts of money; it first decided not to play its planned 2012 season, and then completely folded in May of that year.
After WPS folded, the effective top level of women's soccer in the U.S. was WPSL Elite, a "semi-pro" league that had both professional and amateur teams. WPSL Elite was created by the Women's Premier Soccer League, one of two second-division women's leagues, as an outlet for former WPS teams, as well as WPSL teams that wanted to play professionally. WPSL Elite played in 2012 with eight teams; six were professional, and three once played in WPS. The other second-division league was the W-League, part of the United Soccer Leagues. WPSL Elite was planned as a temporary league before a possible return of WPS.
In late 2012, a totally new top-level league was created, known as the National Women's Soccer League (NWSL). It is run by U.S. Soccer and started play in 2013 with eight teams, four of which had been members of WPS. The league added teams in 2014 and 2016 to become a 10-team league, making it the first professional women's league in the U.S. to have more than eight teams and last more than three seasons. 
Operated from 2001–2003.
Operated from 2009–2011.
Operating since 2013.
"Indoor soccer" is a form of soccer played inside a building, sometimes called an "arena", instead of in a stadium on a grass field. There is one national league playing indoor soccer in North America, the Major Indoor Soccer League. The MISL is part of the USSF. It is also the only league in the United States to have a Mexican team.

</doc>
<doc id="10914" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10914" title="800s BC">
800s BC


</doc>
<doc id="10915" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10915" title="Oregon">
Oregon

Oregon is a state in the United States. Salem is the capital (where most of the state government works), and Portland is the city with the most people. Oregon was the 33rd state to join the United States, in 1859.
The state of Washington is to the north of Oregon. California and Nevada are to the south. Idaho is to the east. The Pacific Ocean is to the west.
The Columbia River flows along most of the border with Washington. The Snake River flows along much of the border with Idaho. The highest mountain is Mount Hood ( high), part of the Cascade Range of mountains. Another famous Cascade Mountain in Oregon is Mount Mazama, better known as Crater Lake.
Oregon was a long way from the United States of America, which was east of the Mississippi river in the 1830s and 1840s. To get to Oregon, settlers had to cross the Great Plains, which were empty except for a few forts and groups of Native Americans. Most people thought that it was impossible to farm there. They called it the "Great American Desert", because crossing it was long and dangerous; however, thousands did anyway.
Mountain men (people who knew a lot about living in mountainous places) had found a passway over the Rocky Mountains, and they named it the South Pass. This path helped many wagons to reach the west coast. In 1836 a missionary named Marcus Whitman crossed through the pass with his wife to Oregon. This proved that it was possible for others with women and families to go too, and because of this, Oregon suddenly became the place pioneers wanted to make a trip to.
Most of the settlers that came by the Oregon Trail had a very difficult trip. The Trail began in Missouri, and they went in covered wagons pulled by animals like bulls. They could only travel 100 miles in one week, and so the whole trip would take half a year. But still, lots of pioneers traveled so much that it is still possible to see the wagon ruts in some places today.
Life on the trail was very hard for the pioneers. Every day, they would break up and camp, travel all day, and set up camp again. Food was usually beans and coffee, for every single day of the trip. The travelers always searched for water, wood for fires, and something to catch and eat fresh. But these were hard to find, and so sometimes they got mad at each other and fought with fists and guns.
The Trail was also dangerous. Rivers could flood, washing away people and other things. Native Americans could attack, oxen or horses could die, and diseases and injuries could strike.
By 1840, due to all the hard work of the pioneers, there were thousands of Americans in Oregon. Towns and farms had been set up. The area was part of British North America at the time. But the British, however, only had a few hundred settlers in Oregon. Because of this, the Americans began to plan to take over the whole land.
Many Americans wanted this as well. They made up the slogan, "Fifty-four Forty or Fight!" and wanted all of Oregon up to latitude 54 or they would go to war with Britain to get it. They were so eager to have Oregon all for themselves, they supported James Polk as president because he claimed to have similar thoughts with them as well.
However, after President Polk was elected, he began to be more sensible. He did not want to wage war with Britain, if it could be avoided. The British also realized that the Americans would soon have enough settlers in Oregon to easily drive out the British defenders. In 1846 the British offered to divide Oregon by giving most of the border land between the USA and what is now Canada. President Polk accepted this, and so now the Americans had power over Oregon as well as the other states.
There are a number of colleges and universities in Oregon. The four-year universities with the most students are Portland State University, Oregon State University, and the University of Oregon.

</doc>
<doc id="10917" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10917" title="Arkansas">
Arkansas

Arkansas, nicknamed the "Land of Opportunity" or "The Natural State", is a state in the United States of America. Its capital and largest city is Little Rock. It has been estimated by the U.S. Census Bureau in 2015 that around 2,978,204 people live in Arkansas.
Arkansas became the 25th state to enter the Union in 1836. During the American Civil War, Arkansas was one of the Confederate states, however, it was the second state to be put back in to the U.S. in the Reconstruction.
Arkansas borders Louisiana to the south, Texas to the southwest, Oklahoma to the west, Missouri to the north, and Tennessee and Mississippi on the east. The United States Census Bureau classifies Arkansas as a southern state. The Mississippi River forms most of Arkansas's eastern border, except in Clay and Greene counties. There the St. Francis River forms the western boundary of the Missouri Bootheel. 
Arkansas has many rivers, lakes, and reservoirs. Arkansas has few natural lakes but many reservoirs such as Bull Shoals Lake, Lake Ouachita, Greers Ferry Lake, Millwood Lake, Beaver Lake, Norfork Lake, DeGray Lake, and Lake Conway.
Arkansas is home to many caves, such as Blanchard Springs Caverns. More than 43,000 Native American living, hunting and tool making sites have been catalogued by the State Archeologist. Arkansas is currently the only U.S. state in which diamonds are mined. This is done by members of the public with primitive digging tools for a small daily fee, not by commercial interests.
Arkansas is home to a bunch of Wilderness Areas totaling around . These areas are set aside for outdoor recreation and are open to hunting, fishing, hiking, and camping. No vehicles are allowed in these areas.
Arkansas, like most other Southern states, is part of the Bible Belt. It is mostly Protestant. The largest denominations by number of followers in 2000 were the Southern Baptist Convention with 665,307; the United Methodist Church with 179,383; the Roman Catholic Church with 115,967; and the American Baptist Association with 115,916.
Education in Arkansas has been an issue. Part of the problem has been low teacher salaries and small budgets for spending on students. Other problems have been not wanting to integrate, refusal to teach evolution, and poor school facilities.
Arkansas has two university systems: Arkansas State University System and University of Arkansas System. Some other public institutions are Arkansas Tech University, Henderson State University, Southern Arkansas University, and University of Central Arkansas. It is also home to 11 private colleges and universities. One of them being Hendrix College, one of the nation's top 100 liberal arts colleges, according to U.S. News & World Report.
Arkansas is notable for its bauxite mines. Arkansas was also the first U.S. state where diamonds were found. Notable Arkansans include Bill Clinton, who was governor of Arkansas before he became the President of the United States, and Sam Walton, the founder of Wal-Mart.
Arkansas is home to many areas protected by the National Park System. These include:

</doc>
<doc id="10918" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10918" title="Robert Englund">
Robert Englund

Robert Englund (born June 6, 1949 in Glendale, California) is an American actor. He is most famous for playing Freddy Krueger in the "Nightmare on Elm Street" movies.

</doc>
<doc id="10921" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10921" title="Henry IV of France">
Henry IV of France

Henry IV (13 December 1553 – 14 May 1610), "Henri-Quatre", was King of France from 1589 to 1610 and King of Navarre from 1572 to 1610. He was part of the Capetian dynasty and the first king of the Bourbon family in France. During his reign, he built the Grande Galerie onto the Louvre.
Henry IV was born in Pau. He was the son of Antoine de Bourbon and Jeanne of Navarre. On August 18, 1572, Henry married Margaret of Valois. She was the sister of Charles IX. He became the King of Navarre in the same year.
Henry's children were Louis XIII and Henrietta Maria of France, who married Charles I and became the Queen of England. He was a friend of Michel of Montaigne.
Henry was murdered by a fundamentalist Catholic on a street in Paris on May 14, 1610.
Henry IV is remembered as a good king who helped to stop religious wars. He changed his own religious beliefs several times. He was hated by some Catholics and Protestants who held strongly traditional views. He ruled for 17 years. He tried to make sure that poor people had enough to eat. Two beautiful landmarks in Paris were started during his reign: the Pont Neuf and the Place des Vosges.
In 2010 scientists found part of his embalmed head and used forensic tests to prove that it was his. It had been stolen from the tombs of the French kings and queens in Saint Denis in 1793 at the time of the French Revolution.

</doc>
<doc id="10922" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10922" title="Margaret of Valois">
Margaret of Valois

Margaret of Valois (May 14, 1553 – May 27, 1615) was a Princess of France and a member of the house of Valois.
Her father was Henry II of France and her mother was Catherine of Medici. She was also the sister of Francis II of France, Charles IV of France and Henry III of France. Margaret was then married to Henry IV of France.
The author Alexandre Dumas, père wrote a book about Margaret called "Queen Margot".

</doc>
<doc id="10923" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10923" title="Queen Margot">
Queen Margot

Queen Margot is a book written in 1845 by Alexandre Dumas, père. It is a story about Margaret of Valois and Henry IV of France. The same author wrote many other books including "The Man in the Iron Mask", "The Count of Monte Cristo" and "The Three Musketeers".

</doc>
<doc id="10924" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10924" title="Henrietta Maria of France">
Henrietta Maria of France

Henrietta Maria of France (November 25, 1609 - September 10, 1669) was the youngest daughter of Henry IV of France and Marie de' Medici. She was born in the Louvre Palace in Paris on November 25, 1609. She was a Roman Catholic.
Henrietta Maria married Charles I and became the Queen of England.

</doc>
<doc id="10930" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10930" title="Madonna">
Madonna

Madonna could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="10931" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10931" title="Madonna (entertainer)">
Madonna (entertainer)

Madonna Louise Ciccone, best known as Madonna (born August 16, 1958) is an American singer-songwriter, actress, author, director and philanthropist. Madonna was born in Bay City, Michigan, but she moved to New York City in 1977 to pursue a career in modern dance.
During her career she has sold over 300 million records worldwide and is the top-selling female artist of all time. Some of her more famous albums are "Like a Virgin", "Like a Prayer", and "Ray of Light". She has won seven Grammy awards. Madonna is considered the Queen of Pop. She has been in many movies; she received positive reviews for her role in "Desperately Seeking Susan" (1985). Her later movies received mixed reviews. She received critical acclaim and a Golden Globe Award for Best Actress in Motion Picture Musical or Comedy for "Evita" (1996). She got harsh feedback for other performances.
After the release of some dance hits she released her first album, "Madonna", in 1983. The album was a great success. Her next album, "Like a Virgin" (1984), sold over 6 million copies in the United States only and overall 10 million copies worldwide. Her album "True Blue" has sold 25 million copies. Her album "Like a Prayer" caused controversy, as it had to do with Christianity but the album sold over 15 million records worldwide. During the 1980s, Madonna was a huge fashion icon and was an idol for millions of girls and boys. Songs like "Like a Virgin", "Material Girl", "Into the Groove", "Papa Don't Preach", "Holiday", "Lucky Star", "La Isla Bonita", and "Like a Prayer" are believed to be classics.
In 1990, she released her best selling greatest-hits album "The Immaculate Collection" which sold over 30 million copies, and this album became the most-sold greatest-hits album in music history. She released a book of naked pictures called "SEX" in that year. Her album "Erotica" was a big hit but was criticized by some, the album sold 5 million copies. Madonna starred in the film "A League of Their Own", alongside American actor Tom Hanks and comedienne Rosie O'Donnell. In 1994, her album "Bedtime Stories" was released. She also performed in the movie "Evita", which was very successful and released a soundtrack album of the same name. She also received the Golden Globe for Best Actress. Her 1998 album "Ray of Light" is considered to be a masterpiece and sold over 18 million copies worldwide. Some of her most famous and classic songs of the '90s are "Vogue", "This Used to Be My Playground", "Erotica", "Take a Bow", "Don't Cry for Me Argentina", "He Must Love Me", "Frozen" and "Ray of Light".
In 2000, her album "Music" sold over 15 million copies worldwide, helped by the global hit song of the same name. She also released a successful greatest hits album titled "GHV2". Madonna acted in a film called "Swept Away". It got bad reviews. On October 22, 2002, a single called "Die Another Day" was released. The music video for the single was the second most expensive music video ever to make. The single reached number one in several countries. Her 2003 album, "American Life," reached #1 in many countries but it was criticized by some, as it was against war in Iraq and sold 5 million copies. In 2005, her album "Confessions on a Dance Floor", helped by the singles "Hung Up" and "Sorry" that reached #1 in 45 countries, sold 12 million copies. In 2008 she released her album "Hard Candy" which reached #1 in almost every country in the world and has sold over 4 million copies worldwide. The first single from the album, "4 Minutes", had Justin Timberlake singing in it.
In 2011, "W.E.", the second movie directed by Madonna, was released. It got bad reviews.
Madonna performed at the 46th Super Bowl on February 5, 2012. She released her twelfth album, "MDNA", in April of that year. The album debuted at number one on the US "Billboard" 200 album chart. Trinidadian-born American rapper Nicki Minaj was featured on the lead single, "Give Me All Your Luvin'", which reached the top ten in the United States and reached number one in Canada. Minaj also raps on the album track "I Don't Give A".
Madonna's thirteenth studio album, "Rebel Heart", was released in March 2015.
Her tours during the 80's ("Who's That Girl Tour", "Blond Ambition Tour", etc.) were very successful. Her 1993 "The Girlie Show Tour" was very controversial—some thought of it as bad—but was a great success. The "Drowned World Tour" and the "Re-Invention World Tour" were the most successful tours of their years. The "Confessions Tour" was very successful and the "Sticky & Sweet Tour", with over $408 million earned, became the most successful tour of all time for a solo artist.
Both Madonna's marriages ended in divorce. She was married to Sean Penn from 1985-1989 and to Guy Ritchie from 2000-2008. She has a daughter, Lourdes, and son, Rocco. She adopted a Malawian son, David Banda, and a daughter, Mercy.

</doc>
<doc id="10933" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10933" title="Tortilla">
Tortilla

A tortilla is a flat bread used in Mexican cuisine. They are used in burritos, enchiladas, and mainly as a wrap called taco. They are normally made of maize (corn), but can also be made of wheat or potatoes. 
In Spanish cuisine, tortillas are very different; they are closer to an omelette based on potatoes.

</doc>
<doc id="10950" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10950" title="Bit">
Bit

In Computer science and information science, the word "bit" can have different meanings:
When talking about storage space, 8 bits are usually called a byte. 

</doc>
<doc id="10952" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10952" title="EastEnders">
EastEnders

EastEnders is a BBC television programme, in the United Kingdom. It has been running since February 1985, and has had over 4700 episodes, and is known as a soap opera. The programme is a rival of "Coronation Street" and "Emmerdale". It is usually shown on BBC One.
The programme is in a pretend area of East London, called Walford. It is filmed in Elstree, a village in Borehamwood. Like "Coronation Street", most action is around a local pub. The pub in "EastEnders" is called The Queen Vic.
There are many story lines, including drug abuse, rape, racism, domestic violence, murder, kidnapping, prostitution, theft, senile dementia, arson, and runaway children.
Arguments between members of one family, or between different families, are often in the storyline.
It has won six BAFTA awards.

</doc>
<doc id="10956" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10956" title="Genetic">
Genetic

Genetic can refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="10958" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10958" title="Philip II of Spain">
Philip II of Spain

Philip II of Spain (May 21, 1527 – September 13, 1598) was, starting in 1556, king of Spain, Italy and Burgundy, the Netherlands, Naples, and overseas Spanish America. He was born in Valladolid, and was the only son of Holy Roman Emperor Charles V and his wife to live until he was an adult. He was Catholic. His rule was filled with troubles that caused him to be harsh on his people and other nations.
For the first seven years of his life, Philip moved between different castles with his mother. In 1534 he moved into a private house in Salamanca to start his schooling. His mother died in 1539 and he took her body to Granada, where his great-grandparents Ferdinand II of Aragon and Isabella were buried. He left Spain in 1547 and moved to the Netherlands, where his father's family was from. His father wanted him to become more European but the people there thought he was too cold and serious.

</doc>
<doc id="10960" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10960" title="William II of England">
William II of England

William II of England (c. 1056–2 August 1100) was the second son of William the Conqueror and Matilda of Flanders. He was King of England from 1087 until 1100. He was a harsh ruler and was not very liked. He did not have a wife or any children. He died on 2 August 1100 in the New Forest when he was shot by an arrow while hunting with his brother-in-law, Walter Tirel (Tryyel) and other friends.

</doc>
<doc id="10962" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10962" title="Mary I of England">
Mary I of England

Mary I (18 February 1516 – 17 November 1558), also known as Mary Tudor, was Queen regnant of England and Ireland from 19 July 1553 until her death. She was the oldest daughter of Henry VIII, and the only child of Catherine of Aragon who grew up. 
Mary succeeded her short-lived half brother, Edward VI, to the English throne. She was the fourth crowned monarch of the Tudor dynasty. Mary is remembered for briefly re-making England a Roman Catholic country. 
Mary had almost 300 disagreeing religious people burned at the stake. Due to this, many called her "Bloody Mary". When her half-sister, Elizabeth I, came to the throne after Mary's death, she made England Protestant again.
Mary Tudor was born on 18 February 1516, in the Palace of Placentia in Greenwich. Unlike the other children of Catherine, she lived to be an adult. Her godfather was the famous Cardinal Thomas Wolsey.
Although she was not the heir Henry VIII was looking for, she was loved by her parents. When she was about 11, Henry decided to divorce Mary's mother, Catherine of Aragon, so he could marry Anne Boleyn.
After Anne Boleyn had a daughter, Mary had to become one of her servants. After Anne Boleyn was killed by the King, Mary's half-sister also became a servant. A month later, Henry VIII married Jane Seymour. Queen Jane gave birth to Edward, Prince of Wales. 12 days later, Queen Jane died. 
Mary lost a faithful friend and also her pride. She had acknowledged her parents' marriage as invalid and herself an illegitimate daughter. The rest of Mary's life with Henry VIII gave her a quick succession of stepmothers. Henry VIII died soon after marrying his last wife, Catherine Parr. 
Henry had decided that the young prince was to succeed him. If he had no heirs then his older half-sister, Mary, was to be Queen. 
If Mary did not produce a child, then the Mary's half-sister, Elizabeth, was to be Queen. After Elizabeth and her heirs, would come Henry's sister Mary Tudor's side of the family.
Edward succeeded to the throne as King of England and Ireland. Edward began to show signs of a coughing disease.
Edward did not want Mary to succeed him. Edward went ahead with a plan to let his Protestant cousin Lady Jane Grey become Queen after he died. Lady Jane Grey was only queen of England for nine days. Mary executed Jane Grey and married Philip II of Spain. 
Mary had two phantom pregnancies, but had no child. The phantom pregnancies were cancer in her liver. After Mary died Elizabeth succeeded to the throne, becoming the new Queen Elizabeth I of England.

</doc>
<doc id="10963" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10963" title="Edward VI of England">
Edward VI of England

Edward VI (12 October 1537 – 6 July 1553) was King of England and Ireland, from 28 January 1547, until his death. 
Edward was the son of Henry VIII of England and Jane Seymour. His mother died 12 days after his birth. He became king at the age of 9 when his father died. 
When their father died, Edward's half-sister Elizabeth was 13 years old. His other half sister, Mary was 31. Despite being the youngest, Edward was the heir apparent because he was male. Because he was such a young king, the realm was governed by a Regency Council. He died when he was 15 and a half years old. His successor was his cousin, Lady Jane Grey. 
He had two advisers (or regents). The first was his uncle, Edward Seymour, Duke of Somerset, who became Lord Protector. For the first two-and-a-half years of Edward's reign, Lord Somerset advised and guided the young king. Somerset was replaced by John Dudley, Duke of Northumberland. Both men wanted major changes made to the Church of England.
As a result of their advice and his beliefs, Edward's reign is mainly remembered for the changes made to religion while he was king. Though his father, Henry VIII, had removed the Pope as Head of the Church in England, he had not changed much else. Most of the major changes to the Church of England happened during Edward's reign.
In February 1553, at age 15, Edward became sick. Before he died, he and his Council wrote a "Devise for the Succession". This was an attempt to prevent the country returning to Catholicism. Edward named his cousin, Lady Jane Grey, as his heir and excluded his half-sisters, Mary and Elizabeth. However, this was disputed after his death; Jane was deposed by Mary within 13 days. Mary I reversed Edward's Protestant reforms, which nonetheless became the basis of the Elizabethan Religious Settlement of 1559.
Laws were passed to make churches more plain. Catholic churches were rich in decorations and colour. Now under Edward, stained glass windows and icons were removed from churches; the furniture within churches became very basic and plain.
The actual services became more plain and the common person could now understand what was being said at services – now called Holy Communion – were in English rather than Latin. Archbishop Thomas Cranmer wrote the Book of Common Prayer also in English. Priests did not have to dress in the bright clothing associated with the Catholic Church and under Edward. They were also allowed to marry. The king remained as Head of the Church.
All of these changes were a major break from the traditions of the Catholic Church. In parts of Germany and Switzerland, religious groups had also broken away in protest against the wealth and corruption of the Catholic Church. They became known as Protestant, and England under Edward, became a Protestant country with an independent Church of England.
Edward had never been a healthy boy and his health failed in 1553. After the nine-day reign of Lady Jane Grey, his Catholic half-sister Mary became queen of England and the country went through another period of religious changes.

</doc>
<doc id="10964" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10964" title="Richard I of England">
Richard I of England

Richard I of England (8 September 1157 – 6 April 1199) was the king of England from 1189 to 1199. He is sometimes called Richard the Lionheart. Richard was the son of Henry II of England and Eleanor of Aquitaine. As the third son and not expected to inherit the throne, he was a replacement child.In 1168 he became Duke of Aquitaine.
Richard was one of the leaders of the Third Crusade against Saladin, which never actually succeeded. During his journey, he conquered Sicily and Cyprus. He fought in the Battle of Acre and the Battle of Arsuf. In the end, as he was unable to win back Jerusalem from the Muslims, he decided to return back home to England. On his way back from the Crusade, Richard was captured by the Germans and the English people had to pay a huge ransom to set him free. He was considered a very brave and noble king, but he did not spend a lot of time in England - only six months of his eleven year reign were spent in his country.
He died after being shot with a crossbow during a siege on a castle. His remains were buried at different places. His body was buried at Fontevraud Abbey near Saumur in France, as are his father and mother. His internal organs were buried at Chalus, near Limoges in central France. His heart was buried in the Notre Dame Cathedral at Rouen. It was found in 1838 and was examined by scientists in 2012. They did tests for poisons, as one medieval story claimed Richard had died from a poisoned arrow. There is no evidence to support this idea, and he probably died from gangrene or septicaemia from the arrow wound.
Richard was succeeded by his younger brother, John.

</doc>
<doc id="10965" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10965" title="Jane Seymour">
Jane Seymour

Jane Seymour (c.1508 - 24 October 1537) was the third wife of King Henry VIII of England and queen consort from 1536 until 1537. She was the mother of Edward VI of England, and died a natural death less than two weeks after his birth.
Jane Seymour was the child of John Seymour and Margaret Wentworth. She was not educated as much as King Henry's wives before her, for example, Catherine of Aragon or Anne Boleyn. She could read and write a little but was much better at needlework and managing the house. These were considered much more necessary for women. Jane's needlework was said to stope beautiful and complex. Some of her work was kept till 1652, where it is recorded to have been given to the Seymour family. After her death, it was noted that Henry was an "enthusiastic embroiderer". 
She was a lady-in-waiting to Catherine of Aragon, the first wife of Henry VIII. When Henry divorced his first wife and married Anne Boleyn, Jane continued to be a lady-in-waiting. Henry VIII noticed Jane at court and had already fallen in love with her by the time Anne Boleyn was executed. He became engaged to Jane on the day after the execution, and they were married ten days later, on May 30, 1536. When Jane became queen, she ran the royal court in a strict and formal way, and her only close friends were Anne Stanhope and Elizabeth Seymour. 
In early 1537, Jane became pregnant and developed a craving for quail. In October of 1537, she gave birth to the son that Henry VIII wanted so much. They named him Edward and he was later to be King Edward VI of England. Soon, Jane became very ill with fever, and she died on October 24, 1537. Jane never had a coronation, and was married to Henry for only a year and a half before she died (May 30, 1536-October 24, 1537). Henry had loved Jane the most of all his wives, because she was the one who gave him a son. Even though he was married another three times after Jane's death, he always grieved for her. When Henry died, he asked to be buried next to Jane.

</doc>
<doc id="10966" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10966" title="Elizabeth of York">
Elizabeth of York

Elizabeth of York (11 February 1466-11 February 1503) married King Henry VII of England in 1486. She was the mother of King Henry VIII. When she was only 17, her father died of pneumonia.

</doc>
<doc id="10967" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10967" title="Catherine of Aragon">
Catherine of Aragon

Catherine of Aragon (16 December 1485 – 7 January 1536) was the daughter of Isabella I of Castile and Ferdinand II of Aragon. Catherine was the wife of Arthur, Prince of Wales and later married his brother, Henry VIII.
It was decided that she would marry Arthur, Prince of Wales. Catherine and Arthur were married on 14 November 1501. They were sent to Ludlow Castle in Shropshire. This was to take control of the Council of Wales. Months later, Catherine and Arthur became ill, possibly from a sickness which was sweeping the area at the time. Prince Arthur died on 2 April 1502, leaving after Catherine a widow at the age of 16.
Henry VIII married Catherine in 1509. She was extremely popular with the people of England. In 1513, when Henry VIII invaded France, she ruled as his Regent.
Despite Catherine's popularity, she did not produce a surviving son. Her only surviving child was a daughter, Mary I of England. Henry's need for a son caused him to try and divorce his wife.
At first, Henry tried to convince Anne Boleyn to be his mistress in 1527. Anne refused, so Henry decided to marry her. Divorce was not allowed in the Catholic faith. Henry claimed that, as Catherine had been married to his elder brother Arthur, his was an invalid marriage. He quoted a verse in Leviticus which states that "a man may not marry his brother's wife and such a union would be without the blessing of God and fruitless", and used this as his case. It became referred to as the kings "secret matter" and a special court was held with Cardinal Wolsey leading it.
An official from Rome was brought over and a trial was held. The official stated that he could not come to a conclusion and the case would have to be referred to Rome for the Pope to make a decision. The matter dragged on for quite some time, as the Pope would not agree to a divorce.
In 1532, Anne Boleyn became pregnant with the king's child. She was married to Henry on 25 January 1533 so that the baby could be a legitimate heir. Henry's marriage to Catherine of Aragon was finally annulled in the following May by Archbishop Cranmer, thus ending the first of Henry's 6 marriages. The divorce went against the Roman Catholic belief system, so Henry created his own church, the Church of England. This was the beginnings of protestantism in England, with the King as the head of the church instead of the Pope.
Until the end of Catherine's life, Catherine believed that she was the true wife of Henry VIII. Her servants called her their queen, but Henry called her the "Dowager Princess of Wales".
In 1535, Catherine was transferred to Kimbolton Castle and was not allowed to see her daughter Mary. Henry VIII told her that if they declared Anne their queen, they would be able to see each other. They never did.
Catherine died, most likely of heart cancer, in January of 1536, just five months before the execution of Anne Boleyn.

</doc>
<doc id="10972" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10972" title="Gregory Peck">
Gregory Peck

Gregory Peck (April 5, 1916 – June 12, 2003) was an American actor and producer who was born in La Jolla, California. 
One of 20th Century Fox's most popular movie stars from the 1940s to the 1960s, Peck continued to play important roles well into the 1990s. His most famous role was that of Atticus Finch in the 1962 movie "To Kill a Mockingbird", for which he won his Academy Award.
President Lyndon Johnson awarded Peck the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 1969 for his lifetime humanitarian efforts. In 1999, the American Film Institute named Peck among the Greatest Male Stars of All Time, ranking at number 12.

</doc>
<doc id="10973" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10973" title="Sin City">
Sin City

Sin City is the title of a number of stories by Frank Miller, written in a comic book-style and the name of a movie that is based on the books.
A movie version of the "Sin City" books was released in 2005. It starred a number of famous actors, including Jessica Alba, Brittany Murphy, Bruce Willis, and Elijah Wood. The movie was directed by Frank Miller, Robert Rodriguez, and Quentin Tarantino.
The movie is based on four stories from the "Sin City" books: "The Customer is Always Right", "The Hard Goodbye", "The Big Fat Kill" and "That Yellow Bastard".

</doc>
<doc id="10974" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10974" title="Brittany Murphy">
Brittany Murphy

Brittany Murphy (November 10, 1977 – December 20, 2009) was an American actress and singer. She appeared in many movies and was the voice of Luanne on the American television show "King of the Hill". Murphy was married to British moviemaker Simon Monjack (1970-2010) from 2007 until her death on December 20, 2009. She died of pneumonia. An overdose of legal drugs played a part in her death.
C:\Users\User\Pictures\end.png

</doc>
<doc id="10978" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10978" title="Evershot">
Evershot

Evershot is a village in the county of Dorset. It is in the West Dorset District. In 2001 there were 206 people living in Evershot.

</doc>
<doc id="10981" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10981" title="Copyleft">
Copyleft

Copyleft is a name for a type of a license for free content or free software. It is not the opposite of copyright, but its purpose is the opposite of the purpose of the frequently seen copyright type of license (which uses copyright to "forbid" changing, giving, or selling something). A copyleft license uses copyright to "forbid forbidding" changing, giving, or selling something.
Both copyleft and non-copyleft (“permissive”) licenses for free content or free software can be used for things like documents (for example books), art, music and software; they always allow people to change the works, and to give or sell them to other people. It should be noted that, although people might think that copyleft content is not copyrighted, that's a myth. Copyleft is a form of licensing: it is not just another name for public domain.
However, in a copyleft license, when a person gives or sells a work (changed or not changed) to a friend, the person must allow the friend to do the things which the author of the original work has allowed in the license to the person. This often means, for example, that if another person licensed a book under a copyleft license, and you changed it into a new book, you would have to license your new book under the same license.
Some copyleft licenses that are used a lot are the GNU General Public License and the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike license.

</doc>
<doc id="10982" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10982" title="Uruguay">
Uruguay

Uruguay is a country in South America. The language spoken there is Spanish. Its capital and largest city is Montevideo. Uruguay is bordered by two large neighbors, Brazil and Argentina. The only country in South America that is smaller than Uruguay is Suriname.
The land there is mostly flat, and there are many farms in the countryside.
Uruguay is divided into 19 different Departments.
The highest point in the country is the Cerro Catedral whose peak reaches to .
Uruguay has 660 km of coastline.
There are nine National Parks in Uruguay. Five in the wetland areas of the east, three in the central hill country and one in the west along the Rio Uruguay.
According to FAOSTAT, Uruguay is one of world's largest producers of: soybeans (9th); greasy wool (12th); horse meat (14th); beeswax (14th); quinces (17th); natural honey (19th); cattle meat (20th). On December 20, 2013, Uruguay was the first country in the world to legalize the cultivation, sale, and use of cannabis.
Uruguayans are mostly of European origin. 88%, or 88 of 100 people, are from European descent.
Football is the most popular sport in Uruguay. The Uruguay national football team has won the FIFA World Cup on two occasions.

</doc>
<doc id="10983" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10983" title="Minnesota">
Minnesota

Minnesota is a state in the Upper Midwest of the United States of America. Part of the state has a border with the country of Canada.
The capital of Minnesota is Saint Paul. The largest city is Minneapolis. Over 3 million people live in the two cities and the suburbs that surround it, which are separated by the Mississippi River. They are known as the Twin Cities.
Minnesota became a state on May 11, 1858. It was the 32nd state in the United States of America. The name Minnesota is Dakota (a Native American language) for "sky-tinted water". Eagle Mountain is the highest point in Minnesota. The state bird is the Common Loon.
Minnesota has a humid continental climate. The winters in Minnesota are long and severe. Hence the state has a short growing season. During the summer, the south of the state is hot; the north is warm.

</doc>
<doc id="10984" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10984" title="Colorado">
Colorado

Colorado is a state of the United States. Its capital and largest city is Denver. Other big cities are Colorado Springs and Aurora. It became a state in 1876.Colorado recently legalized the use and possession of the drug marijuana, and it is the first state in US history to have done so.
The state was named after the Colorado River by Spanish explorers. US Army officer and amateur explorer Zebulon Pike was recruited by the United States government in 1806 to locate the source of the Mississippi River and to check out Spanish settlements in New Mexico. Even though his recorded location for the source of the Mississippi was extremely inaccurate and allegedly got lost in his expedition, he did explore much of what would become the American Southwest. When he reached what is now Colorado Springs, he named a mountain after himself, Pikes Peak, which remains a symbol for the city as well as the state to this day. Colorado has a long history of mining and digging for gold. It is the place where the Pike's Peak Gold Rush took place. When gold in California was becoming harder and harder to find, people came to Colorado in large numbers when gold was discovered there in 1859, ten years after the California Gold Rush began. Many mining camps set up in Colorado would later become cities, such as Denver City and Boulder City. The motto for the gold rush was "Pike's Peak or Bust". In 1971, the Libertarian Party was formed in the state.
The State of Colorado is shaped like a rectangle. The borders are latitude and longitude lines. The four borders are at 37°N, 41°N, 102°03'W, and 109°03'W. (The east and west borders are 25°W and 32°W from the Washington Meridian.) Colorado, Wyoming, and Utah are the only three U.S. states that have only lines of latitude and longitude for boundaries and that have no natural borders. When government surveyors made the border markers for the "Territory of Colorado", minor surveying mistakes made many small along the borders, most seen along the border with the "Territory of Utah."
The tip of Mount Elbert at 14,440 feet (4,401 m) elevation in Lake County is the state's highest point and the highest point in the entire Rocky Mountains. Colorado has more than 100 mountain peaks that reach over 4,000 meters (13,123 ft) in height. Colorado is the only U.S. state that lies above 1,000 meters (3,281 ft) in height. Colorado has the highest average elevation of any state at 6,800 ft. It touches New Mexico, Arizona, Utah, Oklahoma, Kansas, Nebraska, and Wyoming.
The land area of Colorado is roughly the same size as New Zealand.
The weather and temperatures in Colorado are quite different compared to most of the United States. In most other states, the southern part is warmer than the northern part, southern Colorado is not noticeably warmer than northern Colorado. Mountains and surrounding valleys greatly affect local climate. As a normal rule, with an increase in height comes a decrease in temperature and an increase in rain. There exists a phenomenally severe change in climate in Colorado between the Rocky Mountains on the west and the Great Plains on the east, both of which are separated by a lesser range known to Colorado citizens and primarily Boulderites as "the Foothills".
The state's largest city, and capital, is Denver. The "Denver-Aurora-Boulder Combined Statistical Area", is home to 2,927,911 people, it has more than two-thirds of the state's population.
As of 2005, Colorado has an estimated population of 4,665,177, which is an increase of 63,356, or 1.4%, from the last year and an increase of 363,162, or 8.4%, since the year 2000. This has a natural increase since the last census of 205,321 people (that is 353,091 births minus 147,770 deaths) and an increase because of migration of 159,957 people into the state. Immigration from outside the United States makes a net increase of 112,217 people, and migration within the country made a net increase of 47,740 people.
Colorado's most common religion is Christianity, and its most common denomination is Catholicism. Colorado, and mostly the city of Colorado Springs, serves as the of many Christian groups, many of them Evangelical. "Focus on the Family" is a big conservative Christian organization headquartered in Colorado Springs.
Major religious affiliations of the people of Colorado are:
The Bureau of Economic Analysis estimates that the total state product in 2007 was $236 billion. Per capita personal income in 2007 was $41,192, ranking Colorado eleventh in the United States. Early companies were based on the extraction and getting minerals and things. Today's agricultural things are cattle, wheat, dairy products, corn, and hay. On January 1 2014 Colorado became the first state to make marijuana legal. In the first week of this $5 million of marijuana was sold. The marijuana industry is expected to make Colorado's economy $359 million by the end of 2014.

</doc>
<doc id="10985" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10985" title="Cairo">
Cairo

Cairo (, usually transliterated as Al-Qāhirah) is a city in Egypt. The city name can be translated as "the one who won". Cairo is sometimes called "Mother of the World" ("Um al Dunya"). 
The city is the capital and largest city in Egypt. 
Cairo has 7,947,121 people. About 17,290,000 people live in its urban area. This makes it the biggest city of the Arab World. It also is the city with the biggest urban area in Africa
The city is on the Nile River.
In 969, the Fatimids entered Egypt and they made Cairo the capital of their caliphate. 
The Al Azhar mosque and university was made in 972. This became the world's oldest university. It is the most widely known seminary in the Islamic world.
The great pyramids of Giza and the step pyramid of Sakkara are just outside of the city.
The Egyptian Museum holds the world’s largest collection of antiquities from the time of the ancient Pharaohs. Many treasures from the tomb of King Tutankhamun are in this museum.
People from Cairo are called 'Cairenes'.

</doc>
<doc id="10986" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10986" title="Bush">
Bush

Bush can be more than one thing:

</doc>
<doc id="10990" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10990" title="Aerospace engineering">
Aerospace engineering

Aerospace engineering is a field of engineering that specializes in vehicles that move in fluids. This usually means working with airplanes, cars, boats, trains, or spacecraft.
As with other engineering, people who work in Aerospace engineering must study. This depends on what they want to do. Aerospace engineers (who design and oversee repair of vehicles) study for years at a university or college and earn a degree. Technicians (those who repair and construct vehicles) will do a shorter course and 'on the job' training. Aerospace jobs include astronauts, pilots, and other professionals.

</doc>
<doc id="10991" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10991" title="1805">
1805


</doc>
<doc id="10993" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10993" title="Karnataka">
Karnataka

Karnataka is a state in the Republic of India. It has an area of . It is bigger than Syria but smaller than Senegal. In traditional Indian geography it falls under the South Indian zone.
Bangalore, also spelt Bengaluru is the capital city of Karnataka.It is also declared as the IT capital of India. Mysore, Mangalore, and Hubli-Dharwad are the other big cities in Karnataka. Places to see in Karnataka are Bangalore, Mysore, Hampi, Bijapur, Belur/Halebid, Shimoga and Shravanabelagola.
Most people in Karnataka speak Kannada language. Kannada is declared as one of the official languages of India. It has won the most number of Gnanpith Awards - 8 awards, which is the greatest record ( As per Jan 7, 2013 ). It is awarded for poets who have contributed their works related to literature. 
Karnataka is bordered by the Arabian Sea in the west, Goa in the northwest, Maharashtra in the north, Andhra Pradesh in the east, Tamil Nadu in the south and Kerala in the southwest. Topographically, Karnataka consists of the Arabian Sea Coast, Western Ghats, Deccan Plateau, and Eastern Ghats.
Karnataka's history dates back to the 3rd century BC. The succession of able administrators from the Hoysalas, Chalukyas and the mighty Vijayanagara rulers, to the arrival of the Mughals in the 17th century and the British in the 18th century have contributed to the mix of culture and heritage that is as rich as it is ancient.
If you visit Karnataka, don't ever forget to see the Lalbhag Botanical Garden, Bangalore , Belur, Halebid, Badami, Shimoga and Jog waterfalls. 

</doc>
<doc id="10995" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10995" title="Norrland">
Norrland

Norrland is the northernmost region of Sweden. The other two regions are Götaland and Svealand. Norrland includes the Swedish counties Gävleborg County, Västernorrland County, Jämtland County, Västerbotten County and Norrbotten County. By "Upper Norrland" people usually mean Norrbotten and Västerbotten counties.
Historically parts of northern Finland have also been parts of Norrland.
Even though 59% of Sweden's area is within Norrland, only 12% of its population live there. The biggest town of Norrland is Umeå.
Norrland is famous for its landscape, and for phenomena such as the Midnight sun, Polar night and Aurora also called the Northern lights.

</doc>
<doc id="11008" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11008" title="Calgary">
Calgary

Calgary is the biggest city in Alberta, Canada. More than 1,000,000 people live in Calgary. The city is in the southern half of Alberta near the Rocky Mountains.
There are a lot of oil and gas businesses in Calgary. There are many skyscrapers in the City.
Around Calgary there are a lot of farms where cows are raised.
Calgary has a humid continental climate ("Dfb" in the Koeppen climate classification). It has long, cold, dry winters. The summers are warm with moderate rainfall. Sometimes a wind called a Chinook blows through Calgary. This wind can make some days in winter less cold.
Calgary has a famous event called a rodeo every year. This rodeo is called the Calgary Stampede. The Calgary Stampede is the largest rodeo in the world. At the Stampede, cowboys can win a lot of money. Cowboys also race with chuckwagons at the Stampede. Chuckwagons are carts with four wheels pulled by horses. In 1988, the Winter Olympics were held in Calgary.
Calgary has many museums, such as the Glenbow Museum and the Aero Space Museum. The Calgary Flames (an NHL ice hockey team) play in Calgary.

</doc>
<doc id="11009" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11009" title="Nova Scotia">
Nova Scotia

Nova Scotia is a small province found on the east coast of Canada. The name "Nova Scotia" is Latin for "New Scotland". The capital and biggest city is Halifax.
People who live in Nova Scotia are called Nova Scotians. Right now, there are over 900,000 of them; many of whom do not live in large cities or towns, but villages, where few people live.
What is now called "Nova Scotia" used to be controlled by the Mik'maq Indians. The French settled among them at Port Royal after 1600, and called the land part of Acadia, with Port Royal as its capital. In 1710, after a war, the British captured Port Royal and went on to capture the rest of the peninsula. It was the first time that the British had captured and held a French colony. 
Nova Scotia's government is a democracy. Stephen McNeil is the premier and John James Grant is the lieutenant governor.

</doc>
<doc id="11016" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11016" title="Calgary (disambiguation)">
Calgary (disambiguation)

Calgary might mean any of the following places:

</doc>
<doc id="11020" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11020" title="Absolute zero">
Absolute zero

In theory, absolute zero is the temperature at which the particles of matter (molecules and atoms) are at their lowest energy points. Some people think that at absolute zero particles lose all energy and stop moving. This is not correct. In quantum physics there is something called zero point energy, which means that even after all the energy that can be removed from particles has been removed, the particles still have some energy. This is due to the Heisenberg Principle of Uncertainty, which states that the more that is known about a particle's position, the less that can be known about its momentum, and vice versa. Therefore, a particle cannot be completely stopped because then its exact position and momentum would be known. Some people have created temperatures very close to absolute zero: the record temperature was 100 pK (one hundred picokelvin, equal to 10 kelvin) above absolute zero. Even getting close to absolute zero is difficult because anything that touches an object being cooled near absolute zero would give heat to the objects. Scientists use lasers to slow atoms when cooling objects to very low temperatures.
The kelvin and Rankine temperature scales are defined so that absolute zero is 0 kelvin (K) or 0 degrees Rankine (°R). The Celsius and Fahrenheit scales are defined so that absolute zero is −273.15 °C or −459.67 °F.
At this stage the pressure of the particles is zero. If we plot a graph to it, we can see that the temperature of the particles is zero. The temperature cannot go down any further. Also, the particles cannot move in "reverse" either because as the movement of particles is vibration, vibrating in reverse would be nothing but simply vibrating again. The closer the temperature of an object gets to absolute zero, the less resistive the material is to electricity therefore it will conduct electricity almost perfectly, with no measurable resistance.
The Third Law of Thermodynamics says that nothing can ever have a temperature of absolute zero.
The Second Law of Thermodynamics says that all engines that are powered by heat (like car engines and steam train engines) must release waste heat and can not be 100% efficient. This is because the efficiency (percent of energy the engine uses up that is actually used to do the engine's job) is 100%×(1-T/T), which only is 100% if the outside temperature is absolute zero which it cannot be. So, an engine cannot be 100% efficient, but you can make its efficiency closer to 100% by making the inside temperature hotter and/or the outside temperature colder.

</doc>
<doc id="11025" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11025" title="Cylinder">
Cylinder

A cylinder is one of the most basic curved geometric shapes, with the surface formed by the points at a fixed distance from a given line segment, known as the axis of the cylinder. The shape can be thought of as a circular prism. Both the surface and the solid shape created inside can be called a "cylinder". The surface area and the volume of a cylinder have been known since ancient times.
In differential geometry, a cylinder is defined more broadly as any ruled surface which is spanned by a one-parameter family of parallel lines. A cylinder whose cross section is an ellipse, parabola, or hyperbola is called an elliptic cylinder, parabolic cylinder, or hyperbolic cylinder respectively.
In common use a "cylinder" is taken to mean a finite section of a right circular cylinder, i.e., the cylinder with the generating lines perpendicular to the bases, with its ends closed to form two circular surfaces, as in the figure (right). If the cylinder has a radius and length (height) "h", then its volume is given by:
and its surface area is:
Therefore without the top or bottom (lateral area), the surface area is:
With the top and bottom, the surface area is:
For a given volume, the cylinder with the smallest surface area has . For a given surface area, the cylinder with the largest volume has , i.e. the cylinder fits in a cube (height = diameter).
Having a right circular cylinder with a height units and a base of radius units with the coordinate axes chosen so that the origin is at the center of one base and the height is measured along the positive x-axis. A plane section at a distance of units from the origin has an area of square units where
or
An element of volume, is a right cylinder of base area square units and a thickness of units. Thus if "V" cubic units is the volume of the right circular cylinder, by Riemann sums,
Using cylindrical coordinates, the volume can be calculated by integration over
Cylindric sections are the intersections of cylinders with planes. For a right circular cylinder, there are four possibilities. A plane tangent to the cylinder, meets the cylinder in a single straight line. Moved while parallel to itself, the plane either does not intersect the cylinder or intersects it in two parallel lines. All other planes intersect the cylinder in an ellipse or, when they are perpendicular to the axis of the cylinder, in a circle.
An elliptic cylinder, or cylindroid, is a quadric surface, with the following equation in Cartesian coordinates:
This equation is for an elliptic cylinder, a generalization of the ordinary, circular cylinder (). Even more general is the generalized cylinder: the cross-section can be any curve.
The cylinder is a "degenerate quadric" because at least one of the coordinates (in this case ) does not appear in the equation.
An oblique cylinder has the top and bottom surfaces displaced from one another.
There are other more unusual types of cylinders. These are the "imaginary elliptic cylinders":
the "hyperbolic cylinder":
and the "parabolic cylinder":
In projective geometry, a cylinder is simply a cone whose apex is at infinity.
This is useful in the definition of degenerate conics, which require considering the cylindrical conics.

</doc>
<doc id="11026" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11026" title="Vacuum">
Vacuum

A vacuum is a place where there is no matter. Sound cannot move in a vacuum. Outer space is not a perfect vacuum, because there is a very small number of particles there.
Vacuum is needed for some kinds of industrial production. Vacuum pumps are used to pump air out of the vacuum chamber. In the real world it is not possible to create 100% vacuum, but some vacuum pumps are able to create 99.9999% vacuum. This is called "hard vacuum". Most industrial purposes don't need hard vacuum; 0.001% is good enough. 
Industrial vacuums are mainly used in:
Vacuum chambers are also used in many experiments in laboratories. Some experiments in Physics and Chemistry need hard vacuum. 
A vacuum cleaner uses a strong vacuum force to suck in dirt, cleaning the floor.

</doc>
<doc id="11030" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11030" title="Catherine Howard">
Catherine Howard

Catherine Howard (c. 1521 - 13 February 1542) was the fifth wife of Henry VIII of England.
Catherine Howard (also spelled Katherine) was born in about 1521, the exact date is unknown. She was the tenth child of Lord Edmund Howard and Joyce Culpepper. Her father was the second son of the Duke of Norfolk. She was a cousin to Anne Boleyn, the second wife of Henry VIII.
Catherine's family was poor so they sent her to live with her step-grandmother, Agnes Tilney. Agnes Tilney, the Duchess of Norfolk, had a large household, but it was not very strict. Catherine could read and write, but she was the least educated of Henry VIII's wives.
Catherine became a lady-in-waiting to Queen Anne of Cleves in 1539 or 1540, when she was about 18 years old. Anne of Cleves was the fourth wife of Henry VIII. The king did not like Anne, and said she was not as pretty as he had hoped for and also called her a Flanders mare. He soon fell in love with Catherine.
In July 1540, after Henry had Anne of Cleves, Henry and Catherine got married at Oatlands Palace which is in Surrey.
Henry VIII loved his young bride and gave her lots of rich presents. He called her his 'rose without a thorn' and the 'very jewel of womanhood'. Her motto was "Non autre volonté que la sienne" or "No other wish but his". However, Catherine was not happy in her marriage. Her husband was very fat (he was about 300 pounds at the time), much older than she was, and had a on his legs. She began falling in love with a man named Thomas Culpepper.
Rumors that Catherine was unfaithful began to be repeated at court. Then Francis Dereham told
people about the affair he had had with Catherine, and officials started to ask questions about what she was doing in private. Many of Catherine's ladies in waiting, who had also lived with her in Lambeth, were brought forward to bring evidence against Catherine. Soon, her past was uncovered and more scandal brought to her name; enough to have her charged with treason. Catherine then, in 1541, was arrested and charged with high treason. Henry was very upset. He drew his sword and threatened to kill Katherine himself. At last, he made up his mind that Catherine was to be executed, just like her cousin, Anne Boleyn.
In February of 1542, Catherine was told that she was to die. She was being kept a prisoner at Syon Abbey. She was so fearful she grew filled with hysteria, crying as if she was a madwoman. She asked to see the executioner's block so she might know how to put her head on it. She practiced laying her head on the block all night long before her death.
There is a popular story that before Catherine died, she said, "I die a Queen, but I would rather have died the wife of Culpepper." This is not true. Instead, she cried out "God have mercy on my soul. Good people, I beg of you, pray for me."
The executioner chopped her head off with one blow. She was buried in St. Peter Ad Vincula, the parish church of the Tower of London.

</doc>
<doc id="11031" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11031" title="Anne of Cleves">
Anne of Cleves

Anne of Cleves (22 September 1515 – 16 July 1557) was the fourth wife of Henry VIII of England from January 1540 to July 1540.
She was the daughter of John III, Duke of Cleves and Maria of Julich Berg. She was born in Düsseldorf on 22 September 1515.
She was betrothed to Francis, the Duke of Lorraine, but she ended up marrying Henry VIII in January of 1540. When the couple met for the first time, they were disappointed in each other. Henry started complaining about Anne's appearance and said that he could not love her because she had "bad breath" and smelled. Anne's previous engagement to the Duke of Lorraine was used as an excuse for a divorce, and Anne agreed to it. In July 1540 Henry divorced Anne and married Catherine Howard, who was younger and prettier.
After the divorce, Henry made Anne his "sister" and gave her money and land for the rest of her life. She was the last of Henry's six wives to die, as she outlived his sixth wife, Catherine Parr, by nearly nine years. Anne died in 1557 and was buried in Westminster Abbey.

</doc>
<doc id="11033" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11033" title="Mary Tudor, Queen of France">
Mary Tudor, Queen of France

Mary Tudor (28 March 1495 – 25 June 1533) was the youngest daughter of Henry VII of England and Elizabeth of York. She was princess of England, and was Queen of France for three months. After being Queen of France, she married someone else, and became Duchess of Suffolk until her death.
Mary Tudor was born on 28 March 1495 in Richmond Palace. Her older brothers were Arthur, Prince of Wales, and Prince Henry, and her older sister was Princess Margaret. Henry and Mary were close as children. Later in life, when Henry became King Henry VIII of England, he even named his ship, the Mary Rose, after her. His first daughter, Mary (later known as Queen Mary I of England), was probably also named after her.
Mary's father was anxious for all his children to make good marriages, and many of the other kings and queens of Europe wanted Mary as a wife for one of their sons. She was first betrothed to Charles of Castile, later the Holy Roman Emperor. This betrothal was broken later, and she did not get married until after her brother Henry became king. When Mary was 18 she married King Louis XII of France, who was 52 years old. She was married in Abbeville, France, on 9 October 1514. Mary did not want to marry King Louis, but agreed when her brother said that she could marry anyone she wanted after Louis died. Louis died on 1 January 1515, and Mary soon married Charles Brandon, Duke of Suffolk. 
Mary did not have any children while married to Louis, but she did when she was married to Charles. Her children's names were Henry, Frances and Eleanor. Frances went on to be the mother of Lady Jane Grey, who was the Queen of England for only nine days.
Mary Tudor died in Westhorpe Hall in 1533. Her husband then married Catherine Willoughby.

</doc>
<doc id="11034" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11034" title="Louis XII of France">
Louis XII of France

Louis XII of France (June 27, 1462 – January 1, 1515) was the son of Charles, Duke of Orleans and Mary of Cleves. He was born on June 27, 1462 in the Chateau de Blois, France.
Louis's first wife was Jeanne of France, who was the daughter of Louis XI of France. At the time, Louis was not expected to become King of France. The King, Charles VIII, was a young man and could still have had children, but Charles had an accident and died suddenly. Charles was Jeanne's brother. Louis was Charles's cousin and next in line to the throne. When he became king, he had to end his marriage to Jeanne, partly because she was disabled and could not have children. 
Louis's second wife was Anne of Brittany, who was the daughter of Francis II, Duke of Brittany. Anne had been married to King Charles VIII until his death, but all of their children had died. As a result of her marriage to Charles, the dukedom of Brittany had become part of the kingdom of France. Louis wanted to keep Brittany, but in order to do so he had to marry Anne. After her marriage to Louis, Anne had two daughters, who were called Claude and Renee. 
In France, women were not allowed to rule the country, so Louis still wanted a son to become king after him. After Anne died, Louis married for a third time. His last wife was Mary Tudor, the sister of Henry VIII of England. She was many years younger than he was. Louis only lived for three months after their marriage. Because Louis had no sons, the throne went to Francis, the husband of his daughter Claude.

</doc>
<doc id="11035" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11035" title="Louis XIII of France">
Louis XIII of France

Louis XIII of France (27 September 1601 – 14 May 1643) was King of France from 1610 to 1643. He was the son of Henry IV and Marie de' Medici. He lived during the time of the Thirty Years War and had to deal with many rebellions. He was proud of his country, and tried to encourage French artists to stay in France instead of going off to Italy. He did this by giving them work in the Louvre.
Although he was married, people thought that he would never produce an heir. Then, after 23 years of marriage, his wife Anne gave birth to a baby boy. He was to become King Louis XIV of France.
He died of Crohn's disease in 1643 and was later buried at the Royal Basilica of Saint Denis, France. His oldest son would succeed him on the throne.

</doc>
<doc id="11036" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11036" title="Claude of France">
Claude of France

Claude of France (October 14, 1499 – July 20, 1524) was the daughter of Louis XII of France and Anne of Brittany. Claude had no brothers, but was not allowed to be the Queen of France in her own right after her father died because of the Salic Law. Instead she became the Queen consort of France by marrying the next King of France, Francis I of France. 
Henry II of France was Claude's son.
After she got married Claude spent the rest of her life having babies. She died when she was only 24.

</doc>
<doc id="11038" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11038" title="Lady Eleanor Brandon">
Lady Eleanor Brandon

Lady Eleanor Brandon (1519-27 September 1547) was the daughter of Mary Tudor, Queen of France and Charles Brandon, Duke of Suffolk. Her maternal grandparents were King Henry VII of England and Elizabeth of York. She was the sister of Lady Frances Brandon therefore she was the aunt of Lady Jane Grey.
Eleanor was married to Henry Clifford in 1537. She then became the Countess of Cumberland.
Henry and Eleanor had three children:

</doc>
<doc id="11039" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11039" title="Lady Frances Brandon">
Lady Frances Brandon

Lady Frances Brandon (16 July 1517–20 November 1559) was the daughter of Mary Tudor and Charles Brandon, Duke of Suffolk. She was married to Henry Gray, Duke of Suffolk and had three daughters: Jane, Mary and Katherine. Her daughter Jane became the Queen of England for nine days.
Frances Brandon was a cruel, abusive mother to her children and a bold wife to her husband, Henry Grey. She had spent her childhood with her mother and was very close to Catherine of Aragon, so she was against Henry VIII's marriage to Anne Boleyn. In 1533, she married Henry Grey and soon she had two children who died young before having Lady Jane Grey in 1537, Katherine in 1540, and Mary in 1545.
In 1554, just weeks after her daughter Lady Jane Grey's and her husband Henry Grey's execution, Frances married again. This time it was to Adrian Stokes. Many people where shocked about this marriage, because Adrian was far below Frances's status. Historians believe that Frances was pregnant at the time of their marriage because she gave birth to a child about six months later. This child did not survive and Frances had two others. None of these last three children lived past a year.
Frances became increasingly large similar to her great-uncle Henry VIII. Because of this, she died in 1559 and was buried in Westminster Abbey.

</doc>
<doc id="11040" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11040" title="Henry II of France">
Henry II of France

Henry II of France (March 31, 1519 – July 10, 1559) was a King of France and a member of the house of Valois. Henry was crowned King in Rheims, France, on July 25, 1547.
Henry was born in Saint-Germain-en-Laye, France, on March 31, 1519. His parents were Francis I of France and Claude of France.
Henry was married to Catherine of Medici on October 28, 1533 when he was only 14 years old. Their children were:
Henry did not love Catherine of Medici. He spent most of his time with his mistress, who was called Diane de Poitiers.
Henry died on July 10, 1559 after a jousting accident. He is buried in the Saint Denis Basilica. The next King was Francis II of France.

</doc>
<doc id="11041" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11041" title="Francis I of France">
Francis I of France

Francis I of France (September 12, 1494 - March 31, 1547) was a King of France and a member of the house of Valois.
Francis was born in Cognac, France on September 12, 1494. His parents were Charles, Duke of Angoulême and Louise of Savoy.
Francis I married Claude of France on May 18, 1514. They had seven children, two died before turning eight, two died at the ages of eighteen to twenty-three. Those who lived to adulthood were:
Francis was very interested in art and liked the artist Leonardo da Vinci.
Francis died on March 31, 1547. He is buried in the Saint Denis Basilica.

</doc>
<doc id="11042" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11042" title="Madeleine of France">
Madeleine of France

Madeleine of France (10 August 1520 – 2 July 1537) was the daughter of Francis I of France and Claude of France. She was married to James V of Scotland on 1 January 1537 in Notre Dame Cathedral in Paris, France.
Madeleine got sick with tuberculosis when she went to live in Scotland and died when she was only 16 years old. She is buried in Holyrood Abbey in Edinburgh, Scotland.

</doc>
<doc id="11043" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11043" title="Holyrood Abbey">
Holyrood Abbey

Holyrood Abbey is in Edinburgh, Scotland. It is a ruined Augustine Abbey and was built by David I of Scotland in 1128.

</doc>
<doc id="11047" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11047" title="The Muppets">
The Muppets

The Muppets are puppet characters created by Jim Henson. The characters include Kermit the Frog and the Muppet cast of Sesame Street. Jim Henson started work with the Muppets in the 1950's and continued until his death in 1990. The Muppets are known for an absurd burlesque and humorous style of variety-sketch comedy.
The Muppets are now owned by The Walt Disney Company. The term "muppet" is trademarked and owned by The Walt Disney Company. Puppets used in Sesame Street are still called muppets at times, and have special permission to use that name from The Walt Disney Company.
Jim Henson said the name "muppet" came from combining the words "puppet" and "marionette," but he also said that he just liked the way the word sounded. There is no defined difference between a muppet and a puppet other than the link to Jim Henson. Many of Jim Henson's muppets have large eyes, round noses, and large mouths that go from one end of the face to the other (almost ear to ear). Muppets are often made out of foam with felt on top. Puppeteers usually control the muppet with one hand in the head and the other hand controls the muppets arms. Sometimes the arms have a stick that is used to move the hand and arm - this is called the "arm rod." Puppeteers hold the arm rod at one end and the other end touches the muppet hand. Some muppets have hands that are gloves. Puppeteers put their hands in the gloves of these muppets so the muppet can move its fingers. For this reason, most muppets appear to favor their left hands.

</doc>
<doc id="11048" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11048" title="Wilhelm II of Germany">
Wilhelm II of Germany

Friedrich Wilhelm Viktor Albert von Hohenzollern, Wilhelm II of Prussia and Germany, (27 January 1859–4 June 1941) was the last German Emperor and the last King of Prussia, ruling from 1888 to 1918. He went to live in the Netherlands and abdicated (resigned) as King and Emperor. He died at Huis Doorn and is buried there because he ordered that he did not want to be buried in Nazi Germany. Wilhelm died on June 4, 1941.
Kaiser Wilhelm II was born on January 27, 1859. He was the oldest child in his family. His father was Prince Frederick of Prussia. His mother was Princess Victoria, the eldest daughter of Queen Victoria of the United Kingdom. He was born with a disabled arm. He got married in 1881. His wife was Augusta Victoria. They had seven children. He first studied at the Kassel Gymnasium. Secondly, he studied at the University of Bonn. He became leader of Germany in 1888. He became the leader after his father died.
Wilhelm was a strong military man. He believed in strengthening Germany’s armed forces. He led the German armed forces during the war.

</doc>
<doc id="11049" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11049" title="Catherine of Medici">
Catherine of Medici

Catherine de' Medici (April 13, 1519 – January 5, 1589) was the wife of Henry II of France.
Catherine was the daughter of Lorenzo II de' Medici. She was born in Florence, Italy. She was born "Caterina Maria Romula di Lorenzo de' Medici".
Catherine was married to Henry II of France when she was 14 years old. Their children were:
Catherine is buried in the Saint Denis Basilica.

</doc>
<doc id="11050" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11050" title="Francis II of France">
Francis II of France

Francis II of France (January 19, 1544 – December 5, 1560) was a King of France and a member of the House of Valois.
Francis was born in Fontainebleau, France, on January 19, 1544 . His parents were Henry II of France and Catherine of Medici.
Francis was married to Mary, Queen of Scots, on April 24, 1558. They had no children.
Francis died in Orleans, France, on December 5, 1560 because of an ear infection. He is buried in the Saint Denis Basilica, next to King Charles IX of France.

</doc>
<doc id="11052" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11052" title="Adela of Normandy">
Adela of Normandy

Adela of Normandy (c. 1067 – c. 8 March 1137) was the daughter of William I of England and Matilda of Flanders. She was married to Stephen, Count of Blois between 1080 and 1084 and became the mother of:
She lived long enough to see her son, Stephen, become King of England, but died soon afterwards.

</doc>
<doc id="11053" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11053" title="Stephen of England">
Stephen of England

Stephen of England (c. 1096–25 October 1154) was King of England from 1135 until 1154. He became the King after the death of his uncle Henry I. Stephan was the King until his own death in Dover, Kent. Stephen was crowned at Westminster Abbey on the 26 December 1135. Stephen is buried at the Clunaic Monastery in Faversham, Kent.
King Stephen was born in Blois, France, in 1096. He was the son of Stephen, Count of Blois and Adela of Normandy. His mother, Adela, was the daughter of William I of England and Matilda of Flanders. Stephen married Matilda of Boulogne in about 1125. They had five children. He fought a civil war with Henry I's only daughter, Matilda, from 1139-1153. This ended with the Treaty of Wallingford in 1153 after the death of Stephen's son and heir, Eustace IV. The treaty said that Stephen would be King for the rest of his lifetime. After his death, the throne passed to Henry, son of Matilda, and not Stephen's other son William.

</doc>
<doc id="11054" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11054" title="Eleanor of Aquitaine">
Eleanor of Aquitaine

Eleanor of Aquitaine (c. 1122 – March 31, 1204) was the daughter of William X of Aquitaine. She had a younger sister called Petronilla of Aquitaine. She brought the province of Aquitaine to England when she married Henry II of England. It stayed under English control for 300 years.
Eleanor inherited land in France at the age of 15. She married Louis VII of France on July 22, 1137, and had two daughters:
The marriage was later annulled, as there were no male children.
Eleanor then married Henry II of England on May 18, 1152, and had eight children, including:
Eleanor was greatly known for her work in the Second Crusade, for she inspired many people to join.
Eleanor supported a revolt by her children against their father's rule in 1173. This revolt was unsuccessful, and King Henry II was so furious that he locked her away in a prison. In 1189, after King Henry II died and her son, Richard, came to be the king, Eleanor was freed. Shortly after, Richard died so she supported her son John to take the English throne against the claim of her grandson Arthur of Brittany. In 1202 during the campaign at Mairebeau, she continued to thwart Arthur. Emerging triumphant, Eleanor retired to a monastery. She died there on April 1, 1204.

</doc>
<doc id="11055" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11055" title="John of England">
John of England

King John (24 December 1166 – 18 October 1216) was the son of Henry II of England and Eleanor of Aquitaine. He reigned as King of England from 6 April 1199, until his death. He became King of England after the death of his brother Richard I ('Richard the Lionheart'). 
His reign was marked by disputes between John and his barons and bishops. Because of this the nobles forced him to observe the agreement called Magna Carta, to limit his power. The Magna Carta was a significant legal document in English history, as well as the first English “bill of rights”. It introduced the idea that monarchs had limited rights and had to follow certain laws, and it gave the nobles more say in the government. It not only affected English government, but inspired governments of other countries.
John's reign as king was important, but not considered successful from England's historical point of view. He tried several times to get back land in France which had been lost, but did not succeed.
As the youngest son of Henry II, John could expect no inheritance. Henry II divided his land among his sons before John was born. Later, John was expected to receive Ireland as a kingdom. Henry’s other sons strongly disagreed with this plan. When Henry died, John’s brother, Richard received all of Henry’s possessions, and John accepted Ireland as a feudal holding from Richard. His family life was tumultuous, as his older brothers all became involved in rebellions against Henry. His mother, Eleanor, was imprisoned by Henry in 1173, when John was about five years old.
As a young man, John already had a reputation for treachery. He conspired sometimes with and sometimes against his elder brothers, Henry, Richard and Geoffrey. In 1184, John and Richard both claimed that they were the rightful heir to Aquitaine, one of many unfriendly encounters between the two.
Richard was absent on the Third Crusade from 1190 to 1194. John attempted to overthrow William Longchamp, the Bishop of Ely, who was Richard's designated 'chief justiciar' (like a Regent or Prime Minister). This was one of the events which led later writers to cast John as the villain in the legend of Robin Hood.
John was more popular than Longchamp in London. In October 1191 the leading citizens of the city opened the gates to John while Longchamp was confined in the tower. John promised the city the right to govern itself as a commune in return for recognition as Richard's heir presumptive. 
As he returned from the Crusade, Richard was captured by Leopold V, Duke of Austria, and handed over to Henry VI, the Holy Roman Emperor, who held him for ransom. Meanwhile, John had joined forces with Philip Augustus, King of France. They sent a letter to Henry asking him to keep Richard away from England for as long as possible, offering payment to keep Richard imprisoned. Henry declined their offer, and got his ransom from Eleanor of Aquitaine (who had to pawn the Crown Jewels). Richard was set free. Upon the release, John begged forgiveness from Richard, who granted it and named him heir presumptive.
On Richard's death (6 April 1199) John was accepted in Normandy and England. He was crowned king at Westminster on 27 May, Ascension Day. 
However, Anjou, Maine, and Brittany declared for Arthur of Brittany, son of his elder brother Geoffrey. Arthur fought his uncle for the throne, with the support of Philip II of France. The conflict between Arthur and John had serious consequences for both. Finally, Philip recognised John over Arthur. The price paid was John's agreement to be Philip's vassal in Normandy and Angevin.
Nevertheless, conflicts continued until in 1202 Philip declared all John's French lands and territories, except Gascony in the southwest, and immediately occupied them. Philip gave Arthur all the land he had taken from John, except for Normandy, and betrothed him to his daughter Marie.
John now needed to fight to get back 'his' land in France. In 1203 John ordered all shipyards in England to provide at least one ship, with the newly-built Portsmouth Naval Base to provide several. He made Portsmouth the new home of the navy. By the end of 1204, John had 45 large ships available to him, and from then on an average of four new ones every year. He also created an Admiralty of four admirals, responsible for various parts of the new navy. During John's reign, major improvements were made in ship design. He also created the first big transport ships. John is sometimes credited with the founding of the modern Royal Navy. 
As part of the war, Arthur attempted to kidnap his own grandmother, Eleanor of Aquitaine, at Mirebeau, but was defeated and captured by John's forces. Arthur was imprisoned first at Falaise and then at Rouen. After this, Arthur's fate remains unknown, but it is believed that he was murdered by John. Assuming that he was murdered, Brittany, and later Normandy, rebelled against John. John also imprisoned his niece, Eleanor. Through deeds such as these, John acquired a reputation for ruthlessness.
In 1203, John exempted the citizens and merchants of Bordeaux from the "Grande Coutume", which was the principal tax on their exports. In exchange, the regions of Bordeaux, Bayonne and Dax pledged support against the French Crown. The unblocked ports gave Gascon merchants open access to the English wine market for the first time. The following year, John granted the same exemptions to La Rochelle and Poitou.
In June 1204, the fall of Rouen allowed Phillip to annex Normandy and also take parts of Anjou and Poitou.
John needed money for his army, but the loss of the French territories, especially Normandy, greatly reduced the state income. A huge tax would be needed to reclaim these territories. He imposed the first income tax, raising the (then) huge sum of £70,000.
When Archbishop of Canterbury Hubert Walter died on 13 July 1205, John became involved in a dispute with Pope Innocent III. The Canterbury Cathedral Chapter claimed the sole right to elect Hubert's successor, and favoured Reginald, a candidate out of their midst. However, both the English bishops and the King wanted someone else to have this powerful office. The king wanted John de Gray, one of his own men. When their dispute could not be settled, the Chapter secretly elected one of their members as Archbishop. A second election imposed by John resulted in another nominee. When they both appeared in the Vatican, Innocent disavowed (rejected) both elections, and his candidate, Stephen Langton, was elected despite the objections of John's observers. John was supported in his position by the English barons and many of the English bishops, and refused to accept Langton.
John expelled (dismissed) the Canterbury Chapter in July 1207, to which the Pope reacted by placing an interdict on the kingdom which meant that no one could receive religious blessings. John retaliated by closing down the churches. He confiscated (on paper) all church possessions, but individual churches were able to negotiate terms for managing their own properties and keeping the produce of their estates. After his excommunication, John tightened these measures and he got plenty from the income of vacant sees and abbeys. For example, the church lost an estimated 100,000 marks to the Crown in 1213. The Pope gave permission for some churches to hold Mass behind closed doors in 1209. In 1212, they allowed last rites to the dying. While the interdict was a burden to many, it did not result in rebellion against John.
In November 1209 John was excommunicated, and in February 1213, Innocent threatened stronger measures unless John submitted. The papal terms for submission were accepted in the presence of the papal legate Pandulph in May 1213 (according to Matthew Paris, at the Knights Templar Church at Dover); in addition, John offered to surrender the Kingdom of England to God and the Saints Peter and Paul for a feudal service of 1,000 marks annually, 700 for England and 300 for Ireland. With this submission, written in a document, John gained the support of his papal overlord in his new dispute with the English barons.
After settling his dispute with the papacy, John turned his attentions back to France. The European wars ended in defeat at the Battle of Bouvines in July 1214, which forced the king to accept an unfavourable peace with France.
The heavy scutage levy for the failed campaign was the last straw, and when John attempted to raise more in September 1214, many barons refused to pay. The barons no longer believed that John was capable of regaining his lost lands.
In May 1215, Robert Fitz Walter led forty barons to renounce homage to the king at Northampton. The so-called 'Army of God' marched on London, taking the capital as well as taking Lincoln and Exeter.
John met their leaders and with their French and Scots allies at Runnymede, near London, on 15 June 1215. There they sealed the Great Charter, called in Latin "Magna Carta". It established a council of 25 barons to see John kept to the clauses like protection from illegal imprisonment, access to swift justice, parliamentary assent for taxation, and scutage limitations.
Because he was forced to seal the charter, John sought approval to break it, from his overlord the Pope. Denouncing it as "not only shameful and demeaning but also illegal and unjust", the Pope agreed. This provoked the First Barons' War. The barons invited a French invasion by Prince Louis VIII of France and Louis accepted the offer of the crown of England as a reward for his support.
John travelled around the country to oppose the rebel forces, and directed a two-month siege of the rebel-held Rochester Castle. While a small force arrived in rebel-held London in November, the Scots under their king, Alexander II, invaded northern England. By the end of December, John was leading an murderous expedition in the north, culminating with the sacking of Berwick-upon-Tweed. 
The French retook Rochester and much of the south, although the royalists held on to Windsor and Dover. 
With the momentum swinging from John, some of his generals, including his half-brother William Longespée, 3rd Earl of Salisbury, went to the rebel side. By the end of the summer, Louis held a third of the country and had the support of two-third of the barons. In September, Alexander II travelled down to pay homage to Louis at Dover, where the French pretender had being laying siege to Dover Castle.
Retreating from the French invasion, John took a safe route around the marshy area of The Wash to avoid the rebel held area of East Anglia. His slow baggage train (including the Crown Jewels), took a direct route across it and was lost to the incoming tide. This dealt John a terrible blow, which affected his health and state of mind. Succumbing to dysentery and moving from place to place, he died at Newark Castle. He was buried in Worcester Cathedral.
When King John died on 18 October, 1216 his nine year old son, Henry was too young to rule the kingdom. William Marshal was appointed as Regent to Henry III to make decisions on Henry’s behalf until he came of age. The barons switched their allegiance to the new king, forcing Louis to give up his claim and sign the Treaty of Lambeth in 1217.
King John's reign began with military defeats – he lost Normandy to Philip II of France in his first five years on the throne. His reign ended with England torn by civil war and himself on the verge of being forced out of power. In 1213, he made England a papal fief to resolve a conflict with the Catholic Church, and his rebellious barons forced him to seal Magna Carta in 1215, the act for which he is best remembered.
John is responsible for the creation of another English cultural icon, the historic, medieval London Bridge. To finance the construction of a large bridge across the Thames, King John allowed houses, shops, and a church to be built on top of the bridge.
John was an efficient ruler, but he lost approval of the barons by taxing them in ways outside those traditionally allowed by feudal overlords. The tax known as scutage became particularly unpopular. John was a fair-minded and well informed king, however. He often sat as a judge in the Royal Courts, and his justice was much sought after. Also, John's employment of an able Chancellor and clerks resulted in the first proper set of records. 
Winston Churchill summarised the legacy of John's reign: "When the long tally is added, it will be seen that the British nation and the English-speaking world owe far more to the vices of John than to the labours of virtuous sovereigns". Medieval historian C. Warren Hollister called John an "enigmatic figure":
In 1189, John was married to Isabel of Gloucester. They had no children. John had their marriage annulled, and she was never acknowledged as queen. John remarried, on 24 August 1200, Isabella of Angoulême, who was twenty years his junior. John had kidnapped her from her fiancé, Hugh X of Lusignan.
Isabella bore five children:
John had many illegitimate children. Matthew Paris accuses him of seducing the more attractive daughters and sisters of his barons and relatives. John had these illegitimate children:
The surname "Fitzroy" is Norman-French for 'son of the king'.
John is also famous for his part in the Robin Hood stories where he plays one of Robin's enemies. Popular culture suggests that many people did not like him, but actually we do not know what ordinary people thought in the 13th century.

</doc>
<doc id="11058" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11058" title="13 (number)">
13 (number)

Thirteen is a number. It comes after twelve and before fourteen. It is an odd number.
Many people think thirteen is an unlucky number, especially when Friday is the thirteenth day of the month. This is a superstition. There is no proof that thirteen is an unlucky number.
Floors in tall buildings often skip floor thirteen. The idea of thirteen as an unlucky number was created in Norse mythology. It is supposed to be unlucky to have thirteen people sitting at a table at a meal. Death is number thirteen in the tarot deck.
In Roman numerals, 13 is written as XIII.

</doc>
<doc id="11063" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11063" title="Weekend">
Weekend

The weekend is a time when fewer people go to work or school. Traditional Christians believe that Sunday is a day of rest or Sabbath, and Jews and Seventh Day Adventists believe the day of rest is the seventh day, Saturday, and start the week with Sunday. Friday is also considered the beginning of the weekend, and it is a day of prayer for Muslims.

</doc>
<doc id="11074" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11074" title="Alexandria">
Alexandria

Alexandria is the second largest city in Egypt. It was founded by Alexander the Great in 332 BC. It is on the Mediterranean Sea, only 225 km (140 miles) northwest of Cairo.
Alexandria has 3.8 million people. It is the main port of Egypt. It has two airports and three big stadia: Alexandria stadium, Harras el hadoud stadium and Borg el-Arab stadium in the Borg el-Arab industrial city.
The fourth Wikimania was hosted in this city in 2008.
Alexandria, named after Alexander the Great, was founded in the year 332 BC. For nearly 300 years, it was the capital of the Ptolemaic dynasty in Egypt. Some famous ancient Greek scientists, such as Euclid of Alexandria and Eratosthenes, lived there or studied there. It was home to the largest library in the ancient Western world, the Library of Alexandria. 
It was a wealthy city in its heyday, and remained the main way Egyptian grain went by sea to Ancient Rome. Rome depended greatly on Egyptian grain. Alexandria city fell in to the sea after Rome conquered the city and some of her history is in the Mediterranean.
After the Muslim conquest of Egypt in 641 AD, they did not want to have their capital at Alexandria, because it was too far away from Arabia. So the Islamic invaders made a new capital on the east side of the Nile, and called it Fustat. Alexandria became less important. 

</doc>
<doc id="11079" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11079" title="1908">
1908

1908 (MCMVIII) was a leap year starting on Wednesday of the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="11103" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11103" title="Celtic League">
Celtic League

The Celtic League is a group of people from the six modern Celtic nations of Ireland, Scotland, Wales, Brittany, Cornwall and the Isle of Man. They want their countries to be free. These six countries each have a native Celtic language and the Celtic League supports the learning of these languages. The six Celtic languages are Irish, Gaelic (Scottish), Welsh, Breton, Cornish, and Manx.

</doc>
<doc id="11104" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11104" title="Oprah Winfrey">
Oprah Winfrey

Oprah Gail Winfrey (born January 29, 1954) is an American media proprietor, talk show host, actress, producer, and philanthropist. Winfrey is best known for her multi-award-winning talk show, "The Oprah Winfrey Show" which was the highest-rated program of its kind in history and was nationally syndicated from 1986 to 2011. She has also acted in several movies including "The Color Purple" and "The Butler".
Winfrey was born on January 29, 1954 in Kosciusko, Mississippi. Winfrey was named "Orpah" after a character in the Book of Ruth. People made the mistake of calling her "Oprah". She decided to keep this name. Her parents are Vernita Lee, a maid, and Vernon Winfrey, a barber. She went to Tennessee State University in 1971. She started to work in radio and television in Nashville. She hosted television programs in Baltimore and Chicago.
In 1986, Winfrey's own talk show "The Oprah Winfrey Show" went on the air. She was liked by audiences for her warmth. She came to own the show. 
Winfrey now runs the Oprah Winfrey Network. On January 15, 2008, Winfrey and Discovery Communications announced plans to change Discovery Health Channel into a new channel called OWN: Oprah Winfrey Network. It was scheduled to lauch in 2009, but was delayed, and actually launched on January 1, 2011. She also hosts the "Oprah's Next Chapter" show on the network.
She endorsed Barack Obama in 2006 for the 2008 election. One estimate said it delivered one million votes in the 2008 Democratic primary race.
Oprah Winfrey has a lot of money. She gives to many charities. She gives to girls' education in South Africa. In 2013, she was named one of the 400 richest people in the United States. She is the only African-American among this group. She was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom by President Barack Obama in 2013 and a honorary doctorate degree from Harvard.

</doc>
<doc id="11109" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11109" title="Colognian dialect">
Colognian dialect

The Colognian dialect, or Kölsch is a variety of the German languages. People in and around the city of Cologne in the West of Germany use Kölsch. Nowadays most of them have High German as their primary language or secondary language.
About 250,000 people actively speak Kölsch.
More than 2,500,000 people understand Kölsch well and use some Kölsch, or a variant, somehow.
An estimated 20,000,000 to 30,000,000 people understand it partially.
How to say "Kölsch"? Take the beginning from "kernel" or "colonel"; next take a real dark, long "l" as in "bold", or "ball"; then append a "sh" as in "shrimps", or "ti" as in "nation". That's the sound "Kölsch". However, the German "ö" is not exactly the same as an English "o", but a sound between "o" and "e".
The word 'Kölsch' comes from the Name of the City of Cologne.
It is 'Köln' in native tongue, yet 'Kölle' in Kölsch.
Now by ordinary German word building rules, 'kölnisch' means 'belonging to Cologne', 'related to Cologne', 'in Cologne', 'from Cologne'—as in 'kölnisch Wasser' ("Eau de Cologne"). The word 'kölnisch', or 'köllesch', shortened to 'kölsch' in local tongue, became a shorthand noun for the local beer and the local language, or dialect.
Today's name of the city stems from ancient times of the Roman occupation of Northern Germany 100 years before Christ, and later. In the place of a longer existing German tribal settlement, the Romans built a fort or castle —
then, approximately under the reign of Julius Caesar, enhanced it to a colony (Latin: "colonia") with religious and city rights.
Part of its Roman name stuck, 'Colonia Clavdia Ara Agrippinensivm Oppidvm Vbiorum' became 'Köln' over the centuries.
Although Kölsch speakers occasionally claim that it is rooted in pre-Roman times, Kölsch's ripuarian base developed from a mix of Lower German and Middle High German in medieval times. It learned from other languages through political and trade connections during the times of the Hanse, and from various waves of immigration. In modern times, there were:
Kölsch has outstanding or unique properties. Here are some:
After the Second World War, Cologne took up and integrated a huge number of former inhabitants from the former East German regions, which now are part of Poland.
That has not had a remarkable impact on the Kölsch language; but on the immigrants.
They soon began to integrate into the social life and otherwise, they began to learn Kölsch.
Naturally they initially were not perfect speakers.
The Kölsch language recognized that, and quickly created a word for them: "imi" ('imitating' or 'imitated' Kölsch).
As they lerned Kölsch well over the years, you could hear the word 'imi' less often.
It came back recently, when the wall that separated East and West Germany was taken down.

</doc>
<doc id="11110" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11110" title="Kölsch">
Kölsch

The word Kölsch has several meanings:

</doc>
<doc id="11111" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11111" title="Past tense">
Past tense

Past tense is a verb form which is marked by time (tense). 
The past tense is used for actions in a time which has already happened. In order to explain and understand past tense, it is useful to imagine time as a line on which the past, the present tense and the future tense are positioned.
Words in English have several tenses, including many common past tenses. The two that are used the most are the simple past tense and the perfect tense
The simple past tense is used when telling a story. Different verbs change in different ways to make the past tense. The most common way is by ending with ed:
Many other verbs are "irregular", this means that there is no pattern and no easy way to know how the verb changes. Some of the most common irregular verbs are:
One very irregular verb is "to read", which is the same when written down in the past tense, but pronounced differently. In the present tense, "read" is pronounced like the word "reed" or "seed", but in the past tense it is pronounced the same as "red". In the example below the spelling of the verb does not change, though the tense (and thus the pronunciation) does.
The Perfect is about "completion": actions which are completed. The tense refers to a period in the past. In English the Perfect is made by have + -ed or variations of that form.
Verb endings: -ed = finished; -ing = continuing

</doc>
<doc id="11114" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11114" title="Freeview">
Freeview

Freeview is a free television service in the United Kingdom, and is sent to people's home using a digital signal. It includes more channels than normal analogue television provides. Over 30 television channels and 24 radio stations are on it at the moment. The service was put on air on October 30, 2002 in the early morning. ITV Digital was the previous service but the service had to be replaced because they were having financial problems.
Some TVs can receive Freeview automatically, but most people have to buy a special box to connect to their TV. In March 2006 over 6 million people had Freeview in their homes.
The service replaced the analogue signal in the United Kingdom in 2012.

</doc>
<doc id="11117" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11117" title="Mark Addy">
Mark Addy

Mark Addy (born January 14, 1964, in York, England) is an English actor. The best known works by Addy are as Detective Boyle in the British sitcom "The Thin Blue Line", Dave in the movie "The Full Monty", father Bill Miller in the US sitcom "Still Standing" and more recently as King Robert Baratheon in the HBO fantasy epic "Game of Thrones".
Addy has played many different roles in both television and in movies. In 2013 he played Hercules, a medieval King, and a modern day alcoholic with family problems.
Addy received the Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture for "The Full Monty". He was also nominated for a BAFTA, Chlotrudis Award and Satellite Award. For "Game of Thrones" he was nominated for a Scream Award for Best Ensemble and an ensemble Screen Actors Guild Award.

</doc>
<doc id="11118" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11118" title="Tuba">
Tuba

The tuba is the biggest of all the brass musical instruments. They are the newest part of the symphony orchestra, first showing up in the mid-19th century. Most orchestras have a tuba now. The standard tuba has about 16 feet of tubes.
Tubas are normally in the key of F, E"b", CC, or BB"b" and can have 3 to 6 valves. Because they are so big, some tubas have a "compensating system". This means a fourth, fifth or sixth valve is used to make the instrument sound more in tune - especially the lowest notes. 
It takes a lot of breath to play the tuba. It is one of the loudest instruments in the orchestra but can also play very quietly.
The tuba usually plays the bass (lowest sounding) part even though it can play relatively high as well.
The tuba is used in all sorts of music and can be found in orchestras, wind bands, brass bands, jazz groups, pop groups, brass ensembles and even in tuba quartets (in groups of 4).

</doc>
<doc id="11119" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11119" title="Garden gnome">
Garden gnome

The first garden gnome was created in Switzerland. It was later introduced to the United Kingdom in 1847 by Sir Charles Isham, when he brought 21 terracotta figures back from a trip to Germany and placed them around the gardens of his home at Lamport Hall in Northamptonshire. Only one of the original batch of gnomes survives: Lampy as he is known, is on display at Lamport Hall, and is insured for one million pounds.
Garden gnomes have become a popular accessory in many gardens, but they are not loved by all. They can be the target of pranks. People have been known to "return to the wild" these garden gnomes, most notably France's "Front de Liberation des Nains de Jardins" and Italy's "MALAG" (Garden Gnome Liberation Front). Some kidnapped garden gnomes have been sent on trips around the world, being passed from person to person and photographed at different famous landmarks, with the photos being returned to the owner. This practice is featured in the 2001 French film, "Amélie" and in an advertising campaign for Travelocity.com . Non-conventional gnome statues have also been made, such as a flashing gnome in a raincoat, or a gnome couple in love.
A sub-culture exists among those who collect garden gnomes. This phenomenon is frequently made fun of in popular culture.

</doc>
<doc id="11120" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11120" title="Kentucky">
Kentucky

Kentucky is a state in the United States. Its capital is Frankfort. It touches the states of Missouri (by the Mississippi River), Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, West Virginia (by the Ohio River), Tennessee and Virginia.
Some people call it the "Bluegrass State" because of a special kind of grass that grows there. It is also famous for its horse farms. The Kentucky Derby, a well-known horse race, is held in the city of Louisville, which is also the largest city in the state. Other well-known places are Fort Knox, The Cumberland Gap, Cumberland Falls, Mammoth Cave, Red River gorge, and Land Between the Lakes.
Some well-known towns and cities are Louisville, Lexington, Owensboro, Bowling Green, Covington, Florence, Maysville, Georgetown, Paducah, Murray, Bardstown, Morehead, Midway, Berea, Richmond, Danville, Versailles, Elizabethtown, Radcliff, Corbin, Somerset, Ashland, and Middlesboro.
Hodgenville is famous for being the birthplace of U.S. President Abraham Lincoln.

</doc>
<doc id="11121" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11121" title="Gary Busey">
Gary Busey

Gary Busey (born June 29, 1944) is an American actor. He has appeared in many movies and television shows since the 1970s. In 1988, He was involved in a motorcycle accident, but he recovered. He was born in Goose Creek, Texas and grew up in Oklahoma. He was a heavy cocaine user for many years, before giving it up and becoming a born-again Christian. His elder son Jake Busey (born 1971) is also an actor. 
Busey was a contestant in two celebrity series of "The Apprentice" (2011 and 2013). He won the August-September 2014 series of Celebrity Big Brother UK.

</doc>
<doc id="11122" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11122" title="Montana">
Montana

Montana is a state in the United States. Its capital is Helena, and the largest city is Billings. Montana has many mountains in the western half of the state. Most of the eastern part of the state is prairie.
Montana and Canada share a 545-mile (877-km) part of the world's longest undefended (which means there are no soldiers or armies on either side) border. The state borders the Canadian provinces of British Columbia, Alberta, and Saskatchewan, more provinces than any other U.S. state.
To the east of Montana is North Dakota; to the southeast is a short border with South Dakota. In the south is Wyoming, and on the west and southwest is Idaho.

</doc>
<doc id="11124" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11124" title="List of seas">
List of seas

A sea is a large area of salt water which is part of an ocean, or a large, usually salt water, closed lake (for example, the Caspian Sea and the Dead Sea). For information about seas in general, see ocean.
Lunar maria are very big areas on the Moon. In the past, people thought they were water and called them "seas". 
Scientists think that there is liquid water under the ground on some moons, for example Europa.
Scientists also think that there are liquid hydrocarbons on Titan, but a better name is "lakes", not "seas". 

</doc>
<doc id="11125" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11125" title="Wool">
Wool

Wool is the hair of certain mammals. Most wool comes from sheep and goats, but wool is also taken from camelids (camels, llamas, etc.) and special rabbits.
Wool is a natural material.
Wool is also the name for the material made from raw wool; people use wool cloth to make clothes, blankets, and other things to keep warm.
Wool can be spun or made into yarn. The yarn is used to weave fabric or material. The yarn of wool can also be knitted into fabric or clothing like jumpers. 
Wool can also be made into felt after it is boiled in hot water and rubbed together. Felt is a kind of fabric that is not woven. Felt can be used to make clothes to keep warm in cold weather.
Australia is the world's largest producer of raw wool, growing about 30 percent of the total world supply.
Sheep were domesticated (tamed) in southwestern Asia about 11,000 years ago and now about 1 billion are now widely bred around the world.
Wool fabrics clean easily. Wool also absorbs moisture and insulates against heat and cold. 

</doc>
<doc id="11126" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11126" title="Saw">
Saw

A saw is a tool used to cut things.
There are many kinds of saw. Some of them are hand tools that work with muscle power, like the saw in the picture. Some saws have other sources of power and can be very powerful, such as a chainsaw that is used to cut down trees.
The work carried out with a saw is usually noisy. Using a saw to cut materials is dangerous because of sharp teeth. Care must be taken not to let sharp edges touch the skin. Parts of the material being cut can fly off the work and become a hazard to breathing, to eyes and to the skin.
Or hand powered saws. These use the motion of a person's arm to make a cut. 
Many saws are designed to cut on the push stroke (when the saw is pushed forward).
The is a type of saw used in woodworking. These saws typically cut on the pull stroke (when the saw is pulled backwards).
There are several kinds of powered saws. Some are powered by electricity from a . Others are powered by batteries. Still others can be powered by Internal combustion engines, steam, or water power. 
A saw designed to cut down trees or cut branches from trees is a chainsaw. A chainsaw is named for the row of teeth attached to a flexible chain. The cut is often very rough and often has splinters.
Circular saws use a round blade, usually between 7 and 10 inches. They are often very powerful and can cut through hard or soft wood. They use interchangeable round blades. The blade can be designed to cut any of a number of kinds of materials from steel, to wood, to masonry.
Jig saws move the blade up and down to cut through materials. The stroke (or up and down movement) is usually less than one inch (25.4 mm). These saws are very good for making curved cuts. Jig saws use a variety of interchangeable blades for cutting different materials. Some blades make very smooth cuts. 

</doc>
<doc id="11128" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11128" title="Tennessee">
Tennessee

Tennessee is a state in the United States. Its capital is Nashville, which is also the country music center of America. It is the home of the Smoky Mountains which are a famous tourist attraction. Other well known cities and towns are Memphis (the biggest city), Knoxville, Chattanooga, Oak Ridge, Lynchburg, Carthage, Lawrenceburg, Clarksville, Lebanon, Pigeon Forge, Murfreesboro, and Gatlinburg. Tennessee touches eight states: Kentucky and Virginia to the north; North Carolina to the east; Georgia, Alabama, and Mississippi on the south; Arkansas and Missouri (by the Mississippi River) to the west. Tennessee ties Missouri as the state bordering the most other states.
Tennessee was the 16th state to join the nation, on June 1, 1796
Several professional sports teams play there, including the Tennessee Titans of the NFL, the Memphis Grizzlies of the NBA, and the Nashville Predators of the NHL.

</doc>
<doc id="11129" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11129" title="Connecticut">
Connecticut

Connecticut is a state in the United States. Its capital is Hartford, and its largest city is Bridgeport.
Connecticut is bordered on the south by Long Island Sound, on the west by New York State, on the north by Massachusetts, and on the east by Rhode Island. The state capital is Hartford, and the other major cities include New Haven, New London, New Britain, Norwich, Milford, Norwalk, Stamford, Waterbury, Danbury, and Bridgeport. In all, there are a total of 169 towns in Connecticut. There is an ongoing civic pride and economic competition between Hartford and New Haven, which stems back to the days when the two cities shared the state's capital, and even back to the rivalry between New Haven Colony and Connecticut Colony.
The highest peak in Connecticut is Bear Mountain in Salisbury in the northwest corner of the state. The highest point is just east of where Connecticut, Massachusetts, and New York meet (42° 3' N; 73° 29' W), on the southern slope of Mount Frissell, whose peak lies nearby in Massachusetts. 
The Connecticut River cuts through the center of the state, flowing into Long Island Sound, Connecticut's outlet to the Atlantic Ocean. Further information: List of Connecticut rivers
The state, although small, has regional variations in its landscape and culture from the wealthy estates of Fairfield County's "Gold Coast" to the rolling mountains and horse-farms of the Litchfield Hills of northwestern Connecticut. Connecticut's rural areas and small towns in the northeast and northwest corners of the state contrast sharply with its industrial cities, located along the coastal highways from the New York border to New Haven, then northwards to Hartford, as well as further up the coast near New London. Many towns center around a small park, known as a "green," (such as the New Haven Green). Near the green may stand a small white church, a town meeting hall, a tavern and several colonial houses. Forests, rivers, lakes, waterfalls and a sandy shore add to the state's beauty.
The northern boundary of the state with Massachusetts is marked by the distinctive Southwick Jog/Granby Notch, an approximately 2.5 mile (4.0 km) square detour into Connecticut slightly west of the center of the border. Somewhat surprisingly, the actual origin of this anomaly is not absolutely certain, with stories ranging from surveyors who were drunk, attempting to avoid hostile Native Americans, or taking a shortcut up the Connecticut River; Massachusetts residents attempting to avoid Massachusetts' high taxes for the low taxes of Connecticut; Massachusetts' interest in the resources represented by the Congamond Lakes which lie on the border of the jog; and the need to compensate Massachusetts for an amount of land given to Connecticut due to inaccurate survey work. Perhaps the only suggested reason which can be safely ruled out is that the jog is necessary to prevent Massachusetts from sliding out into the Atlantic Ocean. In any event, the dispute over the border retarded the development of the region, since neither state would invest in even such basic amenities as schools for the area until the dispute had been settled.
The southwestern border of Connecticut, where it abuts New York State, is marked by a panhandle in Fairfield County, containing Greenwich, Stamford, Fairfield, Westport, Wilton and Darien, housing some of the wealthiest residents in the world. This irregularity in the boundary is the result of territorial disputes in the late 1600s, culminating with New York giving up its claim to this area, whose residents considered themselves part of Connecticut, in exchange for an equivalent area extending northwards from Ridgefield, Connecticut to the Massachusetts border as well as undisputed claim to Rye, New York.
Areas maintained by the National Park Service include: Appalachian National Scenic Trail; Quinebaug & Shetucket Rivers Valley National Heritage Corridor; and Weir Farm National Historic Site.
The name "Connecticut" comes from the Mohegan Indian word "Quinnehtukqut". It means "Long River Place" or "Beside the Long Tidal River." The first explorer from Europe to come to Connecticut was Adriaen Block, from the Netherlands. After he explored this region in 1614, Dutch fur traders sailed up the Connecticut River (Named Versche Rivier by the Dutch) and built a fort near present-day Hartford, which they called "House of Hope" (Dutch: Huys de Hoop). 
The first English settlers came in 1633. They were Puritans from Massachusetts, who were led by the Reverend Thomas Hooker. They founded the Connecticut Colony. Colonies were also established at Old Saybrook and New Haven, which later became part of Connecticut. Historically important colonial settlements included: Windsor (1633), Wethersfield (1634), Saybrook (1635), Hartford (1636), New Haven (1638), and New London (1646). 
Because the Dutch were outnumbered by the English settlers, they left their fort in 1654. Connecticut's first constitution, the "Fundamental Orders," was adopted on January 14, 1639, while its current constitution, the third for Connecticut, was adopted in 1965. Connecticut is the fifth of the original thirteen states.
The western boundaries of Connecticut have been subject to change over time. According to a 1650 agreement with the Dutch, the western boundary of Connecticut ran north from the west side of Greenwich Bay "provided the said line come not within 10 miles [16 km] of Hudson River." On the other hand, Connecticut's original Charter in 1662 granted it all the land to the "South Sea," i.e. the Pacific Ocean. This probably added confusion to the early forefathers because the Pacific Ocean is located on the west coast of the United States. Agreements with New York, the "Pennamite Wars" with Pennsylvania over Westmoreland County, followed by Congressional intervention, and the relinquishment and sale of the Western Reserve lands brought the state to its present boundaries.

</doc>
<doc id="11130" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11130" title="Wyoming">
Wyoming

Wyoming is a state in the western United States. Most of the state is in the Rocky Mountains, a large mountain range in the United States. Wyoming is the state with the fewest people in the U.S. with 576,412 people. Its capital and biggest city is Cheyenne. It touches Montana, South Dakota, Nebraska, Utah, Idaho, and Colorado.
Wyoming is known for many things including Yellowstone National Park, Cowboys, the Teton Mountains and coal.
Agriculture has always been an important part of the state economy of Wyoming. The main things grown in Wyoming are livestock (beef), hay, sugar beets, grain (wheat and barley), and wool.
In Wyoming, 91% of the land is rural.
The Gross state product for Wyoming was $27.4 billion in 2005.

</doc>
<doc id="11131" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11131" title="Mississippi">
Mississippi

Mississippi is one of the states of the United States. Its capital and largest city is Jackson. The state flower and tree are the magnolia. Other large cities are Biloxi, Greenville, Gulfport, Hattiesburg, Meridian, Pascagoula, Southaven, Tupelo, Starkville, and Vicksburg. It touches Arkansas (by the Mississippi River), Louisiana, Tennessee, and Alabama.

</doc>
<doc id="11132" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11132" title="Delaware">
Delaware

Delaware is a state in the United States. It is sometimes called the "First State" because it was the first colony to accept the new constitution in 1787. Its capital is Dover and its biggest city is Wilmington.
The Dutch first settled Delaware. The Swedish then took over in the mid-1600s.

</doc>
<doc id="11133" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11133" title="Idaho">
Idaho

Idaho is a state in the United States. Its capital and biggest city is Boise.
Idaho became a state in 1890. Its current Governor is Butch Otter. It is the 11th largest state in land area, and the 14th largest in total area (land and water). The population of Idaho is estimated at 1,523,816 by the United States Census Bureau in 2008.
Idaho is bordered by Washington and Oregon on the west, Montana on the east, Utah and Nevada on the south and the country of Canada (British Columbia) on the north side. The climate in Idaho can sometimes be hot, reaching up to 100 °F. Humidity is normally low with cooler evenings in summer months. In winter, temperatures normally drop to lower twenty's, upper teens. Sometimes, the temperature drops to several degrees below zero.
Idaho's state motto is "Esto perpetua". This is Latin for "Let it be forever".

</doc>
<doc id="11134" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11134" title="Manila">
Manila

Manila is the capital city of the Philippines. It is one of the largest cities in the Philippines. Manila is on the biggest island of the Philippines, Luzon. Manila is by a bay named "Manila Bay". The metropolitan area is much larger. It stretches across a thin strip of land to a lake called "Laguna de Bay".

</doc>
<doc id="11139" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11139" title="DiC">
DiC

DiC Entertainment (DiC) was an international movie and television production company founded in 1971 as DiC Audiovisuel by Jean Chalopin in France. In 2008 Cookie Jar Group bought out DiC and then merged it with Cookie Jar Entertainment. Dic Entertainment is now owned by DHX Media
Its American arm was started in 1982 as DiC Enterprises. The company's United States headquarters were in Burbank, California.
In 1986, Andy Heyward bought the company, making the US headquarters the main base of operations.
In 1993, DiC Animation City (as it was then known) and Capital Cities/ABC formed DIC Entertainment LP and in 1995 it became a subsidiary of The Walt Disney Company.
In 2000 with an investment by Bain Capital, Heyward re-purchased DiC Enterprises (as it was then known). He purchased Bain Capital's part in 2004.
In 2003 DiC started a syndicated children's programming block called DiC Kids Network.
In early 2006, DiC Entertainment and CBS Corporation signed a multi-year deal for a new 3-hour long programming block for Saturday mornings on CBS. The resulting "KOL Secret Slumber Party on CBS" was started the following fall.
In April 2007, DiC Entertainment, Corus Entertainment's Nelvana and Sparrowhawk Media Group announced plans to start KidsCo, a new international children's entertainment network.
On June 20, 2008, it was announced that DiC would be bought out by Cookie Jar Group. On July 23, 2008, Cookie Jar completed the buy out of DiC Entertainment, and then it was merged with Cookie Jar Entertainment.
See List of Cookie Jar Entertainment programs

</doc>
<doc id="11141" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11141" title="The Hobbit">
The Hobbit

The Hobbit, or There and Back Again, is a book written by J. R. R. Tolkien. It was first published on September 21, 1937. Tolkien wrote it in the 1930s for his children as a bedtime story. The story takes place before "The Lord of the Rings".
The plot is about the hobbit (a small race of people invented by Tolkien) Bilbo Baggins who goes on an adventurous quest with a group of dwarves and the wizard Gandalf, in order to fight the dragon Smaug, which has stolen the treasures and home of the dwarves.
Although Tolkien borrowed (for example names and background) from his own Middle-earth storyline, "The Hobbit" was at first not intended to be part of it. Only later, when Tolkien wrote "The Lord of the Rings", did he integrate the story of both "Hobbit" and "The Lord of the Rings" into his Middle-earth world.
Gandalf the Grey: He one of the five wizards of Middle Earth and a member of the Istir. He is the second most powerful wizard only surpassed by Saruman the White. He selects Bilbo Baggins to be the burglar of the Company of Thorin Oakenshield. He aids the company using his wisdom, magic, and guidance. He wields the sword Glamdring or the "foe hammer". 
.Bilbo Baggins: A simple Hobbit, who lives a quiet life in the Shire. He is thrown into an adventure by the wizard Gandalf. He is enlisted to be a burglar, but ends up doing so much more for the company of 13 dwarves. He has a run in with Gollum in the Misty Mountains and he finds the One Ring of Power. 
Thorin Oakenshield: The leader of the company of dwarves and the heir to the throne of Erabor. He is a proud dwarf who does not trust elves and is bent on reclaiming the dwarves' homeland. He will become the King Under the Mountain and fall victim to dragon sickness. He later dies in the Battle of the Five Armies. He wields Orcrist or the "Goblin cleaver". He is a direct descendant of the line of Durin.
Fili and Kili: They are brothers and the nephews of Thorin Oakenshield. They are the sons of his sister Dis. Fili is the older sibling by about 80 years. They would usually scout ahead for the company and escorted Bilbo into the Lonely Mountain. They are the youngest of the company. Fili is Thorin's heir to the throne. Kili did NOT fall in love with an elf. They die defending their uncle in the Battle of the Five Armies. They too descend from the line of Durin.
Balin and Dwalin: They are borthers and distant cousins of Thorin Oakenshield. They are both warriors who are fiercly loyal to Thorin. Balin is one of the oldest of the company and uses his wisdom to aid Thorin. We discover that Balin dies in The Misty Mountains after the events of "the Hobbit".
Dori, Ori, and Nori: They are all half brothers and not related to Thorin. Dori was choosen for his strength. Ori was a scribe who later dies in The Misty Mountains after the events of "the Hobbit".
Oin and Gloin: They are brothers and distant cousins of Thorin. Gloin is the father of Gimli "Elf friend". Gloin is a banker who helped finance the quest to reclaim Erabor. Oin is a herbalist and healer. Oin is one of the oldest dwarves in the company.
Bofur and Bumber: They are brothers who are not related to Thorin. They were toy makers. Bumber, while in the Forest of Mirkwood, falls into a river with water that makes you sleep. The company had to carry him until he woke up. Bumber was also the heaviest of the company.
Bifur: He is the cousin of Bofur and Bumber. He too is not related to the line of Durin. 
Smaug: A great dragon who stole the Lonely Mountain from the dwarves. He is a Firedrake from the north. He is killed by Bard the bowman, from a black arrow to the loose scale in his chest, located over his heart.
Beorn: He is a skin changer. He can take the forms of a great man or a large bear. He is the last of his kind due to the evil works of orcs and goblins. He loves animals and nature. He aids the company by lending them horses, gives them a place to rest and food to eat. He fights in the Battle of the Five Armies. 
Elrond: The elven lord of Rivendale. He aids the company by translating the moon runes on the map of the Lonely Mountain. 
Dain Ironfoot: The lord of the Iron Hills and cousin to Tthorin. He leads a dwarf army to Erebor to aid Thorin in the Battle of the Five Armies. He becomes The King Unde the Mountain after the deaths of Thorin, Fili, and Kili.
Gollum: He was once a hobbit-like creature before he was 
Thranduil: 
Bard: 
The Great Eagles: 
The hobbit Bilbo Baggins lives a quiet and peaceful life. One day the wizard Gandalf comes to him, and with him thirteen dwarves: Thorin Oakenshield, Fíli and Kíli, Óin, Glóin, Balin, Dwalin, Dori, Nori, Ori, Bifur, Bofur, and Bombur. 
The dwarves tell their story: A long time ago they lived in the Lonely Mountain. Thorin's father was their king, the "King under the Mountain". But one day the dragon Smaug came to the Lonely Mountain and killed all of the dwarves he found. The dragon took their treasure and now lives in the Lonely Mountain. But some of the dwarves could flee. 
Now the dwarves want to go back the Lonely Mountain, and get back their home and treasures from the dragon. Gandalf wants Bilbo to come with them, and work as a master thief. At first Bilbo does not want to, but later he goes with them.
Gandalf, the dwarves, and Bilbo start to go east on their journey to the Lonely Mountain. After Gandalf saves the group from three trolls, they find the trolls' cave. Among the trolls' things there is some gold and swords. Gandalf, Thorin, and Bilbo each get a sword. The group continues on to the elven city Rivendell. Its master, Elrond, gives them helpful information. 
As the group travels east over the Misty Mountains, they are attacked by Goblins (Orcs). The Goblins take the dwarves and Bilbo into their caves. Gandalf saves them and the group flees. During their flight Bilbo gets lost, and tries to find a way out by himself. In the tunnels Bilbo finds a ring, which he puts in his pocket. By an underground lake, Bilbo meets the creature Gollum. Gollum and Bilbo play a game of riddles. If Bilbo wins the game, Gollum will show him the way out; if Gollum wins, he will eat Bilbo. When Bilbo does not know another riddle to ask Gollum, he finds the ring in his pocket and asks himself: "What have I got in my pocket?" Gollum thinks this is a riddle, but cannot answer it, and so Bilbo wins the game. Gollum is angry and does not want to help Bilbo. Gollum then goes away to get something he owns: a magical ring, which turns the wearer invisible. Gollum cannot find his ring, and realizes that Bilbo has it. Gollum goes back, but Bilbo is afraid and runs away. While running, the ring slips on Bilbo's finger and he becomes invisible. Gollum runs past Bilbo, towards the way out of the caves. Bilbo realizes that the ring makes him invisible. With the help of the ring he can follow Gollum and get out of the caves. Outside, Bilbo again meets Gandalf and the dwarves. 
The group is attacked by Goblins and Wargs, but saved by the Great Eagles. The group comes to the home of Beorn, a big man that can become a bear. After staying at Beorn's house, they continue to the forest Mirkwood. At the border of Mirkwood, Gandalf leaves the group. Bilbo and the dwarves have go through Mirkwood without him. The dwarves are attacked and captured by giant spiders. With the help of his ring and his sword, Bilbo saves them. Bilbo names his sword "Sting". The Wood-Elves capture the dwarves. Bilbo again uses the ring and saves the dwarves. He frees them and puts them into barrels, which he lets swim down a river out of Mirkwood. The group comes to Lake-town, a human city near the Lonely Mountain. 
The dwarves and Bilbo travel to the Lonely Mountain. They can find the secret door into the mountain, and open it. Bilbo goes in two times and meets the dragon Smaug. Bilbo steals a golden cup, and finds out that Smaug has a weak place on his left chest. Bilbo tells this to the dwarves, but a thrush (a bird) also hears it. Smaug is angry and goes out to destroy Lake-town. But in Laketown the thrush tells the archer Bard of the dragon's weak point, and Bard shoots the dragon. A big part of Laketown is destroyed, but Smaug is killed. 
The dwarves are happy to be back in their old home, and to have their old treasures back. Thorin sends a message to the dwarves of his people, and tells them to come. But soon the people from Laketown and the Mirkwood-Elves arrive. Both peoples want a part of the treasure, but the dwarves do not want to give them anything. The humans and elves start a siege of the Lonely Mountain. After a while the other dwarves of Thorin's people come: Dáin II Ironfoot and an army of dwarves. 
The three armies almost start to fight each other, but then the wizard Gandalf appears. Gandalf tells them that an army of Goblins is coming to the Lonely Mountain, and because of that the humans, elves, and dwarves have to fight the Goblins together. The "Battle of Five Armies" is long and hard, but is finally won with the help of the Great Eagles and Beorn. Thorin's nephews Fíli and Kíli are killed in the battle. Thorin is wounded and dies afterwards. Dáin becomes "King under the Mountain". Everyone gets a part of the dwarves' treasure. In the end Bilbo returns home, and lives happily everafter.
"The Hobbit" has been adapted many times.

</doc>
<doc id="11142" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11142" title="The Lord of the Rings">
The Lord of the Rings

The Lord of the Rings is a book written by J. R. R. Tolkien. It was first published in 1954. It is split in three parts (or volumes), which are named "The Fellowship of the Ring", "The Two Towers", and "The Return of the King". 
"The Lord of the Rings" takes place in Tolkien's fictional world, called Middle-earth. Middle-earth has its own geography, several different races and peoples (elves, dwarves, humans, hobbits, ents), their languages, and a history that is thousands of years old. 
The plot of "The Lord of the Rings" is about the war of the peoples of Middle-earth against a dark lord (who is the 'Lord of the Rings' of the title). At the same time they try to destroy a ring which would give the dark lord a lot of power if he got it, but the only place to destroy the ring is deep into the territory of the enemy. 
"The Lord of the Rings" has also been made into Threefilms, the most well-known is the film trilogy directed by Peter Jackson.
"The Lord of the Rings" began as a sequel to Tolkien's earlier fantasy book, "The Hobbit", but quickly became a much larger story. He also moved its (and "The Hobbit"'s) story into his fictional world Middle-earth, which he had already invented long before he wrote "The Hobbit". 
Tolkien wrote the story between 1937 and 1949. It was originally published in three parts in the years 1954 and 1955. Since then, "The Lord of the Rings" has been translated into 38 languages. It is one of the most popular stories in 20th-century literature and has been an important book for the fantasy genre.
"The Lord of the Rings" is often wrongly called a trilogy, because the publisher split the book into three parts because of the book's size. Tolkien himself had sub-divided "The Lord of the Rings" into six parts, called Book I-VI, according to the plot. Tolkien never liked it being published in three parts or called a trilogy.
The backstory of "The Lord of the Rings" begins thousands of years before the action in the book.
In the Second Age, the Dark Lord Sauron wanted to rule Middle-earth. He disguised himself as Annatar, the "Lord of Gifts", and pretended to be good. As Annatar he told the elves how to make magical rings which give power to their wearers.
Sauron and the elves together made sixteen rings. The Elves also made three rings by themselves, called Vilya, Nenya and Narya. These nineteen rings were the "Rings of Power". But Sauron secretly forged a Great Ring of his own, the "One Ring". In this Ring Sauron put half of his power. He planned to control the wearers of the other rings with this One Ring. But the Elves finally realized that Annatar really was the evil Sauron and hid the Rings of Power.
Sauron then started a war. During this war he took back the sixteen rings which he had made together with the Elves. Seven of these rings he gave to the kings of the dwarves, and nine rings he gave to human kings. These human kings became the "Nazgûl", the Ringwraiths, ghostly servants of Sauron. 
Led by Gil-galad and Elendil, the Elves and the Men of Gondor and Arnor formed the "Last Alliance of Men and Elves" to fight Sauron. There was a long war and siege of Sauron's fortress Barad-dûr. In the last battle, Gil-galad and Elendil were killed by Sauron. After his father's death, Elendil' son Isildur cut off the One Ring from Sauron's hand. Sauron was defeated and the war ended. 
Because half of Sauron's power was in the One Ring, Sauron did not die fully. His spirit still existed as long as the Ring existed. The elves told Isildur to destroy the One Ring, but Isildur did not want to and kept it. 
The One Ring was lost when Isildur was attacked by Orcs. Isildur tried to escape, but he was killed when he lost the Ring. In the Third Age, the Ring was found by the Stoor hobbit Déagol, who was killed by his friend Sméagol over the Ring. Sméagol went to live under the Misty Mountains, where he kept the Ring for five hundred years, and he became known by the name Gollum. 
In "The Hobbit" the Ring is found by the hobbit Bilbo Baggins. He thinks it is an unimportant 'magic ring' that simply makes its wearer invisible. Bilbo keeps it, and brings it back with him to the Shire at the end of his journey. There the One Ring stayed until the beginning of the story of "The Lord of the Rings".
The book begins in the Third Age of Middle-earth, in the Shire, the land of the hobbits. Sixty years after his adventures in the book "The Hobbit", Bilbo Baggins is living in the Shire with his adopted cousin Frodo Baggins. But Bilbo wants to make another long journey. After a birthday party for his 111th birthday, and Frodo's 33rd birthday, Bilbo leaves the Shire. His home, Bag End, and the One Ring now belong to Frodo. For another eighteen years nothing happens in Frodo's life. 
In April of the year 3018, the wizard Gandalf the Grey, who is a friend of Bilbo and Frodo, comes to Bag End. He tells Frodo that his 'magic ring' is really the One Ring of Sauron, and tells him its backstory. Sauron is returning and getting more powerful, because he could not die while the Ring still existed. Sauron is now also searching for the Ring. Gandalf tells Frodo that he has to leave the Shire and take the One Ring to Rivendell, an Elven city. Samwise Gamgee, Frodo's gardener and servant, will go with Frodo. Gandalf promises to meet the two hobbits halfway in the town Bree. Then Gandalf leaves. 
Frodo and Sam prepare to leave the Shire in September 3018. On their way to leave the Shire they are already followed by Sauron's Ringwraiths. Frodo's cousins, Meriadoc "Merry" Brandybuck and Peregrin "Pippin" Took also come with them. The four hobbits journey eastwards through the "Old Forest", and over the "Barrow-downs". They come to Bree, but Gandalf is not there. They meet a man named Strider, and they get a letter from Gandalf. In the letter they are told to go with Strider, who is really named Aragorn. 
The hobbits continue their journey to Rivendell with Aragorn. On the mountain Weathertop they are attacked by the Ringwraiths, and Frodo is badly wounded by their leader, the Witch-king. Aragorn can defend them, and helps Frodo to stay alive. Along the way they meet the elf Glorfindel. Shortly before Rivendell they are attacked again. Frodo can flee on Glorfindel's horse, followed by the Ringwraiths. Frodo crosses the river Bruinen, beyond which is Rivendell, but the Ringwraiths still follow him. Suddenly the river floods, which carries the Ringwraiths away. Frodo falls unconscious because of the stab wound.
Frodo wakes up in Rivendell. He has been healed by the elven lord Elrond, and Frodo's friends are also well. Gandalf is in Rivendell, as are messengers from other peoples. Frodo also meets Bilbo again, who has lived in Rivendell for the past years. 
The next day the "Council of Elrond" is held. The messengers of the different peoples all tell the stories why they have come, which are connected to Sauron's doings. Elrond tells them of Sauron and the One Ring. Many other things are told and revealed. Aragorn is the descendant of Isildur. The wizard Saruman has betrayed the free peoples and turned to evil. Also, the One Ring cannot be used by anyone except Sauron. The One Ring turns normal people invisible, but it also corrupts them, makes its wearer power-hungry, and the ring only does evil. 
The Council decides that the One Ring has to be destroyed, which will also truly kill Sauron forever. But the One Ring can only be destroyed if it is thrown into the volcano Mount Doom in Sauron's land Mordor, where the One Ring was made. 
The Council sends Frodo, the Ring-bearer, to destroy the Ring, and eight companions to help him. These nine people are the "Fellowship of the Ring": the four hobbits Frodo, Sam, Merry, and Pippin, the elf Legolas, the dwarf Gimli, the two men Aragorn and Boromir, and Gandalf the Grey. 
At the beginning of the year 3019 the Fellowship begins their long journey. Before they go, Bilbo gives his sword "Sting" and his Mithril-armour to Frodo. With Gandalf as their leader, the Fellowship first goes southwards through the land "Hollin". They try to go east over the Misty Mountains through the "Redhorn Pass", but there is too much snow. The Fellowship decides to go under the mountains, through the old Dwarven mines, which are called Khazad-dûm or Moria. They almost manage to go through Moria without anything happening, but near the end they are attacked by Orcs. There is also a Balrog, a demonic evil creature from the First Age. Gandalf protects the Fellowship, but he and the Balrog fall into an abyss. Aragorn leads the rest of the Fellowship out of Moria. 
Now east of the Misty Mountains, the remaining Fellowship comes to the forest Lothlórien, the land of the Galadhrim, a wood-elven people. The Fellowship is welcomed by Lady Galadriel and Lord Celeborn, the rulers of Lothlórien. The Fellowship stay for a while. 
When the Fellowship leaves Lóthlórien, the elves give them boats with which they can travel down the river Anduin. Each member of the Fellowship also gets a present from Lady Galadriel. 
The Fellowship travel down the river Anduin until they reach the Emyn Muil and the waterfall Rauros. There they stop to decide where to go now: south to Boromir's home city Minas Tirith, or east to Mordor. Frodo goes for a walk to help him decide. He meets Boromir, who says that the Fellowship should go to Minas Tirith. Boromir also begins to talk about using the Ring against Sauron. Frodo realizes that Boromir is influenced by the One Ring. Boromir tries to take the Ring from Frodo, but Frodo puts the Ring on, becomes invisible and escapes. Boromir becomes himself again and is very sorry for what he tried to do. 
Frodo decides that he will go alone to Mordor, so that the Ring cannot influence or hurt anyone else. The rest of the Fellowship are worrying where Frodo is. When Boromir comes and tells them that Frodo has run away, all of the Fellowship go and search for him. 
Sam thinks about the situation, and realizes that Frodo wants to go to Mordor alone. Sam runs back to the boats, and catches Frodo leaving. In the end Frodo and Sam go east to Mordor together, to destroy the One Ring, and hoping that their friends in the Fellowship will be well.
The book begins with Aragorn, who finds a dying Boromir. Boromir tells him that they were attacked by Orcs, who took Merry and Pippin with them. Boromir says he is sorry for everything and dies. Legolas and Gimli arrive. As a funeral, the three put Boromir's body in one of their boats, which they let fall down the waterfall Rauros. They find out that Frodo and Sam left them to go to Mordor, and that the Orcs that attacked them were Saruman's Orcs, who have taken Merry and Pippin. They decide to follow the Orcs westwards to save Merry and Pippin. West of the Emyn Muil they come into the land Rohan, home of the Rohirrim, the "Horse-lords". They meet a group of Rohirrim led by Éomer, nephew of King Théoden of Rohan. Éomer and his men have killed the Orc group on the border of the forest Fangorn, but did not see Merry or Pippin. Éomer gives them two horses, and Aragorn, Legolas, and Gimli ride to the Fangorn forest. 
Merry and Pippin were caught and taken away by a group of Saruman's Orcs, the Uruk-hai. When the Orcs are surrounded and killed by the Rohirrim group, the two hobbits escape into the Fangorn Forest. There they meet Treebeard, an "Ent". Ents are giant tree-like creatures. Treebeard takes the hobbits with him, and they tell him what happens in the world outside Fangorn. The Ents have a meeting called the "Entmoot". During the "Entmoot", the Ents decide to fight Saruman. Treebeard, the other Ents, and the two hobbits go to Isengard, Saruman's home.
In Fangorn, Aragon, Legolas and Gimli meet Gandalf. He had died, but was sent back to Middle-earth as Gandalf the White, to further help the fight against Sauron. Gandalf tells them that Merry and Pippin are well. They then go to Edoras, the capital of Rohan. Gandalf tells King Théoden that they have to go to war against Saruman. Gríma Wormtongue, a spy and servant of Saruman, is cast out. The people of Edoras, led by Éomer's sister Éowyn, flee to Dunharrow in the White Mountains, while the army of the Rohirrim goes to their fortress at Helm's Deep. Aragorn, Legolas, and Gimli go with the Rohirrim warriors, but Gandalf leaves once more without notice. Saruman sends his army of ten thousand Uruk-hai, Orcs, and Dunland men to Helm's Deep. The next morning Gandalf arrives with another Rohirrim army. They defeat Saruman's army, and win the "Battle of the Hornburg". 
Gandalf, his friends, and a small group of Rohirrim then go to Isengard, Saruman's home. But when they arrive it has already been destroyed by the Ents. They also meet Merry and Pippin there. They talk to Saruman, who still hides in his indestructible tower Orthanc. Gandalf cast him from the Order of Wizards. They find the palantír, which was thrown from the tower by Gríma. The Palantíri are magical black stones with which one can see far away things, and communicate with other palantíri. The group leaves Isengard and rests. Pippin steals the palantír and looks in, and because of this is discovered by Sauron. The group flees the place before the Nazgûl find them. Gandalf and Pippin go to Minas Tirith, while the Rohirrim and other members of the Fellowship go back to Helm's Deep.
Frodo and Sam are in the Emyn Muil mountains and journey eastwards to Mordor. While they are still in the Emyn Muil, they are attacked by Gollum. But the hobbits can defeat and catch him. Gollum has to promise to show them the way into Mordor. They go through the Dead Marshes and come to the Morannon, the Black Gate of Mordor. They cannot go in, but Gollum says he knows a secret way into Mordor. 
Frodo, Sam, and Gollum travel south through Ithilien. There they see a battle between a group of Southrons from Harad and a group of Rangers of Gondor. The hobbits are caught by the Gondorian group, which is led by Faramir, who is Boromir's brother. But the next day Faramir lets the hobbits leave, because he also believes that the One Ring has to be destroyed. 
Gollum leads the hobbits into Cirith Ungol in the Mountains of Shadow, but leaves the hobbits there alone. They are hunted by Shelob, a giant spider living in these tunnels. After almost escaping, Shelob stings Frodo, but is wounded and driven off by Sam. Sam believes Frodo is dead, and takes the Ring to continue the quest and destroy it. Frodo's body is found and taken away by a group of Orcs. Sam follows them. The leaders of the Orc group are talking, and Sam hears them say that Frodo is paralyzed, but still alive.
Gandalf and Pippin arrive in Minas Tirith, the capital of Gondor. There they meet Denethor II, Steward of Gondor, and father of Boromir and Faramir. Pippin becomes a member of the "Guards of the Citadel". Minas Tirith prepares for war. 
The Rohirrim and Aragorn, Legolas, Gimli, and Merry are on their way to Helm's Deep. Along the way they meet the "Grey Company" coming from Rivendell. It is a group of thirty Dúnedain, which are Aragorn's people. With the group are also Elladan and Elrohir, the sons of Elrond. Aragorn uses the palantír. Aragorn decides to take to the "Paths of the Dead". Aragorn, Legolas, Gimli, and the Grey Company go to Edoras, Dunharrow, and through the "Paths of the Dead" through the White Mountains. There Aragorn calls an army of dead spirits to help him. The Grey Company and the "Dead Men of Dunharrow" then go east.
The Rohirrim and Merry come to Dunharrow. King Théoden takes the Rohirrim armies and goes to help Gondor in the war. Merry is not allowed to go with them, but he secretly goes with a warrior named Dernhelm. 
In Minas Tirith they meet Faramir, who tells them of his meeting with Frodo. The next day Faramir goes off to defend the old city Osgiliath, but the city falls, and so do the outer defenses of Minas Tirith. During the retreat Faramir is badly wounded. Minas Tirith is besieged by the armies of Mordor, led by the Witch-king, the leader of the Nazgûl who (it was said) could not be killed by any man. Denethor goes insane and burns himself, and almost also kills the injured Faramir, but this is prevented by Pippin and Gandalf. 
The Rohirrim arrive. The armies of Gondor and Rohan fight the armies of Mordor in the "Battle of the Pelennor Fields". There, King Théoden is killed. Dernhelm, who was really Éowyn (a woman), kills the Witch-king with Merry's help. Aragorn comes with a fleet of black ships and another army of men from southern Gondor up the river Anduin. Together they win the "Battle of the Pelennor Fields".
Aragorn heals the wounded and sick Faramir, Éowyn, Merry, and many others, proving that he is the rightful King of Gondor. Legolas and Gimli go into Minas Tirith and meet Merry and Pippin again. There they also tell how they got the black ships with the help of the Army of the Dead. The leaders of the armies of Men decide to attack Mordor, as a distraction so that Frodo can destroy the One Ring. Aragorn and Gandalf lead an army of 7000 men to the Black Gate of Mordor. There they fight the "Battle of the Morannon" against the overwhelmingly large army of Sauron. During the battle Pippin falls unconscious, but he hears that the Great Eagles have come to help them.
Samwise comes to the Tower of Cirith Ungol, but the different Orc groups in it had a fight and almost all of them are now dead. Sam frees Frodo and gives him back the One Ring. The two hobbits disguise themselves as orcs, escape from the Tower and continue their journey through Mordor. It is a hard journey, and the Ring's influence on Frodo is very strong now. One time the hobbits are forced to walk with an army of orcs, but they can escape without being discovered.
The hobbits come to Mount Doom, where they are attacked by Gollum, who still wants the One Ring. Frodo goes on alone into Mount Doom, but Sam has pity for Gollum and lets him live. Sam follows Frodo into Mount Doom. Frodo is finally overpowered by the One Ring, says it belongs to him and puts the Ring on, which makes Sauron know that he and the Ring are there. Gollum comes back once more and fights with Frodo. Gollum bites off Frodo's finger with the Ring. Gollum is happy to have his Ring back, but makes a mistake: Gollum and the One Ring fall into the volcano, and the Ring is destroyed. Sauron fully dies and his fortress Barad-dûr is destroyed. 
At the "Battle of the Morannon", the Orcs and other evil creatures no longer know what to do and are defeated easily, and the Battle is won. Gandalf calls three of the Eagles, who then rescue Frodo and Sam.
They all return to Minas Tirith. Aragorn becomes King of Gondor and Arnor. Elves from Rivendell and Lothlórien come to Minas Tirith. Aragon marries Arwen Undómiel, daughter of Elrond. The Fellowship, the elves, and the Rohirrim go back to Rohan. King Théoden is buried. Éomer officially becomes King of Rohan, and Éowyn and Faramir are married. They go on to Helm's Deep, were the fellowship finally splits. Aragorn goes back to Minas Tirith, and Legolas and Gimli also leave to travel to their homes in the northeast. The elves, hobbits and Gandalf go on. At Isedgard they are told that Saruman has left. Galadriel and the Lothlórien-elves leave the group to go back home east over the mountains. The others come to Rivendell, where the hobbits meet Bilbo again. 
The four hobbits and Gandalf leave Rivendell, to travel back to the Shire. Gandalf leaves the hobbits after Bree. The four hobbits come to the Shire, but Saruman with his men has taken over the land. Frodo, Sam, Merry and Pippin lead the other hobbits in the fight against them, and they free themselves and the Shire. After a battle, the four hobbits find Saruman and Gríma at Bag End. Frodo wants to send them away unhurt, but Saruman is killed by Gríma. Gríma is shot by hobbit archers. 
Some years later Frodo and Sam go to meet Bilbo, Elrond, and Galadriel, and some other elves. They all go to the Grey Havens, where they meet Gandalf, and also Merry and Pippin. The Ring-bearers Bilbo and Frodo, together with Gandalf and the elves, leave Middle-earth, and go west across the sea to Valinor. The Fourth Age of Middle-earth begins. The three remaining hobbits go back to the Shire, and Sam returns to his wife and child.
"The Lord of the Rings" has been adapted, or made into a movie, a musical, a radio play, and has been made into an animated and three live-action films. Most known is probably "The Lord of the Rings" film trilogy (2001-2003) directed by Peter Jackson.

</doc>
<doc id="11143" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11143" title="Extinction">
Extinction

Extinction is one of the major features of evolution. A species is extinct when no members of the species are still alive.
All species become extinct sooner or later. The end of a species may happen for many reasons. It may be caused by habitat loss or by being overhunted, or by a major extinction event. An example of an animal that is now extinct is the Dodo, from over-hunting. Another quite different way for a species to end is by species-splitting, known as cladogenesis. Probably, none of the species living today was living in the Cambrian period, but their ancestors were.
Endangered species are those which may become extinct. A report from Kew Gardens suggests that one fifth of plant species may be at risk of extinction. Fossil species sometimes reappear millions of years after they were thought to be extinct. These cases are called Lazarus taxa.
The average duration of species varies according to the groups studied. A study of benthic (deep water) foraminifera showed an average of 16 million years if they lived above 200 metres, but 25my if they lived below 200 metres. On the other hand, the average survival time for mammalian species over the past 20my has been 2.33my.
It is estimated that 99.9% of all species that have ever lived are now extinct. More than half of the plants and animals that have become extinct in the last 200 years have been in Australia. There the arrival of Europeans with (accidentally or deliberately) introduced species has damaged the native biota. Especially, the introduction of eutherian mammals has caused the extinction of many marsupial forms.
Naturally, higher categories such as genera, families, orders, classes and phyla last longer, because they are composed of more species. As far as we know, no phylum has gone completely extinct since the Cambrian, but quite a few classes went extinct in one or other of the 'big five' extinction events. Examples of higher categories of animal now extinct are: placoderm fish, trilobites, ammonites, pelycosaurs, non-avian dinosaurs, pterosaurs, ichthyosaurs and plesiosaurs.
Darwin thought that most extinctions occurred because some organisms became more effective, and replaced their less advanced competitors. No doubt that does occur, but the view now is that environmental change is more important. Organisms become adapted to the environments they live in. The environment certainly does change, and sometimes quite dramatically. When it does, some organisms can adapt to the changes. Others cannot.
The Earth's environment can stay rather stable for long periods of time. Then the rate of extinction is usually quite low. Then changes occur, sometimes quite rapidly. In these times the rate of extinction can be much higher. The rate of extinction is therefore a useful thing to measure.

</doc>
<doc id="11182" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11182" title="Minehead">
Minehead

Minehead is a town in Somerset, England. It is on the coast.

</doc>
<doc id="11184" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11184" title="Hank Azaria">
Hank Azaria

Hank Azaria (born April 25, 1964) is an American actor, voice actor, comedian and producer. He is best known for his roles as "Moe, Apu, Krusty the Klown, Chief Wiggum", and many other characters on the Fox animated television series "The Simpsons". He also appeared in movies such as "The Birdcage" (1996), and on stage as Sir Lancelot in the Monty Python-inspired musical, "Spamalot". He was also once married to actress Helen Hunt from 1999 until there divorce in 2000, he is currently married to Katie Wright. He recently has appeared in Showtime's original series, "Huff".

</doc>
<doc id="11185" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11185" title="Mexico City">
Mexico City

Mexico City is the capital and largest city in Mexico. It is also one of the most populous and polluted cities in the world. The Aztec people were here before the Spanish came and made Mexico City. It was founded in 1521 by Hernán Cortés. Today, about 8.5 million people live in the city, and about 18 million live in the Greater Mexico City urban area. The city of Mexico City ceased to exist in 1928. Since then, there is only the Federal District.
Mexico City has 18.1 million people. It is the city with the second highest number of people in the world after Tokyo in Japan and just slightly more populated than Mumbai in India.
Mexico City was first built in the 1520s after Hernán Cortés destroyed the Aztec city of Tenochtitlan. The Spaniards then emptied the basin of Lake Texcoco to keep it from flooding. By the late 1700s, Mexico City had over 100,000 people. However, there were many slums, which caused epidemics. There were political problems in the mid 1800s after Mexico became independent. More than 40 people ruled in the 40 years after the country became independent. In the late 1800s and early 1900s, electric light and gas were brought to the city. But there was a big difference between the rich western part of the city and the poor eastern part of the city. By 1930, Mexico City had 1,000,000 people. The city kept growing quickly. In 1968, the olympics were in Mexico City. In 1985, an earthquake hit the capital. In the past few decades, there have been problems with crime and corruption.
Mexico City has a high population density. It is also surrounded by mountains. This causes problems with air pollution.
Sometimes Mexico City gets earthquakes.
Mexico City is in the Valley of Mexico at around 2,300 meters (7,800 feet) above sea level.
Mexico City its divided by 16 boroughs: Álvaro Obregón, Azcapotzalco, Benito Juarez, Coyoacán, Cuajimalpa, Cuauhtémoc, Gustavo A. Madero, Iztacalco, Iztapalapa, Magdalena Contreras, Miguel Hidalgo, Milpa Alta, Tláhuac, Tlalpan, Venustiano Carranza and Xochimilco.
Mexico City was originally built on a lake, Lake Texcoco, which is now mostly drained. The ecology of the area has been much changed by the draining. Many of its native species, such as the Axolotl, are extinct, or endangered.
The mountains Popocatépetl and Iztaccíhuatl are nearby.
Mexico City is in the tropics. But because its elevation is so high, it has a subtropical highland climate ("Cwb" in the Köppen climate classification). This means temperatures are warm or mild year-round. It is a lot wetter in the summer than in the winter. Some parts of the city get frost in the winter.

</doc>
<doc id="11186" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11186" title="1821">
1821


</doc>
<doc id="11187" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11187" title="John Hinckley, Jr.">
John Hinckley, Jr.

John Warnock Hinckley, Jr. (born May 29, 1955) is the man who attempted to assassinate President Ronald Reagan. On March 30, 1981, shortly after Reagan was elected, Hinckley shot at Reagan in Washington, D.C. Reagan was injured, but recovered quickly. Hinckley was tried, but was found not guilty, due to his insanity. He said the reason he shot the President was to get the attention of actress Jodie Foster, who he was a fan of.
Hinckley has schizophrenia, dysthymia, narcissistic personality disorder and schizoid personality disorder. He also has borderline and passive-aggressive features.

</doc>
<doc id="11188" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11188" title="Tampico, Illinois">
Tampico, Illinois

Tampico is a village in Whiteside County, Illinois. The 2000 census said the village had a total population of 772.
On February 6, 1911, Ronald Reagan, who used to be President of the United States was born in a two story apartment over the local bank. The building where the apartment is near the main street (Illinois Highway 172). Reagan was born in the front bedroom of the apartment.
Tampico is located at 41°37'50" North, 89°47'8" West (41.630559, -89.785573).
The United States Census Bureau says the village has a total area of 1.0 km² (0.4 mi²). None of it is water-covered.
Tampico is about 50 miles east of the Quad Cities (the cities of Davenport, Bettendorf, Iowa, Moline and Rock Island, Illinois). It's about 130 miles west of Chicago.
The census of 2000 says there are 772 people, 292 households, and 205 families living in the village. The population density is 745.2/km² (1,941.3/mi²). There are 315 houses at an average density of 304.1/km² (792.1/mi²). The village is 99.74% White.
There are 292 households out of which 33.2% have children under the age of 18 living with them, 57.2% are married couples living together, 9.2% is a single women, and 29.5% are not families. 24.7% of all households are made up of individuals and 13.0% have someone living alone who is 65 years of age or older. The average household size is 2.64 and the average family size is 3.1.
In the village the population is spread out with 28.9% under the age of 18, 7.9% from 18 to 24, 26.2% from 25 to 44, 23.6% from 45 to 64, and 13.5% who are 65 years of age or older. The median age is 36 years. For every 100 females there are 102.1 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there are 102.6 males.
The average income for a household in the village is $40,221, and the average income for a "family" is $43,646. Males have an average income of $30,667 versus $18,409 for females. The per person income for the village is $14,467. 8.5% of the population and 6.4% of families are below the poverty line. Out of the total population, 10.2% of those under the age of 18 and 4.6% of those 65 and older are living below the poverty line.
The city was also the birthplace of Admiral Joseph M. Reeves.

</doc>
<doc id="11189" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11189" title="Surface area">
Surface area

Surface area is the amount of space covering the outside of a three-dimensional (3D) object. The surface area of a polyhedron is found by finding the sum of the area of all of the faces. The surface area is found between many three-dimensional shapes using formulas.
The surface area is useful because it tells you how much material is required in order to cover the object—for example, how much paint is needed to paint a table.Surface area is the sum of the faces, or surfaces, of a three dimensional shape.

</doc>
<doc id="11190" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11190" title="Al Hirschfeld">
Al Hirschfeld

Al Hirschfeld (June 21, 1903 - January 20, 2003) was an American cartoonist and illustrator. He was known mostly for his caricatures (funny drawings) of entertainers and famous people.

</doc>
<doc id="11191" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11191" title="Mobile Army Surgical Hospital">
Mobile Army Surgical Hospital

A Mobile Army Surgical Hospital (or M.A.S.H. or MASH) was a medical center used during wars, to care and fix injured soldiers who got hurt in the fighting. They were an alternative to field hospitals and real hospitals which were used in World War II. During the Korean War, thanks to these kinds of hospitals, soldiers had a 97% chance of surviving an injury. They were also used in the Vietnam War and the first Gulf War, but were gradually replaced by Combat Support Hospitals or CSHs which are used today.
Many people know about these places due to a well-known movie and later TV show called "M*A*S*H", which was set was a hospital like this during the Korean War.

</doc>
<doc id="11192" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11192" title="Illinois">
Illinois

Illinois is a state in the United States. Its capital is Springfield and its largest city is Chicago. It is bordered to the north by Wisconsin, to the west by Iowa and below that, by Missouri (both borders are along the Mississippi River). To the south-east, Illinois is bordered along the Ohio River by Kentucky and to the east by Indiana. Illinois' northeasternmost boundary is to Lake Michigan.
Illinois became a state on December 3, 1818. Illinois was the first state to ratify the 13th Amendment to the Constitution which helped abolished slavery in the United States.
Three U.S. presidents have been elected while living in Illinois: Abraham Lincoln, Ulysses S. Grant, and Barack Obama. Additionally, Ronald Reagan, whose political career was based in California, was the only US President born and raised in Illinois.
Illinois has a diverse economy. Chicago is a major center for transportation and business. Central and northern Illinois is mostly used for agriculture. The south produces many natural resources such as coal, timber and petroleum.
Illinois was once known to be a swing state (voted for either Democratic Party or the Republican Party). Today, Illinois is known to be a blue state in which it votes for the Democratic Party. The last time Illinois voted for a Republican president was in 1988 for George H.W. Bush.
Bruce Rauner (R) is the current Governor of Illinois. It has two senators; Dick Durbin (D) and Mark Kirk (R).
Illinois has the average population of 12,419,293 people since 2010. Most of the people living in Illinois live near the city of Chicago.
Famous Illinoisans include:
In Illinois, school children voted to select the state bird, state flower, and state tree. The state bird is the cardinal. The state flower of Illinois is the violet. The state tree is the white oak.
Illinois's seal has an eagle in a prairie. Across a river, behind the eagle is a rising sun. The eagle stands for the United States. The prairie reminds Illinoisans of their land. The two dates on the seal, 1818 and 1868, are the year that Illinois became a state and the year that the state seal was designed. The state flag includes the state seal.

</doc>
<doc id="11193" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11193" title="Seattle">
Seattle

Seattle is the largest city in the U.S. state of Washington. It is the home of the Space Needle and a monorail, both of which were built for the 1962 World's Fair. It is also the American headquarters of Starbucks coffee, Amazon.com and Nordstrom. In the 1980s and 1990s, grunge music artists like Nirvana, Pearl Jam, and others from the city became popular. It is also the setting of the TV shows "Here Come the Brides", "Frasier", and "Grey's Anatomy".
Seattle has many sports teams, including the Seattle Mariners (baseball), the Seattle Seahawks (American football), the Sounders FC (soccer), and the Seattle Storm (women's basketball). Seattle has a lot of water around it, with Puget Sound and the Pacific Ocean to the west and Lake Washington to the east. About 600,000 people live in the city. More than 3,000,000 (3 million) people live in the city or near it.
The University of Washington is in Seattle.
Seattle has a warm-summer Mediterranean climate ("Csb" in the Koeppen climate classification).

</doc>
<doc id="11194" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11194" title="Kiefer Sutherland">
Kiefer Sutherland

Kiefer William Frederick Dempsey George Rufus Sutherland (born December 21, 1966) is a Canadian actor and director.
He was born in London, England in 1966 to Canadian actor Donald Sutherland and his wife Shirley Douglas, an actress and daughter of Canadian statesman Tommy Douglas. He also has a twin sister, named Rachel, who looks similar to him. He grew up in London, Corona, California and Toronto, Ontario.
In the 1980s he was part of a group of young actors called the "Brat Pack" and appeared in movies "Stand by Me" (1986), "The Lost Boys" (1987), "Young Guns" (1988), "Flatliners" (1990), and "The Three Musketeers" (1993). In 2001, he starred as Jack Bauer in "24", which was intended as a one-shot mini-series, but became one of the most popular shows on TV. For this role, Kiefer won the Emmy Award for Best Actor in 2006, the Golden Globe for best actor in 2001, the SAG Award for Best Actor in 2003 and 2005 and the Satellite Award for Best Actor in 2002 and 2003. The show had eight seasons before ending, with one movie currently released.
He is also is in Fox drama, "Touch" as Martin Bohm.

</doc>
<doc id="11196" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11196" title="Stirling">
Stirling

Stirling is a city in the middle of Scotland. Before, it was the capital of the Kingdom of Scotland. Its name in the Scottish (Gaelic) language is Sruighlea. Stirling was very important a long time ago because it is at the centre of Scotland. Battles were fought at Bannockburn and Stirling Bridge, and there is a castle in the city. 

</doc>
<doc id="11197" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11197" title="Tuvaluan language">
Tuvaluan language

Tuvaluan is an Austronesian language spoken in Tuvalu. It is closely related to Tokelauan language. Tuvaluan has over 11 000 speakers. The language is divided into two main dialects.

</doc>
<doc id="11198" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11198" title="Tokelau">
Tokelau

Tokelau is an island group in the Pacific Ocean. It is a territory of New Zealand. Tokelau does not have an official capital. The most important languages spoken in Tokelau are English and Tokelauan. There are about 1,405 people living in Tokelau (2004). 

</doc>
<doc id="11199" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11199" title="Communist state">
Communist state

A communist state is a state whose constitution claims to follow the principles of communism. Its form of government has only a single political party, the communist party. The governance of the state is guided by the principles of Leninism, Marxism, Maoism, or any other form of communist ideology.
Technically, "communist state" is a contradictory term. In principle, a communist society is a stateless society. In practice, communist states do not actually refer to themselves as "communist states". They do not consider themselves to be communist societies at present. Instead, their constitutions call them "socialist states" or "workers' states".
During the 20th century, a "communist state" came to be understood as any country ruled by a single party and guided by a Marxist-Leninist or Maoist ideology. These countries would also have a planned economy. The ruling class is the working class (the proletariat).
Currently, there are five countries that are called communist states. They are China, Cuba, Laos, Vietnam and North Korea. North Korea does not follow Marxism–Leninism, but it is otherwise still considered to be in the same category.
There were, at one time, many countries that followed some type of Marxism. One of the most famous is the Soviet Union. However, many of these are now no longer regarded as socialist.

</doc>
<doc id="11200" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11200" title="1792">
1792


</doc>
<doc id="11201" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11201" title="1873">
1873

1873 was a year in the 19th century.

</doc>
<doc id="11202" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11202" title="1849">
1849


</doc>
<doc id="11211" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11211" title="Solitaire">
Solitaire

Solitaire is a card game for one player game using a deck of playing cards. A player wins the game when the player has all the cards in four different deck by color and number.
There are many variations (types) of solitaire, such as Klondike, Freecell, Pyramid, Golf and Spider. Most computer operating systems include simple solitaire games.
In many countries, solitaire is called Patience.

</doc>
<doc id="11213" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11213" title="Optics">
Optics

Optics is the science of light and how it interacts with the world. Optics explains how rainbows exist, how light reflects off mirrors, how light refracts through glass or water, and what splits light shining through a prism. In addition to visible light in the standard "spectrum" of red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, and violet, optics also deals with invisible parts of the whole electromagnetic spectrum of which visible light is but a small part.
Optics is both a science and an area of engineering. It has been used to make many useful things, including eyeglasses, cameras, telescopes, and microscopes. Many of these things are based on lenses, which focus light and can make images of things that are bigger or smaller than the original.
While optics is an old science, new things are still being discovered in it. Scientists have learned how to make light travel through a thin optical fiber made of glass or plastic. Light can go long distances in a fiber. Fibers are used to carry phone calls and the Internet between cities.

</doc>
<doc id="11216" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11216" title="Václav Klaus">
Václav Klaus

Václav Klaus (born June 19, 1941) is Czech politician and writer. He was second president of the Czech Republic. 

</doc>
<doc id="11217" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11217" title="Barbra Streisand">
Barbra Streisand

Barbra Streisand (born April 24, 1942) is an American singer, actress, producer, and director. She has won multiple Emmy Awards, Grammy Awards and Golden Globe awards.

</doc>
<doc id="11218" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11218" title="Jamaica">
Jamaica

Jamaica is an island country in the Caribbean; it is part of the Greater Antilles. The island, in area, lies about south of Cuba, and west of Hispaniola. Its capital is Kingston; other towns include Montego Bay, St. Ann's Bay and Spanish Town. The island is divided into three counties – Cornwall, Middlesex and Surrey – which are subdivided into 14 parishes: Kingston, St. Andrew, St. Catherine, Clarendon,Manchester, St. Elizabeth, Westmoreland, Hanover, St. James, Trelawny, St. Ann, St. Mary, Portland and St. Thomas.
Jamaica is the third-largest island country in the Greater Antilles. Its Taíno name was "Xaymaca", meaning "Land of Springs". 
The Taino indigenous people, originating in South America, settled on the island between 4000 and 1000 BC. When Christopher Columbus arrived in 1494, there were more than 200 villages ruled by "caciques" (chiefs of villages). The south coast of Jamaica was the most populated, especially around the area now known as Old Harbour.
Christopher Columbus, during his second voyage to the Americas, claimed Jamaica for Spain after landing there on 5 May 1494 and his probable landing point was Dry Harbour, now called Discovery Bay. There is some debate as to whether he landed in St. Ann's Bay or in Discovery Bay. St. Ann's Bay was named "Saint Gloria" by Columbus, as the first sighting of the land.
In 1503, during his fourth voyage, Columbus had to spend one year on the northern coast of the island, and he named the island "Isla de Santiago" (by Sant Iago Apostol, in Spanish "Santiago").
In 1509, the new Governor of the Hispaniola, Diego Columbus, sent Juan de Esquivel, a Conquistador born in Seville, Spain, with 70 men to Jamaica to complete the conquest of that island. They first lived in the St. Ann's Bay area and soon Esquivel founded a town, "Sevilla La Nueva" (in English, "The New Seville") on the north coast, one mile to the west of St. Ann's Bay.
Sevilla was abandoned around 1524 because it was deemed unhealthy. The capital was moved to Spanish Town, then called "Saint Jago de la Vega", in the south around 1534.
In 1654 Oliver Cromwell decided to break the Spanish control of the West Indies and he sent a fleet in an expedition) led by William Penn and General Robert Venables. The fleet arrived to the Santo Domingo island on 13 April 1655 but the British lost in two battles on 17 and 25 April and they decided to move to Jamaica.
On 10 May 1655, Penn and Venables led a successful attack on Jamaica. The Spanish surrendered to the English, freed their slaves and then fled to Cuba. It was this set of freed slaves and their descendants living in the Jamaican mountains who became known as the Maroons.
After a long period of direct British colonial rule, Jamaica gained a degree of local political control in the late 1930s, and held its first election under full universal adult suffrage in 1944. Jamaica joined nine other U.K. territories in the West Indies Federation in 1958 but withdrew after Jamaican voters rejected membership in 1961. Jamaica got its independence in 1962, remaining a member of the Commonwealth.
Jamaica is a parliamentary democracy and constitutional monarchy, with Queen Elizabeth II serving as the monarch. However, as Elizabeth II is shared as head of state of fifteen other countries (the Commonwealth realm) in addition to the United Kingdom and resides mostly in the United Kingdom, she is thus often represented as Queen of Jamaica in Jamaica and abroad by the Governor-General of Jamaica. The governor-general is nominated by the Prime Minister of Jamaica and appointed by the monarch. All the members of the Cabinet are appointed by the governor-general on the advice of the prime minister. The monarch and the governor-general serve largely ceremonial roles.
The Parliament of Jamaica is bicameral. This means that it consists of two Houses, the Senate, also called the Upper House, and the House of Representatives, also known as the Lower House. The members of the House (known as Members of Parliament or "MPs") are elected by the people of Jamaica. The leader of the political party with most members in the House of Representatives is appointed by the governor-general to be the prime minister. Senators are nominated jointly by the prime minister and the parliamentary leader of the opposition and are then appointed by the governor-general.
The current prime minister of Jamaica is Andrew Holness, having been inaugurated on 3 March 2016. Prime Minister Holness acts as head of government of Jamaica.
Jamaica has traditionally had a system of two parties, with power often alternating between the People's National Party and Jamaica Labour Party (JLP). The party with current administrative and legislative power is Jamaica Labour Party, with a two-thirds Parliamentary majority as of 2016.
Jamaica is divided into 14 parishes, which are grouped into three historic counties that have no administrative relevance.
In 2011 (last national census), there were 2,697,983 people living in Jamaica: 1,334,533 men and 1,363,450 women. There were 1,453,438 (53.9%) living in towns and cities. The population density was 245.5 persons/km².
The following table shows the parishes with their populations in the 2011 census.
The official language of Jamaica is English and the population also speaks Jamaican Creole English.
The people of Jamaica is 62.5% Protestant (10.8% Seventh-day Adventist Church, 9.5% Pentecostal, 8.3 Other Church of God, 7.2% Baptist, 6.3% New Testament Church of God, 4.8% Church of God in Jamaica, 4.3% Church of God of Prophecy, 3.6% Anglicans, 7.7% other Christian), 2.6% Catholics, 14.2% other or unspecified, 20.9% none.
Jamaica is between latitudes 17° 42"N and 18° 31"N and longitudes 78° 22"W and 76° 11", that is between the equator and the Tropic of Cancer. It has an area of .
Jamaica is the third-largest island country in the Greater Antilles, after Cuba and the Hispaniola (Haiti and the Dominican Republic); it is larger than Puerto Rico. The island is from east to west; the width, from north to south, varies between to . The country is composed mainly of the mainland, but near the coast there are a few isolated small islands.
The Blue Mountains are the longest mountain range in Jamaica. They include the island's highest point, Blue Mountain Peak, at .
The Rio Minho is the longest river in Jamaica at . It rises close to the island's geographic centre, flows generally south-southwest and reaches the Caribbean Sea at Carlisle Bay in the central south coast, to the west of the island's southernmost point, Portland Point.
The Black River is one of the longest rivers in Jamaica. At a length of , it was believed to be the longest until it was discovered that the Rio Minho was longer. It was originally called Rio Caobana.
The island is known for the Rastafarian movement, as well as reggae artist Bob Marley. The popular sprinter Usain Bolt is also an asset from the country. Usain Bolt won gold in the 100 and 200 races in Rio 2016.

</doc>
<doc id="11219" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11219" title="Denver">
Denver

Denver is the capital and largest city in the U.S. state of Colorado. It is located at the foot of the Rocky Mountains on the South Platte River, and was founded in 1858. A nickname for Denver is The Mile High City, because Denver is very high above sea level. It is at least 5,280 feet (or 1,609 meters) above sea level at a point in the city's state capitol building. The dome at the top of the capitol building is covered in gold.
Denver City was founded in November 1858 during the Pikes Peak Gold Rush as a mining town in western Kansas Territory. That summer, a group of gold prospectors from Lawrence, Kansas, started a settlement on the banks of the South Platte River. They called it Montana City. This was the first settlement in what was later to become the city of Denver. The settlement faded quickly. By the summer of 1859 it was abandoned in favor of Auraria (named after the gold mining town of Auraria, Georgia), and St. Charles City.
The Colorado Territory was created on February 28, 1861, Arapahoe County was formed on November 1, 1861, and Denver City was incorporated on November 7, 1861. Denver City served as the Arapahoe County Seat from 1861 until consolidation in 1902. In 1867, Denver City became the Territorial Capital. With its new-found importance, Denver City shortened its name to just Denver. On August 1, 1876, Colorado was admitted to the Union.
Denver is the home of the Denver Broncos football team, the Denver Nuggets basketball team, the Colorado Rockies baseball team, and the Colorado Avalanche hockey team.

</doc>
<doc id="11220" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11220" title="Carl Lewis">
Carl Lewis

Frederick Carlton "Carl" Lewis (born July 1, 1961) is an American retired track and field athlete. He has won nine Olympic gold medals and eight World Championships. Lewis became an actor and has appeared in a number of movies.

</doc>
<doc id="11228" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11228" title="Pink">
Pink

Pink is a pale reddish color. Pink paint can be made by mixing red, orange, rose, or magenta paint and white paint.

</doc>
<doc id="11229" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11229" title="Bleach">
Bleach

Bleach is the name for a number of chemical substances which can be used to remove colors, or to make things white. Very often, they act through oxidation. Bleaches on the base of sulfur have been in use for thousands of years. Modern bleaches are usually based on chlorine or on oxygen.
Many bleaches can kill bacteria easily. For this reason, they are often used for disinfecting or sterilisation.
Mixing bleach with some things commonly found at home, like vinegar or even fruit juice can produce chemicals like chlorine that are irritating or even dangerous. Bleach should also not be mixed with ammonia because a hazardous chemical reaction will occur. This effect can kill people.
Certain types of bleaches produce toxic waste. Some of them produce dioxins..
Bleach made from hydrogen peroxide is used to make hair lighter in color, orange, blonde, or even white. It is often used by dark-haired people to make highlights, and most hair dyes contain it.

</doc>
<doc id="11230" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11230" title="Polygon">
Polygon

A polygon is a closed two-dimensional shape. It is also a simple curve that is made up of line segments. It usually has three sides/corners or more. It could also be referred to as 'A closed plane figure bound by three or more line segments'. It has a number of edges. These edges are connected by lines. A square is a polygon because it has four sides. The smallest possible polygon in a Euclidean geometry or "flat geometry" is the triangle, but on a sphere, there can be a digon. The monogon is a theoretical figure that cannot exist - it has only one side and one edge.
If the edges (lines of the polygon) do not intersect (cross each other), the polygon is called "simple", otherwise it is "complex".
In computer graphics, polygons (especially triangles) are often used to make graphics.

</doc>
<doc id="11232" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11232" title="Kazakhstan">
Kazakhstan

Kazakhstan is a country in the middle of Eurasia. Its official name is the Republic of Kazakhstan. Kazakhstan is the ninth biggest country in the world, and it is also the biggest landlocked country in the world. Before the end of the Soviet Union, it was called "Kazakh Soviet Socialist Republic". The president of the country since 1991 is called Nursultan Nazarbayev. Astana is the capital city of Kazakhstan. Almaty was the capital until 1998, when it moved to Astana.
The Kazakh language is the native language, but Russian has equal official status for all administrative and institutional purposes. Islam is the religion of about 70% of the population, with Christianity practiced by 26%; Russia leases (rents) the land for the Baykonur Cosmodrome (site of Russian spacecraft launches) from Kazakhstan. 
Kazakhstan has borders with the Russian Federation in the north and west, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan and Tajikistan in the southwest, and China in the far east. There is a point of contact with Mongolia in the far east and, for the most part, it has Siberia to the north (which, of course, is part of Russia). Russia therefore has the longest border with Kazakhstan. Basically, Kazakhstan runs from the Caspian Sea in the west to the mainly Muslim Chinese autonomous region of Xinjiang. 
Kazakhstan has no ocean shoreline, but borders the Caspian Sea, which boats use to get to neighboring countries. The Caspian Sea is an Endorheic basin without connections to any ocean.
Kazakhstan has plenty of petroleum, natural gas, and mining. It attracted over $40 billion in foreign investment since 1993 and accounts for some 57% of the nation's industrial output. According to some estimates, Kazakhstan has the second largest uranium, chromium, lead, and zinc reserves, the third largest manganese reserves, the fifth largest copper reserves, and ranks in the top ten for coal, iron, and gold. It is also an exporter of diamonds. Kazakhstan has the 11th largest proven reserves of both petroleum and natural gas.
Kazakhstan is divided into 14 provinces. The provinces are divided into districts.
Almaty and Astana cities have the status of State importance and are not in any province. Baikonur city has a special status because it is currently being leased to Russia with Baikonur cosmodrome until 2050.
Each province is headed by an Akim (provincial governor) appointed by the president. Municipal Akims are appointed by province Akims. The Government of Kazakhstan moved its capital from Almaty to Astana on December 10, 1997.
The population of Kazakhstan is 17,165,000. It takes the 62th place in the List of countries by population. Average density is almost 6 people/km ( List of countries by population density).

</doc>
<doc id="11233" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11233" title="Sign">
Sign

A sign is something you see (or hear) which means something. A sign may be natural or man-made.
A natural sign shows something significant. Leaves turn brown and fall off deciduous trees in the autumn. Temperatures drop, daylight hours shorten. It suggests winter is coming. Many birds migrate and some mammals hibernate in response to natural signs like these. Humans, as usual, are a bit different. They make their own signs.
A man-made sign is called a signal or symbol. It is an artificial thing, which people decide means something in their society. For example, the stop sign on the road tells the person that they must stop their car there. So does a red traffic light. They are signals with a legal meaning, and people learn what these meanings are.
Sometimes a person may not know what a sign means. Feeling a cold wind could be a sign that someone left a door or window open.
In medicine, a sign is something seen, whereas a symptom is something felt, like a pain. A sign might be something like high blood pressure, which can be measured. 
A road sign or traffic sign is something that gives information by means of a symbol, or in only 1 or 2 words. It helps people in their vehicles on the road. Some signs include: Give way, Stop, Keep left, No U-turn, no parking, Zebra crossing and much more. Signs are very useful. Without signs and traffic lights there would be many accidents and arguments on the road.

</doc>
<doc id="11234" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11234" title="Barley">
Barley

Barley is a type of plant. Its seeds are a cereal grain. It is eaten by humans and other animals, and it is one of mankind's oldest crops. It can be made into flour or beer.
Its Latin name is "Hordeum vulgare". Barley is an annual plant.

</doc>
<doc id="11235" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11235" title="Mount Vesuvius">
Mount Vesuvius

Mount Vesuvius (, ) is a stratovolcano on the Gulf of Naples, Italy. It is about 9 kilometres (5.6 mi) east of Naples. It is the only volcano on the mainland of Europe that erupted in the last 100 years, though it does not erupt now. Two other important active volcanos in Italy are on islands. They are Etna and Stromboli.
Mount Vesuvius is best known for its eruption in AD 79 which destroyed the Roman cities of Pompeii and Herculaneum. They were never built again. The towns were buried so completely that people who lived there forgot about them until they were accidentally discovered again in the 18th century.
The eruption also changed the way the Sarno River flowed and raised the sea beach. Because of this, Pompeii was not on the river nor next to the coast anymore. Mount Vesuvius was also greatly changed. Many of the plants there died, and the top of the mountain looked different because of the strong eruption.
Vesuvius has erupted many times after that. Today, it is one of the most dangerous volcanoes in the world because 3,000,000 people live near this explosive volcano. More people live near Mount Vesuvius than any other volcano in the world.
Vesuvius has a long tradition of history and literature. A serpent called "Vesuvius" has been used in frescos of many "lararia" (household temples) from Pompeii. In Capua, the words IOVI VESVVIO ("Jupiter Vesuvius") show that he was worshipped as a power of Jupiter.
The historian Diodorus Siculus said that there was a story that Hercules once passed through the country of Cumae when he was going to Sicily. There, he found a place called "the Phlegraean Plain" ("phlegraion pedion", "plain of fire"). It said that it was "from a hill which anciently (from a long time ago) vomited out called Vesuvius." Giant "sons of the Earth" lived inside it. With the help of the gods, he helped the people there and went on. An ode by Martial in AD 88 suggests that Venus and Hercules were worshipped in the place that was destroyed by the eruption in AD 79.
The volcano was often called Vesuvius in the late Roman Republic and the early Roman Empire. It was also called Vesaevus, Vesevus, Vesbius, and Vesvius. Writers in ancient Greek called it Οὐεσούιον or Οὐεσούιος. Many scholars think the word "Vesuvius" was related to the Greek word οὔ ("not") and σβέννυμι ("I quench"), so that it would mean "unquenchable". Others think it might come from ἕω "hurl" and βίη "violence", "hurling violence". 
Vesuvius has a large cone ("Gran Cono") which is partly surrounded by the top of a caldera which was made when an earlier and much higher structure called Monte Somma collapsed. The Gran Cono was made during the eruption of AD 79. For this reason, the volcano is also called Somma-Vesuvius or Somma-Vesuvio.
Before Mount Vesuvius exploded in 79 AD, people who lived nearby did not even know that it was a volcano, because it had not erupted for 600 years. At about 1 PM, on August 24, AD 79, Mount Vesuvius erupted violently. It showered ash and pumice on the town of Pompeii, which was 5 miles away.
Today, people think the eruption of 79 AD lasted more than 19 hours. It was noticed by Pliny the Younger who described the mushroom cloud from the volcano as being in the shape of umbrella pine, a tree commonly found in the region. Pliny the Younger was the only person to write the story down.
There were many ways that people died. One was that the smoke that they breathed in was deadly because it dried in their lungs and formed glass. They also were buried by powdery ash from the volcano, which was all over them. Over time this ash turned to a sort of rock, protecting the bodies and the city from the weather and from robbers.
Vesuvius erupted 50 more times after the eruption in 79 AD. Vesuvius was named a national park in 1995.

</doc>
<doc id="11236" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11236" title="1589">
1589


</doc>
<doc id="11237" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11237" title="1853">
1853


</doc>
<doc id="11238" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11238" title="1891">
1891

March 15

</doc>
<doc id="11239" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11239" title="1371">
1371


</doc>
<doc id="11240" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11240" title="Mineralogy">
Mineralogy

Mineralogy is the study of minerals. Minerals are things that make rocks. There are many different types of minerals. Some are hard, like diamonds. Some are soft, like talc. Some are metal, like gold or silver. Minerals are put into special groups of minerals made of similar chemicals, or that have similar structures inside. For example, the chemicals that make up some minerals line up in chains, while in other minerals, they make bow-tie shapes. 
Studying minerals can be useful for figuring out certain things about a rock. Sometimes the shape or size of the mineral can tell something about the rock as well. For example, minerals in igneous rocks can help figure out how long the rock took to cool down (turn from lava into a rock). Larger minerals mean the rock cooled slowly (probably underground). Smaller minerals mean the rock cooled down quickly (probably above ground, like from a volcano). The type of mineral in a rock can also tell what kind of a rock it is, or what has happened to the rock since it formed. Many rocks are named based on what kinds of minerals they have.
Mineralogists (people who study minerals) study minerals in rocks with hand lenses (a magnifying glass), and in thin section (thin slices of rock) with microscopes. They record things about the minerals like how big they are, what shape they are, what color they are, and if the mineral changes colors when you turn it. Mineralogists also record what color minerals turn in a special light. These details can help mineralogists figure out what minerals they are looking at. 
Minerals can be used in a lot of different things, like jewelry, farming, pottery, making metals, and more . Mineralogists can help find important minerals in the Earth using what they know and learn.

</doc>
<doc id="11242" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11242" title="Supermarket">
Supermarket

Supermarkets are large grocery stores that sell a large variety of fresh and packaged food and other consumer or household products. Supermarkets are divided into sections, such as dairy, produce (fruits and vegetables), meat, packaged goods, cleaning supplies, and personal hygiene items. The term "supermarket" usually refers to a larger store than the term "grocery store."
A grocery store (or just grocery) is a retail store that sells fresh fruit, vegetables, and meat, packaged foods, household cleaning and laundry supplies, and hygiene items (soap, toothpaste, etc.).
There are a range of different types and sizes of grocery stores. Some grocery stores are small community stores with a limited range of items. Other grocery stores are large stores with a vast selection of food and household items. In some cases, a grocery store is part of a larger general merchandise store such as Walmart, which also sells clothes, hardware, and other items.
The person who controls a grocery store is called a grocer. A grocer will order food from farmers or other people who send out farmers food to other grocery stores and restaurants.

</doc>
<doc id="11243" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11243" title="Ecuador">
Ecuador

Ecuador is a small country in South America. It is along the equator. Ecuador has jungles and mountains like the Andes mountains. On the coast of the Pacific Ocean there are beaches. The capital is Quito in the Andes. Quito is at a high altitude. This makes it hard for some new visitors to breathe. The biggest city is Guayaquil on the coast. Cuenca, Ecuador is famous for its old buildings and colonial architecture. Peru borders Ecuador to the south, and Colombia borders it to the north. The Galápagos Islands in the Pacific Ocean are also part of Ecuador and are famous for lots of animals. Charles Darwin travelled in Galápagos.
As of 2011, 14,440,000 people lived in Ecuador. The ethnic makeup of the country is: 65% Mestizo, 25% Amerindian, 7% white, and 3% black. Some 27% of the people live below the national poverty line.
The official language is Spanish. Many other indigenous languages are spoken. Most of the people in Ecuador are Roman Catholics, although Ecuador has religious freedom and people can follow any religion they choose.
Ecuador lies between the equator. Ecuador has many active volcanoes and also one of the greatest densities of volcanoes in the world.
Ecuador is divided into 24 provinces. Each has its own administrative capital.
The provinces are divided into cantons. The cantons are divided into parishes.
The Historic Center of Quito, Ecuador is one of the largest, least-altered and best-preserved historic centers in the Americas. This center was, together with the historic centre of Kraków in Poland, the first to be declared World Heritage Site by UNESCO on 18 September 1978. The Historic Centre of Quito is located in the center south of the capital on an area of 320 hectares (790 acres), and is considered one of the most important historic areas in Latin America.There are about 130 monumental buildings (which hosts a variety of pictorial art and sculpture, mostly of religious inspired in a multi-faceted range of schools and styles) and 5,000 properties registered in the municipal inventory of heritage properties.
Carondelet Palace (Spanish: Palacio de Carondelet) is the seat of government of the Republic of Ecuador, located in the historical center of Quito. Axis is the nerve of the public space known as Independence Square or Plaza Grande (colonial name), around which were built in addition the Archbishop's Palace, the Municipal Palace, the Hotel Plaza Grande and the Metropolitan Cathedral. The history of this emblematic building dating back to colonial times, around 1570, with the acquisition of the former royal houses located in the city of Quito
During the Republican era, almost all the presidents (constitutional, internees and dictators) have dispatched from this building, which is the seat of Government of the Republic of Ecuador. In addition to the administrative units in the third level of the Palace is the presidential residence, a luxurious colonial-style apartment in which they live the President and his family. Rafael Correa, president since 2007, considering that Carondelet Palace and its agencies are Ecuadoran heritages, converted the presidential compound into a museum accessible to all who wish to visit it. To this end, areas were organized to locate objects within their cultural contexts to make them accessible to the world. Several rooms and spaces within the palace are used for this purpose.
Construction began in 1605, with Mastrilli laying the first stone. The building was not completed until 1765. La Compañía is among the best-known churches in Quito because of its large central nave, which is profusely decorated with gold leaf, gilded plaster and wood carvings. Inspired by two Roman Jesuit churches — the Chiesa del Gesù and the Chiesa di Sant'Ignazio di Loyola — La Compañía is one of the most significant works of Spanish Baroque architecture in South America. 
Also known as Big Square (Spanish: Plaza de la Independencia, Plaza Grande). Historic public square of Quito (Ecuador), located in the heart of the old city. This is the central square of the city and one of the symbols of the executive power of the nation. Its main feature is the monument to the independence heroes of August 10, 1809, date remembered as the First Cry of Independence of the Royal Audience of Quito from spanish monarchy. The environment of the square is flanked by the Carondelet Palace, the Metropolitan Cathedral, the Archbishop's Palace, the Municipal Palace and the Plaza Grande Hotel.
The "Iglesia y Monasterio de San Francisco" (English: Church and Monastery of St. Francis), colloquially known as El San Francisco, is a colonial-styled church and monastery located in Quito, Ecuador. Construction of the building began a few weeks after the founding of the city in 1534 and ended in 1604. The founder of the church was Franciscan missionary Jodoco Ricke. 
The building's construction began around 1550, sixteen years after Quito was founded by Spanish conquistadors, and was finished in approximately 1680. The building was officially inaugurated in 1605. It is not known who designed the original plans for the complex, though the most-accepted theory is that they were sent from Spain, based on the topographical study of Ricke and Gosseal. It is also possible that architects came from Spain for the construction of the monastery, or that Ricke and Gosseal managed the entire construction.
In colonial times, the Church of El Sagrario was one of the largest architectural marvels of Quito. The construction is of the Italian Renaissance style and was built in the late 17th century. It has a screen that supports its sculptures and decorations. This structure was built by Bernardo de Legarda. Its central arch leads to a dome decorated with frescoes of biblical scenes featuring archangels, work by Francisco Albán. The altarpiece was gilded by Legarda. It is located on Calle García Moreno, near the Cathedral.
Although they arrived in Quito in 1541, in 1580 the Dominicans started to build their temple, using the plans and direction of Francisco Becerra. The work was completed in the first half of the 17th century. Inside the church are valuable structures, such as the neo-Gothic main altar. This was placed in the late 19th century by Italian Dominicans. The roof of the Mudéjar style church features paintings of martyrs of the Order of Saint Dominic. The roof of the nave is composed of a pair and knuckle frame, coated inside by pieces of tracery. In the museum located on the north side of the lower cloister are wonderful pieces of great Quito sculptors such as the Saint Dominic de Guzmán by Father Carlos, the Saint John of God by Caspicara, and the Saint Thomas Aquinas by Legarda. Another Baroque piece that stands is the Chapel of Nuestra Señora del Rosario, which is a recognizable feature of the architecture of Quito. This chapel was built beside the church, in the gospel side. In this was founded the largest fraternity in the city of Quito.
El Panecillo is a hill located in the middle west of the city at an altitude of about 3,016 metres (9,895 ft) above sea level. A monument to the Virgin Mary is located on top of El Panecillo and is visible from most of the city of Quito. In 1976, the Spanish artist Agustín de la Herrán Matorras was commissioned by the religious order of the Oblates to build a 41 metres (135 ft)–tall aluminum monument of a madonna, which was assembled on a high pedestal on the top of Panecillo.
The Quito School originated in the school of Artes y Oficios, founded in 1552 by the Franciscan priest Jodoco Ricke, who together with Friar Pedro Gocial transformed the San Andrés seminary, where the first indigenous artists were trained. As a cultural expression, it is the result of a long process of acculturation between indigenous peoples and Europeans, and it is one of the richest expressions of miscegenation ("mestizaje") and of syncretism, in which the participation of the vanquished Indian is seemingly of minor importance as compared to the dominant European contribution.
The Quito School ("Escuela Quiteña") is an artistic tradition that developed in the territory of the Royal Audience of Quito, from Pasto and Popayán in the north to Piura and Cajamarca in the south, during the colonial period (1542-1824). This artistic production was one of the most important activities in the economy of the Royal Audience of Quito. 
The major artists of the Quito School are the sculptors Bernardo de Legarda , Manuel Chili (Caspicara) and Miguel Angel Tejada Zambrado and the painters Fray Pedro Gosseal, Fray Pedro Bedón, Nicolás Javier Goríbar, Hernando de la Cruz, Miguel de Santiago, Manuel de Samaniego
The Basilica of the National Vow, a Roman Catholic church located in the historic center of Quito, Ecuador. It is sometimes also called the Catedral Consagración de Jesús or the Basílica de San Juan. It is the largest neo-Gothic basilica in the Americas.
The basilica arose from the idea, proposed by father Julio Matovelle in 1883, of building a monument as a perpetual reminder of the consecration of Ecuador to the Sacred Heart, President Luis Cordero issued the decree on July 23, 1883, and it was carried out by president José María Plácido Caamaño on March 5, 1884. The congress, in accordance with the year's budget, designated 12,000 pesos for the construction - 1,000 pesos per month, beginning in 1884. By the decree of July 3, 1885, the fourth Quitense Provincial Council turned the construction of the basilica into a religious commitment in the name of the country. The basilica remains technically "unfinished." & local legend says that when the Basílica is completed, the end of the world will come.
Construction began in 1562, seventeen years after the diocese of Quito was created (1545) and located in the heart of the historic city and its status as the main church of the city, is one of the largest religious symbols of spiritual value for the Catholic community in the city. 
It is one of the seven monumental churches of the 16th and 17th centuries whose main portico was built on stone in the Spanish Baroque-architecture style.
The church includes a small atrium (decorated by a large stone cross), an inside yard with a large garden and a large session hall where the frayers held dissertations or "capitulations" of faith.
The cloister and convent have a separate entrance which leads to the garden. The bell tower reaches a high of twenty-two meters (seventy feet) and houses two bronze bells of the period.
Ecuador is a country of variety. Its climate and landscape varies from one end of the country to the other. However, it is more hot and humid along the coast and in the Amazon jungle lowlands than it is in the mountains.
Ecuador is one of 17 megadiverse countries in the world. In addition to the mainland, Ecuador owns the Galápagos Islands. This is what the country is best known for.
Ecuador has 1,600 bird species and 38 more endemic in the Galápagos. In addition to over 16,000 species of plants, the country has 106 endemic reptiles, 138 endemic amphibians, and 6,000 species of butterfly. The Galápagos Islands are famous as the place of birth of Darwin's Theory of Evolution. They are a UNESCO World Heritage Site.
Many different kinds of potatoes and corn are grown in Ecuador. On the coast, many people eat seafood and fish. Cuy is a famous indigenous food that means guinea pig. 
Ecuador was part of the Spanish Empire. Spain was interested in finding gold in Ecuador. Before Spain, Ecuador was part of the Inca Empire. 
There are large banana farms in Ecuador. Oil is one of Ecuador's natural resources. Ecuador uses the United States dollar for money. Its currency used to be the sucre. 
The president of Ecuador is Rafael Correa Delgado.

</doc>
<doc id="11244" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11244" title="1515">
1515


</doc>
<doc id="11245" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11245" title="1495">
1495

Year 1495 (MCDXCV) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="11246" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11246" title="Orlando, Florida">
Orlando, Florida

Orlando is a city in the center of the U.S. state of Florida. It is the county seat of Orange County. It contains 199,336 people as of 2004. It is number six among cities in Florida by number of people. The current mayor, or leader, of Orlando is Buddy Dyer.
Orlando was created in 1836 when someone found a tree where the name "Orlando Reeves" was carved. Thinking it was a place of burial, they named the site "Orlando's grave". It was cut to Orlando later.
Before the American Civil War, Orlando was a center of trade in cattle. After the war, many people came to the town. Orlando became a city in 1875. Before 1900, Orlando was a center of orange farming. After 1900, it became a popular place for visitors.
Orlando was an important base for the military during World War II, as home of Pinecastle Army Air Field. Lockheed Martin (once Martin Marietta) opened a manufacturing site in Orlando in 1956.
In 1965, Walt Disney said that he would build a large amusement park southwest of the city. That place, Walt Disney World Resort, opened in 1971. Other amusement parks would open after it, like SeaWorld (1973) and Universal Orlando (1990). Orlando is now very popular as a tourism city, attracting millions of visitors each year from every place in the world.
Three hurricanes moved over Orlando in 2004, causing billions of U.S. dollars of damage.
Orlando has a humid subtropical climate ("Cfa" in the Koeppen climate classification). Summers are hot and wet; winters are warm with moderate rainfall.
A major road in Orlando is Interstate 4. Another major road is State Road 408. They meet downtown. Florida's Turnpike also meets Interstate 4 southwest of the city.
Orlando International Airport is one of the biggest airports in the United States.
Amtrak trains and Greyhound buses also go to Orlando.
The Orlando Magic are a basketball team with the NBA in Orlando. They play at TD Waterhouse Centre.
The Orlando Predators are an football team with the Arena Football League in Orlando. They play at the TD Waterhouse Centre.

</doc>
<doc id="11248" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11248" title="1397">
1397


</doc>
<doc id="11250" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11250" title="Orlando (disambiguation)">
Orlando (disambiguation)

The word Orlando has several meanings<nowiki>:</nowiki>
There are several places that have the name<nowiki>:</nowiki>
There are several artistic works that use the name<nowiki>:</nowiki>
The following people use "Orlando" as their surname, or family name<nowiki>:</nowiki>
The following people use "Orlando" as their given name<nowiki>:</nowiki>

</doc>
<doc id="11252" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11252" title="Glossary">
Glossary

A glossary is a list of words and what they mean.  They are usually found at the end of a book or report that uses hard words to read or special words.  Websites about complicated subjects also sometimes have glossaries.
For example, in a book about philosophy that has the word "epistemology", there might be a glossary at the end of the book with the definition of this word.

</doc>
<doc id="11257" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11257" title="1527">
1527


</doc>
<doc id="11258" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11258" title="1373">
1373

Year 1373 (MCCCLXXIII) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
<onlyinclude>
</onlyinclude>

</doc>
<doc id="11259" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11259" title="Comedian">
Comedian

A comedian is a person who tells jokes, or acts in comedies. Some people use the word "comedienne" to refer to female comedians. A comedian can also be called a comic or a comic actor.

</doc>
<doc id="11262" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11262" title="Turin">
Turin

Turin is a major industrial city on the west bank of the Po river in Piedmont, northwest Italy. Over a 900,000 people live in it. Turin is the fourth largest city in Italy, after Rome, Milan and Naples. Turin is the capital of Piedmont. Fiat's first car factory was in Turin. The city was the host of the 2006 Winter Olympics. In Turin there are two major rivers the Po and the Dora, and two minor rivers the Stura and the Sangone.
Turin was the first capital of Italy in 1861. It had previously been the capital of the Kingdom of Sardinia. 

</doc>
<doc id="11264" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11264" title="Hobart">
Hobart

Hobart is a city in Australia. It is the capital city of the state of Tasmania, and it has about 200,000 people. It is on the western shore of the Derwent River, although some of its suburbs are on the eastern shore. Just west of Hobart is Mount Wellington.
Hobart was founded in 1803 as a penal colony. Today it is a busy seaport, and is the home port of Antarctic expeditions. Tourist attractions include Salamanca Markets, the Cadbury chocolate factory and the Cascade Brewery.
Hobart has an oceanic climate ("Cfb" in the Koeppen climate classification).

</doc>
<doc id="11265" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11265" title="New Testament">
New Testament

The New Testament is part of the Christian Bible, and the most important religious writing of Christianity. It tells the story of Jesus Christ, his followers, and the beginnings of Christianity. It was written in Koine Greek.
The New Testament is made up of different parts. In total, there are 27 texts in the New Testament. The Eastern Orthodox Church, the Roman Catholic Church and the Protestant Churches have the same texts, but their arrangement varies; the Syriac Churches and the Ethiopian Churches have different versions. The Syriac Churches do not put Peter 2, John 2 and 3, Jude and the Revelations in the New Testament. The Ethopian Churches do not have a common canon.
Each of the Gospels tells the story of Jesus Christ, or the Messiah, whom Christians believe is the Son of God who is born to save the world from sin. Each of the Gospels tell this same story, with a little more or less detail from the other. Muslims believe that the Quran, also called the Final Testament, succeeded the New Testament.
The traditional author is listed after each entry.
Pauline epistles, the 13 or 14 letters believed to be written by Saint Paul the Apostle
General epistles are other Letters.

</doc>
<doc id="11266" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11266" title="Gospel">
Gospel

The word gospel came from the Old English word "gōdspel", which literally means "good news", since it narrates Jesus Christ's life and teaching to invite anyone to believe that he was born to save the world from sin and make humans truly know God as a Father. It is mostly about the Death and Resurrection of Jesus.
The Gospel was originally spoken, not written.
Eventually gospel came to mean an ancient book about Jesus, especially one of the four books collected by the Church in the Bible.
These books are the first part of the New Testament of the Bible, and are put in a group of this order: the Gospel of Matthew, the Gospel of Mark, the Gospel of Luke and the Gospel of John.

</doc>
<doc id="11270" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11270" title="Palestine">
Palestine

Palestine is a region in the Middle East. It is in the Levant, between the Jordan River and the Mediterranean Sea. Many cultures have lived in Palestine through history and built their civilizations, such as the Philistines, Phoenicians and Arabs. It is also called the Holy Land. It is where Judaism and Christianity began.
Today, the region is divided into two states: Israel and the State of Palestine. The territories in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip have been disputed between Israel and Palestine. with Israel Many cities in the region are sacred to Abrahamic religions: Jerusalem, Bethlehem, Nazareth and Hebron are among the most important.
The name "Palestine" comes from the word "Plesheth", meaning "invaders". In English it is usually written Philistine. The Philistines were a people who invaded the area.They were probably a Greek people, who did not speak Arabic, not too surprising as the Arabs came to Palestine nearly 2000 years later.
Israelites ruled over the region of today's Palestine, which at the time was in an area known as Southern Canaan or the Land of Israel. The area went from Tyre in the north to Beersheba in the south. After the death of King Solomon, the land was split into a Northern Kingdom known as Samaria and Southern Kingdom known as Judea. The Northern Kingdom was conquered by Assyrian King Sennacherib, expelling most of its Israelite residents. Judea was conquered by the Babylonians more than 100 years later, and much of its Jewish population was expelled as well. However, despite the destruction, some Jews and Samaritans remained in the land. After Persian takeover of the Babylonian Empire, more Jews returned to Judea and slowly rebuilt their civilization. The area remained under direct Persian rule for 200 years more, with Jews having a limited autonomy.
With conquests of Alexander the Great of Macedon, the area became dominated by Hellenistic rulers - first Alexander himself, later Ptolemaic rulers of Egypt and finally Seleucids. In second century before common era, the Jewish population of the area revolted against Seleucids and founded an independent Hesmonean kingdom. The Jewish kingdom expanded over the region in the next decades, conquering neighbouring Samaritans, Edomeans and Nabateans. Slowly however, the region became dominated by the Roman Empire.
After a semi-independent rule of King Herod, Judea was turned into a Roman Province. Jews violently revolted against the Romans twice, but the Romans reconquered the whole area and finally renamed it Syria-Palaestina after one of Judea's ancient enemies, the Philistines. After two centuries, the Eastern Roman Empire became known as Byzantium, which became a Christian Empire. Byzantium kept its rule over the country, with Palaestina Prima and Palaestina Secunda districts of the Oriens Province with majorly Byzantine Christian population and big groups of Samaritans, Jews, Greek Byzantines and Christian Arabs.
Over the next centuries, the region was briefly conquered by Persians, became part of Arab Muslim Empire, the Crusader kingdom, the Mamluk Sultanate, the Ottoman Syria, protected by the British Mandate and upon British withdrawal in 1948 taken over by Jordan, Israel and Egypt. The region is often named Holy Land, and is sacred for Muslims, Christans and Jews.

</doc>
<doc id="11271" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11271" title="Paul the Apostle">
Paul the Apostle

Paul of Tarsus, also known as St Paul, (AD 9–67) was a Messianic Jewish-Roman, Turkish writer and rabbi. He wrote the Pauline Epistles in the New Testament. It is believed that he wrote thirteen books of the Bible, all of which are letters to churches and Christians, encouraging them, helping them to understand Christian teaching and helping them to live Christian lives.
Paul's name was originally Saul. He grew up learning both the Jewish law and the Greek ways of discussing things. When the Christian movement began, after the death of Jesus, he was strongly against it. He worked for the Roman Government and helped lead the arrests and killing of many Christians in Israel and the nearby area.
While he was on the road to Damascus in search of Christians there, he had a vision. In the vision Jesus Christ spoke to him, telling Saul that his persecution of Christians was a persecution of Jesus himself, and that it did not please God. Saul was blinded by the vision. A short time later he met Ananias, a disciple of Jesus, and his sight came back to him. (see Acts 22:12)
Saul was baptised as a Christian. He spent the next three years studying the Jewish scriptures again to find explanations for the Christian teachings. His experiences changed his viewpoint completely. He changed his name to Paul and he dedicated his life to serving Jesus Christ. He used his earlier education to explain his new faith to other people, and to discuss things with people who had other beliefs. He traveled around the Roman Empire, teaching others about Christianity, and wrote letters back and forth with the churches he helped to begin. The letters contain many important parts of Christian teaching.
Paul was put to death by orders of the emperor Nero in Rome, in 67 AD. He had the rights of a Roman citizen, which meant that he could be put to death by having his head cut off with a sword, rather than by crucifixion.

</doc>
<doc id="11272" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11272" title="Old Testament">
Old Testament

In Christianity, the Old Testament is the name of the first part the Bible, the one written before Jesus Christ. The Quran calls the Old Testament the "Tawrat".
In Judaism, the collection of inspired books is known as Tanakh; scholars often use the name Hebrew Bible. Both Jews and Christians believe these texts to be holy. According to them, God inspired men to write the collection.
The collection contains different texts, called "books", about God, and the people of Israel. 
It can be divided into several sections: the Torah, the History of Israel, the Prophets and Wisdom books.
The first to have used this name (in Latin: "vetus testamentum") was probably Tertullian in the 2nd century. 
Different religious communities include (or exclude) certain books. The Roman Catholic Church uses the books that were included in Saint Jerome's Latin translation of the Old Testament (his works is called Vulgate). The Eastern Orthodox church uses the ancient Greek translation of Jewish sacred writings called the Septuagint. The Eastern Orthodox list of sacred books has a few more books than the Roman Catholic list. Protestant Bibles stick more closely to the books in the Jewish collection (the Tanakh) but list them in the order found in the Septuagint.
The books of the Old Testament in order from first to last are:
a - Orthodox version: There is an additional book called 1 Esra, this makes the current Ezra -> 2 Ezra<br>
b - Catholic and Orthodox versions; lacking in Protestant versions<br>
c - Can only be found in Orthodox version<br>
d - Protestants have a shortened version<br>
e - Lacking in Protestant versions

</doc>
<doc id="11274" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11274" title="Painting">
Painting

Painting is using colours to make art. It is also the word for a painted work of art. Many kinds of paints are used to create art. They include watercolors, acrylics and oils. Other artists like working with pencil or chalk. Sometimes charcoal can be used. 
Famous paintings are often kept in art galleries, like the National Gallery in London and the Louvre (Paris) where one of the most famous paintings in the world hangs, the "Mona Lisa", painted by Leonardo DaVinci. People do not have to go to a famous gallery to view art. There are private art galleries in many cities around the world.
There is a basic difference between drawing and painting. In drawing, a single layer is the entire image. In painting, one layer is painted over another to get the final image. As a result, most of the time the image will not be clear until it gets to the final stage.
There are four basic stages in painting: preparation, divide, layer, and touchup.

</doc>
<doc id="11275" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11275" title="Horse">
Horse

Horses are mammals of the family "Equidae". The common horse is the species Equus caballus. It was domesticated from wild horses by humans at least 5000 years ago. They are large, strong animals, and some breeds are used to pull heavy loads. Racehorses can gallop up to 30 miles an hour. 
A male horse is a "stallion", and a female horse is a "mare". The general term for a young horse is "foal". A young female horse is a "filly", and a young male horse is a "colt". A castrated horse is a "gelding". Horses have "hooves" which need protection by horseshoes from hard or rough ground. 
The evolution of horses has been well studied. Fifty million years ago, there were no horses as we know them now. Of the earliest fossil horse, the North American one is called "Eohippus", and the Eurasian one is called "Hyracotherium". Both were small animals: "Eohippus" was the larger of the two at twice the size of a terrier dog. 
Many changes took place between those little animals and today's horse. These changes are best explained as adaptations to its changing life-style. From a small forest-dweller eating nuts and fruit to a larger forest browser eating leaves and small branches. Finally, the modern horse is a grazer on open grassland, with different teeth, legs for running and much larger size. Major changes happened in the mid-Miocene when the climate became cooler, and grassland began to replace forests. This change continued, and several groups of mammals changed from browsers to grazers.
Horses have been domesticated for at least 5000 years. They have been used by humans in many different ways for travel, work, food, and pleasure. They are also kept as a pet for humans too.
They are used for riding, as transport, racing, and just plain riding. They are also used for carrying things or pulling carts, or to help plow farmer's fields in agriculture. Horses have also been used for meat, milk, and glue. Today, horses are mostly used for entertainment and sports. They are also still used for work and transportation in some places.
"Equus" is the old Latin word for horse.
Horses are used in equestrianism, which is equine sports such as cross-country, showjumping, dressage, horse polo, rodeo events etc. Showjumping, cross-country and dressage are Olympic sports can be competed together in one event (known as one/three day events) or as separate events
Horsehide is a tough leather made from the skin of horses. Horsehair is used to make a stiff fabric. Horsehair can also be used as a stuffing for furniture. Horsehair can be mixed with plaster to make it strong. 
Horse bones can be used to make gelatin for food. The bones can also be used to make glue. Animal glue is still preferred by some wood workers.
Horses are used all over the world to carry people and pull carts.
They are used by police in big cities. Police horses help police watch and protect people in crowds.
These are some well-known horse breeds:

</doc>
<doc id="11276" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11276" title="Afterlife">
Afterlife

The afterlife is what some people believe happens after death. Different religions teach different things about the afterlife.
Some religions believe in reincarnation (to come back to life as a different person or even animal). These religions include mainly Buddhism and Hinduism.
Hinduism specifically believes that at death the soul leaves the physical body. But the soul does not die. It lives on in a subtle body called the astral body. The astral body exists in a nonphysical dimension called the astral plane. Here the soul continues to have experiences until it is born again in another physical body as a baby.
Most people in the world believe you go to another place after you die, such as heaven or hell. Christianity, Judaism, Islam and Jainism are religions that believe in this. For example, those that follow Christianity believe that if you accept the Christ (Jesus of Nazareth, the son of the Virgin Mary) as your saviour, you will spend eternity in heaven after death; if you do not accept him, you will be separated from him after death. Ancient Egyptians also believed in an `afterlife`.
Others (like African animists) believe that some people change into spirits called ghosts.
There are also those who do not believe that there is an afterlife, and that you simply cease to exist once you die. Atheism is based on refusal of the existence of a God and even in an afterlife. 

</doc>
<doc id="11277" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11277" title="Prayer">
Prayer

Prayer is attempting to talk to God or another supernatural being. It is an important part of many religions. There is no conclusive evidence, but many believe their prayers are answered. Prayer is done by those who trust the power of word and thought. Many religions recognize the creation of the universe by God from words. Jesus taught people to say the Lord's Prayer.
Prayer can be spoken, silent (no talking), or in a song. It can be used to praise a god (including God) or to ask for something including help and forgiveness. Prayers can be said over and over again as in a Rosary or just once.

</doc>
<doc id="11278" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11278" title="Book of Genesis">
Book of Genesis

Genesis (Greek: ἡ γένεσις "origin, birth") is the first book of the Christian Bible. It means "creation". It starts with the start of the Universe. It ends with the death of Joseph. The Hebrew name for the book is transliterated Bre'shiyth, which means 'in beginning.'
God created the universe and everything in it in six days. God rested on the seventh day and declared it a holy day of rest. God provided the Garden of Eden to the first man, Adam, and the first woman, Eve. There was only one thing that they were not allowed to do. God told them not to eat from the tree of knowledge, which would make them aware of good and evil. A snake tricked Eve, and she ate the fruit from the tree of knowledge. Because they did not obey him, God made them leave the garden, and caused all people to work for their food. 
Adam and Eve's first two children were sons, Cain and Abel. Abel was a shepherd and Cain was a farmer. Cain became jealous of Abel and so angry that he killed him, making them the first murderer and the first person to die. (Genesis 4:1–16)
Later, when the world was full of people who were evil, God chose to kill them and save only the animals and the most morally right person alive. He told a man, named Noah, to build a huge boat and gather two of every mammal and lizard onto it. Noah built and filled the boat as he was told, and a flood covered the whole world. After 150 days, the boat landed on the mountain of Ararat. God promised never to send another such flood, and he used the rainbow as a sign of that promise.
The people built a high tower to show the power of mankind. God felt insulted and gave people different languages to prevent the tower from ever being finished.
God chose Abram to be "the father of many nations." Abram changed his name to Abraham, and God promised him the land of Canaan (Israel) forever. As a sign of this promise, the sons of Abraham are circumcised. God tested Abraham's loyalty by asking him to kill his son Isaac. Abraham was ready to do it, but God sent an angel to stop him. God told him there would be no more human sacrifice.
God destroyed the evil cities of Sodom and Gomorrah, saving only Abraham's nephew Lot and his daughters.
Isaac and his wife Rebekah had two twin sons, Esau and Jacob. Jacob traded food to Esau for Esau's right to carry the family name. Rebekah helped trick Isaac, who was old and blind, into giving his final blessing to Jacob by dressing him in fur (Isaac felt Jacob's furs and thought he was his hairy twin, Esau). Esau later got a blessing of his own. 
Jacob left to find a wife. He found Rachel and worked for her father, Lavan, for seven years to marry her, but was tricked into marrying her sister Leah. He worked for another seven years to marry Rachel. He went back to his home, then moved to Bethel, where God told him to change his name to Israel. Jacob later also marries the servants of Leah and Rachel, whose names are Bilah and Zilpah.
Jacob had twelve sons named Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issaschar, Zebulun, Gad, Dan, Asher, Naftali, Joseph, and Benjamin. His wife Rachel died after she gave birth to Benjamin.
Jacob gave his son Joseph a coat of many colors. Joseph's brothers were jealous, so they sold him into slavery in Egypt. They covered his coat in blood and told their father he had died. Joseph became a great leader in Egypt by predicting a long famine by explaining the pharaoh's dreams. During the famine, his brothers came to Egypt to buy food. They did not know that Joseph was the leader. Joseph first tricked the brothers, but then gave them food and let them stay in Goshen in Egypt.
Jacob blessed his sons and then died.

</doc>
<doc id="11279" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11279" title="Joseph (Hebrew Bible)">
Joseph (Hebrew Bible)

Joseph was the first son of Jacob by his second wife Rachel, and the eleventh son Jacob had fathered. He was favored by Jacob as the favorite son, and so was sold into slavery by his brothers in jealously. Despite the predicament, God was with Joseph and so he eventually rose to become his master's attendant. 
After his master's wife tried to get Joseph to have an affair with her and he refused, she had Joseph imprisoned. Eventually the Egyptian Pharaoh began to having strange dreams, and when Joseph successfully interpreted them was given authority over the whole land of Egypt. When a famine arose in Canaan, Joseph's brothers came to ask for his aide, not realizing it was their brother. He then invited his family to move into Egypt. 
Contents[show]
Jacob's wife Rachel, had not been bearing children to her husband.[1] She became jealous of her sister and so had Jacob sleep with a servant Bilhah to bear her children[2]. Rachel's sister Leah became jealous of Bilhah's offspring and when she stopped having children had her servant Zilpah sleep with Jacob in order to compete with her sister.[3] 
When God gave Rachel the ability to conceive, she bore a child named Joseph, as a statement of faith that she would have more children[4]. 
Joseph was a favored child among the sons Jacob because he fathered him in his old age. He gave Joseph an ornate "coat of many colors",[5] which made his brothers angry and jealous of him.[6] At age seventeen, Joseph was a shepherd who attended the flocks alongside some of the other brothers.[7] 
At one point Joseph had a dream: he and his brothers were preparing bales of grain and when Joseph's grain stood up and the brother's grain gathered around and bowed to it.[8] He told this to his brothers,[9] who hated him even more because of it.[10] His brothers became fearful that perhaps Joseph thought he would reign over them eventually.[8] 
Then Joseph had another dream,which he also told his father and mother along with his brothers—he saw the sun, moon, and eleven stars all bowing down before him.[11] This time his father rebuked him for telling the dream, wondering if that meant even he and his mother will have to bow before him.[12] 
One day Joseph's brothers were out working Jacob's fields in Shechem,[13] and so Jacob send Joseph to go visit them.[14] When he got to Shechem and didn't see his brothers, he asked a stranger who told him his brothers went to Dothan.[15] 
So Joseph went to Dothan, and his brothers saw him heading towards them in the distance and so they plotted to kill him.[16] They mockingly called him a dreamer amongst themselves,[17] and planned to kill him and throw him in a well and say that a wild animal killed him.[18] 
Reuben, wishing to save Joseph,[19] told them to just put him in a pit and don't lay a hand on him.[20] Reuben said this as he planned to rescue Joseph and bring him back to their father. 
So when Joseph arrived, his brothers stripped him of his "coat of many colors"[21] and he was dumped into an empty cistern.[22] As Joseph was trapped in the well, his brothers ate a meal and when they saw Ishmaelite traders passing by,[23] Judah suggested that they should sell him and have him be taken away.[24] So when the merchants came by, they raised Joseph out of the well and sold Joseph for twenty pieces of silver,[25] then after he was led away they took his coat and dipped it in fresh goat's blood before showing it to their father.[26] Jacob felt for sure his son had been killed by a wild beast and so mourned for him in sackcloth.[27] 
So Joseph was taken to Egypt[25] and was sold by the Ishmaelites to Potiphar, the captain of the Pharaoh's guard.[28] 
God was with Joseph while in servitude, and blessed him in everything he did. He lived in Potiphar's house.[29] Eventually Joseph found favor with Potiphar and so was made his personal attendant; in charge of managing the entire house and all the property.[30] 
Joseph, being handsome, attracted the attention of Potiphar's wife, who wanted him to to sleep with her.[31] But Joseph refused,[32] saying that his master hasn't kept anything back from him but his wife, and that would[33] be sinning[34] against God. 
Potiphar's wife continuously asked Joseph to be intimate with her, and Joseph refused every time.[35] Joseph kept refusing her[35] until one day when he was alone in the house with the wife,[36] she grabbed him by the coat, and he ran[37] off, leaving the coat in her hand.[38] She then had Joseph framed in front of her husband for "trying to commit adultery" with her and making her "a sport".[39] This angered Potiphar[40][41]. 
So Potiphar imprisoned Joseph in the royal prison.[42] While Joseph was in prison, God was with Joseph showing him kindness and Joseph found favor with the prison warden[43] and so was put in charge of all the prisoners,[44] without supervision.[45] 
At one point the Pharaoh's chief cupbearer and chief baker angered the Pharaoh and so they were imprisoned in the royal prison.[46] Potiphar had jurisdiction over the prison and assigned them under the care of Joseph.[47] While under Joseph's management, both the baker and the cupbearer had dreams on the same night,[48] and Joseph seeing their sadness[49] offered dream interpretations from God.[50] 
In the cupbearer's dream he saw[51] three branches on a vine that budded three bunches of grapes.[52] The Pharaoh's cup was being brought before the Pharaoh and the grapes were squeeze and given to the Pharaoh.[53] Joseph explained that the three branches represented three days[54] and that in that time frame he would be given his role back.[55] Joseph also asked the cupbearer to remember him after his position was restored, and to plead for a release from imprisonment.[56] Joseph went on to tell the cupbearer that he had been forced[42] into prison and did not break any law.[57] The baker seeing Joseph had given a fortunate interpretation went on and told his dream: there were three baskets on his head,[58] with the topmost one having baked goods, and birds were eating from it.[59] Joseph explained that the three baskets are three days,[60] and on the third day he would be released and be hanged for the birds to eat his body.[61] 
So on the third day during the Pharoah's birthday festival,[62] the cupbearer's position was restored[63] while the baker was executed, just as Joseph had predicted.[64] The cupbearer forgot[57] Joseph[65] and so Joseph remained imprisoned. 
Two years later, the Pharaoh had two dreams:[66] one where seven fat cows were eaten by seven thin cows,[67] and another where seven thick stalks of wheat were devoured by seven thin stalks of wheat.[68] So the Pharaoh called for his magicians who were unable to explain the meaning of Pharaoh's dreams,[69] but his cupbearer recalled[57] Joseph who explained the dreams he and the baker had that came true.[70] So Pharaoh had Joseph brought out of prison into his court (after he had been shaved and changed clothes).[71] The Pharaoh then explained to Joseph he had a dream that no one else could interpret. but having heard that he had the ability to do so, he needed him to interpret it.[72] 
Joseph responded to Pharaoh that he could not interpret dreams, but rather God would answer[73] his prayers. Getting word from God, Joseph told him that the dreams were God's message to Pharaoh: the seven fat cows and seven thick stalks of wheat were seven good years of crops, while the seven thin cows and the seven thin stalks of wheat were seven years of famine that would follow after. He advised the Pharaoh to store up grain during the seven good years so that the nation would not perish. Realizing that the Spirit of God was in Joseph, the Pharaoh made him ruler of Egypt and gave him power and authority as second to himself on the throne. During the seven good years, Joseph went out and had all the grain stored up, which was beyond counting. Joseph was given Asenath, the daughter of Poti-Phera priest of On (Heliopolis), as a wife, and she bore him Manasseh and Ephraim. When the seven years of famine started, Joseph began to sell the grain that was stored up to both Egypt and the surrounding nations. 
It was then that Joseph saw his brothers again, when they except for Benjamin were sent to Egypt by their father Jacob to buy grain. Joseph recognized them and treated them rather harshly, accusing them of being spies to see where Egypt was not defended. Joseph put them in prison for three days, and then sent them back to their father while keeping Simeon in custody, telling them to bring their youngest brother with them or else they won't see his face again. He also put their money back in the sacks after having them filled. They would return a year or so later with Benjamin under Judah's care, promising his father his safe return. Joseph then released Simeon unto them and had them eat with him in his house, giving Benjamin five times the portion his brothers were given. Before they left, Joseph had his servant put his silver cup into Benjamin's sack and then go after them and accuse them of stealing the cup he "uses" for "divination". When his brothers found the cup in Benjamin's sack, they returned to Joseph and Judah pleaded for him to take him into custody in place of Benjamin for fear that his father would die if Benjamin was not safely returned. It was at that point that Joseph revealed himself to his brothers and told them to bring their father and their house to Egypt, where they will live. 
Joseph responded to Pharaoh that he could not interpret dreams, but rather God would answer[74] his prayers. Getting word from God, Joseph told him that the dreams were God's message to Pharaoh: the seven fat cows and seven thick stalks of wheat were seven good years of crops, while the seven thin cows and the seven thin stalks of wheat were seven years of famine that would follow after. 
He advised the Pharaoh to store up grain during the seven good years to ensure national survival. Seeing that God was with Joseph, the Pharaoh made him ruler second in command in all of Egypt. Joseph followed through with his own advice, storing immeasurable amounts of grain. Having become a powerful leader, Joseph took a wife of the priestly caste, Asenath, daughter of Poti-phera. Together they would have two sons, Manneseh and Ephraim. 
Two years into the famine, after Joseph had begun to sell the stored grain, ten of his brothers came to Egypt in search of grain for Jacob's extended family back home in Canaan. It had been 15 years, but Joseph recognized them and treated them rather harshly, accusing them of being spies. Having imprisoned them for three days, Joseph kept Simeon in custody, to assure their return with Benjamin, his full brother. 
As the famine continued, Joseph's brothers resisted returning, for they feared for their father's health if he lost Benjamin as he had Joseph. After Judah promised to forfeit his own life if any harm came to Benjamin, the ten brothers returned to Egypt. Upon their return, Joseph released Simeon and invited them to a feast at his palace. For one final test, Joseph had his "divination cup" planted in Benjamin's sack of provisions and sent them back to Canaan, having lavished their youngest brother with five times as much stuff. 
Giving his brothers a small headstart, Joseph sent men to look for his cup. Knowing nothing of the cup, they confidently offered the life of any of them in whose sacks it would be found. Joseph told them that their offers of servitude would not do, but that they could all go free if Benjamin stayed with him. However, seeing Judah's sincerity, and having proven the integrity of his brothers, Joseph revealed himself to his brothers and told them to bring their father and everyone else back to Egypt to live. 
At first, Jacob could not believe that Joseph was a live, but the evidence in the riches from Europe convinced him to bring all the families, servants and livestock down into Egypt. After a glorious reunion, Pharaoh declared some of the best land in the land -- in the delta-- would be their new home. As the sons of Israel settled in, money began to run out in the cities along the Nile. Without money, the heads of households had to submit to servitude to pay for the grain needed for their families. By law, the Egyptians became tenant farmers on their former land, owing a payment of a fifth of their future production to the state. 
Joseph's father Jacob would surprise him as he gave his blessings from his death bed. He gave the double portion to the younger son, Ephraim. Only then his brother receive the prophetic blessings. Having secured an assurance that he would be buried in the family burial ground at Machpelah, Jacob climbed in bed and died. As Joseph's father, Jacob was treated with a state funeral. Many Egyptians had even gone to Canaan to continue their support. 
After their return to Egypt, the brothers feared the wrath of their powerful brother, so they told of how Jacob told them to ask for pardon. Whether the story was true, Joseph held no grudges. He told them not to be afraid, for though they thought to do evil against him, God had planned it for good so that they could be saved. 
Joseph lived to be 110 years old, seeing Ephraim's children to the third generation. His brothers had sworn to bring his bones out of Egypt at such a time as God would bring the people back to Canaan. For the better part of a century he had led a life of service in Egypt. When he died, he had a full state funeral, but unlike Jacob, his body would stay in Egypt until after the exodus. 
During the time of Moses, Joseph's bones were brought out of Egypt, and after the children of Israel had settled in their land, he was buried at Shechem, in the plot of ground which Jacob had bought from the sons of Hamor, the father of Shechem, for one hundred pieces of silver, which had become an inheritance of the sons of Joseph. 
Verses
1.↑ Gen 30:1
2.↑ Gen 30:3-8
3.↑ Gen 30:9-21
4.↑ Gen 30:22-24
5.↑ Gen 37:3
6.↑ Gen 37:4
7.↑ Gen 37:2
8.↑ 8.0 8.1 Gen 37:8 
9.↑ Gen 37:6
10.↑ Gen 37:5
11.↑ Gen 37:9
12.↑ Gen 37:10-11
13.↑ Gen 37:12
14.↑ Gen 37:13-14
15.↑ Gen 37:15-17
16.↑ Gen 37:18
17.↑ Gen 37:19
18.↑ Gen 37:20
19.↑ Gen 37:21
20.↑ Gen 37:22
21.↑ Gen 37:23
22.↑ Gen 37:24
23.↑ Gen 37:25
24.↑ Gen 37:26-27
25.↑ 25.0 25.1 Gen 37:28 
26.↑ Gen 37:29-32
27.↑ Gen 37:33-34
28.↑ Gen 37:36, 39:1
29.↑ Gen 39:2
30.↑ Gen 39:3-4
31.↑ Gen 39:7
32.↑ Gen 39:8
33.↑ Gen 39:9
34.↑ Exo 20:14, Lev 18:20, Rom 13:9, James 2:11
35.↑ 35.0 35.1 Gen 39:10 
36.↑ Gen 39:11
37.↑ Prov 5:8,1 Cor 6:18, 2 Tim 2:22
38.↑ Gen 39:12
39.↑ Gen 39:13-18
40.↑ Gen 39:19
41.↑ Numbers 5:14,29-30; Prov 6:26, 29, 34-35
42.↑ 42.0 42.1 Gen 39:20 
43.↑ Gen 39:21
44.↑ Gen 39:22
45.↑ Gen 39:39
46.↑ Gen 40:1-3
47.↑ Gen 40:4
48.↑ Gen 40:5
49.↑ Gen 40:7
50.↑ Gen 40:8
51.↑ Gen 40:9
52.↑ Gen 40:10
53.↑ Gen 40:11
54.↑ Gen 40:12
55.↑ Gen 40:13
56.↑ Gen 40:14
57.↑ 57.0 57.1 57.2 Gen 40:15 
58.↑ Gen 40:16
59.↑ Gen 40:17
60.↑ Gen 40:18
61.↑ Gen 40:19
62.↑ Gen 40:20
63.↑ Gen 40:21
64.↑ Gen 40:22
65.↑ Gen 40:23
66.↑ Gen 41:1
67.↑ Gen 41:2-4, 18-21
68.↑ Gen 41:5-7, 22-23
69.↑ Gen 41:8
70.↑ Gen 41:9-13
71.↑ Gen 41:14
72.↑ Gen 41:15
73.↑ Gen 41:16
74.↑ Gen 41:16

</doc>
<doc id="11281" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11281" title="Mary Magdalene">
Mary Magdalene

Mary Magdalene is a woman in all four gospels of the New Testament. She became a faithful follower of Jesus after he delivered her from seven demons.
Mary is a saint in the Catholic church. She is remembered on July 22.

</doc>
<doc id="11282" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11282" title="Witness">
Witness

A witness is someone who sees something happen. They are often used in court to help find the truth. During a trial, the two lawyers will bring in witnesses to help back up their arguments. The prosecution lawyer will often bring in the victim of the crime to say what happened, and anyone else who can prove the accused person did the crime. The defense lawyer will nearly always call up the accused person to explain why they are not guilty, and bring in other witnesses who can prove the accused person is not guilty. Each time a lawyer brings in a witness, the other lawyer will "cross examine" the witness - they will ask them questions to make sure they are telling the truth.
Witnesses have to swear to tell the truth during the trial. If a witness lies in court, it is known as "perjury", which is a crime.

</doc>
<doc id="11283" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11283" title="Corinthians">
Corinthians

Corinthians is the name of different things:

</doc>
<doc id="11284" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11284" title="Corinth">
Corinth

Corinth is a city in Greece. It gave its name to the Corinth Canal. This is in the middle of the Isthmus of Corinth, a narrow strip of land which joins the Peloponnese peninsula with mainland Greece. It has a castle called the acrocorinth. Corinth is in the north of Peloponnese. It is a coastal city. It had 60,000 people at the 2011 census. 
During antiquity, Corinth was one of the most important Greek cities. It was often the opponent of Athens and these two cities competed with each other. It founded many colonies in south Italy and Sicily such as Siracusa. Corinth was conquered by Romans in 146 B.C. During Middle Ages, it was an important city with a fortification. In 1460 it came under Turkish rule and it was liberated in 1830, after the Greek War of Independence.

</doc>
<doc id="11285" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11285" title="Cross">
Cross

A cross is a symbol, which is used for many things.

</doc>
<doc id="11304" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11304" title="Peloponnese">
Peloponnese

The Peloponnese is a large peninsula in Greece. It is the part of Greece which is south of the Isthmus of Corinth.
The island of Peloponnese has lots of mountains and coasts, with the highest part being Mount Killini. 
There are four south-pointing peninsulas within the Peloponnese. They are called Messenia, the Mani Peninsula, Epidaurus, and the Argolid.
There are also two groups of islands near the Peloponnese. In the east there are the Argo-Saronic Islands and in the west there are the Ionian Islands. There is also the island of Kythira, which is near to the Epidaurus peninsula. Kythira is often thought of as part of the Ionian Islands.
The Peloponnese has had people living on it since prehistoric times. Its name means "Island of Pelops". Pelops was a person from Greek mythology, who took over the island. During the Middle Ages and the Ottoman Empire, the peninsula was known as the Morea.

</doc>
<doc id="11305" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11305" title="Isthmus of Corinth">
Isthmus of Corinth

The Isthmus of Corinth is a narrow bit of land which connects the Peloponnese peninsula with mainland Greece. It is near to the city of Corinth. The narrow Corinthian Canal cuts through the isthmus, connecting the Aegean Sea to the Gulf of Corinth.

</doc>
<doc id="11306" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11306" title="Tripoli">
Tripoli

Tripoli is a city in Libya. It is the capital of the country. It was originally a Phoenician colony. 

</doc>
<doc id="11308" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11308" title="Argos">
Argos

Argos is a city in Greece. It is in the Argolis prefecture, which is on the Peloponnese peninsula. It is named after the child of Zeus and Niobe in Greek mythology. It is the biggest city in Argolida prefecture but the capital of prefecture is Nauplion. Argos is very historical city. It is considered the oldest city in Greece from ancient Greek writers.
Argos is badass

</doc>
<doc id="11309" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11309" title="Sparta">
Sparta

Sparta is a city in Greece. It is the capital of the Laconia prefecture. It is in the south of Peloponnese peninsula. During antiquity, it was extremely powerful. Today, it is a small city. 16,726 people lived there according to the 2001 census. The word "Spartan" is used to describe somebody who lives a simple life or somebody who suffered a lot without crying or showing that they suffered. It can also mean a life of simplicity, without anything fancy or costly.
Sparta is in the mountainous region of Laconia. This is in the south-east of the Peloponnese. Ancient Sparta was built on the banks of the Evrotas River. The river flows through a valley with mountains on each side. To the west is the Taygetus Range (highest point 2407 m) and to the east is the Parnon Range (highest point 1935 m). Because the ancient Spartans had such good natural defenses, they did not need city walls.
Sparta was known greatly for their military. They were one of the greatest military powers of their time.
Sparta was a city-state with a very strong army and a government that was well led. Sparta was known as one of the strongest city-states in Greece. Only the strongest survived in Sparta, male or female. The Spartans killed weak children. If they believed that a baby was too weak, they left it out to die of exposure beside a slope on Mount Taygetus. This place was called the "Apothetae", which meant 'the place of rejection'.
Young Spartans boys were taken from their homes at the age of seven to begin a military life. The Spartans became soldiers at age 20, citizens at age 30, and retired at age 60. Men trained hard to become warriors of the Spartan army. Women were encouraged to keep healthy so that they could produce healthy, fit babies to grow up to be strong. Spartans saw little moral value in the concept of childbirth; unless the child was fit to become a Spartan, he would die.
Sparta had a government with checks and balances. The executive branch was led by two kings. The legislative branch was led by the citizens. and the judicial branch was controlled by the elders. There was also a committee of five men who were in charge of the education process that young boys and girls went through.
Boys and girls were taken from their parents at the age of 7. Boys went to live in barracks with other boys their age. Girls went to school to learn gymnastics, wrestling, and other activities.
"Laconophilia" is love or liking of Sparta and of the Spartan culture. Sparta was often admired when it ruled. Long ago, "Many of the noblest and best of the Athenians always considered (thought) the Spartan state nearly as an ideal theory realised in practice". Many Greek philosophers, especially Platonists, would often describe Sparta as a good state, strong, brave, and free.
Sparta was also seen as a model of social purity by Revolutionary and Napoleonic France. 
Adolf Hitler thought Sparta was very good. He said in 1928 that Germany should be like them by making smaller "the number allowed to live". The Spartans had created "the first racialist state".
Spartan men married when they were 30 years old. Plutarch writes of the strange custom of the Spartans for their wedding night:
The custom was to capture women for marriage...The...'bridesmaid' took charge of the captured girl. She first shaved her head...then dressed her in a man's cloak and sandals, and laid her down alone on a mattress in the dark. The bridegroom...first had dinner...then would slip in...lift her and carry her to the bed. The husband kept on visiting his wife in secret for some time after the marriage. Only Spartans did these customs. Some people think that the cutting off of the wife's hair was a ceremony that showed she was going into a new life.
Sparta conquered the people of Messenia and Lakonia (the surrounding countryside) at around 680560 BC. These people became known as the "helots". They were "not" slaves: they were serfs. They had a lower position in society, like serfs in mediaeval Europe.
Helots spent their lives farming their Spartan masters "kleros" (land granted to Spartan citizens). The Spartan poet Tyrtaios says helots were allowed to marry and keep half the fruits of their labor. At most times, the helots outnumbered their Spartan masters 10 to 1. They rebelled often, but they were never able to overthrow their oppressors.
Once a Spartan reached the age of 20, he or she would then become a "homoios". A homoios was a member of the ruling class (a citizen). Both men and women were citizens. Sparta was an unusual society for women's rights, because women were considered to be equal. The Spartan army used a formation called the phalanx. This contributed to the many battles Sparta won.

</doc>
<doc id="11312" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11312" title="Olympia">
Olympia

Olympia ( "Olympía") was a place in ancient Greece. It was in Elis, which is now called Ilia; and is in the east of the city Pyrgos. It was the site of the Olympic Games in classical times, the most famous games in history. The Olympic Games were held every four years throughout Classical Antiquity, from the 8th century BC to the 4th century AD. The first Olympic Games were in honour of Zeus.
Olympia was a sanctuary, consisting of various buildings. These included a hippodrome, Palaestra, Gymnasium and several temples. The Olympic Games began here in 776 BC. They were founded by king Pelopas. They happened every four years, in the summers. All the ancient Greek towns competed. The winners of the Olympic games were important people. The Olympic games were abolished by emperor of Byzantium Theodosius I, in 394 AD.
During ancient history, Olympia was a powerful and rich town. It ruled over the west of Peloponnese. Olympia kept its strength and during Roman period. During the Middle Ages it began an unimportant city.
The Gymnasium at Olympia was a large, open air, quadrangle surrounded on all four sides by colonnades of the Doric order. Only the southern and eastern sides survive. They date to the second century BC. The River Kladeos has destroyed the western side. The gymnasium was used by runners and pentathlon athletes for training. Athletes trained in the nude. In bad weather, training took place under the eastern colonnade (210.51 meters) and the other three colonnades. Little of the gymnasium has been excavated. About 200 BC, a portico of the Corinthian order was built to join the gymnasium and the palaestra.
The Hippodrome was the site of horse and chariot races at Olympia, Greece. It was 1,153 meters long. It was south of the stadium, but none of it survives. It was washed away by the Alpheios River.

</doc>
<doc id="11313" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11313" title="Pyrgos">
Pyrgos

Pyrgos is a city in Greece. It is the capital of the Ilia prefecture on the Peloponnese peninsula. Pyrgos is in the west of Peloponnese peninsula. It is in the south of Patras and in the north of Kalamata. It has 24,765 people. Near Pyrgos is the ancient town of Olympia. 

</doc>
<doc id="11314" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11314" title="Thessaloniki">
Thessaloniki

Thessaloniki is the second-largest city in Greece. There were 325,182 people at the census of 2011. Including the suburbs, there were 1,110,312 people. It is in the region of Macedonia in northern Greece. It is the capital of the Thessaloniki prefecture and it is the capital of the periphery of central Macedonia. It is the largest city in the geographical region of Macedonia. It has a humid subtropical climate ("Cfa" in the Koeppen climate classification).
Thessaloniki was established by King Cassander of Macedon, friend of Alexander the Great in the fourth century B.C. He named the city after the sister of Alexander the Great, princess Thessalonike, which in Greek means "victory over Thessaly". From late antiquity to the late Middle Ages (330AD-1430AD) it was the second most important city of Byzantine Empire. Then Thessaloniki faced many invasions from enemies such as the Avaroi, Bulgars and others. In the year 1204, the crusaders conquered Thessaloniki and created the Kingdom of Thessalonica. Later it was liberated by Byzantines and then sold to the Republic of Venice but the year 1430, it was conquered by the Ottoman Empire. Thessaloniki was a part of Ottoman Empire for aproximately 500 years and in 1912 it became part of Greece when Greece acquired Macedonia following the Balkan Wars. Many famous people have lived or were born here, such as the Roman statesman and philosopher Cicero, many saints like Cyril and Methodius, who invented the Cyrillic alphabet, and Saint Demetrius, who is the patron saint of the city, and many politicians, such as the founder of modern-day Turkey, Mustafa Kemal Atatürk. Most of the city was completely destroyed in a large fire in 1917 and was rebuilt in the 1920s. Thessaloniki was place to both the Salonica and Macedonian fronts during World War 1, this fronts were made of French, Serbian, English, Italian, and a Russian division. This fronts were key in 1918 to the Entente victory over both Bulgaria and Austria. It was later occupied by Nazi Germany during the Second World War, during the Greek Invasion.
Thessaloniki has many sights. The most famous sight in Thessaloniki is the white tower. The White tower was a part of Thessaloniki's ancient walls that were built many times through the ages. Thessaloniki was the second-most well-fortified city in the Byzantine Empire, after Constantinople (Istanbul). The walls can still be seen above the city today and despite the many earthquakes, they are still standing. The city was home to a Roman imperial palace and mausoleum. The palace ruins can be seen today but the mausoleum together with a Roman arch can be still seen standing today. Very important sights of Thessaloniki are the medieval churches such as Agios Dimitrios, Agios Georgios and Agia Sofia. Agios Dimitrios it the largest and oldest Basilica in Greece. Thessaloniki's Christian monuments are part of the UNESCO World Heritage initiative. The city also has many Ottoman monuments, such as the Bey Hammam and the old district of the city near the walls, with its distinctly Turkish architecture. Many museums are in the city and some of them are: Archaeological Museum of Thessaloniki, Museum of the Macedonian Struggle, Jewish Museum, Ethnological Museum of Macedonia and others. 
Thessaloniki is known throughout Greece and the countries nearby as a city with a great nightlife even in winter, when most famous Greek tourist destinations are closed. It is also widely considered the Greek city of love due to its many romantic streets and alleys. 

</doc>
<doc id="11315" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11315" title="Florina">
Florina

Florina is a city in Greece in the region of Macedonia. It is the capital of the Florina prefecture. Its population is 15,265 inhabitants. Florina is build at the foot of Varnus mountain. It is built at an altitude of 600 meter approximately. Around Florina there are many forests. 

</doc>
<doc id="11316" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11316" title="Argolis">
Argolis

Argolis is one of 51 prefectures of Greece. It is on the Peloponnese peninsula. The capital of Argolis is the Nafplio.

</doc>
<doc id="11319" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11319" title="Ilia">
Ilia

Ilia is one of 51 prefectures of Greece. It is on the Peloponnese peninsula. The capital of Ilia is the Pyrgos.

</doc>
<doc id="11320" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11320" title="Achaea">
Achaea

Achaea is one of 51 prefectures of Greece. It is on the Peloponnese peninsula. The capital of Achaea is Patras.

</doc>
<doc id="11321" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11321" title="Arcadia">
Arcadia

Arcadia is one of 51 prefectures of Greece. It is on the Peloponnese peninsula. The capital of Arcadia is the Tripoli.

</doc>
<doc id="11322" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11322" title="Laconia">
Laconia

Laconia is one of 51 prefectures of Greece. It is on the Peloponnese peninsula. The capital of Laconia is Sparta.

</doc>
<doc id="11323" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11323" title="Pella">
Pella

Pella is one of 51 prefectures of Greece. The capital of Pella is the Edessa and the largest town is Giannitsa. It is also the site of the ancient city of Pella, the capital of the kingdom of Macedon where Alexander the Great and Philip II of Macedon lived.

</doc>
<doc id="11324" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11324" title="Attica">
Attica

Attica is one of 51 prefectures of Greece. Attica contains Athens, the capital of Greece. In ancient period was the area of ancient Athenian state. Attica today is the prefecture with the largest number of people in Greece being the area where Athens, the capital of Greece, is. There are about 3,500,000 people. 
Attica is in the south of Greece. It is a peninsula between Peloponnese and Euboea. Its the southest point is the cape Sounion. Attica has five mountains with an elevation over 1000 meters, Parnitha (the highest of all), Penteli, Hymettus, Pateras mountain and Kithairon. Attica has borders with Boeotia prefecture to the north and Corinthia prefecture to the west. Attica is surrounded by the sea of Saronic gulf to the west and South Euboean golf to the east. These seas are a part of Aegean sea.

</doc>
<doc id="11326" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11326" title="Kastoria">
Kastoria

Kastoria is a Greek city and it is one of 51 prefectures of Greece in the region of Macedonia. Kastoria it is built on the bank of lake Orestiada. There are 17,038 people living in the city. Kastoria has an old neighbourhood which is picturesque and it is named Doltso. It has nice old houses with particular local architecture.
The name "Kastoria" means "place of the beavers" which used to live in the lake. These have all been hunted and killed for their fur.

</doc>
<doc id="11327" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11327" title="Kozani">
Kozani

Kozani is a city in northern Greece. It is the capital of Kozani Prefecture and of the region of Macedonia. The population of the city is 38,591, according to 2001 census. In district of Kozani products the main amount of electrical energy of Greece. 

</doc>
<doc id="11328" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11328" title="Magnesia">
Magnesia

Magnesia is one of 51 prefectures of Greece. The capital of Magnesia is the Volos.

</doc>
<doc id="11329" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11329" title="Messinia">
Messinia

Messinia is one of 51 prefectures of Greece. The capital of Messinia is the Kalamata.

</doc>
<doc id="11330" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11330" title="Chalkidiki">
Chalkidiki

Chalkidiki, also known as Halkidiki or Chalcidice, is one of 51 prefectures of Greece in the region of Macedonia. It is the area of the ending of Central Macedonia which accesses deeply in the Aegean Sea forming three small peninsulas. The capital of Chalcidice is the Polygyros.
Official website

</doc>
<doc id="11331" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11331" title="Euboea">
Euboea

Euboea is an island of Greece. It is also one of the 51 prefectures of Greece. Euboea is the second largest island of Greece. Its total area is 3,655 km. It is in the east of Boeotia and Attica prefectures. The island is surrounded by the Aegean Sea. The capital of Euboea and the biggest city of the island is Chalkida.

</doc>
<doc id="11332" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11332" title="Grevena">
Grevena

Grevena is a Greek city and it is one of 51 prefectures of Greece. Grevena is a small city which is in the west of Macedonia. Its population is 12,037 inhabitants according to 2001 census. It is built at a height of 500 meter approximately. West of Grevena is the mountain range of Pindos with many forests and with a ski center which it is named Vasilitsa. This ski center has a lot of snow throughout the winter. 

</doc>
<doc id="11333" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11333" title="Arta">
Arta

Arta is a Greek city. It is the capital of Arta Prefecture, one of 51 prefectures of Greece. Its population is 24,725. Arta is known because of Arta's bridge. It is an old bridge on the Arachthos river. 

</doc>
<doc id="11334" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11334" title="Trikala">
Trikala

Trikala is a Greek city and it is one of 51 prefectures of Greece. Trikala is in the center of Greece in the Thessaly periphery. According to the 2001 census, 57,914 people lived there. Trikala is built on a large plain. This plain is one of the biggest plain in Greece. In the west of Trikala is the Pindus range. Trikala is crossed by Litheus river.

</doc>
<doc id="11335" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11335" title="Lesbos">
Lesbos

Lesbos is an island in Greece. It is in the northeastern Aegean Sea. It is one of 51 prefectures of Greece. The capital of Lesbos is the Mytilene. According to Classical Greek mythology, Lesbos was the patron god of the island. 
The word 'lesbian' comes from Lesbos. An ancient poet, Sappho, lived on Lesbos. Many of her love poems are written to women.

</doc>
<doc id="11336" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11336" title="Samos">
Samos

Samos is a Greek island. It is the eighth biggest Greek island. It is in the east of Aegean sea. Opposite Samos is the west coasts of Turkey. 
Also Samos is one of 51 prefectures of Greece. The prefecture in addition includes the Ikaria island and Fournoi Island. The capital of Samos is Samos City. The area of the island is 478 km2. It is separated from Anatolia, by the approximately 1 mile wide Mycale Strait. While largely mountainous, Samos has several relatively large and fertile plains. A great portion of the island is covered with vineyards, from which wine is made. The island of Samos is a lush, very  green island with forests and with many places to visit. It is also the birthplace of  the mathematician Pythagoras. Today Samos is an island which attracts tourists from all over the world for the wonderful nature, the impressive mountainous and verdant landscape and the plethora of archaeological sites.
The most interest sight of Samos is the ancient aqueduct. It was construct by the ancient Greek mechanic Eupalinos, so it is called "Eupalinio Orygma" in Greek. It is a big tunnel which is long. It had been constructed to carry water in the town of ancient Samos. Other important places is the ancient town which is in the south of island and the contemporary beautiful villages of Samos.

</doc>
<doc id="11337" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11337" title="Evros">
Evros

Evros is one of 51 prefectures of Greece. The capital of Evros is the Alexandroupoli.

</doc>
<doc id="11338" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11338" title="Evritania">
Evritania

Evritania is one of 51 prefectures of Greece. The capital of Evritania is the Karpenisi.

</doc>
<doc id="11339" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11339" title="Cyclades">
Cyclades

Cyclades is an island group in Greece. The group of Cyclades includes many islands. The larger islands of the group is Naxos, Andros, Tinos, Mykonos, Paros, Milos, Thira (or Santorini), Syros, Amorgos, Ios, Kythnos, Kea, Sifnos, Serifos, Sikinos, Folegandros and Anafi. The group, also includes many others small islands and islets. Also Cyclades is one of 51 prefectures of Greece. The capital of Cyclades is the Ermoupolis in the island of Syros.

</doc>
<doc id="11340" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11340" title="Serres">
Serres

Serres is a Greek city. It is also one of 51 prefectures of Greece. There are 56,400 people in Serres. Serres is built on the large plain. It is in the north of Greece, in the region of Macedonia. It is near the Strymonas river.

</doc>
<doc id="11341" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11341" title="Kilkis">
Kilkis

Kilkis is a Greek town and it is one of 51 prefectures of Greece. It is in the north of Greece, in the region of Macedonia. Kilkis is built on the large plain. It is an agricultural city. It has 19,247 people.

</doc>
<doc id="11342" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11342" title="Chania">
Chania

Chania is a Greek city which is the capital of Chania prefecture. It is in the west of Crete. 55,838 people live there. Chania has an important port which connects Chania with the port of Piraeus. 
Chania had an significant development from 13th century till 17th century. Then it was under Venetian rule. After the Venetians, ruled the Ottomans until 1912. This year Crete was liberated and it is united with Greece.

</doc>
<doc id="11343" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11343" title="Xanthi">
Xanthi

Xanthi is a Greek city and its one of 51 prefectures of Greece. Its population is 46,464 inhabitants. It is located in the north-east of Greece, in the district of Thrace. Many Muslims live in Xanthi. So this city has an oriental color. 

</doc>
<doc id="11344" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11344" title="Batha">
Batha

Batha is one of fourteen prefectures of Chad. The capital of Batha is Ati.

</doc>
<doc id="11348" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11348" title="Biltine Prefecture">
Biltine Prefecture

Biltine is one of fourteen prefectures, or areas, of Chad. The capital of Biltine is Biltine. In 1993, it had a population of 148,807 people and an area of 46,850 square kilometers of land.

</doc>
<doc id="11349" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11349" title="Bourkou-Ennedi-Tibesti">
Bourkou-Ennedi-Tibesti

Bourkou-Ennedi-Tibesti is one of fourteen prefectures of Chad. The capital of Bourkou-Ennedi-Tibesti is the Faya.

</doc>
<doc id="11350" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11350" title="Faya-Largeau">
Faya-Largeau

Faya-Largeau is the largest city in northern Chad. 9,867 people were living there in 1993. It is the capital of Bourkou-Ennedi-Tibesti Prefecture.
The town was first called Faya, then it was renamed Largeau after Chad became a colony of France in 1900. When Chad won independence from France in 1960, the town became called Faya-Largeau.

</doc>
<doc id="11351" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11351" title="Chari-Baguirmi">
Chari-Baguirmi

Chari-Baguirmi is one of fourteen prefectures of Chad. The capital of Chari-Baguirmi is the Ndjamena.

</doc>
<doc id="11352" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11352" title="Guéra">
Guéra

Guéra is one of fourteen prefectures of Chad. The capital city of Guéra is Mongo.

</doc>
<doc id="11354" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11354" title="Kanem">
Kanem

Kanem is one of fourteen prefectures of Chad. The capital of Kanem is Mao.

</doc>
<doc id="11356" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11356" title="Lac">
Lac

Lac can be:

</doc>
<doc id="11357" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11357" title="Logone Occidental">
Logone Occidental

Logone Occidental is one of fourteen prefectures of Chad. The capital city of Logone Occidental is the Moundou.

</doc>
<doc id="11358" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11358" title="Logone Oriental">
Logone Oriental

Logone Oriental is one of fourteen prefectures of Chad. The capital of Logone Oriental is Doba.

</doc>
<doc id="11359" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11359" title="Mayo-Kébbi">
Mayo-Kébbi

Mayo-Kébbi is one of fourteen prefectures of Chad. The capital of Mayo-Kébbi is Bongor.

</doc>
<doc id="11360" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11360" title="Moyen-Chari">
Moyen-Chari

Moyen-Chari is one of fourteen prefectures of Chad. The capital of Moyen-Chari is the Sarh.

</doc>
<doc id="11361" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11361" title="Ouaddaï">
Ouaddaï

Ouaddaï is one of fourteen prefectures of Chad. The capital of Ouaddaï is Abéché.

</doc>
<doc id="11362" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11362" title="Salamat">
Salamat

Salamat is one of fourteen prefectures of Chad. The capital of Salamat is Am Timan.

</doc>
<doc id="11363" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11363" title="Tandjilé">
Tandjilé

Tandjilé is one of fourteen prefectures of Chad. The capital of Tandjilé is Laï.

</doc>
<doc id="11364" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11364" title="Abéché">
Abéché

Abéché is a city in Chad. It is the capital city of the Ouaddaï prefecture.

</doc>
<doc id="11365" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11365" title="Mongo">
Mongo

Mongo is a city in Chad. It is the capital city of the Guéra prefecture.

</doc>
<doc id="11379" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11379" title="Ron Howard">
Ron Howard

Ronald William Howard (born March 1, 1954) is an American actor, director, producer, and screenwriter.
Howard was born in Duncan, Oklahoma. He started acting as a young child. As an actor he was best known for his roles on television, as Opie Taylor on "The Andy Griffith Show" and Richie Cunningham on "Happy Days". He appeared in movies like "The Music Man" (1962) and "American Graffiti" (1973).
He later quit acting and became a director. Some of the movies he has directed are: "Splash" (1984), "Cocoon" (1985), "Willow" (1988), "Apollo 13" (1995), "How the Grinch Stole Christmas" (2000), "A Beautiful Mind" (2001), and "Cinderella Man" (2005).
His father Rance Howard, brother Clint Howard and daughters Bryce Dallas Howard and Paige Howard are also actors, as was his mother, Jean Speegle Howard.
Recently, he returned to television and made the TV show "Arrested Development". 

</doc>
<doc id="11387" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11387" title="Playboy">
Playboy

Playboy is a monthly American men's magazine. It was founded by Hugh Hefner in Chicago, Illinois in 1953. Marilyn Monroe was the magazine's first cover model.
The magazine features articles about men's interests including politics, clothing, sports, consumer goods, men's health, public figures, and more. The magazine previously included nude women, but it was announced in October of 2015 that Playboy would no longer feature nude women in the magazine.
In each issue, a provocatively posed "Playmate of the Month" was featured in a pictorial several pages in length at the center of the magazine with an accompanying "centerfold" photograph. Unlike traditional pin up art, "Playboy" humanized their models by describing their real world jobs, accomplishments, and goals. Starting with the March 2016 issue, the magazine no longer has pictures of nude women. According to the company, "times change."
In 1963! Hefner was arrested for obscenity in Chicago after publishing nude photos of actress Jayne Mansfield on the set of "Promises! Promises!" He was acquitted at trial by a hung jury.

</doc>
<doc id="11394" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11394" title="1845">
1845


</doc>
<doc id="11396" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11396" title="1165">
1165


</doc>
<doc id="11398" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11398" title="1817">
1817


</doc>
<doc id="11406" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11406" title="Larry David">
Larry David

Larry David (born July 2, 1947 in Brooklyn, New York City) is an American actor and writer. He worked as a writer on "Fridays" and "Saturday Night Live". He co-created the television series "Seinfeld". He also created and stars in his own series called "Curb Your Enthusiasm". On the series, he appears as a caricature of himself.

</doc>
<doc id="11415" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11415" title="Joint Base Pearl Harbor–Hickam">
Joint Base Pearl Harbor–Hickam

Joint Base Pearl Harbor–Hickam is a naval base in the U.S. state of Hawaii, on the island of Oahu. Using this base, the U.S was able to have a good position on the advancing Japanese fleet. However, the Japanese bombed Pearl Harbor, on December 7, 1941, which was a surprise. The attack led to America's fighting in World War II. 
Admiral Yamamoto led a surprise attack on Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941. The reason the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor was to destroy the U.S. Navy (Seventh Fleet), and prevent the U.S from stopping the Japanese expansion in Asia.

</doc>
<doc id="11417" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11417" title="Amsterdam">
Amsterdam

Amsterdam is the capital and largest city in the European country of the Netherlands. Amsterdam is famous for its canals and dikes. Unlike most other countries, the national government is not in Amsterdam, but in The Hague.
Amsterdam has about 800,000 inhabitants, two universities and an international airport "Schiphol Airport". About 2.2 million people live in the metropolitan area. The city of Amsterdam is the world's most multi-cultural city. It has people living there from 175 different countries. Also the largest forms of criminalities have been seen in the Netherlands because of Dutch Law gouverment system, the faces of criminals are not shown on the Dutch television. 
A dam was built in 13th century in the river Amstel (that's why the city is called Amsterdam). The old harbor of the city, "Damrak", is now one of the busiest streets in the city. The city was for the first time mentioned in 1275 by count Floris V, count of Holland and Zeeland who gave the people of Amsterdam some more freedom. The city got its city rights probably in 1306; at least soon after the year 1300. The city became a major trading port pretty soon, with a successful trading route to the Baltic Sea. The city grew fast in the 15th century. Because the city basically lies in swamp, the builders of the city had to dig canals to use the digging-ground for getting the living-ground higher. Homes were built on wooden poles, and the canals served as a pretty effective primitive sewer.
The city was one of the first cities in Western Europe to be fairly democratic: Wealthy citizens chose the leaders of the city. Amsterdam declared war on the Spanish in 1578, during the Eighty Years' War. When the city of Antwerp fell to the Spanish in 1585, many people of Antwerp fled to Amsterdam. Antwerp was also a major trading city, and when its people moved to Amsterdam, they took their trading-networks with them. That's why Amsterdam became an even more important trading city after that. This launched the Dutch Golden Age. The number of people living in Amsterdam during the War rose from less than 30,000 in 1570 to over 100,000 in 1622. That number would even rise to 200,000 near the end of the 17th century, making the city a very large city for its time (only London and Paris also had that many people). In the 18th century, the number of people living in Amsterdam fell back to 140,000, ending the Golden Age.
The 19th century was the time for the first trains and trams in Amsterdam. The first train ran from Amsterdam to Haarlem in 1839. The number of people was rising, with about 250,000 living in Amsterdam in 1850, and more than 500,000 in 1900. Amsterdam was a heavy industrialised city by then. Before the Second World War, there were about 140,000 Jews living in Amsterdam. Most of those people did not survive the war. After the war, Amsterdam became a centre of tolerance and culture; to be different is not abnormal in Amsterdam. It is expected that Amsterdam will grow 12.6% until 2025. It will then hold almost 900,000 people, and the metropolitan area will hold almost 2.5 million people by then.

</doc>
<doc id="11418" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11418" title="Paraguay">
Paraguay

Paraguay, officially the Republic of Paraguay (), is a small country in South America. It is landlocked, meaning that it does not touch the ocean. It is bordered to the North and East by Brazil, the West by Bolivia, and the South and Southeast by Argentina. The main languages are Spanish and Guaraní.
Paraguay's population is about 6 million. The ethnic makeup of the population is like the following: Mestizo (mixed European and Amerindian) 80%, European 20%, unmixed Amerindian 1-3%, Asian 1-4%.
Over (20%) of the population lives below the poverty line.
Paraguay has two official languages, Spanish and Guarani. Guaraní is recognized as a national language.
The capital city is Asuncion. Asuncion was founded in 1537 by a man from Spain named Juan de Salazar. Paraguay was a colony of Spain. Paraguay became independent from Spain in 1811.
From 1865-1870 Paraguay lost land and most of its male population in the War of the Triple Alliance against Brazil, Argentina, and Uruguay. It gained land in the Chaco War against Bolivia in the 1930s.
Paraguay's religion is Roman Catholicism. 
The weather is more humid in the east and dryer in the west.
Paraguay has 17 departments and one capital district ("Distrito Capital"). The departments are formed by districts.
The departments are grouped in two geographic regions, separated by the Paraguay river:

</doc>
<doc id="11420" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11420" title="Loch Ness">
Loch Ness

Loch Ness is a loch in the Scottish Highlands. It is also on the Great Glen Fault and part of the Caledonian Canal.
Loch Ness is 36 kilometres long and only 1.5 kilometres wide. It is the second largest Scottish loch by surface area at , after Loch Lomond. Because of its great depth, it is the largest by volume. Its deepest point is . This is deeper than any other loch except Loch Morar. 
It contains more fresh water than all the lakes in England and Wales combined, and is the largest body of water on the Great Glen Fault, which runs from Inverness in the north to Fort William in the south.
In popular legend, it is the home of the "Loch Ness Monster", a myth which was promoted by a faked photograph.

</doc>
<doc id="11421" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11421" title="Gary Burghoff">
Gary Burghoff

Gary Burghoff (born May 24, 1943) is an American actor, artist, and musician. He is probably best known for his role as Walter "Radar" O'Reilly, a company clerk that had extraordinary hearing, in the 1970 movie "M*A*S*H" and on the television series of the same name. Burghoff also has a deformed hand which was hidden on the show by special camera tricks and he held it behind his back a lot.

</doc>
<doc id="11422" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11422" title="1847">
1847


</doc>
<doc id="11423" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11423" title="Fred Gwynne">
Fred Gwynne

Fred Gwynne (born July 10, 1926 - July 2, 1993) was an American actor. He is best known for his role as Herman Munster in "The Munsters". He played Francis Muldoon in "Car 54, Where Are You?". "The Munsters" and "Car 54, Where Are You?" were television situation comedies. He also wrote children's literature.

</doc>
<doc id="11424" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11424" title="Cannabis">
Cannabis

Cannabis is a genus of flowering plants which produces marijuana. There are three species: "Cannabis sativa", "Cannabis indica", and "Cannabis ruderalis".
The cannabis plant's flowers contain a chemical or drug known as THC (short for "tetra-hydro-cannabinol"). Smoking or eating the flower can make a person feel euphoric (very good) or sleepy. The plant is also used to make hemp fibre, and for its seeds and seed oil.
In its natural environment, THC's purpose was to protect itself against being eaten. There are many varieties of marijuana, and those low on THC production are selected for producing hemp and seeds.
Marijuana is an illegal drug in many countries. However, some countries have made marijuana legal. Other countries allow cannabis to be used as medicine when people have certain medical conditions.
Scientists believe that cannabis first grew somewhere in the Himalayas. Evidence of people smoking marijuana goes as far back as prehistory: archaeologists have found burnt hemp seeds at a burial site in what is now Romania. 
The most famous users of cannabis were the ancient Hindus, who called it "ganjika" in Sanskrit ("ganja" in modern Indian languages). According to legend, the Indian god Shiva told his followers to worship the plant. The ancient drug soma was sometimes associated with cannabis.
People in the Persian Empire (what is now Iran) would light giant campfires made of marijuana, exposing themselves and other neighbors to the smoke. The ceremony was known as "the booz-rooz."
Marijuana was also known in ancient Greece, where magicians would burn its flowers in order to cause strange thoughts in the audience members' minds. Historians think that the cult of Dionysus also began in ancient Greece and involved inhaling marijuana smoke."
When a person breathes in the marijuana smoke or eats marijuana, he or she may get a feeling called "getting high" or "getting stoned". Marijuana's most common effects include feeling happy, relaxed, tired, silly or scared; having many ideas about what to do; not being able to think clearly (or remember some things at all); and getting hungry (also called getting "the munchies".) Smoking marijuana changes how people think and feel, making it either harder or easier to solve some problems. Some people who take marijuana feel strange or paranoid (worried that something bad is going to happen).
Hashish (dried resin) is much more concentrated than marijuana (it includes both leaves and flowers). Because of this, people who take large amounts of hashish may feel even stronger effects. They may also see things or hear things that do not exist (these are called hallucinations). They may also have strange thoughts. Some hashish users like the feeling of these visions and thoughts, while others may find them scary. However, people rarely get hallucinations after smoking or eating cannabis.
On December 11, 2013, Uruguay was the first country in the world to make it legal to grow, sell, and use cannabis. Other countries that allow people to have small amounts of marijuana (just enough for them to use personally) include Colombia, Ecuador, Jamaica, the Netherlands, Peru, Portugal, Spain, and Switzerland. In the United States, on January 1, 2014, the states of Washington and Colorado made it legal for people aged 21 or older to buy cannabis.
As of 2016, many different countries and some states in the United States have made it legal for people with certain medical problems to use marijuana as a medicine. Medical use of cannabis is legal in Austria, Belgium, Canada, Chile, Colombia, the Czech Republic, Finland, Israel, the Netherlands, Spain, and the United Kingdom.
In the United States, as of June 2016, 25 states, plus Washington, D.C. and Guam, had legalized medical marijuana. However, using marijuana for any reason is still illegal under federal law.
According to a 1999 report by the Institute of Medicine, marijuana (especially THC) can decrease pain; control nausea and vomiting; and improve appetite. As of June 2016, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures, "Further studies have found that marijuana [helps] some of the symptoms of HIV/AIDS, cancer, glaucoma, and multiple sclerosis.
Marijuana is one of the least dangerous of the commonly used illegal drugs. It is almost impossible to overdose on cannabis. A person would have to smoke their entire body weight in five minutes in order to overdose.
As of 1995, scientists had not shown that smoking marijuana causes lung cancer, even in people who smoke a lot of marijuana for a long time.
It is a common belief that people who use marijuana are less interested in life and may not want to go to school or work (scientists call this "amotivational syndrome"). However, many reports show that people who use marijuana do just as well as non-users, or even better.
A person who is intoxicated ("high" or "stoned") from marijuana could get hurt or killed in an accident if they drive a car. It is not safe to drive under the influence of any intoxicant. However, drivers who are "stoned" are much less likely to get into car accidents than drunk drivers.
"Hard drugs", such as heroin, meth, and cocaine, are chemically addictive. This means that if a person starts taking heroin, meth, or cocaine, that person's body will physically need to keep taking the drug. If they try to stop using the drug, they may become very sick. Marijuana and hashish are not "chemically" addictive, but they can be "psychologically" or habitually addictive. This means that people can get so used to the pleasure marijuana causes that they feel as if they need the drug. Unlike with alcohol, tobacco, and hard drugs, most people who use marijuana can stop taking it when they want, while experiencing only minor withdrawal symptoms. However, while marijuana may not be as addictive as other drugs, people can still become very much addicted to the pleasure of marijuana.

</doc>
<doc id="11442" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11442" title="Nevada">
Nevada

Nevada is one of the United States states. Its capital is Carson City. Other big cities are Las Vegas and Reno.
Nevada was originally founded in 1821 as part of the First Mexican Empire. The Mexican Empire turned into the Mexican Republic in 1823, along with Nevada. 
Fighting between the United States and Mexico started. They fought over what was to become the Southwestern United States and who could own this land. This was called the Mexican-American War. The war ended in an American victory in 1848. Nevada later became an American territory in 1861. It was called the "Nevada Territory". This was not all of Nevada as it is today. The eastern part of Nevada was part of "Utah Territory" and the southern part was part of "New Mexico". In 1859 in the Comstock Lode, gold and silver were first discovered. This started a huge growth in mining in the state which Nevada is known for.
On October 31, 1864, now celebrated as "Nevada Day", Nevada was made the 36th state in the United States. It was given the distinct shape resembling a rectangle with a triangle. It was named "Nevada" meaning "snowy land" in Spanish, because it was snowy in the North. Later, on May 5, 1866, Nevada got its current borders because the Pah-Ute County in Arizona was taken as part of Nevada. It is now Clark County, Nevada. It was also agreed upon that the western part of Utah would become Eastern Nevada.
Tourism is very important to the economy of Nevada. Many people visit Las Vegas, which has many casinos and resorts. It is the only state where prostitution is legal. There is not as much farming as there is in some other states, because Nevada is so dry. However, mining is big in Nevada. More gold is mined in Nevada than in any other state.

</doc>
<doc id="11458" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11458" title="Comoros">
Comoros

Comoros (officially called Union of the Comoros) is a small island nation in the Indian Ocean between Madagascar and mainland Africa. The capital is Moroni on Grande Comore. The population (except for Mayotte) is about 798,000 people.
The Comoros Islands are in the Indian Ocean, between Mozambique and Madagascar. It is the southernmost member state of the Arab League.
There are 4 islands from west to east: Grande Cormore, Moheli, Anjouan and Mayotte. All the islands are of volcanic origin.
Mayotte is French overseas territory. The other islands form the independent state of Comoros.
The country has a history with many "coup d'état" since independence in 1975. As of 2008 about half the people live below the international poverty line of US$1.25 a day.
Mount Karthala, an active shield volcano on Ngazidja, is the country's highest point. It had a minor eruption in May 2006.

</doc>
<doc id="11462" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11462" title="Oat">
Oat

Oats ("Avena sativa") are a type of cereal grain. People use them as food for themselves and other animals, for example, chickens and horses. Oatmeal is made from oats. Oat straw is used as bedding for animals.
Porridge is made only from whole grain oats. It forms an excellent part of a balanced diet for the following reasons:
The wild ancestor of "Avena sativa" and the similar minor crop, "A. byzantina", is the hexaploid wild oat "A. sterilis". Science of DNA shows that the ancestor forms of "A. sterilis" grew in the Fertile Crescent of the Near East. Domesticated oats appear later. They are also far from the Near East, in Bronze Age Europe. Oats are like rye. They are normally thought as a less important crop, i.e. coming from a weed out of the main cereals wheat and barley As these cereals spread into cooler, wetter places, this may have favored the oat weed. This quickly leads to its common use.
Oats are grown all over temperate places. They have a lower summer heat need and are able to survive more rain than other cereals like wheat, rye or barley. Oats are an annual plant, and can be planted either in autumn (for late summer harvest) or in the spring (for early autumn harvest).
Historical attitudes towards oats are very different. Oat bread was first made in England, where the first oat bread factory was made in 1899. In Scotland, are well liked, as a good part of the national diet. The English writer Samuel Johnson, famously wrote in "A Dictionary of the English Language" that the oat was "a grain, which in England is generally given to horses, but in Scotland supports the people." Which the Scottish quickly said back "and England has the best horses, and Scotland the best men."
Oats have many uses in food. Most of the time they are rolled or crushed into oatmeal, or ground into oat flour. Oatmeal is also eaten as porridge, but may also be used in many of baked goods, such as oat cakes, oatmeal cookies, and oat bread. Oats are also an substance used in many cold cereals, in particular muesli and granola. Without cooking, oats may also be taken as food.
Oats are also sometimes used in drinks. In Britain, it is used for making beer. Oatmeal stout is one of many beers using some oats. A cold, sweet drink made of ground oats and milk is a well liked drink in Latin America. 'Oatmeal caudle', made of ale and oatmeal with spices was a usual British drink and well-liked by Oliver Cromwell.
In Scotland a dish called "Sowans" was made by putting the husks from oats in water for a week so that the fine, dusty part of the meal remained at the bottom to be strained off, boiled and taken as food (Gauldie 1981). Oats are also widely used there as a thickener in soups, as barley or rice might be used in other countries.
Oats are also commonly used as feed for horses - as whole or rolled oats or as part of food bits. Cattle are also fed oats, either whole, or ground into a flour using a mill.
Oat straw is prized by cattle and horse makers as bedding, because its soft, almost dust-free, and takes in liquid. The straw can also be used for making corn dollies. Tied in a cotton bag, oat straw was used to soften bath-water.
Things take out of oatscan also be used to make pain less sharp in the skin, as in skin lotions. It is the main substance in the Aveeno line of products.
Oats are mostly thought as "healthy" food. The finding of the healthy cholesterol-lowering properties has led to more liking of oats as human food.
Oat is the only cereal having a globulin or legume-like protein, avenalin, as the major (80%) storage protein. Globulins can be taken up by weak salt water. The more common cereal proteins are gluten and zein. The minor protein of oat is avenin.
Oat protein is almost the same in quality as soy bean protein, which has been shown by the World Health Organization to be equal to meat, milk, and egg protein. The amount of protein of the hull-less oat kernel ranges from 12–24%, which is the highest among cereals.

</doc>
<doc id="11464" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11464" title="Kapingamarangi">
Kapingamarangi

Kapingamarangi is an atoll in the Pacific Ocean. It is part of the Federated States of Micronesia. There are about 700 people living in Kapingamarangi. The inhabitants speak the Kapingamarangi language, a Polynesian dialect.
The Kapingamarangi people live a simple life. They believe that it's not what you have that is important. They help each other, neighbors, relatives, and everybody. They share what they have. The sea provides a significant source of food. And the people are very talented in doing all the different types of fishing.

</doc>
<doc id="11465" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11465" title="Kiribati">
Kiribati

Kiribati (pronounced "KiriBASS") is a country in the Pacific Ocean. It has 33 atolls, groups of tiny islands. The country is near the equator. Its capital is South Tarawa, on the Tarawa atoll.
Kiribati used to be called the Gilbert Islands. In 1892, the Gilbert Islands became a British protectorate with the Ellice Islands (nowadays known as Tuvalu), together called Gilbert and Ellice Islands. Kiribati became an independent republic in 1979.
Kiribati is one of the poorest nations in the Pacific Ocean. It has few natural resources. Tourism is an important industry.
Kiribati signed a "Treaty of Friendship and Territorial Sovereignty" (also called the "Treaty of Tarawa") with the United States in 1979. The USA gave up its claims to the islands of Canton, Enderbury, Hull, Birnie, Gardner, Phoenix, Sydney, McKean, Christmas, Caroline, Starbuck, Malden, Flint, and Vostok in that treaty. 
The official languages of Kiribati are English and Gilbertese.

</doc>
<doc id="11470" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11470" title="Bisexuality">
Bisexuality

Bisexuality is a sexual orientation. Bisexual "(also bi)" people are attracted to both men and women. Some bisexual people love men and women the same and some love one more than the other. A person's sexual orientation can range from only heterosexual to only homosexual, but it can also fall somewhere in between. A person can be mostly heterosexual but have some homosexual feelings. Or a person can be mostly homosexual and have some heterosexual feelings. Some of the people who are somewhere between "only" homosexual and "only" heterosexual are bisexual. Where any person fits in this range is referred to as their sexual orientation.
In 1948, Alfred Kinsey published the Kinsey scale. The Kinsey scale shows that sexuality is a continuum, meaning it moves little by little from heterosexuality to homosexuality. On the Kinsey scale, a "0" is someone who is only heterosexual. A "6" is someone who is only homosexual. Someone who is equally homosexual and heterosexual (bisexual) is a "3".
In biology bisexual can mean an organism that has both male and female organs. This talks mostly about plants. Animals and people who have some male and female characteristics or organs are called hermaphrodites or intersexed.

</doc>
<doc id="11471" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11471" title="Barbados">
Barbados

Barbados is an island country in the Caribbean Sea. The island has an area of about 430 km². Its capital and largest city is Bridgetown. The official language of Barbados is English. Barbados is a popular tourist destination. In 2008, the island had a population of about 284,000 people. About 80,000 live in or around Bridgetown. 
The island is in the western area of the North Atlantic and 100 kilometres (62 mi) east of the Windward Islands and the Caribbean Sea. It is about east of the islands of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, and north-east of Trinidad and Tobago. Barbados is outside of the main Atlantic hurricane belt.
The island's only airport is the Grantley Adams International Airport.
Barbados was first visited by the Spanish around the late 1400s to early 1500s. It first was on a Spanish map in 1511. The native Arawaks may have fled or become slaves. The Portuguese visited in 1536. They brought wild hogs for a good supply of meat whenever the island was visited. The first English ship, the "Olive Blossom", came in 1624. They said the island belonged to the British king James I. Two years later in 1627 the first permanent settlers arrived from England.
Barbados has been an independent country since 30 November 1966. Elizabeth II, Queen of Barbados is the head of state. The Queen is represented locally by the Governor-General. The Prime Minister is the local head of the government.
The Barbados Defence Force has roughly 600 members.
The Barbados Defence Force (BDF) is the name given to the combined armed forces of Barbados. The BDF was established August 15, 1979, and has responsibility for the territorial defence and internal security of the island. The headquarters for the Barbados Defence Force are in the St. Ann's Fort area at The Garrison, Saint Michael.
There are three main components of the BDF:
Force Headquarters — provided administrative and logistical support for the entire force
The Barbados Regiment — this is the main land force component, and encompasses both regular and reserve units.
Barbados Coast Guard — this is the maritime element, with responsibility for patrolling Barbados' territorial waters as well as drug interdiction and humanitarian and life-saving exercises. It too encompasses both regular and reserve units.
Barbados Cadet Corp — Military youth organisation. Includes Infantry and Sea Cadets. This organisation was started in 1904. The first females joined the cadet corps in 1970s to 1980s.
The Cadet Corps has a pledge and also a song. It started with 3 normal units but today has expanded to 22. These units are grouped into Zones. There are also a band, sea cadet and medical units along with a shooting programme.
In 1981 a Cessna 402C entered service as part of the air wing.
Barbados is the easternmost island in the Lesser Antilles. It is flat in comparison to its island neighbours to the west. The highest point of the nation is Mount Hillaby.
The country usually has two seasons. The "wet season" is from June to November. The "dry season" is from December to May.
Barbados is divided into 11 parishes:
St. George and St. Thomas in the middle of the country are the only two parishes without coastlines.
The population of Barbados is about 300,000 people, nearly 90% of that is predominantly of African and Mixed descent, 6% are Asian and 4% Whites. There is also an East Indian minority on the island and Chinese and other ethnic groups.
Most Barbadians are Christians (95%). The most common Christian church is Anglicans (40%). Other Christian churces in Barbados are the Catholic Church, Pentecostals (Evangelicals) Jehovah's Witnesses, Seventh-Day Adventist and Spiritual Baptists. The Church of England was the official state religion. It was ended by the Parliament of Barbados after independence. Other religions include Hindus, Muslims, the Baha'i Faith, Jews and Wiccans.
The influence of the English on Barbados is more noticeable than on other islands in the West Indies. A good example of this is the island's national sport: cricket. Barbados has had several great cricketers, including Sir Garfield Sobers and Sir Frank Worrell.
Citizens are officially called Barbadians. 
In the music business, Rihanna (born Robyn Fenty) is one of Barbados' best-known Grammy winning artists.
In Barbados, the official language is English. But they also speak an English-African Creole language known as Bajan.
Cricket is very popular on the island. Barbadians play on the West Indies cricket team. The country hosted the final of the 2007 Cricket World Cup. 
Obadele Thompson is a world class sprinter from Barbados. Ryan Brathwaite, a hurdler, reached the 2008 Olympic semi-finals in Beijing.
Polo is very popular with the rich on the island.
In golf, the Barbados Open is an annual stop on the European Seniors Tour. 

</doc>
<doc id="11473" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11473" title="Annie">
Annie

Annie (1976 present) is a musical. The book was written by Thomas Meehan. The lyrics were written by Martin Charnin. The music was written by Charles Strouse. "Annie" is based on characters and concepts created by Harold Gray for the comic strip "Little Orphan Annie".
The musical premiered on Broadway at the Alvin Theatre in 1977. It ran for about six years. A West End production opened in 1978. "Annie" won three Tony Awards, including the Tony Award for Best Musical.
Annie lives in an orphanage run by Miss Hannigan. She is chosen from the orphans to spend two weeks with Oliver Warbucks. He grows to love her. When he learns that she wants to find her parents, he offers a large reward. Miss Hannigan, Rooster, and Lily scheme to kidnap Annie, but their plot fails, and they are sent to prison.
"Annie" was made into a movie in 1982 starring Albert Finney, Aileen Quinn, Bernadette Peters, and Carol Burnett.

</doc>
<doc id="11474" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11474" title="James Taylor">
James Taylor

James Taylor (born March 12, 1948) is an American singer and songwriter. He is popular for his songs "Fire and Rain", "You've Got a Friend", and "How Sweet It Is (To Be Loved By You)". Taylor is a Democrat and attended the 2012 Democratic National Convention in support of President Obama's re-election. Taylor even performed during Obama's second inauguration.

</doc>
<doc id="11476" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11476" title="Truro">
Truro

Truro is the capital of Cornwall in South West England. It is the only city in Cornwall, and it is the most southerly city in the British Isles.

</doc>
<doc id="11477" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11477" title="1664">
1664


</doc>
<doc id="11481" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11481" title="San Francisco">
San Francisco

San Francisco is a city in the U.S. state of California. It is famous for the Golden Gate Bridge. With a population of 744,041, San Francisco is the 4th largest city in California behind Los Angeles, San Diego, and San Jose. It is in the northern part of California, between the Pacific Ocean and the San Francisco Bay.
San Francisco was founded in 1776 by the Spanish conquerors. It was called "Yerba Buena" which is Spanish for "Good Herb", because mint grew there in abundance. After the Mexican-American War, Yerba Buena was taken over by the United States. In 1848 it was renamed "San Francisco" and became a city in 1850. The city is famous for its many internet companies and being home to a large gay population.
San Francisco has a warm-summer Mediterranean climate ("Csb" in the Köppen climate classification).

</doc>
<doc id="11484" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11484" title="Pelops">
Pelops

Pelops is a person from Greek mythology. He was the son of Tantalus and Dione and the father of Pittheus, Plisthenes, Atreus, Thyestes, Chrysippus and Copreus. 
According to the mythology, the Peloponesus was named after Pelops.
Tantaus cut Pelops into pieces and served him to the gods in a stew. He was later put back together.

</doc>
<doc id="11487" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11487" title="Job">
Job

A job can mean "some work that has to be done", for example: there are jobs to be done in the house: washing up, mending things that are broken, etc.
A job can also mean: work that a person does to earn money. The word "job" may be used when a person works for someone else "an employer" who pays them for the work. For example, a teacher's job is to teach children or adults. A taxi driver's job is to drive people in a taxi. A firefighter rescues people from burning buildings and puts out fires. A dermatologist's job is to diagnose and treat skin diseases.
The International Labour Organization was established to make people's job conditions better. It became an organization of the United Nations in 1946.

</doc>
<doc id="11501" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11501" title="Organ">
Organ

Organ may be:

</doc>
<doc id="11502" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11502" title="Crop">
Crop

Crops are living plants grown by farmers. Most crops are foods such as grain, vegetables, or fruit. Some crops are for drugs,such as quinine, or fibers such as cotton, or other materials such as rubber or wood. Farms are usually made to grow just one kind of crop. Crops are domesticated plants, most of which have been selected to improve their size, taste and other qualities. 
Growing crops is a part of agriculture.

</doc>
<doc id="11505" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11505" title="Proletariat">
Proletariat

The proletariat (often shortened, ""prole"" in slang) is a term used by communists for a segment of society. It describes the class of workers in urban areas who work in industry or manufacturing. These urban workers are different from the peasants, who are workers who do farming jobs in rural areas. 
The political way of thinking of communism states that the proletariat should have a revolution and take over the means of production. They are often sarcastically referred to as "wage-slaves." 
The proletariat is the laboring bulk of society that does most of the useful, necessary work, and pays most of the taxes. It is also perceived by "capitalists" (another communist term) as being necessary for those reasons: labor and taxes, plus being available to exploit to produce profits.

</doc>
<doc id="11506" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11506" title="Ohio River">
Ohio River

The Ohio River is the one of the most important tributaries to the Mississippi River. It is 981 miles long. It forms boundaries for the states of Ohio, Kentucky, Illinois, Indiana, and West Virginia before finally going to its headwaters in Pennsylvania. It is its widest a little to the left of downtown Louisville, where it is one mile wide. Cities on the Ohio River include Paducah, Kentucky, Cincinnati, Ohio, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. The river begins in Pittsburgh. The Wabash, Kentucky and the Tennessee Rivers flow into the Ohio.

</doc>
<doc id="11521" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11521" title="Croatia">
Croatia

Croatia is a country in Southeastern Europe. Its capital city is Zagreb.
The Republic of Croatia is a small country between the Mediterranean Sea and Central Europe. It was one of the republics of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. It became independent in 1991. It joined the European Union on 1 July 2013.
A very long time ago, in this territory lived Illyrian people and they were ruled by Rome. In the seventh century AD, northern Slavic people came to live in the Balkan peninsula. Austria-Hungary makes the Croatia free from Ottoman empire and was ruled in today's Croatia until 1918. In 1918 it became a part of Yugoslavia which was taken over in World War II. 
After a small war with Italy a fascist dictatorship formed the Independent State of Croatia in 1941. It was not independent for long. Like all other countries in Central Europe the Nazi Germany had strong influence (see also Jasenovac concentration camp).
In 1945, Croatia became a part of new, communist Yugoslavia (Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia) which collapsed in 1991. Croatia is now independent for the second time.
Dalmatia is part of Croatia. Today Croatia is popular for tourists. The country's reliable economy makes it possible for Croatia to join the European Union on 1 July 2013.
Croatia is one of the richest countries of the Balkan Peninsula and of the former Yugoslavia's countries. But Croatia had also the highest cost prices of the whole Central Europe. The average monthly salary/wages in Croatia standing on 739 euro or nearly $1000 USD.
The retirement age for men is 65 years and for women 60 years.
The health care enjoys relative strong protection for the country's inhabitants.
The education is free and required until the child reaches the age of 15. Many choose to continue their studies in high school until the age of 18.

</doc>
<doc id="11523" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11523" title="El Alamein">
El Alamein

El Alamein is a town in Egypt. It is most famous for being the place where the British-led Allies won the Second Battle of El Alamein against the Nazis during World War II. The town also has a very important railroad station, which has been important to all of the battles that have happened in El Alamein.

</doc>
<doc id="11525" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11525" title="Otis Redding">
Otis Redding

Otis Redding (September 9, 1941 - December 10, 1967) was an American singer and songwriter. He was an African American who was born in Dawson, Georgia. He wrote and sang many popular songs. He was killed in a plane crash at the age of 26 in Madison, Wisconsin. Shortly after his death, his song "Sittin' on the Dock of The Bay", went to # 1 on the charts. His music was magnificent and his songs moved many. He was a great man and a talented artist. 
He wrote the song, "Respect", which became a smash hit for Aretha Franklin.

</doc>
<doc id="11526" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11526" title="Black Forest">
Black Forest

The Black Forest (German: Schwarzwald) is a world famous forest in Baden-Württemberg, Germany. 
Important towns are (from north to south): Pforzheim, Calw, Baden-Baden, Offenburg, Freudenstadt, Horb, Villingen-Schwenningen, Titisee-Neustadt and Waldshut-Tiengen. The highest mountain is the Feldberg (1492m). 
The Black Forest is quite popular for hiking, skiing and Nordic walking. In Triberg, at the lake Titisee and in other places you can buy the famous cuckoo clocks. A good way to get known to the Black Forest is to travel on the "Deutsche Uhrenstraße," a "National Scenic Byway." 

</doc>
<doc id="11527" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11527" title="Frankie Avalon">
Frankie Avalon

Frankie Avalon (born Francis Thomas Avallone, in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania on September 18, 1939) is an American actor and singer. He is best known for his starring roles in a series of beach movies in the 1960s. He was known as a teen idol. 

</doc>
<doc id="11528" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11528" title="Celebrity chef">
Celebrity chef

A celebrity chef is a chef who is well known for their cooking, kinds of food, and style of preparation. Many celebrity chefs become famous through television appearances, publishing cookbooks, or having their own restaurant.
Some "celebrity chefs" are:

</doc>
<doc id="11529" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11529" title="Huntz Hall">
Huntz Hall

Henry "Huntz" Hall (August 15 1919 - January 30 1999) was a well-known American actor. He was best known as Dippy in the Dead End Kids series. He made 78 movies.

</doc>
<doc id="11530" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11530" title="Robert Peel">
Robert Peel

Sir Robert Peel (5 February 1788 – 2 July 1850) was a British politician. He established many well-known laws in Britain including the police force and had a brief term as Prime Minister. 
In 1834, he founded the Conservative party out of the old Tory party which was founded in 1678. Peel was a very clever politician in his own right. However, his conviction led eventually led him to go against his party in 1846 by repealing the Corn Laws, following this the party split and were not able to win a majority for 28 years.
In 1835 he published the Tamworth Manifesto, which told people how he wanted the government to be run. He came to power in 1841, defeating the Whig government of Lord Melbourne, and ruled the country until 1846. During this time, Peel's popularity with other party members became lower because many of them thought he was too proud, and disliked the way he changed his mind over many important issues, often without telling them first. The defeat of his Conservative Party in 1846 was followed by a brief period in the House of Commons until his death in 1851, in a horse riding accident.
Peel is one of the famous people who appears on the cover of The Beatles Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band album. 

</doc>
<doc id="11531" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11531" title="Herodotus">
Herodotus

Herodotus was an Ancient Greek historian. He was born at Halicarnassus, town in south-west Asia Minor (now Bodrum, Turkey), probably in 484 BC. He died in 425 BC.
Herodotus was called the "Father of History" by Cicero for his writings about the ancient empires of Babylon, Egypt, and Persia, and about the Ancient Greeks. 
During his life, Herodotus probably told his stories in front of large numbers of people in Greek cities. Some men at the time did this for pay. He is now most famous for his writings about the wars between the Persian Empire and the Greek city-states. He told the story from the Greek side, although the war was mostly finished when he was still a child.
In his books, Herodotus tells us that he travelled a lot. He says that he went to what is now Italy, Ukraine, Egypt, and Sicily. He may also have travelled to Babylon. He often used stories from people he met to write about other places and happenings.
Some people think that Herodotus wrote about things that were not true. This is possible, but it is also possible that he thought these things "were" true. It may also be that he thought that these stories were interesting. His work is important because he lived so long ago and there is very little writing on these subjects from this time.
His works are available today and have been translated for the benefit of those who wish to read him.

</doc>
<doc id="11532" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11532" title="Chinook">
Chinook

A chinook is a warm westerly wind that sometimes flows over Canada's Rocky Mountains in the winter. It can raise temperatures in southern Alberta by twenty or thirty degrees in an hour. A chinook is caused when air flowing off the Pacific Ocean is raised by the mountains and heated as the water vapor in the air condenses. Then it is warmed more as it flows down the other side of the mountains and is compressed. It flows out over the prairie, and may travel as far as the eastern border of Alberta if it is especially strong. The chinook is also called "snow eater", because it can melt snow so quickly.

</doc>
<doc id="11541" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11541" title="Etoumbi">
Etoumbi

Etoumbi is a town in a part of the Republic of the Congo called Cuvette-Ouest.
Recently, there were four outbreaks of the Ebola virus in Etoumbi. Some people think this is because the people that live there ate some dead animals from the forest. In 2003, 120 people died in an outbreak. Because of an outbreak in May, 2005 nobody was allowed in or out of the town.

</doc>
<doc id="11542" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11542" title="Chad">
Chad

Chad (; , officially called Republic of Chad), is a landlocked country in Central Africa. The capital is N'Djamena. (A capital is the city where the government is.) It was owned by the French until 1960. It suffers from poverty, illness, drought, and armed conflicts. In 2011, the population of Chad was 11,525,000.
Arabic and French are the official languages. Islam and Christianity are the most widely practiced religions.
Chad is the world's 21st-largest country. It is slightly smaller than Peru and slightly larger than South Africa. To the north is Libya, to the south is the Central African Republic, to the east is Sudan, and to the west are Cameroon, Nigeria and Niger.
The country's capital is from the nearest seaport Douala, Cameroon. Due to this distance from the sea and the country's largely desert climate, Chad is sometimes called the "Dead Heart of Africa".
Lake Chad is the largest wetland in Chad and the second largest in Africa. Lake Chad was 7000 years ago. Now it is . Chad's highest peak is the Emi Koussi in the Sahara.
The region's tall grasses and large amount of marshes make it good for birds, reptiles, and large mammals. Chad's major rivers are the Chari and Logone.
Since February 2008, Chad is divided into 22 regions. Before it was divided into 14 prefectures.
The regions are:
The largest cities in Chad are:

</doc>
<doc id="11543" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11543" title="Anal sex">
Anal sex

Anal sex is a sex act performed on the anus. Anal sex can involve a penis inserted in the anus, oral stimulation of the anus, using fingers for penetration and using different objects for stimulation.
The anus is a part of the body that is tight and cannot lubricate itself. Because of this, a person should be careful when inserting something without damaging the walls of this organ. Lubrication is often used which can be oil or water-based and is sold commercially.
For a man, pleasure can come from the stimulation of the prostate that is found near the anus. For women, it can come from indirect stimulation of the clitoral legs/G-Spot or the cervix. Both men and women can get pleasure from anal sex because the anus has a lot of nerve endings.

</doc>
<doc id="11544" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11544" title="1248">
1248


</doc>
<doc id="11545" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11545" title="Honor Blackman">
Honor Blackman

Honor Blackman (born 22 August 1925) is a English actress. She was born in Plaistow, Essex. She is best known for her roles in the movie "Goldfinger" and on the television programmes, "The Avengers" and "The Upper Hand" (the British version of "Who's the Boss").

</doc>
<doc id="11546" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11546" title="Hamlet">
Hamlet

The Tragedy of Hamlet, Prince of Denmark is a play by William Shakespeare. It is one of his best-known plays, and many lines have become famous quotations. The play is often just called Hamlet.
"Hamlet" was written between 1600 and 1602, and first printed in 1603.
Claudius murders Hamlet's father and becomes king. He marries Gertrude. Hamlet's father appears as a ghost and tells Hamlet that he was murdered by Claudius. Hamlet kills Polonius because he thinks he is Claudius. Laertes decides to kill Hamlet in revenge. He challenges Hamlet to a sword fight, and puts poison on his own sword. Claudius makes some poisoned wine for Hamlet to drink in case that does not work. In the meantime Gertrude drinks the poisoned wine without knowing, and dies. Laertes pierces Hamlet with a poisoned blade, but then Hamlet stabs Laertes with the same sword. Laertes dies. Hamlet kills Claudius. Hamlet tells everyone that the Norwegian prince, Fortinbras, should be king, and then dies.
The characters in the story are:
Hamlet is one of the hardest parts for an actor to perform. It is one of the largest roles written by Shakespeare. Many people disagree about what Hamlet is really thinking. For many actors, playing Hamlet is one of the most important parts of their career.
There have been many movies made of the play. Most of them show only part of the play, because the entire play is very long. Some of the most famous movies include:

</doc>
<doc id="11547" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11547" title="Director">
Director

A director is someone who is in charge of something. It can mean slightly different things in different places.

</doc>
<doc id="11548" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11548" title="1605">
1605


</doc>
<doc id="11549" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11549" title="Bias">
Bias

Bias means that a person prefers an idea and possibly does not give equal chance to a different idea. Bias can be influenced by a number of factors, such as popularity (for example, a newspaper might be biased towards a particular political party due to their employees sharing the same political beliefs as that party). 
Bias in an article or editorial would show one point of view, using selected facts and quotes to support that point of view. Facts or opinions that do not support the point of view in a biased article would be excluded. For example, an article biased toward riding a motorcycle would show facts about the good gas mileage, fun, and agility. An article biased against motorcycle riding would show facts about risk of injury and noise, and ignore positive facts about motorcycles.
An article biased against guns would show only facts and information that support the author's position. They would list suicides, accidental shootings and other facts showing guns in a negative way. An article biased for guns should show only information that supports the author's position. The positively biased article would list out 'lives saved' by guns, numbers of crimes prevented by civilian gun use, and other facts and data that put gun ownership and guns in a good light.
Bias in writing can also be shown by using bad or slang words to refer to groups of people or things. "Broads" rather than "women"; "murdercycles" rather than "motorcycles". Words or phrasing that make wide assumptions about races or groups of people also indicates bias. "All Chinese people are good at math". 
Bias also means mistakes in measurements. For example, a person may measure the height of another person wearing shoes. The shoes make the height more than the same person without shoes. If the extra height of the shoes (extra bias) was not explained, someone might think that the person had been measured without shoes on. Data with extra parts not explained is called biased data.
Bias also is that someones opinion is different and that they don't like the other persons opinion.
Examples of Bias in Writing

</doc>
<doc id="11552" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11552" title="1701">
1701


</doc>
<doc id="11554" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11554" title="Harpsichord">
Harpsichord

Harpsichords are keyboard instruments that make sound by having the strings plucked with a plectrum. They are thought to have originated when a keyboard was attached to a psaltery. This makes them different from a clavichord where the strings are hit. The piano is therefore closer to a clavichord than a harpsichord. On a piano it is possible to play louder or quieter by playing the keys with more or less force. On a harpsichord the volume (playing louder or softer) cannot be controlled by the way it is played. However, some large harpsichords have several "stops", each one giving a different kind of sound. The largest harpsichords have two manuals (keyboards) which gives more variety. It makes it possible for the right hand to play the tune on one manual while the left hand plays an accompaniment more quietly on the other.
Some small harpsichords were called "virginals", perhaps because they were played by young girls. There are also spinets which were very small and sometimes wing-shaped. They could be picked up and put on a table. 
Harpsichords were very important in music from the Renaissance and Baroque periods. They were used as solo instruments as well as to accompany an orchestra. Some of the most famous composers of harpsichord music are William Byrd (1543-1623), François Couperin (1668-1733), Domenico Scarlatti (1685-1757) and Johann Sebastian Bach (1685-1750).

</doc>
<doc id="11555" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11555" title="The Kingston Trio">
The Kingston Trio

The Kingston Trio was a folk music group from Palo Alto, California who were popular in the 1950s and 1960s.

</doc>
<doc id="11557" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11557" title="The Passion of the Christ">
The Passion of the Christ

The Passion of the Christ is the title of a movie that was produced and directed by Mel Gibson based on sister Catherine Emmerich's visions. It was released in 2004. The movie shows the last 24 hours in the life of Jesus of Nazareth (called by his followers Jesus Christ) as told in the Gospel accounts contained in the New Testament that Christians regard as a part of the Holy Bible.
"The Passion of the Christ" was unusual and controversial for many reasons. All of the speech was in three languages that were spoken at the time of Jesus: Latin, Greek and Hebrew. The movie spent a lot of time showing details of the suffering and death of Jesus, with lots of violent scenes. Mel Gibson said that this was a realistic showing of what happened, though others thought it showed too much violence.
Jewish groups objected to the movie because it showed the Jewish leaders arranging to have Jesus killed. They said that this would cause people to think that modern-day Jews were guilty because of this and increase antisemitism, however this did not happen. The movie makers said that this was not their intention, but this did not stop the objections.
Mel Gibson was unable to get support from movie studios for this movie, and so supplied the money for it (around $25 million) mostly himself. The movie made much more money than expected -around $370 million.

</doc>
<doc id="11558" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11558" title="Depression">
Depression

Depression can mean different things.

</doc>
<doc id="11560" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11560" title="Cavalry">
Cavalry

Historically, cavalry have been soldiers who fought while riding horses. In modern times, "cavalry" means the fast branch of the military, as opposed to the slower infantry (soldiers on foot).
Soldiers have fought on horses ever since people have ridden horses. Because horses are strong, cavalry members can wear more armour than infantry and carry heavier weapons. Because horses are fast, cavalry members can ride into battle more quickly than infantry members.

</doc>
<doc id="11561" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11561" title="Zachary Taylor">
Zachary Taylor

Zachary Taylor (November 24, 1784 – July 9, 1850) was the 12th President of the United States. He served as President from 1849 until his death in 1850. He was a second cousin to James Madison.
Taylor was a general in the United States Army. He led an army during the Mexican-American War. He was selected by the Whigs to be their candidate because he was a famous general. He was the last President to own slaves while in office.
During his term, slavery was a big issue because the Northerners wanted no slavery in the U.S. and wanted to stop newly formed states from allowing slavery. The Southerners believed that they had the right to keep their slaves and people feared that they would choose to not be a part of the United States anymore (which they would eventually do in 1860).
Taylor did not like the idea of the Southern states leaving the United States at all. He threatened to use military force against them if they were to do that.
Taylor never voted until he was 62 years old. He was never a resident of the United States. He was the last President from the deep South for 126 years until Jimmy Carter was elected in 1976.
Sixteen months into his presidency, Taylor died and his vice-president Millard Fillmore became president to take his place.
The Compromise of 1850 (a proposal several laws that would calm down the slavery issue by pleasing both the north and the south) was voted on in Congress shortly after his death.

</doc>
<doc id="11575" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11575" title="Gianni Rodari">
Gianni Rodari

Gianni Rodari (October 23, 1920 in Omegna (Novara) - April 14, 1980 in Rome) was an Italian writer. He was famous for his books for children.

</doc>
<doc id="11578" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11578" title="Montgomery, Alabama">
Montgomery, Alabama

Montgomery is the capital city of the state of Alabama in the United States. In 2000 201,568 people lived there.
Montgomery was started on December 3, 1819 by the merging of New Philadelphia and East Alabama Town. The city became a county seat in 1822. On January 28, 1846, the state capital was moved from Tuscaloosa Montgomery.

</doc>
<doc id="11581" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11581" title="Omaha, Nebraska">
Omaha, Nebraska

Omaha is a city in the state of Nebraska in the United States. The city is home to 408,958 people making it the state's largest city both in population and geography. 
Omaha is known for its Indie music scene. Bright Eyes and 311 are some of the most well known bands to come out of the city. Local music venues include the Slowdown in NoDo and The Waiting Room in Benson.
Connor Oberst, lead singer of Bright Eyes, started Saddle Creek Records in Omaha. The label is named after a street in Midtown Omaha, despite the label being housed in downtown. Saddle Creek Records is the owner of the Slowdown.
Omaha is home to a number national and global headquarters including TD Ameritrade, Berkshire Hathaway, Con Agra Foods, Mutual of Omaha, Woodmen of the World, and Hayneedle. First National Bank of Omaha's headquarters are located downtown at One First National Place, the state's largest building. Billionaire Warren Buffet calls the city home and hosts the annual Berkshire Hathaway shareholders meeting at the Century Link Center in downtown Omaha.
The city hosts the College World Series every year at TD Ameritrade Park, since 2011. The series was formerly hosted at Rosenblatt Stadium prior to its demolition in late 2012. The Series was first held in Omaha in 1960.
Omaha has a humid continental climate (Dfa in the Koeppen climate classification). Summers are hot and quite wet; winters are cold and quite dry. 

</doc>
<doc id="11582" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11582" title="Toledo, Spain">
Toledo, Spain

Toledo is a city in Spain with a population of 75,000. It is a historical city with a lot of monuments. The city was important from the Roman period to the 18th century. It is the capital of the autonomous community of Castile-La Mancha and the Toledo province. Many famous people and artists were born or lived in this city, including Garcilaso de la Vega, Alfonso X and El Greco. A city in Ohio was named after this.

</doc>
<doc id="11583" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11583" title="Tommy Tutone">
Tommy Tutone

Tommy Tutone was a 1980s pop music group. They are best known for their 1982 song "867-5309-Jenny".

</doc>
<doc id="11584" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11584" title="Judas Priest">
Judas Priest

Judas Priest are an English heavy metal band. They formed in Birmingham, England in 1969. They are famous for having two guitar players, named Glenn Tipton and K.K. Downing. The singer, Rob Halford, left the band in the early 1990s because of problems with the other people in the band. He went back to the band in 2003.
On 7 December 2010, the band said they would play their last concert tour during 2011, But they are still a band, and have made a new album called "Redeemer of Souls".
Judas Priest used to be a different band to the one that is together now. The lead singer for this old band was called Al Atkins. Around the same time, guitar player K.K. Downing and bass player Ian Hill put together their own band, and when they were looking for a lead singer, they found Al Atkins. His band called Judas Priest had broken up by then, and he suggested that KK and Ian should use the same name. They kept on using the name even after Atkins left in 1973.
When the band was looking for another singer, Ian Hill discovered the singing talents of his girlfriend's brother, Rob Halford. He joined the band.
During the seventies, the band went through several drummers, including Alan Moore, John Hinch, Simon Phillips and Les Binks.
Before Judas Priest recorded their first album, a second guitar player, Glenn Tipton, joined the band. The first album, Rocka Rolla, came out in 1974. It was not very successful, probably because it didn't have many of the songs that the band were known for playing in live concerts back in those days. They would later be on the band's next album, Sad Wings of Destiny in 1976. That album was followed up by Sin After Sin in 1977. These three albums had a hard rock style that was familiar to bands like Led Zeppelin, and had a psychadelic feel.
The band's fourth album, Stained Class, had less of a psychadelic sound and was rockier sounding. This was the first album to have drummer Les Binks, who had a drumming style that was liked by many fans, and is thought of as important for improving the band's sound. The fitth album, Killing Machine (called Hell Bent for Leather in America because of the original title suggesting murder) was also rockier sounding but had shorter songs. "Hell Bent for Leather" from the album is one of the band's more popular songs. Les Binks left after this album.
It was also during the late 70s/early 80s that Rob Halford started putting together stage costumes of S&M leather and studs. This was done to express that he was gay - he felt like he needed to keep this from the fans in case it would hurt the band's popularity, and he did not come out until 1998. The S&M look was not thought at the time by fans to be a symbol of homosexuality, and it was copied by many other metal bands.
Les was replaced by Dave Holland, who drummed with the band on all their 80s albums.
The band gained much more fame with album #6 in 1980, called British Steel. The album is said to be important for building on what we know as the heavy metal sound and is one of their most popular, including hit songs like "Metal Gods" "Breaking the Law" and "Living After Midnight". The next album, Point of Entry, didn't do as well.
Album #8, Screaming For Vengeance, was a return to success and had the hits "Electric Eye" and "You've Got Another Thing Comin'" Album #9. Defenders of the Faith, had a similar style.
Album #10, however, called Turbo, had more of a pop-metal sound with synthesizers on all the songs and lyrics with sexual themes. This is best demonstrated in the first song "Turbo Lover". It received mixed critic reviews who had doubts about the change in sound. The next album, Ram It Down, mixed the pop metal sound of Turbo with the heavy metal sound of the band's more popular albums.
Dave Holland left the band in 1989, and was replaced with the American Scott Travis - the first non British person to play for the band.
In the summer of the year 1990, the band was involved in a trial where they were blamed for causing two young men to try to kill themselves. These men were 20-year-old James Vance and 18-year-old Raymond Belknap, both American. On 23 December 1985, Vance and Belknap, after hours of drinking beer, smoking weed and apparently listening to Judas Priest, went to a playground at a church with a shotgun to kill themselves. Belknap died instantly after shooting himself, but Vance survived with a disfigured face. Vance died three years after.
Their parents thought they heard "do it" being sung in the band's song "Better By You, Better Than Me" from the Stained Class album (actually a cover of a Spooky Tooth song). They said the words in the song made them shoot themselves. The trial was dismissed in August of 1990 when Rob Halford played a clip from their song called Exciter in reverse, so it sounded like Halford was singing "I asked her for a peppermint, I asked her to get one" (the actual words were "Stand by for exciter, salvation is his task"). He did this to show how any reverse messages in their songs suggesting suicide were accidental.
The band released one of their most popular albums in 1990 called Painkiller. The title song did very well and is a popular Judas Priest song. Fans and critics liked Scott Travis' fast and heavy drumming style, feeling it was better than the more simple slower drumming of Dave Holland.
Halford wanted to make heavier music in the style of newer bands like Pantera, but the band wanted to carry on with the style they were playing. Halford and the rest of the band started arguing which led to his leaving of the band, starting new bands called Fight and 2wo.
The band didn't play together for a few years, until 1996 when they found American singer Tim Owens, who nicknamed himself 'Ripper' after an early Priest song. Owens had been playing in a Priest tribute band before joining the actual band.
They released Jugulator in 1997. The album was a lot heavier and darker than Painkiller and had lyrics describing the end of the world. Reviews were negative about Owens' singing style and the heavier musical style.
Halford and the rest of Judas Priest started speaking again after KK, Glenn and Ian were invited to a wedding of a relative of Halford's. KK and Ian attended and made up with Halford.
However, Tim Owens was still in the band until 2003, bringing out Demolition in 2001. The album has a larger variety of musical styles than Jugulator, but was no more successful.
Their next album was Nostradamus in 2008, which was a concept album (an album telling a story) about a prophet, also called Nostradamus. Reviews were more critical, with negativity towards the album's length of two discs.
Around 2010, media reported that the band planned to break up after one last tour. However, eventually, the band confirmed that they would not be breaking up after the tour but would be doing a lot less touring. K.K. Downing left the band in 2011, after 41 years. He was replaced by Richie Faulkner.
During the tour, the band played at least one song from every studio album apart from the two with Ripper Owens.
The band made a new album after the tour called "Redeemer of Souls", which came out in 2014. The band are still touring although their tours will not last as long due to the elderly ages of some of the band members.

</doc>
<doc id="11585" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11585" title="Palo Alto, California">
Palo Alto, California

Palo Alto is a city in the American state of California that has a population of about 55,000 people. It is in the region called Silicon Valley and close to Stanford University. It is the home of many innovators and entrepreneurs. "Palo Alto" means tall tree in Spanish after a famous redwood that was struck down by lightning in 1955. A diverse population thrives in a city known for its schools, churches, restaurants and mild climate.
Palo Alto is where Apple CEO, Steve Jobs died on October 5, 2011.
Palo Alto is also where Actor Bruce Namet was born and where he died 76 years later

</doc>
<doc id="11586" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11586" title="Everly Brothers">
Everly Brothers

Phil and Don Everly (Phil January 19, 1939 – January 3, 2014 and Don born February 1, 1937) were two brothers from the U.S. state of Kentucky. They started performing in the 1950s and had a lot of famous songs in the 1950s and 1960s. They are considered very influential in rock and roll.
Don was born in Brownie, Muhlenberg County, Kentucky. 
Phil was born in Chicago, Illinois. Phil died at age 74 on January 3, 2014 in Burbank, California from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.

</doc>
<doc id="11587" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11587" title="1896">
1896


</doc>
<doc id="11589" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11589" title="42">
42

42 is a year in the 1st century. It was a common year starting on Monday of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Caesar and Piso.

</doc>
<doc id="11592" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11592" title="Willie Nelson">
Willie Nelson

Willie Hugh Nelson (; born April 29, 1933) is an American country music singer-songwriter, as well as an author, poet, actor, and activist.
Willie Nelson was born in Abbott, Texas on April 29, 1933, during the Great Depression to Myrle Marie (née Greenhaw) and Ira Doyle Nelson. He was born on April 29, 1933, but his birth was recorded by doctor F. D. Sims on April 30. He was named Willie by his cousin Mildred, who also chose Hugh as his middle name, in honor of her recently deceased younger brother. Nelson's ancestry includes English, Irish, and Cherokee. His parents moved from Arkansas in 1929, to look for work. Nelson's grandfather, William, worked as a blacksmith, while his father worked as a mechanic. His mother left soon after he was born, and his father remarried and also moved away, leaving Willie and his sister Bobbie to be raised by their grandparents. The Nelsons, who taught singing back in Arkansas, started their grandchildren in music. Nelson's grandfather bought him a guitar when he was six, and taught him a few chords, and with his sister Bobbie, he sang gospel songs in the local church. He wrote his first song at age seven, and when he was nine, played guitar for the local band Bohemian Polka. During the summer, the family picked cotton along with other citizens of Abbott. Nelson didn't like picking cotton, so he earned money by singing in dance halls, taverns, and honky tonks from age thirteen, and continuing through high school. Nelson's musical influences were Hank Williams, Bob Wills, Lefty Frizzell, Ray Price, Ernest Tubb, Hank Snow, Django Reinhardt, Frank Sinatra and Louis Armstrong.
Nelson is the co-chair of the National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws (NORML) advisory board.

</doc>
<doc id="11593" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11593" title="Africa-Eurasia">
Africa-Eurasia

Africa-Eurasia (also called Afro-Eurasia, Eurafrasia, Afrasia) is a supercontinent and the world's biggest landmass. Around 85% (approximately 5.5 billion) of the World population lives there. It is split into two continents by the Suez Canal into the continents of Africa and Eurasia, the latter of which has been historically further subdivided into Europe and Asia. 
In geopolitics the mainland of Africa-Eurasia (excluding islands such as the British Isles, Japan and Madagascar) has been referred to as the World Island.
The Old World includes Africa-Eurasia and its surrounding islands.
In geological terms, Africa-Eurasia (or Eurafrasia) may be a supercontinent if Africa collides with Europe. One estimate suggests it will happen in 600,000 years, when the southern tip of Spain reaches Africa. If this happens, the Mediterranean Sea will be isolated from the Atlantic Ocean. Africa is expected to collide with Europe completely in 50 million years, closing the Mediterranean.

</doc>
<doc id="11594" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11594" title="1916">
1916

1916 (MCMXVI) was a leap year starting on Saturday of the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="11595" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11595" title="Cemetery">
Cemetery

A cemetery or a graveyard is a place (usually surrounded by a fence) where people bury dead bodies and honor the dead people. Many of them have gardens and other greenery in them to symbolise life and to honor those who are dead.

</doc>
<doc id="11596" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11596" title="Linda Blair">
Linda Blair

Linda Blair (born January 22, 1959 in St. Louis, Missouri) is an American actress. She is best known for her role in the movie "The Exorcist" (1973).

</doc>
<doc id="11597" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11597" title="David Crosby">
David Crosby

David Van Cortland Crosby (born August 14, 1941 in Los Angeles, California, USA) is an American Guitarist, singer and songwriter. He is most famous as a founding member of the bands The Byrds and Crosby, Stills, and Nash.
<br>

</doc>
<doc id="11598" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11598" title="Paul Harvey">
Paul Harvey

Paul Harvey Aurandt (born September 4, 1918; died February 28, 2009) was an American radio host. He was best known for his short radio program called "The Rest of the Story" that was broadcast on many radio stations in the United States. He worked in the radio industry from 1933 to 2009. He also had news programs two times a day, in which he would comment on the headlines and tell some odd news stories.
Harvey died on February 28, 2009 at a hospital in Phoenix, Arizona. His son, Paul Harvey Jr., said, "millions have lost a friend".

</doc>
<doc id="11599" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11599" title="Carbon dioxide">
Carbon dioxide

Carbon dioxide (CO) is a chemical compound. It is a gas at room temperature. It is made of one carbon and two oxygen atoms. People and animals release carbon dioxide when they breathe out. Also, every time something organic is burnt (or a fire is made), it makes carbon dioxide. Plants use carbon dioxide to make food. This process is called photosynthesis. The properties of carbon dioxide were studied by the Scottish scientist Joseph Black in the 1750s.
Carbon dioxide is a greenhouse gas. Greenhouse gases trap heat energy. Greenhouse gases change the climate and weather on our planet, Earth. This is called climate change. Most scientists think that greenhouse gases are causing global warming, the rise of Earth surface temperature.
Carbon dioxide is an end product in organisms that obtain energy from breaking down sugars, fats and amino acids with oxygen as part of their metabolism. This is a process known as cellular respiration. This includes all plants, animals, many fungi and some bacteria. In higher animals, the carbon dioxide travels in the blood from the body's tissues to the lungs where it is breathed out. In plants using photosynthesis, carbon dioxide is taken in from the atmosphere.
Dry ice, or solid carbon dioxide, is the solid state of CO gas below -109.3 °F (-78.5 °C). Dry ice does not occur naturally on earth but is man made. It is colorless. We can use dry ice for making drinks fizzy, killing gophers, and freezing warts. The vapor of dry ice causes suffocation and eventually, death. Caution and professional assistance is recommended whenever dry ice is in use.
At usual pressure it will not melt from a solid to a liquid but instead changes directly from a solid to a gas. This is called sublimation. It will change directly from a solid to a gas at any temperature higher than extremely cold temperatures. Dry ice sublimates at normal air temperature. Dry ice exposed to normal air gives off carbon dioxide gas that has no odor and no color. Carbon dioxide can be liquified at pressure above 5.1 atmospheres.
Carbon dioxide gas that comes off of dry ice is so cold that when it mixes with air it cools the water vapour in the air to fog, which looks like a thick white smoke. It is often used in the theater to create the appearance of fog or smoke.
Chemists get carbon dioxide from cooling air. They call this air distillation. But this method is inefficient. Chemists can also use several different chemical reactions to separate carbon dioxide. Carbon dioxide is made in the reactions between most acids and most metal carbonates. For example, the reaction between hydrochloric acid and calcium carbonate (limestone or chalk) makes carbon dioxide:
The carbonic acid (HCO) then decomposes to water and CO. Such reactions cause foaming or bubbling, or both. In industry, such reactions are used many times to neutralize waste acid streams.
Quicklime (CaO), a chemical that has widespread use, can be made heating limestone to about 850 °C. This reaction also makes CO:
Carbon dioxide is also made in the combustion of all carbon-containing fuels, such as methane (natural gas), petroleum distillates (gasoline, diesel, kerosene, propane), coal or wood. In most cases, water is also released. As an example the chemical reaction between methane and oxygen is:
Carbon dioxide is made in steel mills. Iron is reduced from its oxides with coke in a blast furnace, producing pig iron and carbon dioxide:
Yeast metabolizes sugar to produce carbon dioxide and ethanol, also known as alcohol, in the production of wines, beers and other spirits, but also in the production of bioethanol:
All aerobic organisms produce when they oxidize carbohydrates, fatty acids, and proteins in the mitochondria of cells. The large number of reactions involved are exceedingly complex and not described easily. (They include cellular respiration, anaerobic respiration and photosynthesis). Photoautotrophs (i.e. plants, cyanobacteria) use another reaction: Plants absorb from the air, and, together with water, react it to form carbohydrates:
Carbon dioxide is soluble in water, in which it spontaneously interconverts between CO and (carbonic acid). The relative concentrations of , and the deprotonated forms (bicarbonate) and (carbonate) depend on the acidity (pH). In neutral or slightly alkaline water (pH > 6.5), the bicarbonate form predominates (>50%) becoming the most prevalent (>95%) at the pH of seawater, while in very alkaline water (pH > 10.4) the predominant (>50%) form is carbonate. The bicarbonate and carbonate forms are very soluble. So, air-equilibrated ocean water (mildly alkaline with typical pH = 8.2 – 8.5) contains about 120 mg of bicarbonate per liter.
Industrial carbon dioxide is produced mainly from six processes:
Carbon dioxide can be created with a simple chemical reaction:

</doc>
<doc id="11600" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11600" title="Intermission">
Intermission

An intermission or interval is a break in a performance. An intermission may be twenty minutes or longer: time for people to have a drink and time for the performers to relax. Plays and operas are usually divided into acts. The intermission will come where there is a suitable break between the acts. There are a few operas (e.g. those by Richard Wagner) which are so long that there may be two intermissions.

</doc>
<doc id="11601" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11601" title="David Duchovny">
David Duchovny

David Duchovny (born August 7, 1960) is an American actor. He is best known for his role as Fox Mulder on the television series, "The X-Files". On August 13, 2007, his series "Californication" began airing on the Showtime television network.

</doc>
<doc id="11602" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11602" title="Laramie, Wyoming">
Laramie, Wyoming

Laramie is a city in the U.S. state of Wyoming. It is near the University of Wyoming. It is the county seat of Albany County.
In 2015, Jason Bartlett, a known teller of stories, visited Laramie and had a ribeye. He then left town toward Medicine Bow. He has not been seen in Laramie since.

</doc>
<doc id="11603" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11603" title="Black Death">
Black Death

The Black Death was a pandemic (an epidemic spreading over a large area) that killed millions of people. It started in Europe in 1347, and lasted until 1351. Almost one out of every three people in Europe died from the disease, so about 25 million people.
Today, people think that the disease started in Asia. Most people think that the disease was the bubonic plague. This disease is carried and spread by fleas living on rats. Traders from the Silk Road may have brought the infected fleas to Europe. Another disease that could have been the Black Death is Anthrax. Anthrax could have been spread by cattle. Looking at the quick spread of the disease, Viral hemorrhagic fevers are other ideas for what specific disease the Black Death might have been. 
Fleas started the problem; the infected fleas were carried by black rats. Rats that were carrying the fleas would go into cities. When the fleas bit somebody, they would inject a little bit of the bacteria into the wound. This would cause the person to be infected. Rats were often on ships. This meant the disease spread extremely quickly, all over Europe.
In humans, the disease caused swelling in the groin, under the arms and behind the ears. These swellings were a black and purple colour, hence the name 'The Black Death'. The dark swellings were called buboes. People were in pain and victims died a horrible death. The symptoms could be seen 3-7 days after victims were bitten by a flea.
It killed between a third and two-thirds of Europe's population. Including in the Middle East, India and China, it killed at least 75 million people. 
The same disease is thought to have returned to Europe every generation with different degrees of intensity and fatality until the 1700s. Later outbreaks include the Italian Plague of 1629-1631, the Great Plague of London (1665–1666), the Great Plague of Vienna (1679), the Great Plague of Marseille in 1720–1722 and the 1771 plague in Moscow. There is some controversy over the identity of the disease, but in its virulent form seems to have disappeared from Europe in the 18th century. 
The Black Death had a very big effect on Europe's population. It changed Europe's social structure. It was a serious blow to the Roman Catholic Church and resulted in widespread persecution of minorities such as Jews, Muslims, foreigners, beggars and lepers. The uncertainty of daily survival influenced people to live for the moment, as illustrated by Giovanni Boccaccio in "The Decameron" (1353).
The initial fourteenth-century European event was called the "Great Mortality" by contemporary writers and, with later outbreaks, became known as the 'Black Death'.
The Black Death has been used as a subject or as a setting in modern literature and media. 
Edgar Allan Poe's short story The Masque of the Red Death (1842) is set in an unnamed country during a fictional plague that bears strong resemblance to the Black Death. 
Albert Camus uses this theme too. His novel, The Plague is set against an outbreak of the plague, in Algeria and how people handle it. It was published in 1947. 
Sufferers of the bubonic plague develop fevers, severe flues and buboes that could swell to the size of an average apple. These buboes appear mainly in the groin, armpit and apparently sometimes on the thighs.
The medical knowledge of the time was based on Hippocrates' theory. According to Hippocrates, the body consists of different fluids. If they are in harmony, the person is healthy. If they are not, disease results. Very often, diseases were also seen as a punishment of God. 
Such a theory can of course not account for the spreading of a disease from one person to another one. Spreading of disease was said to occur from bad winds (called "Miasma"). The bad air could also come from within the earth, and thereby cause the disease. Remedies against the disease included to only open windows towards the north, to not sleep during the day, and not to work too hard. 
The Faculty of Medicine of the University of Paris concluded that the Black Death was caused by a bad constellation of Jupiter, Saturn and Mars. This constellation had occurred on 20 March, 1345. They had been asked by Philipp VI about the cause of the disease in 1348. Since the answer was scientifically founded, it was soon taken to be the real cause, and translated into many languages.
Therefore, the doctors often limited their actions to telling people to go to Confession, so that their sins would be forgiven if they died. In the long run, the pandemics caused the doctors to change their ideas on how the human body worked, to get away from the theories of Hyppocrates and Galenos, more towards empirical science. Only 200 years later did Girolamo Fracastoro discover that diseases spread through infection. 

</doc>
<doc id="11604" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11604" title="Liverpool">
Liverpool

Liverpool is a city in Merseyside, United Kingdom which is formed of 30 neighbourhoods.
It was most famous as a port during the late 19th and early 20th century. It is the birthplace of the famous rock group The Beatles. It is also famous because of its football teams, Liverpool F.C. and Everton F.C.
People from Liverpool are called Liverpudlians or Scousers. 
There has been a lot of development work which is part of a regeneration plan for Liverpool. It is because Liverpool was the Capital of Culture for 2008.

</doc>
<doc id="11605" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11605" title="1166">
1166


</doc>
<doc id="11606" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11606" title="Serfdom">
Serfdom

Serfdom is a legal and economic system.
A serf is a worker who has to stay in one area. Serfs were the lowest social class of the feudal society. Serfs were different from slaves. Serfs could have property. In most serfdoms, serfs were legally part of the land, and if the land was sold, they were sold with it. 
Serfdom is the forced labour of serfs, on the fields of the land owners. Serfs got protection and the right to work on the leased fields. Serfs worked in fields, and other agricultural-related works, like forestry, transportation (both land and river-based), work in craft and even in manufacturing.
Serfdom came from agricultural slavery of the Roman Empire and spread through Europe around the 10th century. Most people lived in serfdoms during the Middle Ages of Europe.
In England, serfdom lasted up to the 1600s, in France until 1789. In most other European countries serfdom lasted until the early 19th century. 
All land was owned by landowners - nobility, Church and monarchs. A serf is any peasant who has to do manual labor for someone else in order to get to keep his land. While most serfs were farmers, some serfs were craftsmen - like the village blacksmith, miller or innkeeper.
The serfs had a feudal contract, just like a baron or a knight. A serf's feudal contract was that he would live on and work a piece of land held by his Lord. The serf would get protection in return.
During that time, people said that a serf "worked for all", a knight or baron "fought for all" and a churchman "prayed for all." Everyone had his place and all was right with God's world. The serf did not have as good a position as the knights or barons, but was better than slavery. Serfs had some rights in the feudal contract.
A manorial Lord could not sell his serfs like Romans can sell their slaves. If his Lord sold some land, the serf of that land went with it to serve their new Lord. A serf could not leave his lands without permission. A serf could not sell his lands.
A free man usually became a serf because he owed a large debt. He would make an agreement with the Lord of the land. The Lord would keep him safe, give money for his debt, and give him land to work on, and he would do work for the Lord. All his children would become serfs.
The usual serf "paid" his fees and taxes by working for the lord 5 or 6 days a week. At different times in the year he would do different things. A serf could plough his lord's fields, harvest crops, dig ditches, or repair fences. The rest of his time he could take care of his own fields, crops and animals. 
The big problem for a serf was that he had to do the work for the Lord before he could do his own work. When his Lord’s crops needed to be harvested, his needed to be harvested, too. The Lord would give them very good food when they worked for him. 
The serfs also had to pay taxes and fees. The Lord decided how much taxes they would pay from how much land the serf had, usually 1/3 of their value. They had to pay fees when they got married, had a baby, or there was a war. Money was not very common then, so usually they paid by giving food instead of money.
There were strange tests to decide if something was good enough to be given for taxes. A chicken, for example, had to be able to jump over a fence. That showed that the chicken was young and healthy.
A serf had some freedom. A serf could get and keep property and money. Some serfs had more money and property than their free neighbors. A serf could sometimes buy his freedom.
Serfs could grow what they wanted on their lands. Sometimes their taxes had to be paid in wheat, which is very difficult to grow. They took the wheat they did not give for taxes to the market. Their heirs usually got an inheritance.
The lord could not make the serfs leave his land unless he had good reasons. The lord was supposed to protect them from criminals or other lords, and he was supposed to give them charity during famines.
The rules for serfdom were different at different times and places. In some places, serfdom changed into different types of taxation. 
In different places and times, serfs had to work different amounts. In the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth in the 13th century it was 2 – 3 days a year. In the 14th century, serfs had to work one day per week. They had to work 4 days per week in the 17th century. They had to work 6 days per week in the 18th century. 
Sometimes, serfs were soldiers during war. They could get freedom or even ennoblement for bravery in war. In other cases, serfs could also purchase their freedom, be manumitted by their enlightened or generous owners, or flee to towns or newly-settled land where few questions were asked. Laws varied from country to country: in England a serf who made his way to a chartered town and evaded recapture for a year and a day obtained his freedom.
In many cases, serfs had to get permission from their lord to marry someone who was not a serf for that lord.
Sometimes a serf had to pay money because of something he had done. This is called a fine. A serf had to pay a fine when he inherited money or property. He had to pay a fine if he became a priest or monk. A serf had to pay a fine if his children went to the city instead of staying and being a serf. Serfs had to give their best animal to their lord when they died, so that their children would get to stay on the land. 
Serfs had to pay to use the lord’s grain mill and bread oven. They had to pay to use the lord’s carts to carry their produce. The serfs were very angry about that. Many peasants had to pay a fine because they used their own grain mill. The miller charged a fee called (multure), which was usually 1/24 of the total grain milled. The serfs often thought the millers were not honest. Many lords made the serfs use the lord's oven to bake their daily bread.
Serfdom began to change because lords could make more money just renting the land. Many Lords "freed" their serfs to get cash from their serfs instead of work from them. 
Still, the serfs' lives were not seriously changed; they still had to farm their land, take care of their families and pay their taxes. The main difference was that they could be forced off their lands if they did not pay the rent, or if their Lord decided he wanted to use their fields for raising sheep (for example) rather than corn. 
The lords took the best land for themselves. Even though the serfs were “free”, their life was harder.
The helots in the ancient Greek city-state of Sparta and the peasants working on government lands in ancient Rome worked like serfs, but they did not use that name. They were called coloni, or "tenant farmers”. The Germanic tribes took over the Roman Empire. They took the lands from the wealthy Romans as the landlords but left the economic system of serfdom.
The serfdom of medieval times began with the breakup of the Carolingian Empire around the 10th century. This empire had ruled most of western Europe for more than 200 years. It was followed by a long time when there were no strong central governments in most of Europe.
During this time, feudal lords worked to make serfdom the common way for people to live. Serfdom was the system where great landlords could make sure other people worked to feed them and are forced, legally and economically, to keep doing that. 
This system gave most of the agricultural labor during the Middle Ages. There was slavery during the Middle Ages, but it was not common. Usually they were only slaves to take care of people’s houses. Parts of Europe, including much of Scandinavia, never used serfdom or other feudal institutions. 
In the later Middle Ages serfdom began to go away west of the Rhine even as it grew in Eastern Europe. This was one important cause for the deep differences between the societies and economies of eastern and western Europe.
In Eastern Europe, the rise of powerful monarchs, towns, and an improving economy weakened the manorial system through the 13th and 14th centuries. Serfdom was not common after the Renaissance. 
Serfdom in Western Europe mostly ended in the 15th and 16th centuries. This was because of changes in the economy, population, and laws about what lords could make their tenants do in Western European nations. The end of serfdom in England around 1600 conincides approximately with the start of chattel slavery in the English-speaking parts of the Western hemisphere.
At the same time, there were more protests by serfs and peasants, like Wat Tyler’s Rebellion in England in 1381. This put pressure on the nobility and the clergy to change the system and make it better. The new ways of renting the land gave people more freedom.
The Industrial Revolution helped end serfdoms. Farmers wanted to move to towns to make more money than working in the fields. Land owners also put their money into industries that made more money for them. This caused urbanization.
Serfdom reached Eastern European countries later than Western Europe. It became the main way around the 15th century. Before that time, Eastern Europe had less people than Western Europe. The lords of Eastern Europe tried to make people want to move there from Western Europe. Serfdom developed in Eastern Europe after the Black Death epidemics. That stopped the people moving to Eastern Europe, and many people who were already there died.
There was still serfdom in Russia until February 19, 1861. In Russian Baltic provinces it ended in the beginning of 19th century (Russian Serfdom Reforms). Russian serfdom was different than in other Eastern European countries, because it was not changed by German law and people coming from Germany. The serfdom and manorialism systems were forced by the crown (Tsar), not the nobility.
Some people say that planned economies, especially those based on Soviet-style Communist economics, such as the Soviet collective farm system, are government-owned serfdom. Friedrich Hayek said that in his book "Road to Serfdom" . Mikhail Gorbachev believed that, too. In some Communist countries, farmers were tied to their farms. Some were called kolkhoz which were supposed to be collectives. Some were called sovkhoz which were state-owned. The government used a system of internal passports and household registration (such as China's hukou system) to make people stay on their farms. They had to plant crops according to instructions from the central authorities, especially if they were on state-run farms. These authorities would then "buy" their agricultural produce at low prices and use the money they made to invest in heavy industry.
This kind of serfdom lasted in Russia until 1974 (with a brief break during the Civil War). USSR Government Decree #667 gave peasants identification documents, with an unrestricted right to move within the country. This was the first time in Russian history that had happened. It is possible that a system like this still is happening in rural China.

</doc>
<doc id="11608" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11608" title="Refrigerator">
Refrigerator

A refrigerator is a machine for keeping thing cold. It is sometimes called a fridge or an icebox. People put food and drinks in it, to keep those items cold or good (unspoiled) for a longer time. A refrigerator has a heat pump. It takes heat away from the air inside the fridge. The heat gets added to the air outside. The heat pump is usually driven by an electric motor.
There are also ice boxes available that do not use electricity because they are filled with ice to provide the colder temperature. The ice can keep things cold until the ice melts. These ice boxes can be taken on camping trips. Sometimes they are called coolers. Refrigerator-sized iceboxes were used before electricity was available.
Most modern refrigerators are available in a variety of colours, although normally fridges are white, as shown in the picture. Smaller versions of the popular refrigerator are also used. These are mainly used in hotels, college dorm rooms, they are also popular in Africa, and go by the name of microfridges.

</doc>
<doc id="11611" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11611" title="Janis Ian">
Janis Ian

Janis Ian (born Janis Eddy Fink, April 7, 1951) is an American songwriter, singer, musician, columnist, and science fiction writer. She stated singing folk in the mid-sixties while she was still a teenager. She sang the most in the 1960s and the 1970s, but she's still singing today. In 1975, Ian won a Grammy Award for her song, "At Seventeen".
Ian is openly lesbian and is married to a woman.

</doc>
<doc id="11612" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11612" title="Vilnius">
Vilnius

Vilnius (Belarusian: Вільня; Polish: Wilno; Russian: Вильнюс, formerly Вильно; German: Wilna) is the capital city of Lithuania. It is also the largest city in that country. Vilnius is the largest city and the capital of Lithuania, with a population of 553,904 (850,700 together with Vilnius County) as of December 2005. It is the seat of the Vilnius city municipality and of the Vilnius district municipality. It is also the capital of Vilnius County. Vilnius lies 312 kilometres (194 mi) from the Baltic Sea and Klaipėda, the chief Lithuanian seaport. Vilnius is connected by highways to other major Lithuanian cities, such as Kaunas (102 km/63 mi away), Šiauliai (214 km/133 mi away) and Panevėžys (135 km/84 mi away).
See History of Vilnius
According to the 2001 census by the Vilnius Regional Statistical Office, there were 542,287 inhabitants in the Vilnius city municipality, of which 57.8% were Lithuanians, 18.7% Poles, 14% Russians, 4.0% Belarusians, 1.3% Ukrainians and 0.5% Jews.
The climate of Vilnius is considered as Humid Continental or Hemiboreal by Köppen climate classification. Summers can be hot, with temperatures above thirty degrees Celsius throughout the day. Winters can be very cold, with temperatures rarely reaching above freezing
Vilnius is a cosmopolitan city with diverse architecture. There are more than 40 churches in Vilnius. Restaurants, hotels and museums have sprouted since Lithuania declared independence. Like most medieval towns, Vilnius was developed around its Town Hall. The Old Town, the historical centre of Vilnius, is one of the largest in Europe (3.6 km²). The most valuable historic and cultural sites are concentrated here. The main sights of the city are Gediminas Castle and Cathedral Square, symbols of the capital. The Old Town of Vilnius was inscribed on the UNESCO World Heritage List in 1994. In 1995, the first bronzecast of Frank Zappa in the world was installed near the center of Vilnius with the permission of the government.
Vilnius is the major economic centre of Lithuania and one of the largest financial centres of the Baltic states.
The city has many universities. The biggest are:
Specialized higher schools with the university status are:
Vilnius is the Roman Catholic center of the country, with the main church institutions and Archdiocesan Cathedral located here. There are many churches in the city as there are many monasteries and religion schools. The Church architecture in the city includes Gothic, Renaissance, Baroque and Neoclassical styles, these styles can be foundin the Old Town. Vilnius is considered one of the main centers of the Polish Baroque movement in architecture of churches. Vilnius has been home to an Eastern Orthodox Christian presence since the thirteenth century. A famous Russian Orthodox monastery, named for the Holy Spirit, is located near the Gate of Dawn. St. Paraskeva's Orthodox Church in the Old Town is the site of the baptism of Hannibal, the great-grandfather of Pushkin, by Tsar Peter the Great in 1705. A number of Protestant and other Christian groups are present in Vilnius, most notably the Lutheran Evangelicals and the Baptists.
Islam came to Lithuania in the 14th century from Crimea and Kazan, through the Tatars. Tatars in Lithuania have maintained their religious practices: currently, about 3,000 Tatar Muslims live in Lithuania. There are same few groups of pre-Christian pagan in the city.
The city of Vilnius is made up of 21 elderates that are based on neighbourhoods:
Vilnius is the starting point of the Vilnius-Kaunas-Klaipėda motorway that runs across Lithuania and connects the three major cities. The Vilnius-Panevėžys motorway is a branch of the Via-Baltica.
Vilnius International Airport serves most Lithuanian international flights to many major European destinations.
Vilnius has a public transportation system. There are over 60 bus and 19 trolleybus routes, the trolleybus network is one of the biggest in Europe. Over 250 buses and 260 trolleybuses transport about 500,000 people every day. In the end of year 2007 a new electronic monthly ticket system was introduced.
Vilnius has 14 sister cities.

</doc>
<doc id="11613" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11613" title="1524">
1524

Year 1524 (MDXXIV) was a leap year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="11614" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11614" title="Fungus">
Fungus

A fungus (plural: fungi) is a kind of living organism: yeasts, moulds and mushrooms are types of fungi. The fungi are a separate kingdom of living things, different from animals and plants.
Fungi have cells with nuclei. Their cell walls contain chitin, unlike the cell walls of plants, which contain cellulose. These and other differences show that the fungi form a single group of related organisms, called the Eumycota or Eumycetes. They share a common ancestor and are monophyletic group.
Their basic mode of life is "saprophytic": a fungus breaks down dead organic matter around it, and uses it as food.
Fungi reproduce both sexually and asexually. Some fungi grow mushrooms: these are fruiting bodies. Under the cap there are gills; the gills bear spores that will disperse, and may develop into new fungi. Otherwise, fungi use a sporangium to bear asexual spores by mitosis, or sexual spores by meiosis. The spores are haploid.
Fungi may be single celled or multicellular. Yeast is single-celled, and reproduces either sexually or asexually. Asexual reproduction occurs by simple budding (binary fission).
The mycelium is the vegetative (non-reproductive) part of a fungus. It is usually underground (or inside some another substance), and made of filaments called hyphae.
Hyphae look like threads, or rootlets. The mat of hyphae may be very thickly woven. The fungus uses them to extract nutrients.
Hyphae are usually syncytia. This means the cell walls (septa) are mostly not complete, and the cell nuclei are not separated from each other as in normal cells. Details differ between species.
Symbiosis means living together. Lichens are a symbiosis between a fungus and an alga or bacterium. In this partnership the algal cells live inside the fungus tissue. The end result is a new mat-like life-form which clings to rock and other surfaces. About 20% of all fungi are lichenized.
Another important kind of symbiosis is mycorrhiza. This is when a fungus lives inside plant roots; most trees have mycorrhizal roots, and so do many crop plants. Both sides benefit in this arrangement.
Some fungi cause crop diseases; others cause serious disease in humans. Some are highly poisonous: never eat a mushroom picked in the wild unless you know what you are doing.

</doc>
<doc id="11615" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11615" title="Guernsey">
Guernsey

Guernsey is an island in the English Channel off the coast of Normandy. It is one of the Channel Islands, and is the main administration island of the Bailiwick of Guernsey'. Elizabeth II is the head of state, but it has a government of its own, with its own laws and special status when it comes to taxes.
65,573 people live there.
Guernsey has 10 parishes. These are 
Castel, Forest, St Andrews, St Martins, St Peter Port, St Pierre du bois, St Sampson, St Saviour's, Torteval, Vale.
St Peter Port is the biggest parish by terms of population, with 16,500 people living there.
Guernsey has its own dialect of the Norman language, called Guernésiais. It is spoken by only 2% of the population, but is understood by around 14%. This means that only 1300 people speak it, and most of these people are elderly. Only 1 in every 1000 young people can speak it. 

</doc>
<doc id="11616" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11616" title="Pottery">
Pottery

Pottery is the ceramic material which makes up potteryware. Major types include earthenware, stoneware and porcelain. The place where such wares are made is also called a "pottery" (plural "potteries"). Pottery also refers to the art or craft of a potter or the making of pottery. A dictionary definition is simply clay fired in a kiln. 
Pottery objects are made from damp clay mixed with other materials. They are then fired in a special oven called a kiln at high temperatures. Firing makes the clay hard. The potter may then apply a glaze to the surface before firing the object again. The fired glaze makes the surface of the pottery shiny, decorative and water-tight. 
Some potters make objects which are not useful and are really artistic objects or sculpture. Bare pottery objects without a glaze are called "bisque" or just earthenware. The finest pottery objects, made of porcelain or bone china are quite strong, yet are translucent.
Pottery originated before the Neolithic period. The earliest example we have is from eastern Europe, dating to 25,000 years ago or earlier. It is a female figurine known as the Venus of Dolní Věstonice, from a palaeolithic site in Moravia, Czech Republic. It may have been made as part of a fertility ritual. There are some similar figures from other nearby sites.
Since the invention of agriculture, and the building of cities, containers for food and drink have been found at almost all archaeological sites.

</doc>
<doc id="11618" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11618" title="Screenwriter">
Screenwriter

A screenwriter is a person who writes the screenplay (or script) for a movie or television show - that is, a screenwriter writes the words that the actors and actresses speak. 
A script conveys the dialogue of the movie, and will briefly describe visuals, although not too much, as this is left up to the director. 
There are certain rules as to how to format a movie script. If these are not followed, then it is highly unlikely that it will ever be taken seriously. In order to test the effectiveness of a script, actors will do a first reading of it. If the format is not clear, then it will probably cause the actors confusion, and will make the task very difficult to complete.

</doc>
<doc id="11619" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11619" title="Sacramento, California">
Sacramento, California

Sacramento is the capital of the U.S. state of California. The governor and legislature of California are in Sacramento. About 400,000 people live in Sacramento. About 1,700,000 live in and around Sacramento.
Sacramento comes from Spanish and Portuguese for holy rite. A sacrament is a religious act that gives people "divine grace" (being liked or favored by God.)
Sacramento was started in 1848 by John Sutter. It was a very important place during the California Gold Rush. The Gold Rush was the time after gold was found in California. Many people came to California to find gold. They did this to make money. During the Gold Rush, Sacramento was where the railroad ended. It was also where the Pony Express stopped.
Sacramento is near where the American River meets the Sacramento River. This was important when Sacramento was founded. It meant that ships could bring things to Sacramento from the Pacific Ocean. Sacramento was a "railroad town". This made Sacramento a "port town". This made it a "very" important place for business.

</doc>
<doc id="11620" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11620" title="Alexander Scriabin">
Alexander Scriabin

Alexander Scriabin (also spelt: Skryabin) (born Moscow January 6 1872; died Moscow April 27 1915) was a famous Russian composer and pianist. He wrote music for the orchestra and for the piano. His music belongs to the Late Romantic period, but his later works sound quite modern, and he was influenced by Impressionism. He had some very unusual ideas about combining all the arts into one work.
Scriabin was the only child in a family which had an aristocratic background. He was always proud of having been born on Christmas Day (6 January is Christmas Day in the Russian Orthodox church). His mother died when he was a year old and his father spent most of his time abroad working as a diplomat. He was looked after by his aunt, grandmother and great-aunt, all of whom fussed over him so that he was a very spoilt child. When he grew up he was very short and his hands could only just stretch one octave (eight notes) on the piano.
Scriabin was educated in the Moscow Cadet Corps. He learned to play the piano and became friends with the composer Sergei Rachmaninoff who was just one year younger. He won the second gold medal ever to be awarded at the Moscow Conservatoire (Rachmaninoff had won the first one). He practised a piece called "Islamey" by Balakirev but damaged his right hand doing it. He still managed to continue his career as a pianist, but he wrote a few piano pieces for the left hand only. In 1895 he toured through many countries in Europe giving concerts and composing a lot of piano music. He married in 1897. He went with his wife to Odessa where he played his Piano Concerto and then spent several months in Paris. He taught at the Moscow Conservatoire and wrote some important orchestral music. Later he left his wife and children and went to Europe for several years with another woman. She inspired a lot of his music. Scriabin continued to travel and play the piano until the end of his life. When he was in London in 1914 he had a boil on his lip, which got steadily worse until he died a year later.
Scriabin liked the music of Chopin and he wrote a lot of short pieces called Preludes which show Chopin’s influence. As he got older his music became more and more personal. He was very egocentric (thought only about himself and not about other people) and he had some strange ideas. He wanted to write a work which combined all the arts and all the senses: music, dance, poetry, colours and even smells. He wanted this work to be performed beside a lake in India. This work was never finished or performed, and we do not know whether he seriously thought it would happen, but he did buy himself a sun helmet.
Scriabin tried using different harmonies in his music. He had a favourite chord which he called his “mystic chord” (from the bottom upwards: C, F sharp, B flat, E, A, D). He used it in lots of ways. His orchestral works include a Piano Concerto, 3 symphonies, "Le poème de l’extase" ("The poem of extasy") and "Prométhée, le poème du feu" ("Prometheus, the poem of fire"). His music which is mysterious and dream-like and shares some similarity French Impressionist composers like Debussy.

</doc>
<doc id="11621" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11621" title="Robert Mugabe">
Robert Mugabe

Robert Gabriel Mugabe (born 21 February 1924) is the President of Zimbabwe. He has been the president since 1987. Before that, he was Prime Minister, the head of government, after being elected in 1980. Especially in the last few years, Mugabe has ruled his country in the style of a dictator.
His first years as leader were prosperous. He introduced land reforms, which were supposed to give the land claimed by white people back to the (original) black owners. This has had a serious impact on how the country is seen from outside. In recent years, Mugabe has allowed violence against the white citizens of the country as well as to opposition leaders of all races. The reforms were done in 1998. In 2001, the United Nations imposed sanctions against Zimbabwe. This was done because human rights abuses came to the attention of the United Nations. 
Now, people are unsure how the country can tackle its problems. Also, it is unclear what will happen after Mugabe dies. Mugabe has become increasingly unpopular in Zimbabwe and many in the country are now calling for his regime to end. He is currently the world's oldest head of state.

</doc>
<doc id="11622" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11622" title="Guyana">
Guyana

The Co-operative Republic of Guyana is a country in South America. It is one of the most sparsely populated countries in the world (seven hundred thousand people live there inside its over 200,000 km² of area). Georgetown is the capital; like most of the country's settlements, it is on a flat coastal plain that goes from northwest to southeast. Venezuela claims the land west of the Essequibo River as part of Guayana Esequiba.
Guyana's current president is Bharrat Jagdeo. The country gained independence from the United Kingdom on May 26, 1966 (before which it was called British Guiana).
Guyana is member of the Commonwealth of Nations. It is ranked first in suicides per capita worldwide.

</doc>
<doc id="11623" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11623" title="Sen no Rikyu">
Sen no Rikyu

Sen no Rikyu (, 1522–1591) made important and lasting changes to the Japanese tea ceremony. He was a follower of Toyotomi Hideyoshi. Besides the tea ceremony, Rikyu practiced ikebana and wrote poetry. He also studied zen.

</doc>
<doc id="11625" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11625" title="Oscar Wilde">
Oscar Wilde

Oscar Fingal O'Flahertie Wills Wilde (16 October 1854 – 30 November 1900) was an Irish writer, poet and playwright. He wrote "The Picture of Dorian Gray", and the plays "Salomé", "The Importance of Being Earnest", "An Ideal Husband", and "Lady Windermere's Fan".
Wilde was bisexual. He was married, and had two children. His downfall came as a result of his affair with a younger man, Lord Alfred Douglas.
Wilde was an outstanding classical scholar, at Trinity College, Dublin, then at Magdalen College, Oxford University. In London, he worked as a journalist for four years. Known for his biting wit, flamboyant clothes, and glittering conversation, Wilde was one of the best known personalities of the day. It was his only novel, "The Picture of Dorian Gray", which brought him full recognition. Then he turned to writing drama. He wrote "Salomé" in French in Paris in 1891, but it was refused a licence. Unperturbed, Wilde produced four society comedies in the early 1890s, which made him one of the most successful playwrights of late Victorian London.
At the height of his fame and success—his masterpiece, "The Importance of Being Earnest", was still on stage in London—Wilde sued his lover's father for libel. After a series of trials, Wilde was convicted of gross indecency with other men and sentenced to two years of hard labour in Reading Gaol (jail). In prison he wrote "De Profundis", a long letter which discusses his spiritual journey through his trials, forming a dark counterpoint to his earlier philosophy of pleasure.
Upon his release he left immediately for France, never to return to the British Isles. There he wrote his last work, "The Ballad of Reading Gaol", a long poem commemorating prison life. Living in a Paris hotel, he was destitute, with little money and few friends. His last memorable words were: "My wallpaper and I are fighting a duel to the death."One of us has got to go". He died of cerebral meningitis in Paris at the age of forty-six.
Wilde's wife, Constance Lloyd, changed the family name to Holland after his conviction, and took the children to Switzerland.
Wilde's lover was the son of the Marquess of Queensbury, who was known for his outspoken atheism, brutish manner and creation of the modern rules of boxing. Queensberry, who feuded regularly with his son, confronted Wilde and Lord Alfred as to the nature of their relationship. In June 1894, he called on Wilde at 16 Tite Street without an appointment, and said: "If I catch you and my son again in any public restaurant I will thrash you"
On the 18 February 1895, the Marquess left his calling card at Wilde's club, the Albemarle, inscribed: "For Oscar Wilde, posing as a sodomite".
Wilde, egged on by Douglas and against the advice of his friends, initiated a private prosecution against Queensberry, and had him arrested on a charge of criminal libel. As sodomy was then a crime, Queensberry's note amounted to a public accusation that Wilde had committed a felony, forming the legal basis for libel charges. Queensberry could avoid conviction for libel only by demonstrating that his accusation was, in fact, true.
In his opening speech for the defence, Counsel for Queensbury, Edward Carson, announced that he had found several male prostitutes who were to testify that they had sex with Wilde. On the advice of his lawyers, Wilde then decided to drop the libel prosecution against Queensberry. Queensberry was found not guilty, as the court declared that his accusation that Wilde was "posing as a sodomite" was justified, "true in substance and in fact".
Under the Libel Act 1843, Queensberry's acquittal rendered Wilde legally liable for the considerable expenses Queensberry had incurred in his defence, which left Wilde bankrupt.
After Wilde left the court, a warrant for his arrest was applied for on charges of sodomy and gross indecency. Friends found Wilde at a hotel; they advised him to go to Dover and try to get a boat to France. His mother advised him to stay and fight like a man. Wilde was duly arrested and then imprisoned on remand at Holloway, where he received daily visits from Douglas.
Events moved quickly. His prosecution opened on the 26 April 1895 and Wilde pleaded not guilty. He had already begged Douglas to leave London for Paris, and Douglas fled to the Hotel du Monde. Under cross examination Wilde was at first hesitant, then spoke eloquently:
Charles Gill (prosecuting): "What is "the love that dare not speak its name?""
Wilde: " 'The love that dare not speak its name' in this century is such a great affection of an elder for a younger man as there was between David and Jonathan, such as Plato made the very basis of his philosophy, and such as you find in the sonnets of Michelangelo and Shakespeare. It is that deep spiritual affection that is as pure as it is perfect. It dictates and pervades great works of art, like those of Shakespeare and Michelangelo, and those two letters of mine, such as they are. It is in this century misunderstood, so much misunderstood that it may be described as 'the love that dare not speak its name', and on that account of it I am placed where I am now. It is beautiful, it is fine, it is the noblest form of affection. There is nothing unnatural about it. It is intellectual, and it repeatedly exists between an older and a younger man, when the older man has intellect, and the younger man has all the joy, hope and glamour of life before him. That it should be so, the world does not understand. The world mocks at it, and sometimes puts one in the pillory for it".
This response was, however, counterproductive in a legal sense as it only served to reinforce the charges of homosexual behaviour. The trial ended with the jury unable to reach a verdict. Wilde's counsel, Sir Edward Clark, was finally able to agree bail. The Reverend Stewart Headlam put up most of the £5,000 bail, having disagreed with Wilde's treatment by the press and the courts. Wilde was freed from Holloway and, shunning attention, went into hiding at the house of Ernest and Ada Leverson, two of his firm friends. Edward Carson approached Frank Lockwood (QC) and asked "Can we not let up on the fellow now?" Lockwood answered that he would like to do so, but feared that the case had become too politicised to be dropped.
At the final trial, Wilde and Alfred Taylor were convicted of gross indecency and sentenced to two years' hard labour. The judge described the sentence as "totally inadequate for a case such as this", although it was the maximum sentence allowed for the charge under the Criminal Law Amendment Act of 1885. Wilde's response "And I? May I say nothing, my Lord?" was drowned out in cries of "Shame" in the courtroom.
Prose
Dates are dates of first performance.

</doc>
<doc id="11632" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11632" title="U2 (band)">
U2 (band)

U2 is an Irish rock band. The four members of the band are lead singer Bono (born "Paul David Hewson"), lead guitarist The Edge (born "David Howell Evans"), bassist Adam Clayton, and drummer Larry Mullen Jr. U2 are a very popular band all over the world and have been since the 1980s. They have sold more than 170 million albums and have won 22 Grammy Awards. This is more than any other rock band.
U2 formed in Dublin in 1976, when none of the members were very good musicians. However, they got better as they got older. They were more popular for playing live shows than for releasing albums. This changed with their hit record in 1987, "The Joshua Tree". In 1991, U2 released a new album called "Achtung Baby". This album sounded very different from their other albums because it was inspired by alternative rock and dance music. "Achtung Baby" and its worldwide Zoo TV Tour were both very popular. U2 experimented for the rest of the 1990s, making two other very different albums, "Zooropa" and "Pop". 
In the 21st century, U2 returned to a more traditional sound, but they continue to be very popular and successful. They are involved in charities and helping people with groups such as Amnesty International, Make Poverty History, the ONE Campaign, Live Aid, Live 8, Bono's DATA (Debt, AIDS, Trade in Africa) campaign, and Music Rising.
In 2014, the group won a Golden Globe Award for Best Original Song and was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Original Song for their song "Ordinary Love" which was used in the movie "".
U2 was formed in the city of Dublin, Ireland on September 25, 1976. It was founded by 14 year-old drummer Larry Mullen Jr. He posted a note on his school's notice board, asking for musicians to create a new band. There were seven teenage boys who went to their first practice. At first, the band was called "The Larry Mullen Band", but they later changed their name to "Feedback" and then "The Hype". The band became smaller over time, eventually becoming just four people, and they finally changed their name to "U2" once Bono, The Edge, Clayton, and Mullen were left.

</doc>
<doc id="11633" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11633" title="Bono">
Bono

Paul David Hewson, better known as Bono (born 10 May 1960 in Dublin, Ireland) is an Irish musician, best known as the lead singer of rock band U2. 
He became a member of the band U2 on 25 September 1976, when he responded to a message that was placed by Larry Mullen Jr. to form a rock band.
The name "Bono" was a type of hearing aid and in Latin means "good voice". 
Bono married Alison Stewart. They have four children. Jordan (b. 1989), Eve (b. 1991), Elijah (b. 1999) and John (b. 2001).
Bono is known for doing a lot of charity work. For this, he was named Time Person of the Year in 2005. Bono has even been nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize, though he did not win it.

</doc>
<doc id="11634" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11634" title="Adam Clayton">
Adam Clayton

Adam Clayton (born 13 March 1960 in Chinnor, Oxfordshire, England) is the bassist for the rock band U2. He lives in County Dublin now, and he has a house in Southern France too.
When Adam was five years old, he and his family moved to Malahide near Dublin. He started playing guitar when he went to school. He joined the other members of the future U2 band in the same time. Their band was first named "Feedback" and then they changed its name to "The Hype". However, they released their second album on 1981 under the name of U2.
All other U2 members were married by 2006, and Adam was the only member who was still single. In 2006, it was announced that Adam was going to marry Suzanne "Susie" Smith; they dated for almost 10 years before this news was announced. They were planning to marry in the summer of 2007, but they split up in February 2007.
In January 2011, Adam revealed that he was the father of a baby boy, born in 2010. On September 4, 2013, Adam married Mariana Teixeira de Carvalho, in a wedding in Dublin. She is a fashion model from Brazil.

</doc>
<doc id="11635" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11635" title="The Edge">
The Edge

David Howell Evans (born 8 August 1961), more widely known as The Edge, is an English-born musician. He is known best as the guitarist, Keyboardist and backing vocalist for the Irish rock band U2.
David Howell Evans was born at the Barking Maternity Hospital, in Essex, England. His parents, Garvin and Gwenda Evans, are Welsh. When he was one, his family moved to County Dublin, Ireland. There, he attended St. Andrew's National School. He received piano and guitar lessons with his brother, Dik Evans. At Mount Temple Comprehensive School, they both answered an advertisement posted by Larry Mullen Jr. wanting musicians to form a band. The band accepted both of them. This band went through several major changes before emerging as U2 in March 1978. Dik Evans left the band just before the name change. U2 began performing in various venues in Ireland and eventually began developing a following. Their first album, "Boy", was released in 1980.
In 1981, Evans came very close to leaving U2 for religious reasons, but he was persuaded to stay. During this time, he became involved with a group called Shalom Tigers. Bono and Larry Mullen Jr. were also involved in this group. Shortly after deciding to remain with the band, he wrote a piece of music that later became "Sunday Bloody Sunday". The Edge married his high school girlfriend Aislinn O'Sullivan on 12 July 1983. The couple had three daughters together: Hollie in 1984, Arran in 1985 and Blue Angel in 1989. The couple separated in 1990, but were unable to get officially divorced until 1996 because of Irish laws regarding marriage; divorce was made legal in 1995.
During U2's Zoo TV Tour, The Edge began to date Morleigh Steinberg. The couple began dating in 1993, and had their daughter, Sian, and a son, Levi. They were married on June 22, 2002.
The Edge appeared in the 2009 music documentary film "It Might Get Loud". He is also a Methodist.

</doc>
<doc id="11636" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11636" title="Larry Mullen Jr.">
Larry Mullen Jr.

Larry Mullen Junior (born 31 October 1961) is an Irish drummer. He is a member of the rock band U2. Mullen was born in Dublin, Ireland. 
Besides U2, Larry has worked with other musicians, including: Nanci Griffith, Daniel Lanois, Emmylou Harris, Robbie Robertson, Paul Brady and B.B. King. Because of the Irish National Football team's bid for the World Cup in 1990, Mullen co-wrote and co-produced the anthem "Put 'Em Under Pressure." He also worked with U2's Adam Clayton on the theme for the 1996 movie "". Mullen and Clayton joined with Mike Mills and Michael Stipe of R.E.M. to form the group "Automatic Baby" for Bill Clinton's Presidential inauguration in 1993 at MTV's Inaugural Ball.

</doc>
