<doc id="11637" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11637" title="Mariah Carey">
Mariah Carey

Mariah Carey (born March 27, 1969 or 1970) is an American singer, songwriter, record producer, actress, and philanthropist. She has sold over 280 million copies worldwide and is one of the best-selling artists of all time. 
Mariah Carey was born on Long Island, in Huntington, New York. Her father was of African American and Venezuelan ancestry and her mother is of Irish ancestry.
In December 1988, Carey started making her first album.
She released her debut album titled as her name in 1990. It was released from Columbia Records. The album was certified multi-platinum by the RIAA. Four singles from the album all reached number one on the US "Billboard" Hot 100 chart ("Vision of Love", "Love Takes Time", "Someday", and "I Don't Wanna Cry"). It reached number one on the US "Billboard" 200. It was certified 9× platinum. This means that 9 million copies of the album were shipped in the US. Carey married Tommy Mottola in 1993. Mottola was the executive producer for Carey. Many critics believed that this helped Carey's musical career.
In 1991, her album "Emotions" reached number four on the "Billboard" 200. It was certified 4× platinum and sold less than her previous album. Her songs "Emotions" (#1), "Can't Let Go" (#2), and "Make It Happen" (#5) were released as singles from the album. Carey released her first EP "MTV Unplugged" (1992). It reached number three on the "Billboard" 200. The songs "I'll Be There" (#1) and "If It's Over" were released as singles from the album. Carey's third album "Music Box" (1993) reached number one on the "Billboard" 200. As of 2012, the album has sold 7,189,000 copies in the US according to Nielsen Soundcan. Worldwide, it sold 32 million copies and became one of the best-selling albums of all time. "Dreamlover" (#1), "Hero" (#1), "Without You" (#3), "Never Forget You" (#3), and "Anytime You Need a Friend" (#12) helped Carey to become more popular.
Her first holiday album, "Merry Christmas" (1994), reached number three on the "Billboard" 200 chart. Two singles were released: "All I Want for Christmas Is You" (#12) and "Joy to the World". Carey's fifth album "Daydream" became her third number-one album in the US. It was given a diamond award from the RIAA. This means that 10 million copies of the album were shipped in the US. There were six singles for the album. They include "Fantasy" (#1), "One Sweet Day" (#1), "Open Arms", "Always Be My Baby" (#1), "Forever" (#9) and "Underneath the Stars". On September 16, 1997, Carey released her sixth album "Butterfly". The album reached number one on the "Billboard" 200 chart. The album released five singles. They include "Honey" (#1), "Butterfly" (#16), "The Roof (Back in Time)", "Breakdown" (#53) and "My All" (#1).
On November 2, 1999, her seventh album "Rainbow" was released. After selling 323,000 copies the first week, it debuted at number two on the "Billboard" 200 chart. It featured her fifteenth number-one US single, "Thank God I Found You" (with R&B singer Joe and boy band 98°), along with a cover of singer Phil Collins' song "Against All Odds (Take a Look at Me Now)". The cover reached number one in the UK.
Carey starred in the movie "Glitter" in 2001. It did not do so well and grossed $5,271,666 out of a $20,000,000 budget. It was released on the day of the September 11 attacks. It was nominated for several "worst movie" categories. The soundtrack did better than the movie. The single "Loverboy" reached number two on the "Billboard" Hot 100.
In 2002, her album "Charmbracelet" was released. Her 2005 album, "The Emancipation of Mimi", became one of her most successful albums. Many music critics believed it was her "comeback album". Her following albums "E=MC²" (2008), "Memoirs of an Imperfect Angel" (2009) and "Merry Christmas II You" (2010), did not sell well. She was later featured as a social worker, Ms. Weiss, in the 2009 movie "Precious".
In 2013, she was a judge in "American Idol". Carey's fourteenth album "Me. I Am Mariah… The Elusive Chanteuse" was released in 2014 and reached number three on the "Billboard" 200. "#Beautiful", featuring R&B singer Miguel, was released in May 2013 as the first single from the album. It reached the top fifteen in the US and was certified platinum. The next single, "The Art of Letting Go", was released on November 11, 2013. "You're Mine (Eternal)" was released in time for Valentine's Day in 2014 as the third single from the album.
Carey released a greatest hits collection, "#1 to Infinity", in 2015. It features all eighteen of her US number-one songs along with a new song, "Infinity". She is currently performing a Las Vegas residency show at Caesars Palace called "Mariah Carey #1 to Infinity" and is on her Sweet Sweet Fantasy Tour across Europe.
During the release of "Glitter", Carey suffered a breakdown and was put in the hospital for exhaustion.
Carey married Nick Cannon in April 2008. They have two children, twins Moroccan and Monroe. They separated in 2014, with Cannon filing for divorce.
Carey became engaged to Australian billionaire James Packer in 2016.

</doc>
<doc id="11639" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11639" title="Andrology">
Andrology

Andrology is the study of male health, especially male sexual organs and reproduction. 
It is similar to the study of women's health, called gynaecology. Andrology has only been studied since the late 1960s. The first specialist journal on the subject was the German periodical "Andrologie", published from 1969 onwards.
Men are more susceptible to heart disease than women. They also usually have a slightly shorter natural average life span. However, men get many conditions, such as osteoporosis, less than women.

</doc>
<doc id="11640" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11640" title="1503">
1503


</doc>
<doc id="11642" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11642" title="Herbert Hoover">
Herbert Hoover

Herbert Clark Hoover (August 10, 1874 – October 20, 1964) was the 31st president of the United States from 1929 to 1933. He was a world-famous mining engineer and humanitarian administrator. As a United States Commerce Secretary in the 1920s under Presidents Warren G. Harding and Calvin Coolidge, he promoted economic modernization. In the presidential election of 1928, Hoover easily won the Republican nomination. The nation was prosperous and optimistic, leading to a landslide for Hoover over the Democrat Al Smith. 
He was born in West Branch, Iowa. He is the first president born west of the Mississippi River.
Herbert Hoover was a businessman. He was the United States Secretary of Commerce. In 1927, Hoover appeared in the first public demonstration of television broadcast.
Hoover and his wife learned Mandarin Chinese while he worked in China. They used it in the White House so the White House staff wouldn't understand them.
A few months after he was elected, the stock market crashed and the Great Depression was beginning.
Unlike Andrew Mellon and Calvin Coolidge who believed that the federal government should keep its hands off the economy, Herbert Hoover believed that some action from the federal government is necessary.
While he opposed a welfare state which would give money to people for doing nothing, he wanted to create jobs through several government programs, including the construction of a huge dam which would be later named Hoover Dam. 
The federal government received less money in tax revenues because of the bad economy, and the government was spending more money than it was taking in, so Hoover tried to increase the government's revenue to balance the budget. He signed the Revenue Act of 1932 which was a large tax increase. He signed the largest tariff (tax on countries which trade with the United States) increase in American history which worsened the Great Depression, even though 1000 economists warned him not to sign that. 
Hoover denied giving promised retirement money to poor World War 1 veterans (called the Bonus Army) earlier than what was agreed to, so they went on strike. Hoover ordered the United States army to force them to leave. It resulted in a bloody conflict which hurt Hoover's reputation. 
Hoover was uncharismatic and did not relate to the people well, which made many people consider him as mean-spirited. 
Hoover supported the very unpopular prohibition of alcohol and did not want to make alcohol legal. 
While Hoover did support some government involvement in the economy, he was against Franklin Roosevelt's New Deal, because he thought it called for too much government involvement in the economy.
Due to his failure to fix the Great Depression, he lost the 1932 election to Franklin Roosevelt.
Hoover died at the age of 90 in New York City from internal bleeding.

</doc>
<doc id="11644" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11644" title="James A. Garfield">
James A. Garfield

James Abram Garfield (November 19, 1831 - September 19, 1881) was the 20th (1881) President of the United States and the 2nd President to be assassinated (killed while in office). President Garfield was in office from March to September of 1881. He was in office for a total of six months and fifteen days.
Garfield was born in Orange Township, now Moreland Hills, Ohio. His father died in 1833, when James Abram was 18 months old. He grew up cared for by his mother and an uncle.
In Orange Township, Garfield attended school, a predecessor of the Orange City Schools. From 1851 to 1854, he attended the Western Reserve Eclectic Institute (later named Hiram College] in Hiram, Ohio. He then transferred to Williams College in Williamstown, Massachusetts, where he was a brother of Delta Upsilon. He graduated in 1856 as an outstanding student who enjoyed all subjects except chemistry. He then taught at the Eclectic Institute. He was an instructor in classical languages for the 1856-1857 academic year, and was made principal of the Institute from 1857 to 1860.
On November 11, 1858, he married Lucretia Rudolph. They had seven children (five sons and two daughters): Eliza A. Garfield (1860-63); Harry A. Garfield (1863-1942); James R. Garfield (1865-1950); Mary Garfield (1867-1947); Irvin M. Garfield (1870-1951); Abram Garfield (1872-1958); and Edward Garfield (1874-76). One son, James Rudolph Garfield, followed him into politics and became Secretary of the Interior under President Theodore Roosevelt. Garfield could write in Greek with his left hand and Latin with his right hand at the same time.
Garfield decided that the academic life was not for him and studied law privately. He was admitted to the Ohio bar in 1860. Even before admission to the bar, he entered politics. He was elected an Ohio state senator in 1859, serving until 1861. He was a Republican all his political life.
Garfield was shot in Washington, D.C. on July 2, 1881. Garfield was shot in the back by Charles J. Guiteau at about 9:30 am. He was less than four months in term as the 20th President of the United States.
The 31st Speaker of the United States House of Representatives James G. Blaine was at Garfield's side when he was shot down. Vice President Chester A. Arthur became President. 
Garfield died eleven weeks later on September 19, 1881 aged 49.

</doc>
<doc id="11662" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11662" title="Robert Reed">
Robert Reed

Robert Reed (October 19, 1932 – May 12, 1992) was an American actor. He is best known for his role as Mike Brady on "The Brady Bunch". He also played major roles in "The Defenders" and "Rich Man, Poor Man". He was nominated for three Primetime Emmy Awards during the 1970s.
Reed was born John Robert Rietz in Highland Park, Illinois. He also grew up in Muskogee, Oklahoma and Navasota, Texas.
Reed was gay but kept this private. He died on May 12, 1992, in Pasadena, California. He was 59 years old. His death was originally said to have been caused by colon cancer. It was later revealed to have been hastened by HIV.

</doc>
<doc id="11663" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11663" title="Dishwasher">
Dishwasher

The word dishwasher means either the person who washes (cleans) dishes or a machine that does the same thing. A person could wash dishes either by hand or by operating a dish washing machine.

</doc>
<doc id="11664" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11664" title="John Quincy Adams">
John Quincy Adams

John Quincy Adams (July 11, 1767 – February 23, 1848) was the sixth President of the United States. He was the first President who was the son of a President. Several cities are named after Adam's middle name such as Quincy, Illinois.
He was born in Braintree, Massachusetts, in 1767. He watched the Battle of Bunker Hill, a fight of the American Revolutionary War, from his family's farm. When his father, John Adams, was in Europe, John Quincy went with him as his secretary. He became good at speaking other languages.
He went to Harvard College and became a lawyer. At age 26 he was appointed Minister to the Netherlands and then he went to Berlin. In 1802 he was elected to the United States Senate. Six years later President James Madison appointed him Minister to Russia.
Adams was Secretary of State when James Monroe was President. He organized joint control of Oregon with England and helped get Florida from Spain. Adams helped make the Monroe Doctrine.
Adams was elected president by the United States House of Representatives after the 1824 election that had no one get a majority of electoral votes. People who wanted future president Andrew Jackson to win said there was a deal between Adams and Speaker of the House Henry Clay. Adams made Clay his Secretary of State.
Adams passed law for U.S. improvements as part of what he called the "American System." This means he created roads, canals, and used high tariffs, or taxes on imports and exports. Adams fought Congress many times as many supporters of Andrew Jackson did not like his support of a national bank and tariffs (taxes on trade).
Adams lost the 1828 election to Jackson. The election was noted for the personal attacks made by the candidates against each other.
Adams returned to Massachusetts for a short time after he was lost. He returned to Washington D.C. in 1831 after being elected to the United States House of Representatives. He was a leading opponent of slavery. He remained in Congress until his death on February 23, 1848.

</doc>
<doc id="11666" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11666" title="Peter Fonda">
Peter Fonda

Peter Fonda (born February 23, 1940) is an American actor. He is the son of actor Henry Fonda. He is the father of actress Bridget Fonda and brother of actress Jane Fonda. Fonda is most famous for 1969 movie "Easy Rider". He co-wrote and co-starred in the movie with his friend Dennis Hopper. He rode a motorcycle in "Easy Rider", and also in the earlier "The Wild Angels", where he played an outlaw biker. 
He has also appeared in many other movies, including "Ulee's Gold" in 1997, which earned him an Academy Award nomination, and as Frank O'Connor, husband of writer Ayn Rand, in "The Passion of Ayn Rand".
Fonda has appeared many times on talk shows, discussing his life and times, including his family life.
Fonda wrote an autobiography, "Don't Tell Dad: A Memoir", which was published in 1998.
Fonda has had a permanent home in Paradise Valley, Montana since 1975.

</doc>
<doc id="11667" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11667" title="Dennis Hopper">
Dennis Hopper

Dennis Lee Hopper (May 17, 1936 - May 29, 2010) was an American television, movie, stage, and voice actor, artist, photographer, writer, movie director, and an art collector. He has appeared in many movies and television shows, since the 1950s.
Hopper was born on May 17, 1936 in Dodge City, Kansas. He spent his life in Kansas City, Missouri and in San Diego, California. Hopper studied to be an actor at Helix High School and at the Actors' Studio. Hopper has two brothers. 
Hopper is probably best known for directing, co-writing, and starring in the Oscar-nominated movie "Easy Rider" (1969). In 1994, Hopper had a role in the thriller movie "Speed". He has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
Hopper was married to Brooke Hayward from 1961 until they divorced in 1969. Hopper was then married to Michelle Phillips from 1970 until they divorced weeks later. He was married to Daria Halprin from 1972 until they divorced. He was later married to Katherine LaNasa from 1989 until they divorced in 1992. Hopper was married to Victoria Duffy from 1998 until they divorced in 2010, months before his death. Hopper had 3 daughters and a son. 
Hopper once insulted actor Rip Torn after he said "Texans are hippie-hatting rednecks" and was sued for a total of $475,000 dollars.
On October 29, 2009, his manager announced that Hopper had prostate cancer. He was terminally ill. He died of the disease on May 29, 2010 in Venice, California. He was 74. He was buried at Ranchos de Taos, New Mexico. "Alpha and Omega" was his last movie and was dedicated to his memory.
 

</doc>
<doc id="11671" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11671" title="Todd Rundgren">
Todd Rundgren

Todd Rundgren (born June 22, 1948) is an American singer, songwriter, and record producer. Two of his best-known songs are "I Saw The Light" and "Hello It's Me". Both were on his 1971 album "Something/Anything?". Most of the songs on that album were performed by Rundgren alone, using multitrack recorders and playing many musical instruments.
Apple Records hired Rundgren to produce an album, "Straight Up", for the band Badfinger during 1971. Badfinger had not heard of Rundgren and did not know his music, until they bought copies of some of his records. They liked what they heard, and when Rundgren met the band, they got along well, and worked well together.
In the early 2000s, Rundgren replaced Ric Ocasek as bandleader of The Cars, when they reunited to tour.
Actress Liv Tyler used to believe that Rundgren was her father.

</doc>
<doc id="11672" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11672" title="1066">
1066

1066 was a year which brought great changes in England. The land had four kings during the year. The year started under Anglo-Saxon rule, and ended under Norman rule. This was the only occasion since Roman Britain when the entire country was successfully invaded.
There were four kings during the year: Edward the Confessor (to 5 January 1066), Harold Godwinson (to 14 October 1066), Edgar the Ætheling (to 10 December 1066), and finally William I, Duke of Normandy.

</doc>
<doc id="11673" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11673" title="1497">
1497


</doc>
<doc id="11674" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11674" title="1559">
1559


</doc>
<doc id="11675" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11675" title="1581">
1581


</doc>
<doc id="11676" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11676" title="1509">
1509


</doc>
<doc id="11677" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11677" title="1521">
1521


</doc>
<doc id="11678" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11678" title="Al-Qaeda">
Al-Qaeda

Al-Qaeda (, "al-qāʿidah", "the base"), is an armed Islamic group that was started between August 1988 and late 1989. It works as a network, as a stateless army, and a radical Sunni Muslim movement calling for global Jihad. Most of the world thinks it is a Takfiri and terrorist organization.
Members of al-Qaeda have performed many acts of terrorism. Most of these have been done against the United States, and other liberal countries. Some of its most well-known attacks have been the September 11 attacks, the bombings of US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania in 1998, and the attack on the US Navy ship USS Cole in 2000. Al-Qaeda has done suicide attacks and simultaneous (at the same time) bombings of different targets.
Among al-Qaeda's goals is for other countries to stop influencing Muslim countries, and for a new Islamic caliphate to be made. There have been reports that al-Qaeda believes that a Christian–Jewish alliance is conspiring to destroy Islam, (largely embodied in Israel–United States relations), and that the killing of bystanders and civilians is religiously justified in jihad.
There have been guesses that there are 500-1,000 operatives in Afghanistan and around 5,000 worldwide. However, there is no confirmation of this.
In June 2001, al-Qaeda and Egyptian Islamic Jihad, which had been associated with each other for many years, merged into 'Qaeda al-Jihad'.
Egyptian Ayman al-Zawahiri is the highest-ranking surviving member of al-Qaeda's leadership, after Osama bin Laden was killed in 2011.
Senior al-Qaeda leader Abu Yahya al-Libi was killed in a drone strike on 4 June 2012. He ranked second to Ayman al-Zawahiri at the time. The strike was carried out in the northwest tribal area of Waziristan. The Pakistan Government has protested to the U.S. about the strike.

</doc>
<doc id="11698" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11698" title="1863">
1863


</doc>
<doc id="11699" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11699" title="1905">
1905

1905 (MCMV) was a common year starting on Sunday of the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="11700" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11700" title="1917">
1917


</doc>
<doc id="11701" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11701" title="1915">
1915

1915 (MCMXC) was a common year starting on Friday of the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="11702" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11702" title="Tallinn">
Tallinn

Tallinn is the capital of Estonia. It is on the north-eastern coast of Estonia and borders the Gulf of Finland. The city is next to many lakes. The largest of these lakes is called Lake Ülemiste, and most Tallinnites get their drinking water from this lake.
Tallinn's Old Town, which is the historic town center, is a UNESCO World Heritage Site.
Tallinn first appeared on a map in 1154, when the cartographer Muhammad al-Idrisi, calling the city "Qlwn", added it to his map of the world. After being conquered by the Danes, the city was known as Reval until Estonia became an independent nation in the 1920s.
In 1285, the city became a part of the Hanseatic League. As a result, in the Middle Ages Tallinn was an important stop on the trade routes between Europe and Russia. During its history Estonia has been ruled at times by Sweden and by Russia. It became independent in 1918 after World War I, but after World War II it was ruled by the USSR. In March 1944 Tallinn was bombed by Soviet Air Force, killing 436 civilians and totally destroying 5073 buildings. Since 1991, Tallinn has been the capital of an independent Estonia.
Today more than 400,000 people live in Tallinn, which is one third of the population of Estonia. It is a big sea port. Its food and textile industries are important. The town has many pretty, old buildings.

</doc>
<doc id="11704" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11704" title="Lombardy">
Lombardy

Lombardy is a region in the northern part of Italy. It is the most populated region of the country, and has almost 9.4 million people. The capital is Milan. Lombardy has provinces within it. 
To the north of Lombardy is the country of Switzerland (Canton Ticino e Grigioni). To the west is the region of Piedmont. To the east are the regions of Veneto and Trentino - Alto Adige. To the south is the region of Emilia-Romagna.
In the Italian language, Lombardy is called "Lombardia". This name comes from an old German word: "Langbardland" and means "country of the Lombards".
In the north of Lombardy there are very high mountains, (40% of the territory is mountains) the highest mountains are almost 4.000 meters in the Bernina Range.
In the south of the region flows the Po river, which is the longest river in Italy. The most important rivers are the Adda river, the Mincio and the Ticino river, all of them end in the Po river.
There are also a lot of lakes, the largest are the lake Maggiore, the Lake of Varese, the lake Como, and the lake Garda.
Lombardy is divided into 12 provinces:

</doc>
<doc id="11705" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11705" title="Regions of Italy">
Regions of Italy

Italy is a country in the south of Europe. It is divided into 20 regions. A region is a part of the country with a government and a president.
In Italy, regions can decide some things. They can give money to local business. They can decide some things about hospitals, schools, and transport.
In some regions, people speak other languages. In Alto Adige/Südtirol a lot of people speak mainly German. So this region is "special" and can decide more things. 
Sardinia and Sicily are islands. They have different problems than other regions. They have also some different laws.
These regions are called "regions with special laws" ().
Every region has a capital. Here is the list of the regions, the capital and other information.

</doc>
<doc id="12120" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12120" title="1886">
1886


</doc>
<doc id="12122" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12122" title="Vladimir Nabokov">
Vladimir Nabokov

Vladimir Nabokov (April 22, 1899 – July 2, 1977) was a Russian-American author. He wrote his first books in Russian, and after he moved to the United States, he wrote in English. His most famous book is "Lolita", but others have also become famous, such as "Pnin", "Pale Fire", and "Ada or Ardor".
Nabokov was born in Saint Petersburg, Russia, the first of five children. In 1919, he and his family went to Europe. In 1945, he became an American citizen. He died in Montreux, Switzerland.
Nabokov's father was a lawyer and politician. As a child, Vladimir learned Russian, English, and French. After the October Revolution, the family moved a few times, but settled in Berlin in 1920. Two years later, his father was shot and killed by mistake, because he had blocked the person the gunman was trying to murder. His mother and sister moved to Prague, but Vladimir stayed in Berlin. He wrote for other Russians who had left Russia to live there. He met Véra Slonin, a woman from a Jewish-Russian family, in 1923. They married in 1925. In 1934, they had their only child, Dmitri. 
In 1937, Nabokov started to look for another job. He left for France that year, and his family followed. They all fled to America in 1940, except his brother Sergei, who died in a Nazi concentration camp.
Nabokov was an expert on butterflies. As a child he had read books by entomologist Maria Sibylla Merian which he found in the attic of his family's country home in Vyra. 
During the 1940s, he was a research fellow in zoology. He organized the butterfly collection of the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard University. His specialty was the tribe Polyommatini of the family Lycaenidae. 
The genus "Nabokovia" was named after him in honor of this work, as were a number of butterfly and moth species (e.g. many species in the genera "Madeleinea" and "Pseudolucia" have names alluding to Nabokov or names from his novels). In 1967, Nabokov commented: "The pleasures and rewards of literary inspiration are nothing beside the rapture of discovering a new organ under the microscope or an undescribed species on a mountainside in Iran or Peru. It is not improbable that had there been no revolution in Russia, I would have devoted myself entirely to lepidopterology and never written any novels at all".

</doc>
<doc id="12152" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12152" title="Abingdon, Oxfordshire">
Abingdon, Oxfordshire

Abingdon is a town in England. It is in the Thames Valley in southern England, 5.5 miles (8.9 km) south of Oxford. It is the seat (place of the government) of the Vale of White Horse district in Oxfordshire. Abingdon was once the county town of Berkshire. It is one of several places which claim to be Britain's oldest occupied town.
Abingdon is at a place where people were able to easily cross the Thames. The area has been lived in since the Bronze Age. The bridge over the Thames at Abingdon is more than 550 years old. Work started on the bridge in 1416, and it replaced an old wooden bridge.
The Abingdon Abbey was built in 675 AD by the Benedictines who called it Abbandun. By 1538 it was the sixth richest abbey in Britain. Most of it was destroyed after 1538 when King Henry VIII closed the monasteries. The gatehouse and several smaller buildings are still standing.
There is a market in Abingdon every Monday, which first started in 1556. A canal was built in 1810 to join Abingdon to other towns including London, Bristol and Birmingham. The canal was in use until 1906.
The MG motor cars were made in Abingdon for 50 years until the factory closed in 1980. However the headquarters of the MG Car Club are still in the town.

</doc>
<doc id="12153" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12153" title="Yeadon">
Yeadon

Yeadon is a town near Leeds in England. It is in West Yorkshire and part of the West Riding of Yorkshire. It is home to Leeds Bradford International Airport.

</doc>
<doc id="12154" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12154" title="George Washington Carver">
George Washington Carver

George Washington Carver (c. January 1864 – January 5, 1943) was an American educator, botanist (someone who works with plants), and inventor. He is best known for his work with peanuts, sweet potatoes, and other crops.
Carver's reputation is based on his research into and promotion of alternative crops to cotton, such as peanuts, soybeans and sweet potatoes, which also aided nutrition for farm families. He wanted poor farmers to grow alternative crops both as a source of their own food and as a source of other products to improve their quality of life. 
The most popular of his 44 practical bulletins for farmers contained 105 food recipes using peanuts. He also developed and promoted about 100 products made from peanuts that were useful for the house and farm, including cosmetics, dyes, paints, plastics, gasoline, and nitroglycerin. He received numerous honors for his work, including the Spingarn Medal of the NAACP. 
He was born into slavery in January 1864 in Diamond, Missouri. The date of his birth is unknown. He studied in Simpson College when he was 22. Much of Carver's fame is based on his research. He died on January 5, 1943 after a fall he had in his home in Tuskegee, Alabama on January 5, 1943.

</doc>
<doc id="12156" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12156" title="1744">
1744


</doc>
<doc id="12158" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12158" title="Julian calendar">
Julian calendar

The Julian calendar is a calendar that was invented by Julius Caesar, the leader of Ancient Rome. It is a reform of the Roman calendar. It was first used in the year 709 Ab urbe condita, or 45 BC. Caesar consulted the astronomer Sosigenes of Alexandria. Very probably it was made to approximate the tropical year, which was known at least since Hipparchus. 
The calendar has a regular year of 365 days divided into 12 months, and a leap day is added every four years to the month of February, making the average Julian year 365.25 days. 
In the 16th century, the Gregorian calendar was introduced in Europe because it was more accurate with regard to the length of the year, and it also moved the date for the vernal equinox, the first day of spring (or of fall in the Southern Hemisphere) to where it belonged again, on March 21. The Gregorian calendar has 97 leap days every 400 years, while the Julian had exactly 100. 
Some countries used this calendar to the 20th century. Mount Athos, and many national Eastern Orthodox churches still use the Julian calendar, or a revised form, introduced in 1923. 
The main problem with the Julian Calendar is that it makes too many leap days, which means that it gains a day about every 128 years. 
People sometimes use the term Old Style or O.S. to refer to the Julian calendar, with N.S. or New Style referring to the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="12159" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12159" title="Gregorian calendar">
Gregorian calendar

The Gregorian calendar is the calendar that is used throughout most of the world. It began to be used from 1582. It replaced the previous Julian calendar because the Julian calendar had an error: it added a leap year (with an extra day every four years) with no exceptions. The length of the Julian year was exactly 365.25 days (365 days and 6 hours), but the actual time it takes for the Earth to go around the Sun once is closer to 365.2425 days (about 365 days, 5 hours and 49 minutes). This difference is about eleven minutes each year.
This made the seasons get out of track, since the real first day of spring in western Europe (the equinox - day and night the same length) was happening earlier and earlier before the traditional March 21 as the centuries went by. By the 1500s, it was starting around March 11, ten days 'too early' according to the calendar. So what they did was to move the calendar forward ten days in 1582, and at the same time to make sure it did not happen again. To do this, they made an exception to the previous 'leap year rule' (add February 29 every four years). There would be no February 29 for every year that ends in 00 - unless it could be divided by 400. So the year 2000 was a leap year, because it could be divided by 400, but 1700, 1800, and 1900 would be common years, with no February 29.
It was first suggested by the Neapolitan doctor Aloysius Lilius, and was made official by Pope Gregory XIII, for whom it was named, on February 24, 1582. The official change took place the following October, when Thursday, 4th was followed by Friday, 15th.
The months of the Gregorian calendar year are, in order:
If February has 28 days, then the year is 365 days long.
If February has 29 days, then the year is called a "leap year" and it is 366 days long. A leap year usually happens once every four years. Some examples of leap years are 2004, 2008, and 2012.
Not every country started using the new calendar immediately. Spain, Portugal, the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth, and most of Italy started to use the new calendar on Friday, October 15, 1582, following Julian Thursday, October 4, 1582. The Spanish and Portuguese colonies adopted the calendar later due to the slowness of communication in those days. France adopted the new calendar on Monday, December 20, 1582, following Sunday, December 9, 1582. 
The Protestant Dutch provinces of Holland and Zeeland also adopted it in December of that year, but most non-Catholic countries objected to it because they said the new calendar was a Catholic invention. 
The Kingdom of Great Britain and the rest of the British Empire (including the eastern part of what is now the United States) adopted the Gregorian calendar in 1752; by which time it was necessary to correct by "eleven" days (Wednesday, September 2, 1752 being followed by Thursday, September 14, 1752).
In Alaska, Friday, October 6, 1867 was followed by Friday, October 18, 1867. The day was still called Friday because when the US bought Alaska from Russia, the International Date Line was changed when the Gregorian calendar was adopted.
In the USSR, the October Revolution of 1917 was celebrated in November. In 1917 the Russian Empire still used the old Julian calendar. Changing the calendar meant 365 days after the revolution started was now in November 1918.
In 1923 some Eastern Orthodox Churches changed to the Gregorian calendar. Christmas Day is the same as the Catholic and Protestant churches, but the date of Easter continues to be worked out differently.
The Russian Orthodox Church did not want this change, so Russian Christmas Day is about two weeks after the rest of Europe.
Japan adopted the Gregorian calendar's way of working out leap years on January 1, 1873, but the months have numbers instead of names. Japan also starts year one with each new reign, but uses reign names not the name an emperor might be best known by in the west. For example, the reign names "Meiji" year 1=1868, "Taisho" 1=1912, "Showa" (Emperor Hirohito) 1=1926, "Heisei" (Emperor Akihito) 1=1989, and so on. The "Western calendar" (西暦, "seireki") using western year numbers, is also widely accepted by civilians and to a lesser extent by government agencies.
Some old dates in Britain were written and documented with two different years.This is because Britain did not start a new year until March 25, so for a few months it was one year in Britain and the next year in other countries. 
The letters OS (for "Old Style") and NS (for "New Style") were used to help determine the year being used. For example, King Charles I died on January 30, 1649. In "Old Style" it is correct to say that Charles I died "January 30, 1648 (OS)". Using "New Style", as we determine dates currently, the correct date and year would be 9 February 1649.
In the old calendar the year started on March 25. This became April 5, and was used as the first day of the year for working out taxes and rents. Taxes and rents went on using the old way of working out leap years so in 1800 the year started on April 6. But it was not changed in 1900, so the tax year in the United Kingdom still begins on April 6.
People sometimes use the term N.S. or New Style to mean the Gregorian calendar, with Old Style (or O.S.) meaning the Julian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="12161" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12161" title="Southern hemisphere">
Southern hemisphere

The Southern hemisphere is the half of Earth that is south of the equator.

</doc>
<doc id="12174" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12174" title="Sufism">
Sufism

Sufism (also known as Tassawuf) is a group or branch in Islam with a mystic path or system. Someone who practices Sufism is called a Sufi, a "Dervish" or a "Fakir".
At first, Sufism only meant making Islam more personal and internal. Some say it first came from constantly reciting the Qur'an, meditating, and through experience. Others have held that Sufism is striving to live like the Holy Prophet Muhammad, bringing you closer to Allah, to God. This is because the Prophet taught his disciples. Additionally, the Muslim conquests had brought large numbers of Christian monks and hermits, especially in Syria and Egypt, under Muslim rule. They were practitioners of a deeply spiritual and mystical (even 'Platonic') way of life and many of their techniques and methods came to be incorporated into very early Sufi practice.
Some of these teachings were then summarized in texts (in Arabic initially). Important contributions in writing are attributed to Uwais al-Qarni, Harrm bin Hian, Hasan Basri and Sayid ibn al-Mussib, who are regarded as among the first Sufis in the earliest generations of Islam. Harith al-Muhasibi was the first one to write about moral psychology. Rabia Basri was a Sufi known for her love and passion for God, expressed through her poetry. Bayazid Bastami was among the first theorists of Sufism.
Sufism already had a long history when some teachers began to set up formal schools or orders ("Tarika" or "Tariqah") in the early Middle Ages. Almost all existing Sufi orders today trace their roots and chain of transmission ("silsila") back to Muhammad, via one of these orders.
The main idea in Sufism is that people can have 'personal knowledge' or oneness with God in their lives. In order to be one with God, you have to destroy your idea of yourself, or your ego. This is known as "fanaa" (annihilation). Apart from saying Sufi prayers, that vary according to different orders, you should be humble, considerate, and only act in order to control your desires.
After "fanaa" is achieved, the you are reborn to live with, in, through and for God, ("baqaa", permanency). This is the state where you have achieved the divine love of God, and come ever closer to a unity with God. You should now strive to be one with God. A person who has crossed the various Sufi 'stages' and achieved this sort of mystic union with Allah, is called a "Wali" (a saint or friend of God) and the state is termed "Wilayat" (friendship/union).
In Sufism there exist many different orders ("tarikas"), that were founded from the 12th and 13th centuries until today/contemporary times. Some of the major Sufi orders are:
Some of the major, notable Sufis in history, from the 'classical age' of Sufism, include:
Modern practitioners, who have achieved the degree of "sheikh" (Master/Preceptor) and are accounted to have a high spiritual status, are still found in various places.
Sufi practices are usually defined within the basic tenets of Islam, the "Sharia" (or "Shariah") although some orders include singing and dancing in the love of God, something some Muslims frown on. Hence some Muslims of a more orthodox mind-set believe that any actions outside the scope of "Sharia", or Sufi activities practised by non-Muslims are 'wrong'. However the underlying message and aim of the quest for the love of God is true for all humanity. For a non-Muslim the most important ideas in Sufism are love for fellow human beings (which reflects one's love of God) and living ones life in such a way where all actions are against the self. This automatically starts him on the path of "fanaa". In terms of discipleship and training, almost all the major Sufi orders are themselves quite willing to take students who are not Muslims.
There are some Muslim schools of thought, such as the Wahhabi for example, who oppose Sufism because they feel it obliterates the difference between God and man and bypasses the common method of salvation as prescribed by their interpretations of "Sharia". Although there are non-Islamic versions of Sufism too (generally defined as 'Universal Sufism') puritanical and rigid people in Islam tend to view them with considerable hatred and anger. As a result, we often see a great deal of misunderstanding and conflict regarding Sufism and Sufic practices.
Historically speaking, orthodox Islam, especially fundamentalist groups like the Wahhabi and Salafi have been the most intolerant and violent against what they think of as 'Deviant Sufism'. In the past centuries, severe persecution has been carried out by them against the Kharijites, the Ismaili Shia cult (sometimes termed the 'Assassins'), the Ahmadiyya movement and several other groups and individuals with Sufi-like mystical tendencies and practices. During the time of the later Mughal Empire in India, even the early "gurus" of Sikhism were persecuted by orthodox Islamic "mullahs" (theologians) since they had chosen to incorporate some of the ideas and poetic verses of the Sufi saint Baba Farid into their holy scriptures. In more recent times, over the last two decades, considerable persecution has been made of the spiritual reformer and sage Riaz Ahmed Gohar Shahi and his followers in Pakistan. He was opposed and threatened and forced to flee the country and his books banned there, and anyone publicly supporting him is liable to immediate arrest.
Even proper, formal Sufi orders have suffered persecution for various reasons. In recent times the most notorious example was the outright banning of Sufism in Iran. This happened in spite of the famous "Amman Message", a joint declaration made by over 200 of the most noted moderate Islamic scholars in a conference in Amman, Jordan, in 2005, stressing that Sufism is very much 'part' of Islam.
Some volumes for further reading on Sufism include:

</doc>
<doc id="12176" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12176" title="Dove">
Dove

Pigeons or doves are the bird family Columbidae. 
The common names "pigeon" and "dove" are often used interchangeably. In ornithology, "dove" tends to be used for smaller species and "pigeon" for larger ones. The feral domestic pigeon is often called the "rock dove": it is common in many cities. 
There are more than 300 species in the family. They usually make nests of sticks, and their two white eggs are incubated by both the male and the female parent. Doves feed on seeds, fruit and plants. 
Unlike most other birds, the doves and pigeons produce a type of milk. It is produced in their crop, and called crop milk. Both sexes have this highly nutritious milk to feed their young.
Pigeons and doves are distributed everywhere on Earth, except for the driest areas of the Sahara Desert, Antarctica and its surrounding islands and the high Arctic. They have colonised most of the world's oceanic islands, reaching eastern Polynesia and the Chatham Islands in the Pacific, Mauritius, the Seychelles and Réunion in the Indian Ocean, and the Azores in the Atlantic Ocean.
The family has adapted to most of the habitats available on the planet. These species may be arboreal or terrestrial or partly terrestrial. Species live in savannas, grasslands, deserts, temperate woodlands and forests, mangrove forests, and even the barren sands and gravels of atolls. Some species have large natural ranges. 
The largest range of any species is that of the rock dove. This species lives in Britain and Ireland, northern Africa, across Europe, Arabia, Central Asia, India, the Himalayas and up into China and Mongolia. The range of the species increased dramatically after is was domesticated, because the species went feral in cities around the world. It lives in cities across most of North America, South America, sub-Saharan Africa, Southeast Asia, Japan, Australia and New Zealand. 
The species is not the only pigeon to have increased its range due to the actions of man; several other species have become established outside of their natural range after escaping captivity. Other species have also increased their natural ranges due to habitat changes by humans.
The dodo and the Rodrigues solitaire are two famous flightless birds on the Macarene Islands in the Indian Ocean, east of Madagascar. They are extinct, but were alive before sailors found the islands. They had no fear of humans, whom they had never seen. The sailors hunted them, and killed them for food. Both species are now extinct. Animals introduced by man may also have hunted them. Their anatomy (osteology) and DNA sequence analyses show they were are in the Columbidae.
In the Ancient Near East and Mediterranean, doves were used as symbols for the Canaanite mother goddess Asherah, the Phoenician goddess Tanit, and the Roman goddesses Venus and Fortunata.
The Christian symbol of a dove with an olive branch in its beak represents peace and comes from Genesis 8:6 - 12, also John 1:32–34. The Christian stories came after very similar myths from earlier cultures.The Chaldean myth the "Epic of Gilgamesh", Utnapishtim releases a dove and raven to find land; however, the dove merely circles and returns. Only then does Utnapishtim send forth the raven, which does not return, and Utnapishtim concludes the raven has found land.
Several species of pigeons and doves are used as food, and probably any might be. The powerful breast muscles of the family make excellent meat. Domesticated or hunted pigeon were used as food in Mesopotamia, Ancient Rome and medieval Europe. It is familiar meat within Jewish, Arab, Assamese and French cuisines. According to the Tanakh, doves are kosher, and they are the only birds that may be used for a "korban" (offering). Other kosher birds may be eaten, but not brought as a "korban". It is also eaten in Asian cuisines, such as Chinese and Indonesian cuisine. Young pigeons in cuisine are known as "squabs".
In Europe, the wood pigeon is commonly shot as a game bird Rock pigeons were originally domesticated as a food species, and many breeds were developed for their meat-bearing qualities. The extinction of the passenger pigeon in North America was partly due to shooting for food. Mrs Beeton's "Book of Household Management" has recipes for roast pigeon and pigeon pie, a popular, inexpensive food in Victorian industrial Britain.

</doc>
<doc id="12178" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12178" title="Antonio Prohias">
Antonio Prohias

Antonio Prohias (January 17, 1921 – February 24, 1998) was a Cuban-born cartoonist. He is best known as the creator of Spy vs. Spy.

</doc>
<doc id="12187" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12187" title="Chancellor">
Chancellor

Chancellor is the leader of the government in Germany or Austria. The title "Chancellor" means the same thing as "Prime Minister". 
For example, Italy has a Prime Minister while Germany has a Chancellor. They have the same job but a different title. 
In the United Kingdom, the Chancellor means the Chancellor of the Exchequer, the person in charge of the country's finances (taxes and spending). Also in the United Kingdom, there is a Lord Chancellor. 
Chancellor is also a title given to public officials in some other countries. For example, "Daijō-daijin" or Chancellor of the Realm was a government position in Japan in the late Nara and Heian periods.

</doc>
<doc id="12208" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12208" title="MUD">
MUD

In terms of computer games, a MUD (short for Multi-User Dungeon, Multi-User Dimension or Multi-User Domain) is a multiplayer online game that is usually completely text-based.

</doc>
<doc id="12209" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12209" title="Ulysses S. Grant">
Ulysses S. Grant

Ulysses S. Grant (1822–1885), born Hiram Ulysses Grant, was the general who helped the Union Army of the United States win the American Civil War and later became the 18th President of the United States (1869-1877).
Hiram Ulysses Grant was born on April 27, 1822, in Point Pleasant, Ohio. He was the oldest of six children born to Jesse and Hannah Grant. Jesse Grant was a tanner. It was hard smelly work but he made a good living at it. Young Grant worked for his father in the tannery but hated the work. He went to local schools. In 1838 he attended the Presbyterian Academy in Ripley, Ohio. In 1839 he was appointed to the United States Military Academy at West Point. He was not the best student though he was good at math. When he graduated, he was placed in the infantry.
When Grant arrived at West Point and discovered that the Academy had him registered under the wrong name as Ulysses S. Grant, he tried to get the error corrected. He was told that it didn't matter what he or his parents thought his name was, the official government application said his name was "Ulysses S." and that application could not be changed. If Hiram Ulysses Grant wanted to attend West Point, he would have to change his name.
Before becoming the president, Grant was an officer in the Union Army (North). He fought in the Mexican War and became a general at the start of the American Civil War. He served as head of the Army of Tennessee and won victories at Shiloh, Vicksburg, and Chattanooga. He became the top general in the Union Army from 1864 to 1865, and fought several battles against Robert E. Lee. 
Since he was able to do well fighting in the American Civil War, he gained popularity which helped him to become president. Even though he was a respected general and supported civil rights for African Americans, historians criticize his presidency because he appointed his friends into high political positions and tolerated their corruption (even though Grant himself was innocent). Grant was the first President of the United States to have both living parents attend his inauguration.
When he accepted the nomination for president by the Republican Party, Grant proclaimed "Let there be peace." The previous administration of Andrew Johnson had been full of debate. Johnson himself only narrowly escaped being removed from office by a single vote. Grant wanted to heal the nation. But he delegated much of his power to his aides. This in turn caused much of his administration to be remembered for its corruption even though Grant himself was honest.
Shortly after his election, Wall Street dealers James Fisk and Jay Gould tried to cornering the market in gold. They were aided by Grant's brother-in-law Abel Corbin, who convinced them the president would go along with their scheme to control gold prices. Actually, Grant knew nothing about this and Corbin was just trying to get in on the illegal profits that could be made. When the president learned what was going on, he ordered the sale of $4 million in gold held by the Federal government. This caused the price of gold to go down and almost bankrupted Fisk and Gould. But worse scandals were to follow.
During his first term, Grant did have some modest success. The national debt from the Civil War was reduced. All former Confederate states were re-admitted to the Union. Grant sent Federal troops to the South to fight against the Ku Klux Klan, whose ranks had been filled with Southerners bitter over blacks being able to vote and hold public office. Grant also publicly took steps to reform the system of patronage in use at the time. For the first time, a Civil Service Commission was appointed which made recommendations for reform. People would get government jobs based on their qualifications not on who they knew or who owed them a favor. In 1872 Grant put these recommendations into effect but Congress refused to pass any laws making these changes permanent.
In 1872, Republican reformers split the party and nominated Horace Greeley to be president. The Democratic Party also nominated him. Greeley wanted Civil Service reform and amnesty for all former Confederates. Grant won the election by a landslide.
Very soon into Grant's second term the Panic of 1873 started a depression in the United States that spread to Europe. In 1873, Republicans in Congress were caught in a bribery scandal by newspapers. They had collected large bribes to give large federal grants to the railroads. The bibes had taken place before Grant was president, but the news came out during his presidency making it seem even more corrupt. Also in 1873, Grant signed a bill that gave himself and congressmen a pay raise. The press attacked him for it calling it a money grab. Republicans were getting a bad reputation in the press. Mid-term, the Democrats won a majority of votes in the House. They started a number of congregational investigations. Grant's Secretary of the Treasury had to resign after being caught in a fraud scheme involving taxpayer kickbacks. 
The Whiskey Ring was the largest scandal and involved widespread fraud. Grant had appointed an army friend John MacDonald as an Internal Revenue Service supervisor for the St. Louis area. In return for bribes, whisky distillers paid taxes only on a small portion of the whiskey they produced. They were cheating the U.S. government out of millions of dollars a year. MacDonald kept some of the money while some of it went to the Republican Party. The Whiskey Ring was paying some officials a regular salary to keep them from talking. Benjamin Bristow, the Secretary of the Treasury at the time, had no idea this was going on. Each time he sent inspectors on a raid to check out suspected cheaters, their records were always in good order. Bristow had no idea someone in his office was telling them in advance who was to be inspected. Meanwhile, Grant accepted expensive gifts from MacDonald not suspecting he was running a fraud scheme. MacDonald even told his friends in St. Louis that Grant was in on the scheme. In 1875, MacDonald and more than 350 distillers and government officials were indicted. This included Grant's personal secretary Orville Babcock. He was the one keeping ring members informed of any inspections. At his trial, witnesses lied and even President Grant wrote a letter stating Babcock was of good character. As a result, Babcock was exonerated of the charges, but the scandal prevented him from going back to his job in Washington. Of those accused, 60 paid fines while MacDonald and two others went to prison. The Whiskey Ring proved to most Americans that Grant's administration was filled with corruption. 
After his presidency, Grant was poor and was suffering from throat cancer. He wrote a book about his life that sold millions of copies. He died three days after he finished writing the book. He is buried with his wife Julia in Grant's Tomb, New York City, New York.

</doc>
<doc id="12210" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12210" title="Grenada">
Grenada

Grenada is an island nation in the Caribbean Sea that received its independence from the United Kingdom in 1974. Its capital is St. George's.
The island was invaded by the American military in 1983 because of Cuba's presence there. In 2004, a hurricane named Ivan destroyed most of the island's resources.
Grenada is called the Spice Island on account of its most famous export, the nutmeg.

</doc>
<doc id="12224" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12224" title="Accrington">
Accrington

Accrington is a town in Lancashire, England. It is in North West England. The town had a population of 35,203 in the 2001 census. The Accrington Stanley Football Club play here.

</doc>
<doc id="12226" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12226" title="Yateley">
Yateley

Yateley is a suburban town in England in the county of Hampshire. It had a population of 21,011 according to the 2001 census. 
It is on the borders with Berkshire and Surrey. It lies some 35 miles (56 km) west-south-west of London and 15 miles (24 km) south of Reading. Other local towns and villages include Eversley, Finchampstead, Hartley Wintney, Blackwater, Camberley, Sandhurst, Crowthorne, Farnborough and Fleet.
Yateley mainly serves as a dormitory town for workers in London, Reading, Guildford, Farnborough and Camberley.
Public transport in Yateley is limited to a bus that serves Blackwater, Camberley and Aldershot. There is no train station.
There are two secondary schools in the town, Yateley School and Frogmore School, and many infant and primary schools.

</doc>
<doc id="12227" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12227" title="Stratford-upon-Avon">
Stratford-upon-Avon

Stratford-upon-Avon is a town in England. It is famous as the birthplace of William Shakespeare. It lies on the River Avon, 22 miles (35 km) south east of Birmingham and 8 miles (13 km) south west of the county town, Warwick.

</doc>
<doc id="12228" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12228" title="Pune">
Pune

Pune (former name: "Poona") is the 8th largest metropolis in India. It is in the Indian state of Maharashtra. The city is famous for the great "Maratha" king "Shivaji Maharaj". The game of badminton was invented there in the 19th century. It is also the birthplace of spiritual teacher Meher Baba. Mula and Mutha are the two rivers that flow through the city. It has also been referred to as the ""Queen of the Deccan"", ""Oxford of the East"", ""Detroit of India"" by some. It has a major Information Technology (IT) center. This city is managed by the Pune Municipal Council (PMC).
Pune is a city of knowledge and often known as the Oxford of the east. In Marathi, it is known as "vidyeche maherghar" which means, the hometown of education. Till 2015, the population of Pune was 8,242,142. 
The name Pune comes from the Sanskrit word - "". It means "city of virtue". 

</doc>
<doc id="12229" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12229" title="Beer (Devon)">
Beer (Devon)

Beer is the name of a village in Devon, South West England. It is famous for underground quarries started by the Romans which have supplied stone for many of England's Historic buildings. Fishing was also a large industry with smuggling connections and the ladies of Beer made the lace for Queen Victoria's wedding dress.

</doc>
<doc id="12232" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12232" title="Fly">
Fly

A fly (plural: "flies") is an insect of the order Diptera. The Diptera is a large order of advanced flying insects.
Their most obvious distinction from other insects is in their flight. A typical fly has two flight wings on its thorax and a pair of halteres. The halteres, which evolved from the hind wings, act as flight sensors: they are balance organs. Also flies have large eyes with excellent wide-angle vision.
With the help of their eyes and halteres, flies are exceptional fliers. They can avoid most predators, and are the most difficult insects to capture by hand. Their jinks, dives and turns to avoid their predators is their main adaptation. "These flies do a precise and fast calculation to avoid a specific threat and they are doing it using a brain that is as small as a grain of salt"... "And they can fly like an ace at birth. It's like putting a newborn baby in the cockpit of a fighter aircraft and it knowing what to do".
The only other order of insects bearing two true, functional wings plus any form of halteres are the Strepsiptera, a small order of insects. In contrast to the flies, the Strepsiptera evolved their halteres from their front wings and their flight wings are their rear wings.
The presence of a single pair of wings distinguishes true flies from other insects with "fly" in their name, such as mayflies, dragonflies, damselflies, stoneflies, whiteflies, fireflies, sawflies, caddisflies, butterflies or scorpionflies.
Some true flies have become secondarily wingless, including some that live in social insect colonies.
Flies are also holometabolous, with complete metamorphosis.
There are an estimated 1,000,000 species, although only about 150,000 species have been described.
There are many different kinds of flies. Scientists have named 85,000 kinds (species). Houseflies are grey or black and can be found wherever people are. Horse flies and deer flies can bite people and animals. Fruit flies can be found near fruit that is too ripe. Hoverflies look like small wasps, but they have no sting.
Some flies do not have the word "fly" in their name, so people may not know they are flies. Mosquitoes are flies that bite people and can carry diseases, such as malaria. Midges are small flie, a bit like like mosquitoes, but not all midges bite. Gnats are small flies that sometimes are in big groups called "swarm"s.
Some insects have the word "fly" in their names, but they are not flies at all.
Fireflies are a kind of beetle that can make light.
Dragonflies and damselflies are from the order Odonata and are not real flies.
Butterflies are not flies. They belong in the order Lepidoptera, along with moths.

</doc>
<doc id="12249" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12249" title="Dhikr">
Dhikr

The Arabic word Dhikr means "remembrance". Another word is Dhikrullah ("remembrance of God").
Dhikr is a kind of worship to God. It is often performed by the Sufis in congregation, and each Sufi order has its special kind of Dhikr.
However all Muslims must do dhikr.There are many benefits of doing Dhikr according to Islamic theology.Such as the fact that it is a polisher of the heart, a way of gaining closeness to Allah, one can even gain trees in Paradise for it.

</doc>
<doc id="12252" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12252" title="Jockey">
Jockey

A jockey is a person who rides horses in horse races. Most jockeys have to be under a certain weight and/or height, so they would not be too heavy on the horse.

</doc>
<doc id="12253" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12253" title="George Lazenby">
George Lazenby

George Lazenby (born September 5, 1939) is an Australian-born model and actor. He was born in Goulburn, New South Wales. He is best known for his role as James Bond in the movie "On Her Majesty's Secret Service" (1968). He is the only actor to play the role of Bond only once in an official James Bond movie.

</doc>
<doc id="12256" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12256" title="Cone">
Cone

In common speaking and geometry, a cone is a solid object that one gets when one rotates a right triangle around one of its two short sides, the cone's axis. The disk made by the other short side is called the base, and the point of the axis which is not on the base is the cone's "apex" or "vertex". An object that is shaped like a cone is "conical".
An "ice cream cone" is a holder for ice cream that is in the shape of a cone and that one can eat.

</doc>
<doc id="12257" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12257" title="Ice cream">
Ice cream

Ice cream is a frozen dessert made from cream, with added flavors and sweeteners. This mixture is quickly frozen while it is stirred, so that large ice crystals do not form. Some ice cream is made with carrageenan, a gum found in seaweed so that it is not sticky.
There are many different flavors of ice cream. Ice cream often has things added to it for flavor, like chocolate chips, nuts, fruit, cookie dough, sweets, sauces or small candies.
Many ice cream parlors, such as Cold Stone Creamery, allow people to make something called a sundae, which is at least one flavor of ice cream mixed with things such as nuts, dark or white chocolate chips, bananas, cherries, pineapples, candies, cookies, marshmallows, and various syrups such as hot fudge, maple and butterscotch. Also, ice cream is often placed on a piece of pie, which is called "pie a la mode".

</doc>
<doc id="12258" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12258" title="Grace Coolidge">
Grace Coolidge

Grace Coolidge (January 3, 1879 – July 8, 1957) was First Lady of the United States. She was the wife of United States President Calvin Coolidge. She acted as the First Lady of the United States from 1923 to 1929.
Her parents were Andrew and Lemira B. Goodhue. She was their only child. She spent her childhood at Burlington, Vermont. She graduated from the University of Vermont in 1902. She then started teaching at a school for the deaf children. The name of that school was the Clarke School for the Deaf, Northampton, Massachusetts. There she met Calvin Coolidge. They married in October 1905. The name of their first son was John Coolidge. The name of their second, born in 1908, son was Calvin, Jr. 
During all these years, her husband was working as a lawyer. Then, he became the governor. During all these years, Grace Coolidge helped her husband actively. By 1921, her husband has become the Vice President. They moved to Washington. Grace Coolidge soon became very popular in the high society of Washington. 
President Warren G. Harding died in 1923, and Calvin Coolidge became the President of the United States. Suddenly, their second son aged only 16 years died. She did not allow her personal sadness to disturb her work as the First Lady. 
In 1929, the president retired, and the couple left Washington. They went to Northampton (Massachusetts) to live. 
USA’s National Institute of Social Sciences awarded her a gold medal. In 1931, many people of America selected her as one of America’s living women. 
In 1933, her husband died, but she lived for many decades. She died in 1957 at the age of 78. She lived a private life. In between, she took her first airplane ride and a trip to Europe. 

</doc>
<doc id="12260" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12260" title="List of U.S. state flowers">
List of U.S. state flowers

The state flower is a symbol for each state in USA, the state flowers for each state are:

</doc>
<doc id="12262" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12262" title="Blacksmith">
Blacksmith

A blacksmith is a person who works with iron and steel. The blacksmith hammers hot iron on an anvil to change its shape. Blacksmiths make iron and steel tools.
A smith is a person who works in metal. A blacksmith works with iron and steel. A thousand years ago, people only knew about seven metals (iron, gold, silver, copper, tin, lead, and mercury). By color: gold is yellow; copper is red; and silver, tin, lead, and mercury are different gray colors. Iron is also a gray color if you shine it, but usually its surface is covered with a black oxide, which is a kind of rust. This black color forms very fast in a blacksmith's fire. The other metals have light colors, but iron is a dark color, so it is called the black metal in English. A smith who works the black metal is a black-smith.
A farrier works with iron like a blacksmith. The only ironwork a farrier does is to make horseshoes.
Iron must be very hot to shape with a hammer. Hot iron becomes cold very soon. A blacksmith has only a few seconds to hammer a piece of iron, before it must be put back in the fire to become hot again.
A forge burns coal or charcoal in a special fire, which can produce a high temperature. A bellows pushes air into the forge, to make the fire burn hotter. The blacksmith puts pieces of iron in the fire to make them hot.
There are a few ways to change a piece of iron's shape with hammer and heat. Here are the most important ways that a blacksmith uses:
A punch is a tool like a short stick of iron. The end of the punch is flat.
A chisel is a tool like a short stick of iron. The end of the chisel is sharp to cut. 
Iron is one of the 92 natural elements.
Steel is iron with a little carbon in it (0.3% to 1.7% carbon by weight).
All metals get harder when a smith hammers or bends them. This is called "work-hardening". If a smith hammers or bends a piece of metal that is already work-hardened, it will crack and break. To make work-hardened metal soft again, so that a smith can hammer and bend it more, the smith anneals the metal.
To "anneal" iron or steel, a blacksmith heats the metal until it no longer pulls a magnet, and then makes the metal become cold very slowly. Blacksmiths can cover the hot metal with sand, so that it takes hours to become cold. This makes iron or steel very soft.
Steel acts just like iron, until a blacksmith "heat-treats" the steel. This is a special way to make the steel hot and then cold, so that the steel will become hard enough to keep a cutting edge (blade). A blade made from a piece of iron (instead of steel) will very soon become dull and will not cut. Good blades (for knives, chisels, axes, and other tools with cutting edges) are always made of steel, then heat-treated, and then sharpened.
To heat-treat steel, a blacksmith heats the steel until it no longer pulls a magnet, then makes the steel become cold very quickly. A blacksmith does this by putting the hot steel into a bucket of water and moving it around until it is cold. This is called "quenching". When this is finished, the steel will be as hard as it can be. It will be so hard, that if someone hits it or drops it, it can break like glass.
The next step is to "draw the temper" or "temper" the steel, so that it will not break like glass. To temper steel, a blacksmith polishes a part of the steel so that it is smooth and shiny. The blacksmith then slowly heats the steel in the fire. When the steel is between , the polished steel will turn different colors. These colors do not glow in the dark; they look like dye on the polished steel. As the steel gets hotter from 300 to 650 degrees F, it will turn through the colors: yellow, then brown, then purple, then blue. Yellow means the steel will still be harder, blue means the steel will be softer (but still hard). When the steel turns the color that the blacksmith wants, he puts the steel into a bucket of water to stop the change. Different tools are tempered to different colors, but it also depends on how much carbon there is in the steel. Usually, stone chisels are tempered to yellow, and axes for trees are tempered to blue, but the blacksmith has to decide.
A blacksmith does not hammer a blade edge thin. A blacksmith hammers the steel so that the edge stays thick. After the "heat-treat" and "temper", stones are used to grind the blade edge to make it sharp.
If a blacksmith has a piece of iron or steel, but does not know which one it is, the blacksmith can heat-treat it like steel. If it does not become hard, then it is not steel. Iron will show the same temper colors as steel, but it will not be hard.
If a blacksmith has an old steel tool, and wants to hammer it into a new different tool, the blacksmith anneals the steel. The steel will then be very soft like iron. The blacksmith can then hammer it into a new tool, and heat-treat and temper it, to make a new, hard steel tool.
A blacksmith must be careful when hammering hardened steel or work-hardened iron, because small pieces can break off and fly, and these can hurt his or her eyes. Many blacksmiths wear plastic safety glasses to keep their eyes safe.
The first blacksmiths were Hittites. They started working iron to make tools around 1500 BC. The ways that tools are made by blacksmiths have changed very little since then.
Around 1850, countries like the United States of America and the United Kingdom made new ways to make steel and tools in factories. Factories now make tools faster, and for less money than blacksmiths. There are now very few blacksmiths in countries that have a lot of factories.
The few blacksmiths that are still in countries with a lot of factories, make iron that is art. These blacksmiths make gates, stair rails, and chairs and tables for outdoors. People buy this iron as art, because each piece is different from the other pieces.

</doc>
<doc id="12263" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12263" title="Caracas">
Caracas

Caracas is the capital city of Venezuela. Santiago de Leòn de Losada founded the city in 1567. It is where Simon Bolivar was born. The city has nearly 6 million people, who live in the metropolitan area. Caracas is the center of the economical activity of the country and also hosts the main government offices of Venezuela.
All the best teams of the sports done in Venezuela are concentrated in the metropolitan area of Caracas. Between those teams we have:

</doc>
<doc id="12268" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12268" title="Homestar Runner">
Homestar Runner

Homestar Runner, also called H*R, is an Internet cartoon that was made using Macromedia Flash. It usually gets updated every Monday (but, except for an update on April Fools Day of 2014 and a few cartoons since, it has not been actively updated since December 2010) with a cartoon, a game, or a Strong Bad Email. The people that made the website are Mike Chapman and Matt Chapman. They are brothers and are called The Brothers Chaps. The cartoons on the website normally show Homestar Runner or Strong Bad, who are the main characters on the cartoon.
Telltale Games, the makers of video games based on the Sam & Max comic book, made a game called "Strong Bad's Cool Game for Attractive People" for Windows and the Wii's WiiWare. It's an episodic game with five episodes, and it is made with 3 dimensions instead of 2 dimensions like Homestar Runner is. The first episode was called "Homestar Ruiner", and ended with "8-Bit is Enough".

</doc>
<doc id="12275" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12275" title="Horst Köhler">
Horst Köhler

Prof. Dr. Horst Köhler (born 22 February 1943) is a German politician of the Christian Democratic Union. He was President of Germany from 2004 to 2010. He was the candidate of the two Christian Democratic sister parties, the CDU and the CSU, and the liberal FDP, for becoming President. Köhler was elected to his first five-year term by the Federal Assembly on 23 May 2004. He was reelected to a second term on 23 May 2009. About one year later, on 31 May 2010, he resigned from his office in a controversy over his comment on the role of the Bundeswehr in light of a visit to the troops in Afghanistan.
Köhler is an economist by profession. Prior to his election as President, Köhler had a career in politics, the civil service and as a banking executive. He was President of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development from 1998 to 2000. He also served as the head of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) from 2000 to 2004.
Although the office of President is less influential than that of the Chancellor and is mostly concerned with ceremonial matters, Köhler was a highly popular politician during his term. He has called for more influence for the President and has suggested the President should be directly elected. This was the case under Germany's Weimar Constitution.
Köhler was born in Skierbieszów (later named Heidenstein), in the General Government area of German-occupied Poland. He was the seventh child of Elisabeth and Eduard Köhler. His family were Bessarabian Germans from Rîşcani in Romanian Bessarabia (near Bălţi, present-day Moldova). Horst Köhler's parents had to leave their home in Bessarabia in 1940. As part of the Generalplan Ost, they were resettled in 1942 at Skierbieszów. This was a village near Zamość, Poland (then part of the General Government). When the Wehrmacht was pushed back during World War Two, the Köhler family fled to Leipzig. In 1953, they left the Soviet Zone to escape from the communist regime. The family lived in refugee camps until 1957. Then, they settled in Ludwigsburg. Horst Köhler hence spent most of his first 14 years as a refugee.
A teacher proposed that the refugee boy should apply for the Gymnasium. Köhler took his "Abitur" in 1963. After a two-year military service at a Panzergrenadier battalion in Ellwangen, he left the Bundeswehr as reserve officer. He studied and finally earned a doctorate in economics and political sciences from University of Tübingen. There, he was a scientific research assistant at the Institute for Applied Economic Research from 1969 to 1976.
Köhler joined the civil service in 1976, when he was employed in the Federal Ministry of Economics. In 1981, he was employed in the Chancellery of the state government in Schleswig-Holstein. He served there under Prime Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg. In 1982, Köhler was made head of the Ministers office in the Federal Ministry of Finance. He rose to head of department in 1987, with responsibility for financial policy and federal industrial interests. In 1989, he became head of the department for currency and credit.
He is a member of the CDU since 1981. He was Secretary of State in the Federal Ministry of Finance from 1990 to 1993. In that capacity, he served as a "sherpa" (personal representative) for Chancellor Helmut Kohl, preparing G7. He also served as the primary German negotiator in the Maastricht Treaty negotiations.
Between 1993 and 1998 he served as President of the association of savings banks in Germany. In 1998, he was appointed president of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. He settled in London, where the headquarters of the bank is located.
Köhler was appointed managing Director and Chairman of the Executive Board of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) in 2000. The government of Gerhard Schröder nominated him. This was because their first nominee, Caio Koch-Weser, was rejected by the United States.
He lived in Washington, D.C., from 2000 to 2004.
On 4 March 2004, Köhler resigned his positions, because he was nominated as presidential candidate. Köhler defeated Gesine Schwan on the first ballot by 604 votes to 580. 20 votes were cast for minor candidates, while one elector was absent because of a heart attack. Köhler succeeded Johannes Rau as President on 1 July 2004, for a five-year term. Germany's presidency is a largely ceremonial office. However, it is also invested with considerable moral authority. From 2004 until early 2006, Charlottenburg Palace was the seat of the President of Germany. This was because Schloss Bellevue has been renovated.
Upon his election, Köhler said that "Patriotism and being cosmopolitan are not opposites". Presenting his visions for Germany, Köhler also said that "Germany should become a land of ideas".
In July 2005, he suspended the Bundestag at Chancellor Gerhard Schröder's request. Schröder had lost a motion of confidence in the Bundestag. This led to early election for the Bundestag in September 2005.
In October 2006, he made a far-reaching decision by vetoing a bill. It would transfer Germany's Air Safety Administration Deutsche Flugsicherung into private ownership. The Bundestag passed this legislation but as President, Köhler was authorized to not sign it into law if, in his opinion, it contravenes the constitution. In December 2006, he did not sign the Consumer Information Law, because the constitution does not allow the federal government to instruct municipal authorities. This can only be done by the German states. There had only been six previous occasions when Germany's president had chosen to reject bills. In most instances less important legislation was involved. His vetoes were the first notable examples in recent German history.
In his 2007 Christmas address to the nation, Köhler urged the government to push ahead more quickly with reforms. He was also critical of the introduction of the minimum wage in the postal sector, stating that "a minimum wage that can not be paid by competitive employers destroys jobs".
On 22 May 2008, Köhler said, that he wants to be the candidate for a second term as president. On 23 May 2009, he was re-elected by the Federal Assembly, and was sworn into office for a second term on 1 July 2009.
In November 2009, Köhler refused to sign the "Zugangserschwerungsgesetz" (Access Impediment Act) into law without further information. The law, which aims to make it more difficult to access sites on the World Wide Web with child pornography, is considered by many legal experts to be unconstitutional.
On 31 May 2010, Köhler announced his resignation as President of Germany. This came after German politicians criticised comments made by Köhler in relation to overseas military deployments:
He came under criticism for his statement that Germany’s military missions abroad also served to secure trade. He afterwards stated that his comments referred to piracy off the coast of Somalia. Köhler stated that there was no substance to accusations that in the interview he had overstepped his formal role by favouring an unconstitutional position. After getting no support in the dispute, Köhler stepped down on 31 May 2010. He made a statement saying "I declare my resignation from the Office of President, with immediate effect." The resignation was considered a "surprise". The following days he was criticized for not being able to handle criticism while being a rigorous critic himself. His unprecedented act of immediate resignation was also considered showing a lack of respect for his position.
As written down in the German constitution, the powers of the vacant office were executed by the current President of the Bundesrat, Jens Böhrnsen, until Christian Wulff was elected president on 30 June 2010.
Horst Köhler is married to Eva Köhler, a teacher. They have two children, a daughter Ulrike (born in 1972) and a son Jochen (born in 1977). His daughter, who suffers from retinitis pigmentosa, became blind as a teenager. Horst Köhler is a member of the Evangelical Church in Germany.

</doc>
<doc id="12277" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12277" title="2012">
2012

2012 (MMXII) was a leap year that started on Sunday in the Gregorian calendar.
The year 2012 was the International Year of Cooperatives and the Alan Turing Year.

</doc>
<doc id="12278" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12278" title="John Williams">
John Williams

John Towner Williams (born February 8, 1932) is an American composer and conductor. He has composed many soundtracks for blockbuster movies such as "Star Wars", "Superman", "Jaws", "Indiana Jones", "Jurassic Park", and "Harry Potter".
William was born in Long Island, New York on February 8, 1932. He studied at the University of California, Los Angeles and at the Julliard School. His parents were Esther and Johnny Williams.
He is best known for his scores (soundtracks) for movies such as "Jaws", "Star Wars", "Superman", "E.T.", "Indiana Jones", "Home Alone", "Schindler's List", "Jurassic Park", "Harry Potter", and "Lincoln". He conducted the Boston Pops Orchestra and the Chicago Symphony Orchestra and conducts for them a few times each year especially around Christmas time.
Williams has composed music for all but two of Steven Spielberg's movies ("Duel" and "The Color Purple").
For Barack Obama's presidential inauguration on January 20, 2009, John Williams made a special arrangement of the Shaker hymn "Air and Simple Gifts". It was performed by four musicians: the violinist Itzhak Perlman, the cellist Yo-Yo Ma, the clarinetist Anthony McGill and the pianist Gabriela Montero.
Williams also created the theme music for four Olympic Games, NBC Sunday Night Football, the NBC Nightly News, the Statue of Liberty's rededication, the television series "Lost in Space" and "Land of the Giants", and the original, not as well known calypso-based theme song to "Gilligan's Island".
Williams is currently in the production of "Star Wars Episode VII" which will be released in December 2015.
Williams was married to actress Barbara Ruick from 1956 until her death from a cerebral hemorrhage in 1974. They had three children: Jennifer, Joseph and Mark. In 1980, he married Samantha Winslow. They live in Los Angeles, California.
Williams has received 49 Academy Award nominations throughout his career. He is the only living person to do so. He won five of them. Williams has received the most nominations for Academy Awards of any person except for Walt Disney. 
Williams has also won 4 Golden Globe Awards, 7 British Academy Film Awards and 21 Grammy Awards. Williams was honored with the annual Richard Kirk award at the 1999 BMI Film and TV Awards, recognizing his contribution to movies and television music. 
Williams is an honorary member of Kappa Kappa Psi, the national fraternity for college band members. Williams was inducted into the Hollywood Bowl Hall of Fame in 2000, and was a recipient of the Kennedy Center Honors in 2004.

</doc>
<doc id="12279" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12279" title="Superman">
Superman

Superman is a famous comic book character. He is possibly the first modern superhero character. He was created by Jerry Siegel and Joe Shuster in 1932, while they were still in high school. He first appeared in "Action Comics" issue #1 in 1938. Later, he appeared in movies, television series, cartoons, commercials, and radio shows. Superman is one of the most popular superheroes and is in the DC Comics. 
Mr. Siegel used his imagination to make an evil villain who read minds and dreamed of conquering the world. He went by the name of the Superman. In the 1930s, Hitler, the infamous nazi villain from real life, was talking about getting rid of the Jews and communists. This was because he believed that Germans with blond hair and blue eyes, called Aryans, were supermen. Mr. Siegel found this disgusting. He was Jewish himself. But one night, Mr. Siegel tossed and turned in his bed, and had a horrible time getting to sleep. When he awoke, Superman became the superman we know today, and the evil version disappeared.
Superman is from a planet called Krypton. His name was Kal-El. His father, Jor-El, found out that their planet was going to explode. Jor-El sent his baby son to Earth in a spacecraft to save him. Kal-El was found and adopted by Jonathan and Martha Kent. They named him Clark Kent. The Kents raised him as their own son in a town called Smallville, Kansas in the United States. There is a television series called "Smallville" about his time growing up there.
As he grows up, Clark finds out that he has special powers. He is invulnerable (he cannot be hurt). He is strong enough to lift almost anything and he can fly. Superman can run and move faster than a bullet. He has X-ray vision (he can see through walls), and heat vision (he can shoot heat from his eyes). He can freeze things with his frost breath and his super-breath (which allows him to blow super hard). He decides to use his special powers to fight crime and save people in danger. He wears a blue and red costume and cape to keep his alter ego (his real name) a secret. He saves the entire world many times.
Superman moves to a city called Metropolis, and becomes a reporter for the Daily Planet, a newspaper. He falls in love with another reporter, Lois Lane.
His weaknesses are radioactive rocks from his home planet that are called "kryptonite"; and magic. Kryptonite weakens him so he can not use his powers for a long time nor can he move. Sometimes his enemies use it to hurt him. Blue Kryptonite makes people able to control him using hypnosis, green slowly kills him, black makes him evil, and red has many different effects on him (each piece of red kyrptonite affects him differently). There is also gold, white, and jewel kryptonite. Some of Superman's enemies use magic to hurt him.
His arch enemy is a bald (hairless), evil genius named Lex Luthor. He has other deadly enemies too. Bizarro is another version of Superman. He comes from another dimension. Darkseid is a very powerful enemy. He is the ruler of the planet Apokolips. Another enemy includes General Zod who comes from the same planet as Superman.
Superman also founded the Justice League of America alongside Batman, Wonder Woman, Aquaman, Green Lantern, The Flash, Hawkgirl, Hawkman, and Martian Manhunter.

</doc>
<doc id="12280" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12280" title="Camellia">
Camellia

Camellia is a genus of flowering plants in the family Theaceae, native to eastern and southern Asia from the Himalaya east to Japan and Indonesia. Scientists are still discussing how many species there are. The number of species varies between 100 and 250. Linnaeus named the genus inhonour of Fr. Georg Joseph Kamel, a Jesuit botanist. amel brought C. japonica from Manila to Spain.
They are evergreen shrubs and small trees from 2–20 m tall. The leaves are alternately arranged, simple, thick, serrated, usually glossy, and 3–17 cm long. The flowers are large and conspicuous, 1–12 cm diameter, with (in natural conditions) 5–9 petals; colour varies from white to pink and red, and yellow in a few species. The fruit is a dry capsule subdivided into 1–5 compartments, each containing 1–8 seeds.
The genus is generally adapted to acidic soils, and does not grow well on chalk or other calcium-rich soils. Most species also have a high rainfall requirement and will not tolerate drought.
"Camellia" species are used as food plants by the larvae of a number of Butterflies species.
"Camellia sinensis" is of major commercial importance because tea is made from its leaves. Tea oil is a sweet seasoning and cooking oil made by pressing the seeds of "Camellia sinensis" or "Camellia oleifera".
Many other camellias are grown as ornamental plants for their flowers; about 3,000 cultivars and hybrids have been selected, many with double flowers, as in the gallery below. "Camellia japonica" (often simply called Camellia) is the most prominent species in cultivation, with over 2,000 named cultivars; next are "C. reticulata", with over 400 named cultivars, and "C. sasanqua", with over 300 named cultivars. Popular hybrids include "C. × hiemalis" ("C. japonica" × "C. sasanqua") and "C. × williamsii" ("C. japonica" × "C. salouenensis"). They are highly valued in Japan and elsewhere for their very early flowering, often among the first flowers to appear in the late winter. Late frosts can damage the flowers.
Camellias have a slow growth rate. Typically they will grow about 30 centimetres a year until mature although this varies depending on variety and location. 
"Camellia japonica" is the state flower of Alabama as well as the city flower of the Chinese municipality Chongqing.

</doc>
<doc id="12281" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12281" title="Magnolia">
Magnolia

Magnolia can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="12285" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12285" title="Exponentiation">
Exponentiation

Exponentiation (power) is an arithmetic operation on numbers. It is repeated multiplication, just as multiplication is repeated addition. People write exponentiation with upper index. This looks like this: formula_1. Sometimes it is not possible. Then people write powers using the ^ sign: 2^3 means formula_2.
The number formula_3 is called base, and the number formula_4 is called exponent. For example, in formula_2, 2 is the base and 3 is the exponent.
To calculate formula_2 a person must multiply the number 2 by itself 3 times. So formula_7. The result is formula_8. The equation could be read out loud in this way: 2 raised to the power of 3 equals 8.
Examples:
If the exponent is equal to 2, then the power is called square because the area of a square is calculated using formula_12. So
If the exponent is equal to 3, then the power is called cube because the volume of a cube is calculated using formula_15. So
If the exponent is equal to -1 then the person must calculate the inverse of the base. So
If the exponent is an integer and is less than 0 then the person must invert the number and calculate the power. For example:
If the exponent is equal to formula_20 then the result of exponentiation is the square root of the base. So formula_21
Example:
Similarly, if the exponent is formula_23 the result is the nth root, so:
If the exponent is a rational number formula_25, then the result is the "q"th root of the base raised to the power of "p", so:
The exponent may not even be rational. To raise a base "a" to an irrational "x"th power, we use an infinite sequence of rational numbers ("x"), whose limit is x:
like this:
There are some rules which help to calculate powers:
It is possible to calculate exponentiation of matrices. The matrix must be square. For example: formula_36.
Both addition and multiplication are commutative. For example, 2+3 is the same as 3+2; and 2 · 3 is the same as 3 · 2. Although exponentiation is repeated multiplication, it is not commutative. For example, 2³=8 but 3²=9.
Addition has one inverse operation: subtraction. Also, multiplication has one inverse operation: division.
But exponentiation has two inverse operations: The root and the logarithm. This is the case because the exponentiation is not commutative. You can see this in this example:

</doc>
<doc id="12288" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12288" title="Sega">
Sega

Sega () is a company that makes video games. In the past, they also made video game consoles. Their main office is in Tokyo, a city in Japan. They also have offices in other continents – for example, North America and Europe. Their most famous video games are the "Sonic the Hedgehog" series.
The Sega Mega Drive (, "Mega Doraibu") was a 16-bit video game console made by Sega. It was in market in Japan in (1988), and in Europe and the rest of the world in (1990). In North America, it was called "Sega Genesis".
A CD add-on for the Sega Genesis that let you play optical discs which could hold movies and high quality audio. It was not well received but has a strong base of fans.
The Sega 32X was an attempt to top the graphics of the Super Nintendo in the 90's. Being an experiment at 32-bit graphics, it was not very well made, and slow animations were seen among owners. The 32X later died, but Sega didn't stop there. Later, they made CD32X games, which required both the 32X and CD.
Sega Saturn was released on November 22/10, 1997/1999 in Japan/France. It was the first Sega video game console with 3D graphics. Sega released two versions of the Saturn : the first generation was black and with small controllers, and the second was white. One of its most popular games was Sonic R.
Sega Dreamcast (; originally called "Dural," and "Katana") is the last machine made by Sega that can play video games. It was sold before the PlayStation 2, GameCube, or Xbox came out. However, not many people bought it after the PlayStation 2 was released, so in the end Sega decided to stop making them.

</doc>
<doc id="12292" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12292" title="Primary school">
Primary school

A primary school (or elementary school) is a school for children between the ages of about five and eleven. It comes after preschool. When children finish learning at primary school, they go to secondary school.
In the United Kingdom, a primary school usually comprises a nursery and the first seven years of a child's full-time learning. In Australia and the United States, primary school begins with kindergarten. It lasts for six years, usually until the fifth or sixth grade. In the U.S., "elementary school" is a more common term for public primary schools. "Primary school" is often used in private or independent schools. (In private or independent schools the government does not give the schools money.)
In India, "Primary Education" means the 'Nursery', the 'Kindergarten' and four years of regular schooling thereafter. Admission to Nursery classes is for children above two years so that the age is 6+ when entering Class I. Children are taught language (mother tongue and English) reading/writing skills, basic arithmetic and quite a good amount of general information about the country, people, statesmen, great people, flora & animals. However, this is true only for schools in the urban areas. Rural schools do not have Nursery or Kindergarten; they admit straight at Class I when the child is six. Further, the rural schools use the mother tongue as medium of instruction, not resorting to English in any way. Primary education is free in government schools. Moreover, rural primary schools offer free mid-day meals to children (the government pays for it) so that the drop out rate comes down. States of West Bengal, Maharashtra, Manipur, Nagaland and Kerala have done very good work in this way of spreading primary education.
In Singapore, primary school refers to those students who are normally between the ages of 7 to 12. Primary School is classified as P1 to P6 for Primary 1 to Primary 6 respectively. At the end of P6, students sit for a national level Primary School Leaving Exam (PSLE) which is used for placement into Secondary School. Prior to Primary School, pupils attend Kindergarten School for 2 years.
In Germany, the primary school is called "Grundschule" and is normally from first grade to fourth grade so it is usually for children who are between six and ten years old. In some eastern states, for example in Berlin, the Primary School is for children up to age 12. In most German states the children start learning English in third grade on a very low level, they learn how to count and the names of the colors and other easy things. But because of that low level a German child who has finished Primary School is normally not able to form correct English sentences. In Primary School the children are prepared for the secondary education. Primary School students attend three main subjects: Math, German and General Knowledge ("Sachkunde"). In General Knowledge the children learn about nature, about their own body, how to ride a bicycle safely and something about the city they live in and of course about Germany. Beside those main subjects the children attend subjects like arts, music and Physical Education.

</doc>
<doc id="12293" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12293" title="Restaurant">
Restaurant

A restaurant is a place where cooked food is sold to the public, and where people sit down to eat it. It is also a place where people go to enjoy the time and to eat a meal. 
Some restaurants are a chain, meaning that there are a lot of restaurants that have the same name and serve the same food. McDonald's, Burger King, and Pizza Hut are examples of chain restaurants that are all over the world. These restaurants serve fast food, that is, inexpensive food, prepared and served quickly. At some, you do not have to even get out of the car to eat. You can pay and get your order from a window. These places are called drive-throughs.
There are also chain restaurants that serve slightly more expensive food. They are called fast casual restaurants. Applebee's and Perkins are examples of this type of chain restaurant.
Haute cuisine or 'fine dining' is found in a guide, such as the "Michelin Guide", the most famous restaurant guide in the world. Their 3-star rosettes are given only to restaurants with the highest standards of cooking and service. Interestingly, the Guide gives more 3-stars to Tokyo and Kyoto than to Paris, London and New York together. Traditionally, the restaurants of top hotels such as the Hotel de Paris in Monte Carlo or the Hôtel Ritz Paris are the places recognized for fine dining.
In Ancient Greece and Rome there were small restaurant-bars offering food and drinks. They were called thermopolia (singular "thermopolium"). Many dwellings did not have kitchens, and eating out was an important part of socializing.
In Pompeii, 158 thermopolia with service counters have been found. They were along the main road of the town and round the public spaces.

</doc>
<doc id="12294" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12294" title="Skimmed milk">
Skimmed milk

Skimmed milk (United Kingdom), or skim milk (United States of America) is made when all the cream (also called "milkfat") is removed from whole milk. Sometimes, only half the cream is removed, resulting in semi-skimmed milk instead.
Skimmed milk is more popular in the United States than Britain. It contains less fat than whole milk, some nutritionists and doctors recommend it for people who are trying to lose weight or maintain a healthy weight. Skim milk tends to have a slightly watery flavor, which some consumers do not enjoy.
In the UK milk is marketed and labelled as follows:
In the USA milk is marketed primarily by fat content and available in these varieties:
Low-fat milk 
has sufficient milk fat removed to bring the levels between 0.5-2 %
It also must contain at least 8.25% solids-not-fat. It must contain 2000IU of vitamin A per quart. 
Skim milk
Also called non fat milk has had sufficient milk-fat removed to bring the level to less than 0.3%

</doc>
<doc id="12300" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12300" title="Chocolate">
Chocolate

Chocolate is a food made from the seeds of a cacao tree. It is used in many desserts like pudding, cakes, candy, and ice cream. It can be a solid form like a candy bar or it can be in a liquid form like hot chocolate. The taste of chocolate is often described as sweet because chocolate makers usually add a lot of sugar and milk for taste. This means that chocolate can be bad for your teeth and health. It is best to eat chocolate in moderation. 
There are three main types of chocolate: white chocolate, milk chocolate, and dark chocolate. White chocolate tastes much sweeter than the other two types, because it has more of the sweeter ingredients in it. White chocolate does not have any cocoa in it. It is mostly made of cocoa butter. Milk chocolate is sweet, but not as sweet as white chocolate. Milk chocolate has some cocoa. Dark chocolate is the least sweet and has the strongest chocolate flavor. Dark chocolate has up to 60-85 percent cocoa.
Chocolate is safe to eat unless it is eaten in large amounts. Some animals, like dogs, become sick if they eat chocolate. People with diabetes can also get sick from eating chocolate. Dark chocolate contains ingredients that lower blood pressure and fight disease. Small amounts of dark chocolate have been found to lower the risk of heart disease because of polyphenol in chocolate. It is necessary to eat moderate amount of chocolate.
Making chocolate is a process that has many steps. First, the cocoa beans are collected and put in piles or containers to make them ferment. Fermentation makes the sugar in the beans turn into alcohol. Then the beans are dried and cleaned. Chocolate makers must cook the beans, and then crush them to make the cocoa butter and the chocolate liquor come out of them. Then the chocolate maker mixes different ingredients together to make the different kinds of chocolate. Dark or bittersweet chocolate is made from sugar, cocoa butter, and chocolate liquor. Milk chocolate uses all of those ingredients plus milk and vanilla. White chocolate does not contain chocolate liquor, but only cocoa butter, along with sugar, milk and vanilla. After these ingredients are put together, the chocolate maker is still not finished. One of the last things to be done is something called conching. Before chocolate is conched, it feels very rough in the mouth, instead of smooth. Conching means crushing the chocolate very finely and keeping it warm so that it is liquid. Conching for several hours makes good chocolate. The last step in making chocolate is called tempering. The chocolate is heated, and then shaken, and then cooled a few times.
There are a number of ingredients in chocolate. The most notable of these are caffeine and theobromine. These two chemicals are closely related and are found in all cocoa beans. In any bean, the amount of each chemical varies depending on the genetics of the tree and the stresses placed on the tree during the growing season. It takes two hours to make chocolate.
The cacao tree was first found to be useful for its seeds about two thousand years ago. Early Central Americans and Mexicans used the seeds from the cacao tree to make a drink that tasted bitter, not sweet. Only the important people could drink it. The word for "chocolate" in almost every language comes from its name in the Nahuatl language of Mexico, "chocolatl".
Later on, this drink was made sweeter and made into the treat that is known today as hot chocolate. It was made popular by Spanish explorers who brought it from North America to Spain. When chocolate was sweetened and made into candy, it became a very popular treat for many Europeans. At first, only the rich could afford chocolate. Now, many people enjoy it. Most cocoa today is made in Africa.

</doc>
<doc id="12301" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12301" title="1828">
1828

Year 1828 (MDCCCXXVIII) was a leap year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Gregorian Calendar and a leap year starting on Sunday of the 12-day slower Julian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="12303" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12303" title="Northumberland">
Northumberland

Northumberland is the most northern county in England. Lindisfarne is an island close offshore. The county town is Morpeth. Its finest church is Hexham Abbey. Historically Northumberland occupies a small part of the former Anglo-Saxon kingdom of Northumbria.
Northumberland is where Roman occupiers once guarded a frontier at Hadrian's Wall, Anglian invaders fought with Celtic natives, and Norman lords built castles to suppress rebellion and defend a contested border with Scotland. 
The present-day county is a remnant of an independent Northern English kingdom that once stretched from Edinburgh to the River Humber. Reflecting its tumultuous past, Northumberland has more castles than any other county, and the greatest number of recognized battle sites. Once an economically important region that supplied much of the coal that powered the industrial revolution, Northumberland is now a rural county with a small and gradually shrinking population.
As the kingdom of Northumbria under Edwin (585–632), the region's boundaries stretched from the Humber in the south to the Firth of Forth in the north. The kingdom and county were named for the Humber.
The county is noted for its undeveloped landscape of high moorland, a favourite with landscape painters, and now largely protected as a National park. Northumberland is the most sparsely populated county in England, with only 62 people per square kilometre. This is mainly because the large cities of Newcastle upon Tyne and Tynemouth were joined to Gateshead and Sunderland in the metropolitan county of Tyne and Wear.

</doc>
<doc id="12304" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12304" title="1491">
1491


</doc>
<doc id="12305" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12305" title="Violin">
Violin

The violin is an instrument which has four strings, and is played with a bow. The strings are usually tuned into the notes G, D, A, and E. It is held between the left collar bone (near the shoulder) and the chin. Different notes are made by fingering with the left hand while bowing with the right. It has no frets or other markers. Players have to learn the exact place to put the fingers of the left hand and memorise them. Students learning to play a violin may put dots or stickers on the fingerboard to help them learn how to play.
The violin is the smallest and highest pitched string instrument. A person who plays the violin is called a violinist. A person who makes or repairs violins is called a luthier.
The violin is important in European and Arabian music. No other instrument has played such an important part in Europe. The modern violin is about 400 years old. Similar string instruments have been around for almost 1000 years. By the time the modern orchestra started in the 17th century, the violin was fully developed. It became the most important orchestral instrument. Nearly every composer wrote for the violin. It is used as a solo instrument, in chamber music, in orchestral music and in jazz. It is also used in folk music.The violin is the most popular instrument for children.
The violin is sometimes called a “fiddle”. Someone who plays it is a “fiddler”. There is even a verb, to “fiddle", which means “to play the fiddle”. This word can be used as a nickname for the violin. It is properly used when talking about folk music.
The word “violin” is related to the word “viol”. The violin was not made directly from the instruments called viols. The word "violin" comes from the Middle Latin word "vitula". It means "stringed instrument". This word is also believed to be the source of the Germanic “fiddle”. The modern European violin changed over time from many different bowed stringed instruments. They were brought from the Middle East and the Byzantine Empire. Most likely, the first makers of violins took ideas from three kinds of current instruments. They are the rebec, in use since the 10th century, the Renaissance fiddle, and the "lira da braccio." These instruments were held under the chin and bowed.
In the 17th century, there were several families of luthiers who were very good at making instruments. The most famous violin makers were Stradivarius, Amati, and Guarneri. Some of the instruments that these luthiers made are still here today. They are kept in museums all around the world. They are some of the best instruments in existence. They can have prices over one million dollars.
The biggest part of the violin is the wooden body. This acts as a resonating box. It makes the vibrating strings sound louder. Many of the parts of the violin are named after parts of the body. The front is called the “belly”. The back is called the “back”. The sides are the “ribs”. The strings go from near the top of the “neck” down the “fingerboard” and on to the “tail piece”. The strings go across the bridge halfway between the end of the fingerboard and the tailpiece. The bridge is not fixed onto the violin. It is held in place by the strings. The strings keep it in place because they are so tight. If the strings are completely loosened, the bridge will not stay on. The bridge helps to send the vibrations of the strings down to the body of the instrument. Inside the body there is a “soundpost”. This is a small piece of wood. It looks like a small finger. It goes from the belly to the back. The soundpost is also held in place by the strings. In the middle of the belly there are two long, curved holes. They are called “f holes”. This is because of their shape. The top of the strings are wound around pegs. The violin can be tuned by turning the pegs. The very top of the neck is called the scroll. Violins today also have a chinrest. This helps to hold the violin against the player's shoulder. A shoulder rest can also be used. These are now made of foam. They have special legs to hold them on to the violin. Many beginners prefer to use a sponge and an elastic band instead.
To make it easier to tune the violin, many people find it helpful to have “adjusters” for “fine tuning” when the string is only slightly out of tune. These adjusters go through holes in the tailpiece. They stop the strings from slipping when being tuned.
Strings used to be made of gut. They are now mostly made of steel or nylon. Adjusters can only be used with some strings. The front of the violin body is made of spruce. The back and sides of the body are made of maple. The bow can be made of several kinds of wood. An example would be pernambuco. Some players today use bows made of carbon fibre. The bow is strung with horsehair (horsehair is hair that comes from the back of the horse's head also known as the mane or from the horse's tail).
It takes years of practice to become a good violinist. A beginner will start with pieces and or exercises that do not require precise or complicated technique in right or left hand. Some examples of pieces that do not require great technique are "twinkle twinkle little star" by Mozart, "Children's Song" (A German folk tune), and "Over the Rainbow." During these "simple" songs, the violinist will develop fundamental skills necessary for all other techniques, such as proper bow and violin holding. As the musician develops more and more confidence and skill in both left and right hand, pieces and exercises will become progressively more difficult. When necessary, they will also learn techniques and skills that will enhance their playing. Vibrato, smooth bow changes in the right hand, and shifting.
The violinist has to learn to put the fingers in exactly the right place so that the music is “in tune”. This is called intonation. The musician will also learn vibrato. This changes the intonation of each note slightly by making it a little bit sharper (higher), then a little bit flatter (lower), producing a kind of wobble. This is important in many styles of music to create mood.
Besides plucking (pizzicato) there are many special effects. Some of them are glissando, portamento, and harmonics. There are also double stopping, chords or using scordatura tuning.
The violin can be played either standing or sitting down. When playing solo music the violinist normally stands. When playing in chamber music or in orchestras the violinist sits, but this was not always the case. When sitting, the violinist may have to turn his or her right leg in so that it does not get in the way of the bow.
In the 17th and 18th centuries, composers wrote a lot of music. They wrote the music for solo violin. Many of these composers were from Italy. They were themselves violinists. Some of these violinists are Corelli, Vitali, Vivaldi, Veracini, Geminiani, Locatelli and Tartini.
In Germany, Schmelzer and Biber wrote some very virtuoso violin music. Later, in the early 18th century, Bach and Handel wrote many masterpieces for the violin.
In the Classical music period, the great composers Haydn, Mozart and Beethoven all wrote solo works for the violin. They also wrote a large amount of chamber music, especially string quartets.
In the Romantic period many virtuoso violin works were written. These include concertos by Mendelssohn, Saint-Saëns, Brahms, Bruch, Wieniawski, Tchaikovsky, and Dvořák. In the 20th century, many virtuoso works were written. These include Elgar, Sibelius, Szymanowski, Bartók, Stravinsky, Berg, Prokofiev, Shostakovich, Hindemith, and Penderecki. In the 19th century, Niccolò Paganini was the most famous violinist. He composed and played violin music that was harder than anything that had been written before. People compared him to the devil because he could play so brilliantly and because he looked thin and moved his body about in strange ways.
In recent years the violin has also been used in jazz playing. Stéphane Grappelli was especially famous for this.
Some of the most famous violinists of the last century are Fritz Kreisler, Jascha Heifetz, David Oistrakh, Yehudi Menuhin, Ida Haendel, and Isaac Stern. Today some of the greatest players include Itzhak Perlman, Maxim Vengerov, Vadim Repin, Nigel Kennedy, Hilary Hahn, Joshua Bell, and the fiddler Sara Watkins.

</doc>
<doc id="12306" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12306" title="Train station">
Train station

A train station or railway station (also called a railroad station, rail station, or depot) is a place where passengers can get on and off trains and/or goods may be loaded or unloaded. 
Early stations were usually built to handle passengers and goods. Today, goods are usually only unloaded at big stations. Stations are next to a railway line, or they are the terminus for a route. Usually there are platforms to let passengers get on and off the train easily and safely. Many stations have things such as shelters, ticket sales and benches.
The busiest railway station in the world is Shinjuku Station in Tokyo, Japan. The largest station is Nagoya Station in Nagoya, Japan. The busiest station in Europe is Clapham Junction in south London in the United Kingdom. At peak times, there is one train every 13 seconds there.
Railway stations usually have either ticket booths, or ticket machines. Ticket sales can also be together with an information desk or a shop. Many stations have a shop or a kiosk.
Bigger stations often have fast-food or restaurants. In some countries these stations also have a bar, or a pub. Other station facilities are: toilets, luggage rooms, lost-and-found (lost property office), timetables, trolleys, waiting rooms, taxi ranks and bus stops.

</doc>
<doc id="12307" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12307" title="Railway track">
Railway track

A railway track or railway line is a set of two parallel rows of long pieces of steel. They are used by trains to transport people and things from one place to another. (In America, people say railroad as well as railway. It means the same thing.) Often, there is more than one set of tracks on the railway line. For example, trains go east on one track and west on the other one.
The rails are supported by cross pieces set at regular intervals (called sleepers or ties), which spread the high pressure load imposed by the train wheels into the ground. They also maintain the rails at a fixed distance apart (called the gauge). Ties are usually made from either wood or concrete. These often rest on ballast, which is a name for very small pieces of broken up rock that are packed together and keep the railway tracks in place. Tracks are often made better by ballast tampers.
The rails are inclined slightly towards each other, typically on a slope of 1 in 20, and the rims of the train wheels are angled in the same way ("coning"). This helps guide the vehicles of the train along the track. Each wheel also has a flange, which sticks out from one edge all the way around. This makes sure the train does not "derail" (come off the track) and helps guide the train on sharp curves.

</doc>
<doc id="12308" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12308" title="Rail transport">
Rail transport

Rail transport is the movement of passengers and goods using wheeled vehicles, made to run on railway tracks. In most countries, this transportation method helps international trade and economic growth. Railways provide an energy-efficient way to transport material over land. The railway tracks are a large part of the system and provide smooth and hard surfaces on which the wheels of the train roll with a little friction. Also, the track spreads the weight of the train which means larger amounts can be carried than with trucks and roads.

</doc>
<doc id="12312" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12312" title="Waterway">
Waterway

A waterway is any body of water that can be used for transportation by people in boats. These include rivers, lakes, oceans, and canals.
They must be wide and deep enough for the boats, and either have no waterfalls and rapids, or have ways for boats to get around them, such as locks.

</doc>
<doc id="12313" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12313" title="Terminus">
Terminus

Terminus is a Latin word that literally means "Boundary stone" but can refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="12314" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12314" title="Junction">
Junction

A junction is any place where two things, especially roads and railway tracks, meet.
A railway junction is a place where two railway tracks join. The shape of a junction looks like 
Sometimes the trains just cross and keep going straight ahead to their designated waypoint. Sometimes they turn onto the other track to reach said waypoint.

</doc>
<doc id="12316" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12316" title="Station">
Station

Station has many meanings, so it is often used with other words to tell people which one is meant:
In transport:
In communications:
Other buildings:
Other uses:

</doc>
<doc id="12317" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12317" title="1816">
1816


</doc>
<doc id="12318" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12318" title="James Brown">
James Brown

James Brown (May 3, 1933 – December 25, 2006) was an American R&B and funk singer. He was known as the "Godfather of Soul". 
He was born in Barnwell, South Carolina and grew up in Augusta, Georgia. Brown was arrested by police on many occasions. When he was 16, he was convicted of armed robbery, for which he spent three years in a youth detention center. His other convictions include assaults. 
Four of Brown's albums were in "Rolling Stone" magazine's 2003 list of the 500 greatest albums of all time. Brown's most well known song is "Get Up (I Feel Like Being a) Sex Machine".
In 2006, Brown died of pneumonia and heart disease in Atlanta. There was a public memorial service at Apollo Theater. Michael Jackson, Stevie Wonder, and Prince were there. In 1993 Brown was in "The Simpsons" episode "Bart's Inner Child". 

</doc>
<doc id="12319" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12319" title="Aldous Huxley">
Aldous Huxley

Aldous Leonard Huxley (26 July 1894 22 November 1963) was an English writer, and one of the most prominent members of the famous Huxley family. 
He wrote a number of novels, on various themes. Most of his books are about modern society, the effects of modern science and, later, on mysticism and psychedelic drugs like LSD. 
Huxley is probably best known for his book "Brave New World". In the book, which was written in 1932, he writes about a world in the far future, where the whole social hierarchy is based on genetic traits, and not on the personal effort of individual people to learn and improve themselves.

</doc>
<doc id="12320" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12320" title="Dylan Thomas">
Dylan Thomas

Dylan Marlais Thomas (27 October 1914 - 9 November 1953) was a Welsh poet. He was born in the town of Swansea. He published his first book of poetry in 1932. In addition to writing poetry, he was an excellent speaker. He toured the United Kingdom and the United States reciting his poems. He wrote works for radio including ""A Child's Christmas in Wales"" and ""Under Milk Wood""
Thomas is one of the famous people who appears on the cover of The Beatles, Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band album.

</doc>
<doc id="12321" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12321" title="Leo Gorcey">
Leo Gorcey

Leo Bernard Gorcey (June 3, 1917 – June 2, 1969) was an American actor. He is most famous for appearing the "Dead End Kids" series.
Gorcey was one of the famous people who appeared on The Beatles' "Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band" album, but he asked to have his picture removed.

</doc>
<doc id="12323" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12323" title="1750">
1750


</doc>
<doc id="12325" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12325" title="Indiana">
Indiana

Indiana is a U.S. state in the midwestern and Great Lakes regions of North America. Its capital and largest city is Indianapolis. Other famous cities and towns include Bloomington, Gary, Ft. Wayne, South Bend, Evansville, Muncie, and Marion. People who live in Indiana are sometimes called Hoosiers. Indiana's state bird is a Cardinal. Indiana's state flower is a Peony. Indiana's state tree is a Tulip Tree. Indiana has borders with four other states: Illinois, Kentucky, Michigan, and Ohio. It also touches Lake Michigan; which is the only one of the Great Lakes that is completely inside the United States.
One famous attraction of Indiana is the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, which is where the Indy 500 is held every year. The Indy 500 is one of the most famous car races in the United States. The Indianapolis Motor Speedway is not actually in Indianapolis. It is in a town called Speedway, which is completely surrounded by Indianapolis.
As well as being home to the Indy 500, there are several well known sports teams in Indiana. Professional sports teams include the Indianapolis Colts of the National Football League (NFL) and the Indiana Pacers of the National Basketball Association (NBA). Colleges and universities in Indiana with well known sports teams include Purdue University, the University of Notre Dame, and Indiana University There is also the university of awesomeness there..

</doc>
<doc id="12327" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12327" title="Marun Field">
Marun Field

The Marun field is a large oil field in Iran. It is 67 kilometers long and usually 7 kilometers wide. It is west of Dezful. It was discovered in 1964 and was drilled in 1966 for the first time.

</doc>
<doc id="12329" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12329" title="Grey wolf">
Grey wolf

The grey wolf ("Canis lupus"), or just wolf, is a mammal of the order Carnivora, and the ancestor of the domestic dog. It is sometimes called timber wolf. A recent study found that the domestic dog is descended from wolves tamed less than 16,300 years ago south of the Yangtze River in China.
There are many different wolf subspecies, such as the Arctic wolf. Some subspecies are listed on the endangered species list, but overall, "Canis lupus" is IUCN graded as 'least concern'.
Adult wolves are usually in length from nose to tail depending on the subspecies. Wolves living in the far north tend to be larger than those living further south. As adults they may weigh typically between . The heaviest wolf recorded weighed .
Wolves usually measure 26–38 inches at the shoulder. Wolves have fur made up of two layers. The top layer is resistant to dirt, and the underlayer is water resistant. The color of their fur can be any combination of grey, white, red, brown, and black. Studies have shown that in 2007 they have found 23 red gray wolves.
Wolves live in groups called "packs". They are pack hunters. The members of the pack are usually family members, often just the parents and offspring. Wolves that are not family may join if they do not have a pack of their own. Packs are usually up to 12 wolves, but they can be as small as two or as large as 25. The leaders are called the alpha male and the alpha female. Their territory is marked by scent and howling; they will fight any intruders. Young wolves are called 'pups' or 'whelps'. Adult females usually give birth to five or six pups in a litter.
Wolves make a noise called a howl. They howl to communicate with each other from long distances and to mark the edges of their territory. Wolves have a complicated body language.
Wolves can run very fast and far. A wolf can run 20-30 miles in 1 day.
Grey wolves can live six to eight years. They can live in captivity for up to 17 years.
Wolves are carnivores and eat mostly medium to large size hoofed animals (ungulates), but they will also eat rodents, insectivores and foxes. Some wolves have been seen eating salmon, seals, beached whales, lizards, snakes and birds. They also eat moose, bison, deer and other large animals.
Wolves usually stalk old or sick animals, but they do not always catch what they stalk. They may go days without food. Sometimes only one out of twelve hunts are successful. But the way they eat stays the same. The alpha male and female feed first. Then the other members feed. Sometimes (especially if the prey they have killed is large) wolves may store food and come back that day to feed on it. Wolves have very sharp teeth which helps them tear large chunks of meat from a dead animal. They will eat up to 2/7 their body weight. Wolves will also swallow food and then bring it back up for pups to eat.
Wolves are found in Europe, Asia and North America. They can live in forests, deserts, mountains, tundra, grasslands and sometimes around towns and cities. 
The Arctic wolf may be a subspecies of the grey wolf. They live in the Canadian part of the Arctic circle, as well as Greenland and Iceland.
The habitat of Arctic wolves is very hostile. Not much is known about their lifestyle. They are more friendly than other wolves, but they can still be very aggressive.
Arctic wolves are very fluffy. They are smaller than other wolves. Since about 1930, the skull of many Arctic wolves has become smaller. This might be because of hybridization between wolves and dogs. They are tall when they're adults. Adult arctic wolves weigh about . Arctic wolves live in a group of 7-20 wolves. They live up to 5-10 years when they're in the wild. They can live for 14 years if they are well cared for in a zoo.
Even though many people think that wolves are terrible, mean creatures, they are actually much gentler than many people imagine. The main reason wolves become violent is because they may be sick or to protect other wolves in the pack. Many people around the world, especially in Canada and Alaska, have huskies for pets: they are a close relative of the wolf.
A few years ago wolves were put back into Yellowstone National Park in Wyoming to breed, because they were becoming endangered. The wolves have been very successful in the park. There had been no wolves there for a long time, because of hunting and poisoned water. Many people were not happy about this because they were afraid that the wolves would eat the sheep and cows near the park. However, wolves only eat livestock when they can not find wild prey.
Wolves in Britain were all killed after centuries of hunting. The last wolves survived in the Scottish Highlands. There is a legend that the last one was killed there in 1743 by a character called MacQueen.
Within the past ten years, there have been studies that are in favour of allowing new wolves to come and live in the English countryside and Scottish Highlands again. One study was in 2007. Researchers from Norway, Britain, and Imperial College London decided that wolves would help add back plants and birds that now are eaten by deer. The wolves would keep the deer population lower. People were generally positive, but farmers living in rural areas wanted to be paid for livestock that were killed by the wolves.
Many folktales such as Little Red Riding Hood have wolves in them.

</doc>
<doc id="12331" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12331" title="Frank Lampard">
Frank Lampard

Frank James Lampard (born 20 June 1978 in Romford, London, England) is an English footballer. He is the son of Frank Lampard Senior, a former West Ham and England player. Lampard went to Brentwood School in Essex, where amongst other subjects, he studied Latin and gained an A* grade. 
He was a Premier League football player at Chelsea, and played for England national team. He is a midfielder and wore the number 8. In 2013 Lampard was Chelsea's highest goalscorer with more than 200 goals. Lampard was also the highest goal scorer in the Premier League for a midfielder. He has now left Chelsea F.C.
Frank Lampard started his football career at West Ham United Lampard joined West Ham, where his father was the assistant coach, as an apprentice in July 1994 as part of their youth system, and signed his professional forms a year later. He was loaned to Division Two team Swansea City in October 1995, and debuted in a 2-0 win over Bradford City. Lampard made nine league appearances for Swansea before returning to West Ham in January 1996, with whom he played his first match at the end of the month against Coventry City F.C., and spent the remainder of the season as a reserve.
The next year, a broken leg suffered in a March game against Aston Villa prematurely put an end to Lampard's 1996-97 season after thirteen appearances. He had to wait until the '97-98 campaign to score his first goal for West Ham, which came in a road victory over Barnsley F.C. He became a starter in 1998-99 and appeared in every match as West Ham finished fifth in the Premiership standings.
Following the sale of teammate and friend Rio Ferdinand to Leeds United after the 2000-01 season, combined with the departures of his father and Redknapp, Lampard followed suit and left West Ham, but chose to stay home in London by joining Chelsea for an £11 million fee.[2]
On the 24th July, a deal was agreed with New York City FC that Lampard would join the side on a free following his departure from Chelsea on 1st July.
Lampard made his debut for Chelsea on August 19 2001. He has since been a regular on the team sheet.
He was voted vice captain in 2007.
Lampard lived in Surrey with his Spanish fiancé Elen Rives and their two daughters Luna and Isla until they separated. Lampard is engaged to "The One Show" host Christine Bleakley. Lampard still sees his 2 daughters regularly.
441||108||53||18||43||20||81||24||618||170
441||108||53||18||43||20||81||24||618||170
!Total||76||20

</doc>
<doc id="12332" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12332" title="Swaziland">
Swaziland

Swaziland is a country in Africa. It is officially the Kingdom of Swaziland ("Umbuso weSwatini"), and sometimes called Ngwane or Swatini. Its capital is Mbabane. The country is named after the 19th century king Mswati II.
Swaziland is a small country. It is no more than north to south and east to west. It is completely surrounded by land. Swaziland does not touch the sea. The two countries that touch it are Mozambique and South Africa. 
Swaziland is strongly affected by HIV and AIDS. The 2012 CIA World Factbook showed Swaziland with the highest HIV infection rate in the world. Life expectancy is 50 years.
Education in Swaziland is free at primary level, mainly 1st and 2nd grades. It is also free for orphaned and vulnerable children. Children are not required to attend. In 1996, the primary school enrollment rate was 90.8%. Girls and boys both attended at the primary level. In 1998, 80.5% of children reached grade five. 
The University of Swaziland provides higher education. 
Most of Swaziland's people are ethnically Swazi. There is also a small number of Zulu and White Africans, mostly people of British and Afrikaner descent. Swaziland also had Portuguese settlers and African refugees from Mozambique. 
82.70% of the people are Christian, Christianity in Swaziland is sometimes mixed with traditional beliefs and practices. Some people think of the king as having a spiritual role.
Swazi have been subsistence farmers and herders. They now mix such activities with work in the growing urban economy and in government. Some Swazi work in the mines in South Africa.
"SiSwati" and English are the official languages. SiSwati has 2.5 million speakers and is taught in schools. It is also one of the official languages of South Africa.
About 76,000 people in the country speak Zulu. Tsonga is spoken by about 19,000 people in Swaziland. Afrikaans is also spoken by some residents of Afrikaner descent.
Swaziland is divided into four districts:
The cities in Swaziland are:

</doc>
<doc id="12333" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12333" title="Liberia">
Liberia

The Republic of Liberia is a country in West Africa that has been gravely affected in recent years by two civil wars.
The name of the country is "Land of the Free" in Latin, because it was founded in the early 19th century by freed American slaves. It gained its independence on July 26, 1847. Its official language is English.
Liberia is home to more than three and a half million people. The capital of Liberia is Monrovia.
The country's constitution is similar to that of the United States. In the Autumn 2005 elections, Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf became the first female elected head of state in African history. She was inaugurated on January 16, 2006. The President before Johnson-Sirleaf was Gyude Bryant. There are 3,283,000 in Liberia.
For ships, Liberia is a flag of convenience.

</doc>
<doc id="12334" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12334" title="Central African Republic">
Central African Republic

The Central African Republic (CAR) (, , or "Centrafrique" ; Sango "Ködörösêse" "tî Bêafrîka"), is a landlocked country in Central Africa. It is mostly a plateau or high, flat piece of land about 941 metres above the sea. The CAR covers a land area of about , and has an estimated population of about 4.4 million as of 2008. Bangui is the capital city.
There are thick forests in the south, and these are home to rare gorillas. This part of Africa also has Pygmies.
Other important towns are Bouar, Zinga, and Ouadda. Its southern border is the Ubangi River. There are 3.8 million people in the C.A.R. Most of them belong to the Banda and Baya tribes. The main language is French but some people speak the national language of Sango.
The people mostly grow their own food, but sometimes droughts (long spells without any rain) make this difficult. The C.A.R. also has diamond and uranium mines. It sells these, as well as cotton, coffee and timber to other countries to make money.
The Currency (type of money they use) is the CFA Franc. 1 US Dollar is worth 424.05 CFA Francs.
The country was ruled by France until 1960 when it became independent.
The Central African Republic is a landlocked nation. It is bordered by the countries of Cameroon, Chad, Sudan, South Sudan, the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the Republic of the Congo.
Much of the Central African Republic is flat, or rolling plateau savanna. It is typically about above sea level. Most of the northern half is in the World Wildlife Fund's East Sudanian savanna ecoregion. In the northeast are the Fertit Hills. There are scattered hills in the southwest part of the country. To the northwest is the Yade Massif, a granite plateau with an altitude of .
At , the Central African Republic is the world's 42nd-largest country. It is about the size of the Ukraine, and is somewhat smaller than the US state of Texas.
Much of the southern border is formed by tributaries of the Congo River. The Mbomou River in the east merges with the Uele River to form the Ubangi River. In the west, the Sangha River flows through part of the country. The eastern border is along the edge of the Nile River watershed.
Forest covers up to 8% of the land. The densest parts are in the south. The forest is highly diverse. It includes commercially important species of Ayous, Sapelli and Sipo. The deforestation rate is 0.4% per year, and lumber poaching is commonplace.
The Central African Republic is divided into 14 administrative prefectures. There are also 2 economic prefectures and one autonomous commune. The prefectures are further divided into 71 sub-prefectures.
The prefectures of the Central African Republic include:
the two economic prefectures are Nana-Grébizi and Sangha-Mbaéré. The commune is Bangui.
The largest cities in the Central African Republic are:

</doc>
<doc id="12335" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12335" title="Kim Jong-nam">
Kim Jong-nam

Kim Jong-nam (born May 10, 1971) is the eldest son of Kim Jong-il, the former leader of North Korea.
He tried to enter Japan using a fake passport in May 2001. This was to visit Disneyland. This caused his father to not approve of him. Kim Jong-nam's younger half-brother Kim Jong-un was made the heir in September 2010.
In June 2010, Kim Jong-nam gave a brief interview to the "Associated Press" in Macau. He told the reporter that he had "no plans" to defect to Europe. The press had recently said this. Kim Jong-nam lived in an apartment on the southern tip of Macau's Coloane Island until 2007. An anonymous South Korean official reported in October 2010 that Jong-nam had not lived in Macau for "months", and now goes between China and "another country."
When his father died, Kim Jong-nam did not attend the funeral. This was to avoid rumours on the succession.
The South Korean newspaper "The Chosun Ilbo" said that Kim Jong-nam has two wives, at least one mistress, and several children. His first wife Shin Jong-hui (born c. 1980) and their son Kum-sol (born c. 1996) live at a home called Dragon Villa on the northern outskirts of Beijing. His second wife Lee Hye-kyong (born c. 1970), their son Han-sol (born c. 1995) and their daughter Sol-hui (born c. 1998) live in an apartment building in Macau. Jong-nam's mistress, former Air Koryo flight attendant So Yong-la (born c. 1980), also lives in Macau. 
Jong-nam is often given attention by the media for his gambling and extravagant spending.

</doc>
<doc id="12336" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12336" title="Western Sahara">
Western Sahara

Western Sahara (Arabic: الصحراء الغربية; Amazigh: Tanẓṛuft Tutrimt; ) is a territory in Africa. To the north is Morocco, to the east is Algeria, to the south is Mauritania, and to the west is the Atlantic Ocean. Its surface is . It is one of the most sparsely populated territories in the world. Most of the territory is made of desert flatlands. The largest city is Laâyoune. More than half the population live there. The territory has a population estimated at just more than 500,000.
Western Sahara has been on the United Nations list of non-self-governing territories since the 1960s when it was a Spanish colony. The Kingdom of Morocco and the Polisario Front independence movement, with its Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic (SADR) government, both want control of the territory.
Since a United Nations-sponsored ceasefire agreement in 1991, most of the territory has been controlled by Morocco, backed by France, and the rest by the Polisario/SADR, backed by Algeria. Many important countries have pressed both parties to agree to a peaceful solution. Both Morocco and Polisario have tried to get recognition from other countries. Polisario has won formal recognition for SADR from 81 states, and was extended membership in the African Union, while Morocco has won recognition for its position from the Arab League. In both instances, recognitions have over the past two decades been extended and withdrawn according to changing international trends.
Some countries say that the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic should be the government in Western Sahara. Morocco says that they own it. The Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic was made by the "Polisario Front" a group of people who wanted Spain to leave, but now want Morocco to leave also.
The United Nations calls all of the Western Sahara a dependency of Spain.

</doc>
<doc id="12337" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12337" title="Tunis">
Tunis

Tunis (, "Tūnis") is the capital city of Tunisia. As of 2004, 728,463 people lived in the city. About 1.6 million live in the metropolitan area. 

</doc>
<doc id="12338" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12338" title="Mozambique">
Mozambique

Mozambique, officially the Republic of Mozambique, is a country in southeastern Africa. Its capital is Maputo. There are about 19 million people. In 1975, Mozambique became independent from Portugal. (National Day on 25th June, 1975) The country was named Moçambique by the Portuguese after the Island of Mozambique. After independence from Portugal it became the People's Republic of Mozambique. There was a big civil war from 1977 to 1992.
Mozambique has many natural resources. Portugal, Spain, and Belgium are among the country's most important partners. It is one of the poorest countries in the world. They have the world's lowest life expectancy. In 2012, large natural gas reserves were found in Mozambique. The revenues from the reserves might dramatically change the economy.
The only official language of Mozambique is Portuguese. About half the people speak it as a second language and very few as a first language. Languages widely spoken natively include Swahili, Makhuwa, and Sena. The largest religion in Mozambique is Christianity. There are also Muslim and African traditional religious minorities.
Mozambique is a member of the African Union, Commonwealth of Nations, the Community of Portuguese Language Countries, the Latin Union, Organisation of Islamic Cooperation and Southern African Development Community.
At , Mozambique is the world's 35th-largest country. It is bordered by the Indian Ocean to the east, Tanzania to the north, Malawi and Zambia to the northwest, Zimbabwe to the west and Swaziland and South Africa to the southwest.
The country is divided into two regions by the Zambezi River. To the north of the Zambezi River, the narrow coastline moves inland to hills and low plateaus. Further west are rugged highlands, which include the Niassa highlands, Namuli or Shire highlands, Angonia highlands, Tete highlands and the Makonde plateau, covered with miombo woodlands. To the south of the Zambezi River, the lowlands are broader with the Mashonaland plateau and Lebombo mountains in the deep south.
The country has five main rivers and several smaller ones. The largest and most important is the Zambezi. The country has four notable lakes: Lake Niassa (or Malawi), Lake Chiuta, Lake Cahora Bassa and Lake Shirwa, all in the north.
Mozambique has a tropical climate with two seasons. The wet season is from October to March and the dry season from April to September. Conditions vary depending on altitude. Rainfall is heavy along the coast and is less in the north and south. Yearly precipitation changes from depending on the region. Cyclones are common during the wet season. Average temperature ranges in Maputo are from in July to in February.
This is a list of cities and towns with the most people. It is based on the most recent census done for each city or town.
The entire country has about 22 million people. These 14 cities have 5 million total. This shows that most people still live in rural areas.
Mozambique is divided into ten provinces ("provincias") and one capital city ("cidade capital") with provincial status. The provinces are divided into 129 districts ("distritos"). The districts are further divided in 405 "Postos Administrativos" (Administrative Posts) and then into Localidades (Localities), the lowest geographical level of the central state administration. Since 1998, 43 "Municípios" (Municipalities) have been created in Mozambique.
The music of Mozambique can be for many purposes. These can be religious or for traditional ceremonies. Musical instruments are usually handmade. Some of the instruments used include drums made of wood and animal skin; the "lupembe", a woodwind instrument made from animal horns or wood; and the marimba, which is a kind of xylophone native to Mozambique. The marimba is a popular instrument with the Chopi of the south central coast. They are famous for their musical skill and dance.
The Makonde are renowned for their wood carving and elaborate masks that are commonly used in traditional dances. There are two different kinds of wood carvings. Shetani, (evil spirits), which are mostly carved in heavy ebony, tall, and elegantly curved with symbols and nonrepresentational faces. The Ujamaa are totem-type carvings which show lifelike faces of people and various figures. Theses sculptures are usually called “family trees” because they tell stories of many generations.
During the last years of the colonial period, Mozambican art showed the oppression by the colonial power, and became a symbol of the resistance. After independence in 1975, the modern art came into a new phase. The two best known and most influential contemporary Mozambican artists are the painter Malangatana Ngwenya and the sculptor Alberto Chissano. Art during the 1980s and 1990s shows the political struggle, civil war, suffering, starvation and struggle.
Dances are usually highly developed traditions throughout Mozambique. There are many different kinds of dances from tribe to tribe which are usually ritualistic in nature. The Chopi, for instance, act out battles dressed in animal skins. The men of Makua dress in colourful outfits and masks while dancing on stilts around the village for hours. Groups of women in the northern part of the country have a traditional dance called "tufo", to celebrate Islamic holidays.
Because the Portuguese were there for nearly 500 years, they greatly impacted the cuisine of Mozambique. Crops such as cassava (a starchy root) and cashew nuts (Mozambique was once the largest producer of these nuts), and "pãozinho" were brought in by the Portuguese. The use of spices and seasonings such as onions, bay leaves, garlic, fresh coriander, paprika, chili peppers, red sweet peppers, and wine were introduced by the Portuguese. So was sugarcane, maize, millet, rice, sorghum (a type of grass), and potatoes. "Prego" (steak roll), "rissois" (battered shrimp), "espetada" (kebab), "pudim" (pudding), and the popular "inteiro com piripiri" (whole chicken in piri-piri sauce) are all Portuguese dishes commonly eaten in present-day Mozambique.
Football is the most popular sport in Mozambique.

</doc>
<doc id="12339" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12339" title="Dian Fossey">
Dian Fossey

Dian Fossey (January 16, 1932 – December 26, 1985) was an American zoologist. She is best known for studying gorillas in Rwanda. 
Fossey studied the lives of mountain gorillas for many years. Some of the people who lived in the area did not like her because of her beliefs about how the gorillas should be treated. She did not want them in zoos or to be harassed by tourists or killed for meat. 
Many people think she is a hero for what she did to help gorillas. There is a movie that was made based on what she experienced in Africa. It is called "Gorillas in the Mist". Her book, also named "Gorillas in the Mist" is the best selling book on gorillas of all time. 
She was recognized for saving mountain gorillas and started a successful fund to help raise money for gorillas everywhere.
After Fossey was molested by a group of unknown poachers, she was murdered in her cabin on December 26, 1985. Her head was cut by a panga, a local weapon used by poachers.
Fossey was buried at the site she created as a graveyard for the gorillas. 

</doc>
<doc id="12344" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12344" title="Maryland">
Maryland

Maryland is a state in the mid-Atlantic region of the United States of America. It is on the south east of the East Coast. Its capital is Annapolis, and its biggest city is Baltimore.
Its Governor is Larry Hogan. He was elected in the 2014 election.
The state bird is the Baltimore Oriole, which is no longer found in Maryland. The state flower is the Black-eyed Susan ("Rudbeckia hirta"). The state reptile is the diamondback terrapin. The state crustacean is the blue crab. The state motto is "Fatti maschii, parole femine", which is Italian for "Manly deeds, womanly words". Maryland is the only state with a motto in Italian.
Maryland has many places important to the American Revolutionary War, the War of 1812, and the American Civil War. One of these places is Fort McHenry, which defended against the British Empire during the War of 1812. Another place is the Antietam National Battlefield, where the Battle of Antietam took place in 1862 during the American Civil War. 
Silver Spring, Bethesda, Gaithersburg, Rockville, Frederick, Hagerstown, Cumberland, Salisbury, Greenbelt are other cities.

</doc>
<doc id="12345" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12345" title="Billy Paul">
Billy Paul

Billy Paul (Paul Williams; December 1, 1934 – April 24, 2016) was an American R&B singer. His biggest hit was "Me and Mrs. Jones". He was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
Paul died on the afternoon of April 24, 2016 in Blackwood, New Jersey after suffering from pancreatic cancer at the age of 81.

</doc>
<doc id="12346" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12346" title="Rita Coolidge">
Rita Coolidge

Rita Coolidge (born May 1, 1945) is an American singer. During the 1970s and 1980s, she charted hits on Billboard's pop, country, adult contemporary and jazz charts.
Coolidge is part Cherokee, and this influences her music.
Coolidge married Tatsuya Suda on June 19, 2012 in the Cook Islands. Coolidge was married to Kris Kristofferson from 1973–1980. They have one daughter, Casey. Coolidge also had romantic relationships with Stephen Stills and Graham Nash. Her leaving Stills for Nash has been said to be a reason behind the 1970 breakup of Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young. 

</doc>
<doc id="12347" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12347" title="Carole Bayer Sager">
Carole Bayer Sager

Carole Bayer Sager (born March 8, 1947) is an American songwriter and singer.

</doc>
<doc id="12348" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12348" title="Elvis Costello">
Elvis Costello

Elvis Costello (born Declan Patrick MacManus, 25 August 1954) is an English singer and songwriter. He was born in London. He was an important musician in the late 1970s punk rock and new wave music styles. In the 1980s, he played an original style of rock and roll. Later he wrote and performed music in a number of different styles from classical to jazz.
Costello has won multiple awards in his career. These include a Grammy Award. He has twice been nominated for the Brit Award for Best British Male. In 2003, Elvis Costello & the Attractions were inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. In 2004, "Rolling Stone" ranked Costello number 80 on their list of the 100 Greatest Artists of All Time.
After two earlier marriages he married jazz pianist Diana Krall in 2003.
Costello appeared with his friend Burt Bacharach in the 1999 Austin Powers movie The Spy Who Shagged Me. They played "I'll Never Fall In Love Again" during the scene where Mike Myers danced with Heather Graham.
In 2010, Elvis Costello appeared as himself in David Simon's television series, "Treme".
In 2011, Elvis Costello appeared as himself on Sesame Street. He did a song with Elmo and Cookie Monster, titled "Monster Went and Ate My Red 2", a play on "(The Angels Wanna Wear My) Red Shoes".
Studio albums by Elvis Costello (includes albums released with the Attractions and the Imposters):
Costello has also released studio albums in collaboration with Richard Harvey, John Harle, Burt Bacharach, Anne Sofie Von Otter, Bill Frisell, Marian McPartland and Allen Toussaint, as well as five live albums: "Live at the El Mocambo", "Deep Dead Blue", "Costello & Nieve", "My Flame Burns Blue", and "Live at Hollywood High". There have also been many compilations, box sets, and reissues by labels such as Rykodisc, Demon, Rhino, and Universal Music Enterprises.

</doc>
<doc id="12349" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12349" title="The Cure">
The Cure

The Cure are a British rock band. They formed in Crawley, West Sussex, England in 1976. 
The Cure began in 1976 as 'Easy Cure', formed by Robert Smith (vocals, guitar) along with schoolmates Michael Dempsey (bass), Lol Tolhurst (drums) and local guitarist Porl Thompson. They began writing and demoing their own songs almost immediately, playing throughout 1977 in Southern England to an ever growing army of fans. In 1978 the 'Easy' was dropped, along with Porl, and an eager trio now known simply as The Cure were quickly signed to Chris Parry's new Fiction label. 
In May 1979 their debut album "Three Imaginary Boys" was released to great acclaim, and as the band toured extensively around the UK, the singles “Boys Don't Cry” and “Jumping Someone Else's Train” were released. Michael left the band at the end of the year, and Simon Gallup (bass) and Matthieu Hartley (keyboards) joined. In early 1980 the 4-piece Cure embarked on an exploration of the darker side of Robert's songwriting, and emerged with the minimalist classic Seventeen Seconds, along with their first real 'hit single' “A Forest.” 
After an intense world tour Matthieu left the group, and in early 1981 the trio recorded an album of mournful atmospheric soundscapes entitled "Faith", which included another successful single in “Primary.” 
The band then set out on a second trip around the world, named “The Picture Tour,” and they put out the single “Charlotte Sometimes.” In 1982 The Cure went back into the studio to record the album “Pornography” which had a dark mood. The trip was difficult for the band members, and the single “The Hanging Garden” came out just as Simon left the band.
Robert Smith and Lol Tolhurst were now the only band members. To feel better, the band chose to change the dark mood of the band into a more fun “pop” mood. So they recorded a dance single called “Let's Go To Bed,” and became good friends with the song's film-clip director, Tim Pope. The band continued into 1983 with two more fun singles: “The Walk” and “The Lovecats.”
In 1984 "The Top" was released, a strange hallucinogenic mix, which contained the infectiously psychedelic single “The Caterpillar.” 
The world ‘Top Tour’ saw the band expand to a 5-piece, with the addition of Andy Anderson (drums) and Phil Thornalley (bass), and the return of Porl Thompson (guitar). 
The new Cure sound was captured live for the album "Concert". Andy and Phil left soon after the end of the tour, and were replaced by Boris Williams (drums) and further returnee Simon Gallup (bass). This new incarnation started work on 1985's The Head On The Door with a very real sense of 'something happening'... The vibrant hit single “Inbetween Days” was followed up by “Close To Me,” and the ensuing world tour paved the way for the massive success of the singles collection "Standing On A Beach" in 1986. That summer saw the band headline the Glastonbury Festival for the first time, and a year of extensive gigs and festivals was crowned by Tim Pope's live concert film The Cure In Orange. 
In 1987 The Cure brought out "Kiss Me Kiss Me Kiss Me", an immense double album of extreme and extraordinary stylistic range, and with the arrival of Roger O'Donnell on keyboards the 6-piece Cure traveled the world with the 'Kissing Tour', enjoying four more hit singles along the way. The wonderfully atmospheric "Disintegration" was demoed in 1988 and released in 1989, and despite being a work of powerful brooding grandeur, it too gave rise to four hit singles. The 'Prayer Tour' followed, with the band back down to a five-piece following the departure of Lol Tolhurst. It was captured live for the album "Entreat".
In early 1990 Roger O'Donnell left the group, and was replaced by long-time band friend Perry Bamonte, just in time for a series of headlining European festival shows that included the band's second Glastonbury headline slot. The album "Mixed Up" was released, supported by the re-mixed singles “Never Enough,” “Close To Me” and “A Forest,” and in 1991 The Cure at last won some long overdue “home” recognition with a Brit Award for “Best British Group.” 
In 1992 they recorded "Wish", a richly diverse multi-faceted guitar driven album hailed by some as their best work to date. It spawned 3 fabulous hit singles, and the glorious ‘Wish Tour' that followed was a worldwide sell out. The sheer power of the shows inspired the release of two live works in 1993, Paris and Show. Immediately after the tour ended, guitarist Porl Thompson left the band again (this time with a smile!), and The Cure headlined the XFM 'Great Xpectations Show' in London's Finsbury Park as a 4-piece. The band also contributed ”Burn” to the film “The Crow” and covered “Purple Haze” for the Hendrix tribute album 'Stone Free'. 
In 1994 Boris Williams decided to move on, and in early 1995 Jason Cooper took up residency behind the drum kit, with Roger O'Donnell rejoining once more on keyboards. Work on the next album was interspersed with recording “Dredd Song” for the film “Judge Dredd,” a cover of Bowie's “Young Americans” for an XFM album, and headlining several major European festivals, including the 25th Glastonbury. "Wild Mood Swings" was released in 1996, and went straight into almost every top ten around the world. The Cure hit the road once more with 'The Swing Tour', their longest to date, and released 4 more singles. 
Galore, the follow up singles and video compilation to" Standing On A Beach", was released in 1997, after which work took place in 1998 on a variety of projects, including “More than This” for the “X Files” album, and a memorable appearance by Robert in “South Park” In 1999 the band completed the recording and mixing of what many regard as their best studio album so far, the Grammy Nominated" Bloodflowers". With its release in 2000 the band set off on the massive world-wide 'Dreamtour' - playing to more than a million people in 9 months. 
2001 saw the long awaited release of the Cure's “Greatest Hits” album, which featured all the band's biggest selling singles along with 2 new songs, the elegiac “Cut Here” and the ebullient “Just Say Yes,” a duet with Saffron. This year also saw the end of the group's relationship with Fiction Records, the label they had been instrumental in starting 23 years before. 
In 2002 the band spent the summer headlining a number of European festivals before going into rehearsals for two very special nights in November at the Tempodrom Berlin, where they performed all the tracks from "Pornography, Disintegration" and "Bloodflowers" plus encores. Both performances were shot in Hi-Def video on 12 cameras, and Trilogy DVD was released in 2003 as another chapter of The Cure story opened, the band signing a 3 album global deal with the Geffen label. 
2004 saw the release of 'Join the Dots', a 4cd Boxset of all the B-sides and Rarities, followed by the widely acclaimed new album ‘The Cure’, and another hugely successful world tour. 
In 2005 Perry Bamonte and Roger O’Donnell left the band and Porl Thompson joined for a third time. The quartet’s debut show was headlining Live 8 Paris, followed by a number of other summer European Festivals. The first 4 Cure albums (Three Imaginary Boys, Seventeen Seconds, Faith and Pornography) were re-released, with Robert providing 'rarities' for Deluxe Edition extras CD's, as part of an ongoing campaign to remaster and re-issue all the Cure albums. Immediately after closing a week of Teenage Cancer Trust Shows at the Royal Albert Hall in April 2006, the band started recording their 13th studio album. 
In August 2006, the second set of re-releases ("The Top, The Head On The Door, Kiss Me Kiss Me Kiss Me") was released, each album as a 2CD Deluxe Edition, along with 1983’s Glove album Blue Sunshine, while in the studio The Cure passed the 30 new songs mark. In November ‘Festival 2005’, a 155 minute 5.1 DVD comprising a 30 song selection of live performances captured the previous summer by a mix of fans, crew and ‘on-the-night-big-screen cameras’, was released.
In 2006 The Cure started writing and recording 4:13 Dream. It was released in 2008. It was going to be a double album but featured 13 songs.
In 2013 the band started The Great Circle Tour.

</doc>
<doc id="12350" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12350" title="Crawley">
Crawley

Crawley is a town in West Sussex, England, near to Gatwick Airport. Crawley was built into a New Town in 1947. It now has thirteen neighbourhoods. Some famous people from Crawley are the musical group The Cure, Gareth Southgate, an England football player and Chico Slimani, 2005 X-factor contestant. 
Pound Hill is the largest neighbourhood in Crawley. It is on the east of Crawley. It was the first one to be split into two wards - Pound Hill North and Pound Hill South. Its boundaries go north beyond the main built-up area of Crawley. This makes it also the most northerly neighbourhood in the town.
Furnace Green is a neighbourhood located East of the town centre. 

</doc>
<doc id="12351" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12351" title="Blue Öyster Cult">
Blue Öyster Cult

Blue Öyster Cult is a psychedelic rock band that formed in Long Island, New York in 1971. They have many well-known songs like "(Don't Fear) The Reaper", and "Burnin' For You".
The group's best known songs are probably: The 1976 single "(Don't Fear) The Reaper" from the album Agents of Fortune (featured in the movie Halloween, and in the TV movie The Stand based on Stephen King's novel of the same name, and in the credits of Peter Jackson's 1996 movie The Frighteners) and the 1981 single "Burnin' for You" from the album Fire of Unknown Origin and "Godzilla" (1977).
The current members of the band are:
The original lineup of the band was:
The former members of the band are as follows:

</doc>
<doc id="12352" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12352" title="Steppenwolf">
Steppenwolf

Steppenwolf is a Canadian-American rock band formed in Los Angeles in 1967. The band has sold more than 25 million units worldwide, releasing 8 gold albums and 13 Hot 100 singles, including three top-10 hits in "Born to Be Wild", '"Magic Carpet Ride", and "Rock Me". 

</doc>
<doc id="12353" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12353" title="Creedence Clearwater Revival">
Creedence Clearwater Revival

Creedence Clearwater Revival (often made shorter as CCR or Creedence) was an American rock band from California, United States. They were popular in the late 1960s and early 1970s . The band has sold 26 million albums in the United States alone. CCR was inducted into (became part of) the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1993.
Many people thought they were from the Southeastern United States because the group's music sounded like the country, folk, and blues music of that place. They liked to sing about bayous, the Mississippi River, catfish, and other things people in the south liked. They also used instruments and styles that were common in the southeast. 
The members of the group were John Fogerty (born 1945), his brother Tom Fogerty (1941-1990), Doug Clifford (born 1945), and Stu Cook (born 1945).

</doc>
<doc id="12358" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12358" title="Ferret">
Ferret

Ferrets ("Mustela putorius furo") are domestic animals. They are the domestic form of the European polecat. They are in the weasel genus of the family Mustelidae. 
Ferrets have an average length of 20 inches (51 cm) including a 5 inch (13 cm) tail, weigh about . They live for about 7-10 years. Males are larger than females. They are sociable animals, and are usually kept in groups of two or more.
With their long thin body, ferrets look like a large weasel. They may have different colours and markings on their fur. A lot of ferrets in one place will sometimes have a strange scent. This is caused by natural oils produced by the ferrets.
Ferrets tend to sleep during the day and are most active at night. This deters many people from getting them although most ferret owners say their ferrets change their sleeping schedules to that of their owners.
Domesticated ferrets are used for hunting, or can be kept as pets. Hunting with ferrets is called ferreting. Because of their thin body, they can go down into holes and hunt rodents and rabbits. Ferrets have been kept as pets from as far back as the Middle Ages.
Ferrets suffer from several health problems. Among the most common are cancers affecting the adrenal glands, pancreas, and lymphatic system. Viral diseases include canine distemper and influenza. Health problems can occur in unspayed females when not being used for breeding. Certain colors of ferret may also carry a genetic defect known as Waardenburg syndrome. Similar to domestic cats, ferrets can also suffer from hairballs and dental problems
Ferrets are legal to have as a pet in most places though a few places in the United States have banned them. Ferrets should be vaccinated. A breeder or pet store will get it spayed or neutered and also de-scented. Ferrets can spray the natural oils from their anal glands similar to that of a skunk if not de-scented. 
Ferrets are very flexible and can fit into small holes to flush out rabbits or rodents. No open vents or holes in walls or floors should be left open or they will get through. Ferrets are good climbers so if curtains are touching the floor they can easily scale them, keeping them 10-12 inches off the floor will prevent you from finding your ferret on the curtain rods.
Ferrets should be kept in a group, unless you can provide them with multiple hours of activity, they get quite bored when alone. Ferrets tend to sleep curled up together in a ball usually making them undistinguishable from one another.
Ferrets are carnivores and cannot tolerate grains or vegetable matter well. Their diet should consist of around 20% fat and 80% meat. Ferrets need a high calorie diet: commercial dog and cat foods do not contain enough fats and protein to suit them. Feeding them such a diet while convenient will ultimately shorten the ferrets life.
Ferrets are subject to insulinoma and as such they should not be given fruits except on rare occasions as a treat. Raisins are a favorite of most ferret but should be given extremely sparingly. Fresh chicken, turkey or even duck is a good choice for your ferret. Commercial ferret foods are available but many contain grains and also fruits and as such are not suitable for them. Research brand ingredients or find a recipe to make your own.

</doc>
<doc id="12359" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12359" title="Three Dog Night">
Three Dog Night

Three Dog Night is an American rock band. They were popular from the late 1960s and early 1970s. They had 21 hit singles and 12 gold albums between 1969 and 1975. 

</doc>
<doc id="12360" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12360" title="Grand Funk Railroad">
Grand Funk Railroad

Grand Funk Railroad were an American rock group from Flint, Michigan. They were popular in the early and mid 1970s.

</doc>
<doc id="12361" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12361" title="Sweet (band)">
Sweet (band)

Sweet or The Sweet and originally The Sweetshop were an English glam rock band, they were most famous for the songs "Ballroom Blitz", "Little Willie", "Fox on the Run" and "Love is Like Oxygen".

</doc>
<doc id="12362" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12362" title="Prince (musician)">
Prince (musician)

Prince Rogers Nelson (better known as Prince) (June 7, 1958 – April 21, 2016) was an American singer-songwriter, actor, movie director, composer, record producer and musician. He was born in Minneapolis, Minnesota. 
He was known for blending erotic lyrics with funk rock and technology. He had ten platinum albums and thirty Top 40 singles during his career. His releases have sold over 80 million copies worldwide. From 1993 to 2000, Prince changed his name to a symbol looking something like this: O(+> . Since this symbol was impossible to pronounce, people began calling him "The Artist Formerly Known As Prince." 
In addition to his own musical career, he was a "talent promoter" for the careers of Sheila E., Carmen Electra, The Time and Vanity 6.
Prince has sold over 100 million records worldwide, making him one of the best-selling artists of all time. He won seven Grammy Awards, a Golden Globe Award, and an Academy Award. "Rolling Stone" ranked Prince at number 27 on its list of the 100 Greatest Artists of All Time. He was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2004. This was the first year he was eligible. 
On April 21, 2016, Prince died of a fentanyl overdose at his Paisley Park recording studio and home in Chanhassen, Minnesota at the age of 57.
Prince was born Prince Rogers Nelson, on June 7, 1958 in Minneapolis, Minnesota. His father was John Lewis Nelson who was a Jazz singer-songwriter. His mother was Mattie Della Shaw. His family was from Louisiana. He had epilepsy when he was younger. His sister was Titka Evene. He played basketball when he was in high school. 
Prince released his first single, "Soft and Wet", in 1978. It reached number 92 in the "Billboard" 100. In 1979 "I Wanna Be Your Lover" was number one for two weeks in the American R&B singles chart. 
Prince released his third album "Dirty Mind" in 1980. "Rolling Stone" gave the album four and a half stars.
In 1982 Prince released his fifth album "1999". "Little Red Corvette" was released as the second single. Prince had his first number one single, "When Doves Cry", in 1984. The single he released after that, "Let's Go Crazy", also reached number one. In 1985 "Around the World in a Day" was released. The album's first single "Raspberry Beret" reached number two in the Billboard 100. Prince's next number one "Kiss" was in 1986. It won the Grammy Award for Best R&B Performance by a Duo or Group with Vocal. "U Got the Look" was released in 1987. It reached number two in the "Billboard" 100. 
In 1990 Sinead O'Connor reached number one with her cover of Prince's song "Nothing Compares 2 U". Prince was angry about this. 
In 2006 the second single from Prince's album "3121" entered the "Billboard" 100 at number 60. This was the highest number a Prince single had entered the chart at for years.
In 2014 it was reported that Prince would be signed to Warner Bros. again. Prince released a new single on April 19 called "The Breakdown".
In May 2015, following the death of Freddie Gray and the riots, Prince released a song entitled "Baltimore" in tribute to Gray and in support of the protesters in Baltimore. He also held a surprise tribute concert for Gray at his Paisley Park estate called 'Dance Rally 4 Peace' in which he asked fans to wear the color gray in honor of Freddie Gray.
His album "Hit n Run Phase One" was first made available on September 7, 2015 on music streaming service Tidal before being released on CD and download on September 14.
In 2016, Prince announced that he was writing a memoir, titled "The Beautiful Ones".
Over the years Prince was romantically linked with many celebrities. These include Kim Basinger, Madonna, Vanity, Sheila E., Carmen Electra, Susanna Hoffs, Anna Fantastic, Sherilyn Fenn, and Susan Moonsie of Vanity 6 and Apollonia 6.
Prince was engaged to Susannah Melvoin in 1985.
He married his backup singer and dancer, Mayte Garcia, on Valentine's Day, 1996. They had a son, Boy Gregory (born October 16, 1996). He was born with Pfeiffer syndrome and died a week after birth. Prince and Mayte divorced in 1999. In 2001, Prince married Manuela Testolini in a private ceremony. Testolini filed for divorce in May 2006. He has been in a relationship with Bria Valente since 2007.
Prince became a member of the Jehovah's Witnesses in 2001.
Prince postponed two performances from his Piano & A Microphone Tour on April 7, 2016, at the Fox Theatre in Atlanta, Georgia, stating that he was "battling the flu". He performed that Atlanta concert on Thursday, April 15, even though he had still not been feeling well. On April 15, 2016, while on tour, his private plane made an emergency landing in Moline, Illinois. He was later admitted to hospital with flu-like symptoms. Early reports said his health was fine. 
Prince was found dead at his home in Paisley Park recording studio in Chanhassen, Minnesota, on April 21, 2016. He was aged 57. Six days before his death, Prince was treated for a drug overdose. He was treated for dehydration and walking pneumonia shortly before his death. His autopsy was performed the next day on April 22. Afterwards, his remains were cremated. Their location will be kept private. Toxicology tests showed that he died of an overdose of fentanyl, an opioid painkiller.
Studio albums
Live albums
Remix albums
Compilation albums
The New Power Generation albums
Prince won an Academy Award in 1985 for his song "Purple Rain".
Earning 33 nominations, Prince has won seven Grammys. He also has had two albums − "1999" and "Purple Rain" − awarded the Grammy Hall of Fame Award.
The MTV Video Music Awards (VMAs) is an award show by cable network MTV to honor the top music videos of the year. It was first held in September of 1984. It was to be an alternative to the Grammy Awards in the video category. Prince has won four awards from twelve nominations throughout his career.

</doc>
<doc id="12363" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12363" title="Duane Eddy">
Duane Eddy

Duane Eddy (born April 26, 1938) was a Grammy Award-winning American rock guitarist. Many people enjoyed his music and tried to play the same way as he did. He is best known for the music that he played without singing words. He is probably best known for his hit song Rebel Rouser (1958). Released in 1960, Eddy was the first rock and roller to have a signature model guitar. 
<br>

</doc>
<doc id="12364" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12364" title="Nurse">
Nurse

A nurse is a person who is trained to give care (help) to people who are sick or injured. Nurses work with doctors and other health care workers to make patients well (not sick) and to keep them fit and healthy. Nurses also help with end-of-life needs and assist other family members with grieving.
Nursing is a profession, like a doctor, but training for a nurse is different in how long a person must train and what kind of training they need. In some places, nurses may train for three to five years or more before they get a license as a nurse.
Nurses work in many places. Nurses work in hospitals, in doctor's offices, and in the community, and they even visit people at home if they can not get out. 
Sometimes people decide to become nurses rather than doctors, because the nurses will be able to help patients directly, by talking to them, doing things they need, carefully watching that nothing goes wrong, and then seeing them as they get better.
Like doctors, nurses can specialize in what work they do. Some nurses train and work to help during surgery. Some nurses train to help people understand health problems like nutrition (what to eat), and disease (what can make people sick). Nurses can do many different jobs to help people.
Nurses are in demand because there are not enough nurses to handle hospital needs. Because of this shortage nurses will sometimes travel to another location to work for a few months in what is called travel nursing.
Nursing in Australia is done by "Registered Nurses" or "Enrolled Nurses". Both must complete education past high school. An Enrolled Nurse must complete a course of study between 12 and 18 months. Registered Nurses need to complete a Bachelor Degree.

</doc>
<doc id="12365" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12365" title="Violent Femmes">
Violent Femmes

Violent Femmes is a rock group. They formed in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, USA in 1980.

</doc>
<doc id="12367" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12367" title="Ozzy Osbourne">
Ozzy Osbourne

John Michael '"Ozzy"' Osbourne (born 3 December 1948) is a British heavy metal singer.
Osbourne was born in Aston, Birmingham. He has dyslexia. He was convicted of burglary when he was a teenager, for which he was fined. He was sent to prison for not paying the fine.
Osbourne was the lead singer for Black Sabbath between 1968 and 1978. He joined again in 1997 for occasional tours. He bit the head off of a bat on stage once. Osbourne wrote a song called 'Suicide Solution' that was heavily ridiculed claiming it was about suicide, which coincided with the words shoot shoot whispered in the song. It was really a tribute to his friend Bon Scott, lead singer of AC/DC, who died of alcohol poisoning.
He and his wife Sharon and have three children together: Aimee Osbourne, Kelly Osbourne and Jack Osbourne. He also has three children from his first marriage to Thelma Riley: Elliot, Jessica, and Louis.
Osbourne released his first solo album, "Blizzard of Ozz" in 1980.

</doc>
<doc id="12368" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12368" title="Dinah Shore">
Dinah Shore

Dinah Shore (born Frances Rose Shore, March 1, 1916 - February 24, 1994) was an American singer and host of her own talk show.

</doc>
<doc id="12369" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12369" title="Bryan Adams">
Bryan Adams

Bryan Adams (November 9, 1959) is a Canadian rock musician. He is known for the songs "Summer of '69" and "(Everything I Do) I Do It For You". He has performed with many other musical artists such as Def Leppard, Tina Turner, Sting, Rod Stewart, Bonnie Raitt, Barbra Streisand and Melanie C. His best-selling albums are Reckless, Waking Up the Neighbours and 18 til I Die.

</doc>
<doc id="12371" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12371" title="Roy Orbison">
Roy Orbison

Roy Kaur Orbison (April 23, 1936 - December 6, 1988) was an American singer. In 1987, he was named into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. Orbison was popular in the 1960s. He became less popular in the 1970s, but began to make a career comeback in the 1980s. However, as he was becoming more popular again, he died of a heart attack at the age of 53 in Henderson, Tennessee.

</doc>
<doc id="12372" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12372" title="Taylor Dayne">
Taylor Dayne

Taylor Dayne (born as Leslie Wunderman on March 7, 1962) is an American singer. She is best known for her song, "Tell it to my heart".

</doc>
<doc id="12373" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12373" title="Stephen Stills">
Stephen Stills

Stephen Stills (January 3, 1945-) is an American singer and songwriter. He is most famous as a member of the groups Buffalo Springfield and Crosby, Stills & Nash. In 2003, "Rolling Stone" listed him at #28 on a list of the "100 Greatest Guitarists of All Time".

</doc>
<doc id="12374" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12374" title="SpongeBob SquarePants">
SpongeBob SquarePants

SpongeBob SquarePants is an American animated Nickelodeon TV show made by Stephen Hillenburg (who also worked on "Ren and Stimpy" and "Rocko's Modern Life") that started on May 1, 1999. The main character on the show is a sponge who lives in a pineapple under the sea, as the theme song states. He is a fry cook who works at a restaurant called the "Krusty Krab", which is run by a crab whose name is Eugene H. Krabs.
The show features the voice of Tom Kenny as SpongeBob, the sponge in the underwater town of Bikini Bottom. Even though SpongeBob is a sea sponge, he looks more like a kitchen sponge used for cleaning dishes. His best friend is a starfish named Patrick Star. His grumpy neighbor is an octopus named Squidward Tentacles. SpongeBob and Squidward work at the Krusty Krab, a fast food restaurant that makes Krabby Patties. The recipe for the Krabby Patty is top-secret. Mr. Krabs's enemy, Sheldon Plankton, often tries to steal the recipe.
As of March 17, 2013, the series had aired 185 episodes. Episodes were recorded from December 2011 to January 2013.
A theatrical movie premiered on November 19, 2004, which marked the end of the third season. Season 9 was announced by Nickelodeon on January 3, 2011. Filming of the ninth season began in December 2011. The movie was supposed to be a final for the show but later on the show got revived.
"SpongeBob SquarePants" is one of Nickelodeon's most popular shows, like "Ren & Stimpy", "Rugrats", "Rocko's Modern Life" and "". It has been nominated for Emmies, been made into many video games and a movie, and has official recognition as Nickelodeon's most popular show of all time since 2000, when the second season began. The show has had 2 films and is the 2nd TV show on Nickelodeon to have 2 films. The first show was Rugrats.
In May 2005, when the fourth season debuted, people have been criticizing the season and insulting Paul Tibbitt ever since. But the quality and animation got much better starting with Season 8, which started 6 years later. The shows creator who is Stephen Hillenburg returned to write the 2nd film, and will return to the show after the movie.

</doc>
<doc id="12377" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12377" title="Paul &amp; Paula">
Paul &amp; Paula

Paul & Paula (Ray Hildebrand, born December 21, 1940, and Jill Jackson, born May 20, 1942) are a pop/rock singing duo. They charted three "Billboard" Top 40 singles in 1963.

</doc>
<doc id="12378" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12378" title="Seafood">
Seafood

Seafood is food made from fish or other sea animals (such as shrimp and lobsters). The harvesting (collecting) of seafood is called fishing.
Seafood is rich in protein, and is usually thought as healthy food.

</doc>
<doc id="12379" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12379" title="Peer review">
Peer review

Peer review is a process used when publishing documents and in scientific papers where the work is reviewed by the author's peer group (someone in their field). It is a way of checking and reviewing a person's work.

</doc>
<doc id="12383" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12383" title="Puerto Rico">
Puerto Rico

Puerto Rico, also known as the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, is a territory of the United States in the Caribbean Sea. It has almost 4 million (4,000,000) people. It is the 169th largest sized country in the world in amount of land. Its political system is based on a republican system. It has two languages: Spanish and English. The currency (money) used is the United States dollar. "Puerto Rico" means "rich port" in Spanish.
The Commonwealth of Puerto Rico includes the largest, main island and a number of smaller islands, including Mona, Vieques, and Culebra. Of those three smaller islands, only Culebra and Vieques are populated all year. Mona is unpopulated, but employees of the Puerto Rico Department of Natural Resources sometimes visit the island to inspect it and its wildlife. People can visit the island for hiking and camping by getting the permission needed. San Juan, on the northern side of the main island, is the island's largest city and the capital of the territory.
Puerto Rico is one of the unincorporated territories of the USA. These are organised, self-governing territories with locally elected governors and legislatures. Puerto Rico elects a Resident Commissioner to the U.S. House of Representatives.
The history of Puerto Rico began when the Ortoiroid people started living in the island between 3000 and 2000 BC. Other tribes, for example the Saladoid and Arawak Indians, lived in the island between 430 BC and 1000 AD. When Christopher Columbus discovered the island in the New World in 1492 and named it "San Juan Bautista", the people living there were the "Taínos".
Since it is in the northeastern Caribbean Sea, Puerto Rico formed an important part of the Spanish Empire from the early years of the exploration, conquest, and colonization of the New World. 
The island was a major military post during many wars between Spain and other European countries for control of the region in the 16th, 17th and 18th centuries.
In 1898, during the Spanish-American war, Puerto Rico was invaded and became a possession of the United States.
During the 20th century, Puerto Rico's political status changed from time to time. The Foraker Act of 1900 created a civil government to replace the military government made after the Spanish–American war, and the Jones Act of 1917 gave Puerto Rican people United States citizenship. Afterwards, in 1952, the drafting of Puerto Rico's own Constitution and democratic elections were established. 
The political status of Puerto Rico, a Commonwealth controlled by the United States, is still not completely defined. Many people want to resolve this status, while others want the status to remain the same. Of the people who want to change the status, some want Puerto Rico to become a new U.S. state, while others want Puerto Rico to become a fully independent country.
Puerto Rico is an archipelago, with a main island where most of the population lives, two smaller islands (Vieques and Culebra) with residents, and many other smaller islands. The main island has a mountain range in the center, which covers most of the island. The highest point is 4,390 feet (1,338 meters)
Puerto Rico has three main political parties: the Puerto Rican Independence Party, which favors Puerto Rico becoming an independent nation; the New Progressive Party, which supports Puerto Rico's transition to becoming a state of the U.S; and the Popular Democratic Party, which supports Colonialism.
The issue of the political status of the island (meaning whether it's a country, a U.S state, or a colony) is an issue of debate amongst the Puerto Rican people. In the past there have been many attempts to clearly define the island's political status by means of voting. Most of the time the majority of the people have chosen to remain a colony. However in the last "status voting" the colonial option appeared to have lost well over 90% of its support, while the U.S state option has only gained strength in the last few decades. The Puerto Rican Independence party, on the other hand, has mainly lost a great deal of support within the last six decades.
Puerto Rico is said to comprise a White majority, an extinct Amerindian population, persons of mixed ancestry, Africans and a small Asian minority. Recent genetic research, however, contradicts that information. According to the 2010 US Census, 99% of the population consider themselves of Puerto Rican descent (regardless of race or skin color), making Puerto Rico one of the most culturally unified societies in the world. 
The population of Puerto Rico is nearly about 4 million people. The ethnic composition of the population is:
"This article has text from the English Wikipedia articles and ."

</doc>
<doc id="12386" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12386" title="Jonathan Ke Quan">
Jonathan Ke Quan

Jonathan Ke Quan (born August 20, 1971 as Ke Huy Quan) is a Vietnamese-American former child actor.
In the 1980s, he appeared in several movies. His best known roles were as Short Round in "Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom" (1984) and Data in "The Goonies" (1985). He now works as a stunt coordinator on many movies, for example "X-Men".
In Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom, he was an orphan in the streets of Shanghai when he becomes Indy's(Harrison Ford) friend. They end up in India where Indy, Short Round and night club singer Willie Scott(Kate Capshaw) fight Indians, save children, and scream to death in a mine car chase. They go through a lot of things together, like a family. Yet, everyone must say good-bye someday
After their adventures in India Short Round had a nervous breakdown, he told Indy that he could no longer deal with the constant thought that death was right around every corner. Short Round told Indy that he was done and then he moved to Oregon where he used the masses of money he had attained gathering ancient artifacts to buy himself a new name "Data" and to hire two Vieatnamese refugees to pose as his parents. 
He would later come to use his treasure hunting skills to find the forgotten fortune of a Mr. One Eyed Willy. Short round later grew weary of his humble life and craved adventure, he decided he no longer wanted to be a sidekick so he struck out on his own.

</doc>
<doc id="12387" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12387" title="Pilgrimage">
Pilgrimage

A pilgrimage is when people travel to a place of worship that is usually far away. They may have to go to a different city or country. Usually a pilgrimage is done for spiritual or religious reasons. Muslims have to do a pilgrimage to Mecca. This is called Hajj. Other modern-day pilgrimages include the Way of St. James, and the pilgrimage to Mount Kailash.
There are also non-religious pilgrimages; they include for example:

</doc>
<doc id="12391" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12391" title="1703">
1703

The year 1703 (MDCCIII) started on a Monday, (or a Thursday by the 11-day slower Julian calendar).

</doc>
<doc id="12392" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12392" title="Watermelon">
Watermelon

A watermelon is a type of edible fruit. They are 92% water. About six percent of a watermelon is sugar. This makes them very sweet. There are many different types of watermelon. Some have a green rind on the outside and a red-pink flesh on the inside, with black seeds. Some can have yellow flesh, and some can be seedless. The green rind on the outside is not usually eaten, though it can be used as a vegetable. It can also be stewed or pickled. Most watermelons are oblong or spherical. In Japan, watermelons are grown in different shapes. Many people like to eat watermelon in the summer because the fruit is cool and refreshing. 
Watermelons are a great source of vitamin A, vitamin C, vitamin B6 and vitamin B1. They also contain potassium, magnesium, carotenoid antioxidant, and lycopene. 
Watermelons are fruits that come from a vine-like plant. 

</doc>
<doc id="12396" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12396" title="Monrovia">
Monrovia

Monrovia is the capital of Liberia. It is Liberia's most populous city with a population of 1,010,970. The city is named after 5th U.S. President James Monroe. 
Monrovia was founded in 1822 by the American Colonization Society. They wanted free slaves to have their own home back in Africa. 

</doc>
<doc id="12397" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12397" title="Paul Anka">
Paul Anka

Paul Anka (born July 30, 1941) is a Canadian-American singer and songwriter. He is best known for such songs as "Diana" (1957) and "Lonely Boy" (1959).
Anka was inducted into Canada's Walk of Fame in 2005.
Anka was born in Ottawa, Ontario to Camelia and Andrew Emile "Andy" Anka, Sr. They owned a restaurant named the Locanda. His parents were both Antiochian Orthodox Christians in Lebanon. Anka's father and his mother were Canadian-Lebanese "from the town of Kfarmishki, in Lebanon."
Anka grew up singing in the St. Elias Antiochian Orthodox Church choir. He went to Fisher Park High School where he was part of a vocal trio called the "Bobby Soxers".
He became an American citizen in 1990. He is married to Polish-born Anna Anka. 

</doc>
<doc id="12398" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12398" title="Neil Young">
Neil Young

Neil Percival Young (born November 12, 1945) is a Canadian musician. He is known for his country and rock songs. Sometimes, people call him the Godfather of Grunge because the style of some of his songs led to the kind of music called grunge music that started to be popular in the early 1990s. Many of his songs have a political and/or personal message. He was also a member of the groups Buffalo Springfield and Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young.
Some of his best-known songs are "Heart of Gold", "Helpless", "After the Gold Rush", "Rockin' in the Free World", "Cinnamon Girl", "Southern Man" and "Like a Hurricane".
Young has explored many different styles of music during his career, and not all his records have been popular. During the 1980s, he was sued by his record company, Geffen Records, who believed he was making records that would not sell very many copies on purpose. Young won out over Geffen in court.
Young is known as an environmental and political activist and his views can sometimes be found in the lyrics of his songs. He is a long-time supporter of the family farmer. In 1985 Young, along with Willie Nelson and John Mellencamp, co-founded the benefit concert called Farm Aid which has continued every year to help raise money to keep farmers in business. He also did not support George W. Bush when he was the president of the United States, and even wrote a song called "Let's Impeach the President" about how he thought Bush should lose his powers.
In the 1970s, Young released two songs (on his "After The Gold Rush" and "Harvest" albums) critical of racism in the Southern United States. These songs were called "Southern Man" and "Alabama". Lynyrd Skynyrd, a band from the Southern United States, made a song in response called "Sweet Home Alabama" that has become a very popular rock classic. Young's name is said in the lyrics of "Sweet Home Alabama".
Neil Young has been inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame twice, first as a solo artist in 1995 and again as a member of Buffalo Springfield in 1997.

</doc>
<doc id="12399" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12399" title="The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy">
The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy

The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy is a science fiction comedy series by Douglas Adams. It started out as a radio show series for the BBC Radio 4 in 1978. Afterwards Adams wrote a series of five books, which came out from 1979 to 1992. In 1981 it was made into a television series, and in 2005 a movie of the story was made. It has also been a computer game, and several stage plays and comic books. Douglas Adams also suggested he would write a sixth book but he died before he could complete it, so Eoin Colfer wrote the sixth book in the series.
The six books in the "Hitchhiker's Guide" series are:

</doc>
<doc id="12401" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12401" title="Cookbook">
Cookbook

A cookbook, or cookery book, is kind of book that tells people how to prepare food for eating using specific instructions called a recipe. Most cookbooks also have tips on how to eat and present the food as well. They usually list the ingredients needed, time needed to cook, and the instructions. They may give other tips too. 

</doc>
<doc id="12403" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12403" title="Somalia">
Somalia

Somalia (; ), officially the Republic of Somalia (; ) and formerly known as the Somali Democratic Republic, is a country in the Horn of Africa. It is bordered by Djibouti to the northwest, Kenya to the southwest, the Gulf of Aden with Yemen to the north, the Indian Ocean to the east, and Ethiopia to the west.
Somalia is a republic governed by a federal administration with various regional administrations governing on a micro level. The current regions are:
Somalia is known as an independent country.Since the Somali Civil War in the 1980s, there has been no working government that covers all of Somalia; instead, different clans have been fighting for control.Somalia is now trying to gain control of their people and get back up its feet with very little resources.
Somalis are a nation of related families, which are called clans. Groups of clans sometimes band together based on a common ancestor or other blood relationship. Sometimes these family relationships date back hundreds or even thousands of years in the past.
Somalis are mostly camel or goat herders, and depend on their livestock to live. In Somalia there are limited sources of drinking water and grazing land, and disputes over grazing rights, water rights, or land in general can lead to fighting between families. Because of the clan system, the families involved will call on their clan for help, leading to a clan war.
The discovery of oil and minerals in Somalia, as well as the power and money associated with politics and business, has created more opportunities for families to get ahead, and has also created more reasons for families to have disputes.
Because Somalia does not have a working legal system, the only help a family in Somalia has to solve a dispute with another family is to get their clan involved. The only solution to the clan wars in Somalia is a working legal system, but the only group who has succeeded in creating one is the Islamic Courts Union. Unfortunately the Islamic Courts Union was accused of being terrorists and Ethiopia invaded Somalia to topple their government and put the government they created in power instead.
In ancient times, Somalia was a place where people from Egypt and Arabia went to buy Gum Arabic, Myrrh and Ebony Wood. The Ancient Egyptians used to call it Punt, which meant "God's Land". Somalis started herding camel and goats about 4,000 years ago, and they remain mostly herders today.
Visitors from as far away as China visited Somalia, like Zheng He.
400 more years later, the king of Ethiopia told his subjects that God hated Ifat, and he invaded Ifat with his army, destroying everything he came across and driving the king of Ifat to an island off the coast of Zeila, where he died. The king of Ethiopia then took part of Ifat and added it to his kingdom, and made Ifat pay him lots of money once a year. The remains of Ifat put their kingdom back together again and renamed it Adal.
About a hundred years later, the King of Adal was deposed by an influential warlord by the name of Ahmad ibn Ibrahim al-Ghazi, who had lots of influence with Somali clans across the north. He declared a Jihad against Ethiopia, brought together a huge army that included Turkish musketeers and Somali cavalry. The Somali cavalry were especially deadly because they could shoot arrows while riding their horses, something that the Mongol hordes and Japanese Samurai are also famous for.
Ahmad chose a bad time, however, because the Portuguese Empire was muscling into East Africa. They had taken over the whole east African coast up to Baraawe, and were trying to take over Mogadishu. The Portuguese decided to help out the Ethiopians because the Ethiopians were Christians and the Portuguese did not like Muslims. Ahmad had taken over more than half of Ethiopia when a troop of Portuguese musketeers showed up to help the Ethiopians out. One Portuguese musketeer managed to shoot Ahmad himself, killing him.
A lot of the Somali cavalry was only there because of Ahmad, so the Jihad ended and Ethiopia wound up invading Adal. The Turks had to send an army to stop them from taking over Zeila, and Adal ended up becoming part of the Turkish Ottoman Empire. On those days we do not find the exact people dwell in zeila, but the history ascribed the black people, without tracing their origin and their tribes.
However, some historians attributed Zeila inhabitant were called semaale without farther lucid explanation.
The Turks and Portuguese fought over East Africa for the next 200 years, but the Turks eventually won about 270 years ago. Northern Somalia stayed under Turkish protection after Ahmad died, and the east coast including Mogadishu ended up under the protection of the King of Oman. When Egypt declared independence from the Turks a hundred years later, Northern Somalia became part of Egypt. Egypt came under British protection shortly after that, and northern Somalia basically became a British protectorate as well. This became official about 130 years ago, and northern Somalia officially became British Somaliland.
The Kingdom of Italy had just come together as one country around this time, and wanted the same things that the other big countries had, like colonies. Italy offered to buy the rights to the east Africa coast from Oman, who was in charge of protecting the cities and small kingdoms there, and Oman agreed. Italy made deals with some of the larger kingdoms/sultanates (like the Sultanate of Nugaal) for them to be under Italian protection, but the smaller ones Italy just invaded. This became Italian Somalia.
Ethiopia, which had fallen apart again after Ahmad's Jihad, had recently put itself back together again as well, and started invading small Somali kingdoms as well, and by 1890 there were not many left. The French got in on this too, but they just took over a small area which today is Djibouti.
Lots of Somalis did not like what was going on, so a Muslim religious leader named Mohammed Abdullah Hassan started a group called the Darwiish to fight the British, Italians and Ethiopians. The British called him the "Mad Mullah" and spent about 30 years fighting him, eventually using fighter planes against his cavalry. At their height the Darwiish controlled almost a third of Somalia.
When Benito Mussolini took power in Italy, he ended the deals he made with the bigger Somali sultanates and invaded them conquering all the area that was to be the colony of Italian Somalia. Then he invaded and took over Ethiopia, using poison gas on the Ethiopians. Shortly afterwards, World War 2 broke out and he invaded British Somaliland, but two years later the British returned and liberated British Somaliland and Ethiopia as well as taking over Italian Somaliland.
After the war, Britain wanted to put all of the places Somalis lived in one country, which would be a British protectorate. The Ethiopians complained that they should be able to keep the areas they conquered, and the Italians also complained the same thing, so in the end the Ethiopians got to keep their bit, and the Italians did too. However, Italian Somaliland was put under a United Nations mandate, so the Italians could not make it a colony.
In 1960 both British and Italian Somaliland declared independence together as the "Republic of Somalia". It was chosen the Latin alphabet for the Somalian language. Many areas where Somalis lived were still part of Britain, Ethiopia and France. Somalia wanted to get back all the areas that had been colonized by the French, Ethiopians and British. Somalia and Ethiopia had a short war in 1964 over the Ethiopian part of Somalia, and it was obvious that more fighting was to come.
In 1969, the President of Somalia was killed by a man whose clan had been hurt by his policies, and General Mohammed Siad Barre took over the country. Siad Barre built a huge army with help from the Soviet Union and when Ethiopia fell for the fourth time (this time because of a Communist takeover) he invaded. The Soviet Union decided that Ethiopia was more important than Somalia and double-crossed Siad Barre, supplying huge amounts of weapons to Ethiopia. Other countries like Cuba and Israel also sent help to Ethiopia, so in the end Siad Barre lost the war.
Ethiopia's new government then began helping Somali rebel groups, who did not like how Siad Barre took over the country, and these rebel groups toppled Siad Barre' government in 1991 and forced him out of the country. After this, however, all of the rebel groups started fighting amongst themselves over who would be in charge now that Siad Barre was gone.
Eventually, some of the rebel groups decided to make their own governments in the land that they controlled. One, called Somaliland, declared independence from Somalia entirely, while another called Puntland declared independence "for now" until a new Somali national government can be put together. Dozens of attempts to create a new national government failed.
Because there was no government in most of Somalia (except where one had been built from scratch, like Puntland and Somaliland) Somalia's only legal system, beyond the law of the gun, was traditional custom and Islamic Sharia law. Because of this, Sharia legal scholars in the lawless south of Somalia gained quite a bit of influence. Around the same time, the people fighting for Somali lands in Ethiopia to be part of Somalia turned to the example of the Afgani Mujahideen, and created their own group called al-Ittihad al-Islamiyya or the Islamic Union. During the 1990s Ethiopia invaded Somalia several times to attack the Islamic Union, who were helping Somali rebels in Ethiopia.
After 2001, the United States of America became very suspicious of both the Sharia courts and the Islamic Union of being terrorists. Warlords made a group called the Alliance for the Restoration of Peace and Counter-Terrorism. The Sharia courts banded together to protect themselves and created the Islamic Courts Union. People liked the Sharia courts and hated the gangsters, so everyone helped the Islamic Courts Union, who defeated the gangsters and drove them out of Mogadishu in 2006. The Islamic Courts Union then formed an army and took over most of southern Somalia.
The United States of America and Ethiopia was alarmed by this takeover, so Ethiopia invaded southern Somalia in 2007 and put a new government in power that was made up of the rebel groups that Ethiopia had funded 15 years earlier. Almost everyone disagreed with this decision, and that same year a rebellion against this new government broke out in Mogadishu and spread across the whole country by 2008. At around the same time, there were also many reports about Somali pirates kidnapping westerners from big ships for ransom.
<noinclude>

</doc>
<doc id="12405" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12405" title="Mel Blanc">
Mel Blanc

Melvin Jerome "Mel" Blanc (May 30, 1908 – July 10, 1989) was an American voice actor, radio personality and comedian. Nicknamed "The Man of a Thousand Voices", he is best known for his voices in Looney Tunes and Hanna-Barbera cartoons, among others.
Blanc was born on May 30, 1908 in San Francisco, California. He studied at Lincoln High School in San Francisco. He was married to Estelle Rosenbaum from 1933 until his death in 1989. He has a son, Noel Blanc. Blanc died on July 10, 1989 from heart disease, aged 81.

</doc>
<doc id="12407" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12407" title="ConAgra Foods, Inc.">
ConAgra Foods, Inc.

ConAgra Foods, Inc. is a food packing company that packs food for supermarkets, restaurants, and other businesses. It is located in North America.

</doc>
<doc id="12408" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12408" title="IPod">
IPod

The iPod is a range of portable music players designed by the company Apple Inc. in California, but made mostly by the Chinese. The iPod comes with computer cables so that the user can put music from their computer onto the iPod, and play music from it using headphones. Newer iPods allow a user to play games, view pictures, watch videos and use the internet, too.
The first iPod was simply named the iPod. This was released in 2001. Apple still makes iPods like this today, but they are now called "iPod classic".
Apple makes a smaller iPod called the iPod nano. It is much smaller than the iPod, but does not hold as many songs. It uses flash memory, a special kind of memory for very small electronics, instead of a hard drive. It replaced a version of the iPod called the iPod mini.
Another type of iPod, called the iPod shuffle, is very small, and it uses flash memory, like the iPod nano but it has no screen. It is the least expensive iPod.
The most expensive iPod is called the iPod touch. It has a touch screen, like the iPhone. The first iPod touch was released in 2007.
iPods often contain songs downloaded from an online music store, using a program called iTunes. (The name of Apple's music and video store is the iTunes Store.) Songs are sold in AAC file format, not MP3 or WMA. These are popular formats for compressing (making smaller) music until it does not take up much space and can easily be put on a media player such as the iPod.
The App Store is an online shop that is run by Apple Inc. where people can buy software for their iPhone or iPod Touch. It opened on July 11, 2008. Over 100,000 applications (or apps for short) are available for people to buy. Some apps are available for free.

</doc>
<doc id="12411" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12411" title="Costa Rica">
Costa Rica

Costa Rica (officially called Republic of Costa Rica), is a country in Central America. It is bordered by Nicaragua to the north, Panama to the southeast, the Pacific Ocean to the west, and the Caribbean Sea to the east. The official language of Costa Rica is Spanish. The official currency is the colón. It has enjoyed a long period of peace since the 1948 civil war. Because of its natural beauty and political stability, it is nicknamed the "Switzerland of Latin America". Costa Rica has had no army since December 1, 1948. Instead of spending money on the military, the government spends money on education and health.
4,301,712 people live in Costa Rica. The capital city is San José. The current President is Luis Guillermo Solís. He was elected in 2014.
The indigenous people of Costa Rica belong to the Intermediate Area. This Intermediate Area is where the Mesoamerican and Andean indigenous cultures mixed together. The country was influenced by various Chibcha speaking indigenous people.
The impact of indigenous peoples' culture on modern Costa Rica has been small. The country did not have a strong native civilization to begin with. Most of the indigenous population was absorbed into the Spanish colony. There are still some small indigenous groups. The largest is the Bribri and Boruca tribes in south Costa Rica.
Christopher Columbus sailed to the eastern shores of Costa Rica during his last trip in 1502. He reported large amounts of gold jewelry among the indigenous people.
During the colonial period, Costa Rica was the southernmost province of the Captaincy General of Guatemala. But it was operated as a largely autonomous region of the Spanish Empire. Costa Rica's distance from the capital in Guatemala, its legal prohibition to trade with the Viceroyalty of New Granada, and the lack of gold and silver made Costa Rica into a poor, little populated region of the Spanish Empire. Costa Rica was called "the poorest and most miserable Spanish colony in all America" by a Spanish governor in 1719.
Costa Rica's poverty was also because there were not enough indigenous people available for slavery. Most of the Costa Rican settlers had to work on their own land. There were no large "haciendas" (plantations). For all these reasons, Costa Rica was unappreciated and forgotten by the Spanish Crown. It had to develop on its own.
Costa Rica became a "rural democracy" with no oppressed mestizo or indigenous class. It was not long before Spanish settlers turned to the hills, where they found rich volcanic soil and a better climate.
Costa Rica never fought for independence from Spain. On September 15, 1821, after the last Spanish defeat in the Mexican War of Independence (1810–21), the authorities in Guatemala declared the independence of all of Central America. That date is still celebrated as Independence Day in Costa Rica.
Costa Rica joined the First Mexican Empire of Agustín de Iturbide. After its collapse in 1823, Costa Rica became a province of the new Federal Republic of Central America. it existed from 1823 to 1839. It had a very loose authority over its provinces, especially the poor and remote Costa Rica.
In 1824, the Costa Rican capital was moved to San José. This led to a brief battle with the old capital, Cartago.
While civil wars were common in the Federal Republic of Central America, Costa Rica was largely peaceful.
In 1838, Costa Rica formally proclaimed itself an independent country. The local population had little allegiance to the federal government in Guatemala. From colonial times to now, Costa Rica's reluctance to become politically tied with the rest of Central America has been a major obstacle to efforts for greater regional integration.
Coffee was first planted in Costa Rica in the early 19th century. It was first shipped to Europe in 1843. It became Costa Rica's first major export. Coffee would remain Costa Rica's biggest export until the 20th century.
Most of the coffee exported was transported by oxcart to the Pacific port of Puntarenas. Since the main market for the coffee was in Europe, it soon became a high priority to develop a transportation route from the Central Plateau to the Atlantic Ocean. For this purpose, in the 1870s, the Costa Rican government asked U.S. businessman Minor C. Keith to build a railroad to the Caribbean port of Limón. Despite enormous difficulties with construction, disease, and financing, the railroad was completed in 1890.
Most Afro-Costa Ricans come from Jamaican immigrants who worked on the railway. United States convicts, Italians and Chinese immigrants also worked in the construction of the railroad.
In exchange for making the railroad, Costa Rican gave Keith large amounts of land and a lease on the train route, which he used to produce bananas and export them to the United States. As a result, bananas became the largest export. The United Fruit Company began to hold a major role in the national economy.
Costa Rica has enjoyed greater peace and political stability than other Latin American nations.
But in 1917–19, General Federico Tinoco Granados ruled as a military dictator until he was overthrown. The unpopularity of Tinoco's government led to a considerable decline in the size, wealth, and political influence of the Costa Rican military.
In 1948, José Figueres Ferrer led an armed uprising between the previous president Rafael Ángel Calderón Guardia (he served as president between 1940 and 1944) and Otilio Ulate Blanco. With more than 2,000 dead, the 44-day Costa Rican Civil War was the bloodiest event in Costa Rica during the 20th century.
The victorious rebels formed a government that abolished the military. It oversaw the drafting of a new constitution by a democratically elected assembly. Having enacted these reforms, the junta relinquished its power on November 8, 1949, to the new democratic government. After that, Figueres became a national hero, winning the country's first democratic election under the new constitution in 1953. Since then, Costa Rica has held 14 presidential elections, the latest in 2014. All of them have been widely regarded by the international community as peaceful and transparent.
Costa Rica is on the Central American isthmus. It is between latitudes 8° and 12°N, and longitudes 82° and 86°W. It borders the Caribbean Sea to the east and the Pacific Ocean to the west. It has a total of of coastline. Costa Rica also borders Nicaragua to the north ( of border) and Panama to the southeast ( of border). In total, Costa Rica has plus of territorial waters.
The highest point in the country is Cerro Chirripó, at . The largest lake in Costa Rica is Lake Arenal.
Costa Rica is located between 8 and 12 degrees north of the Equator. The climate is tropical all year. The country has many microclimates depending on elevation, rainfall, and the geography of each region.
Costa Rica's seasons are defined by how much rain falls. It does not have the four seasons other countries have. The year can be split into two seasons: the dry season (known as summer), and the rainy season (known as winter). The "summer" starts in December and ends in April. "Winter" starts in May and ends in November. During this time it rains constantly in some regions.
The location receiving the most rain is the Caribbean. Annual rainfall is over . Humidity is also higher here. The mean annual temperature on the coast is around . in the main populated areas, and below on the highest mountains.
There are many national parks in Costa Rica, including Manuel Antonio National Park.
Costa Rica is home to many plants and animals. The country has only about 0.25% of the world's landmass, but it has 5% of the world's biodiversity. Almost 25% of Costa Rica's land area is in national parks and protected areas, This is the largest percentage of protected areas in the world.
Costa Rica successfully reduced deforestation. It had one of the worst deforestation rates in the world from 1973 to 1989. But it was almost zero by 2005.
The Corcovado National Park is internationally known by ecologists for its biodiversity. Visitors can see many different types of animals. An example is the big cats and tapirs. Corcovado is the only park in Costa Rica where all four Costa Rican monkeys can be found. These include the white-headed capuchin, the mantled howler,the endangered Geoffroy's spider monkey and the Central American squirrel monkey. The squirrel monkey is found only on the Pacific coast of Costa Rica and a small part of Panama.
Tortuguero National Park is home to spider, howler, and white-throat Capuchin monkeys. It is also the home of three-toed sloth and two-toed sloth. It has 320 species of birds. It has many reptiles. There is an annual nesting of the endangered green turtle, and is the most important nesting site for the species. Giant leatherback, hawksbill, and loggerhead turtles also nest here.
The Monteverde Cloud Forest Reserve is home to almost 2,000 plant species. Including many orchids. It is also home to more than 400 types of birds. There are more than 100 species of mammals here.
Costa Rica is a center of biological diversity for reptiles and amphibians. They have the world's fastest running lizard, the spiny-tailed iguana ("Ctenosaura similis").
Article 168 of the Constitution of Costa Rica says the political divisions are classified into 3 groups: provinces, cantons, and districts.
Costa Rica has seven provinces. The provinces are divided into 81 cantons. The canton is directed by a mayor. Mayors are chosen democratically every four years by the canton's people. There are no provincial legislatures. The cantons are further divided into 463 districts.
The provinces are:

</doc>
<doc id="12412" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12412" title="Wisconsin">
Wisconsin

Wisconsin () is a state of the United States. It can be found in the north-central part of the United States. Two of the five Great Lakes and four other states (Illinois, Iowa, Michigan and Minnesota) border Wisconsin. The capital of Wisconsin is Madison. The biggest city in Wisconsin is Milwaukee.
The word "Wisconsin" comes from the name that one of the Algonquian speaking American Indian groups living in the area gave to the Wisconsin River. They named the Wisconsin River at the time that the European contact happened. Jacques Marquette, a French , was the first European (or person from Europe) to get to the Wisconsin River and write down the name. He reached the Wisconsin River in 1673. He wrote the name of the river as "Meskousing" in his journal. Over time, other explorers from France this name into "Ouisconsin". This is now the French name for the Wisconsin River. As of 1845, the government of the Wisconsin Territory gave the name "Wisconsin" to the Wisconsin River.
Many people in Wisconsin go skiing, ice fishing and to snowmobile races. The Major League Baseball's Milwaukee Brewers are popular. Music events include the Summerfest. There is the Milwaukee Art Museum. Circle Sanctuary is the largest Wiccan organization in the U.S.
The Montreal River flows along the border of Wisconsin. Lake Superior and Michigan border Wisconsin to the north. Lake Michigan is to the east of Wisconsin, and Illinois is found directly south of Wisconsin. Other rivers that make up the border of Wisconsin include the Mississippi River and St. Croix Rivers to the west and the Menominee River to the northeast. 
Wisconsin has a lot of different kinds of geography and is very diverse. Wisconsin is made up of five main areas of geography. The Lake Superior Lowland to the north is an area of land that is right against Lake Superior. The Northern Highland area of Wisconsin is to the south of the Lake Superior Lowland. This area contains trees and other kinds of forests. The Chequamegon-Nicolet National Forest (1,500,000 acres big), is found in this area. The highest point in Wisconsin, Timms Hill, is in the Northern Highland area. The Central Plain area is found in the central part of Wisconsin. Lots of sandstone , such as the Dells of the Wisconsin River, are found in the Central Plain area. The Eastern Ridges and Lowlands area is found in the southeastern part of Wisconsin. Many of the biggest cities in Wisconsin are in the Eastern Ridges and Lowlands area. The Western Upland area is in the southwestern part of the state. This area includes features like bluffs along the Mississippi River and forests and farmland (land put aside for farming).
The highest temperature ever recorded in Wisconsin was in the Wisconsin Dells. It was recorded on July 13, 1936. The temperature reached 120 °F (46 °C). The lowest temperature in Wisconsin ever written down was in the village of Couderay. The temperature there was only –55 °F (-48 °C). This was recorded on both February 2 and February 4, 1996.
Wisconsin has cities and towns of many different sizes.. Nearly 70 percent of people living in Wisconsin live in urban areas (cities like Madison and Milwaukee). 33 percent of the population of Wisconsin lives in the Greater Milwaukee area. Milwaukee is found at the northern end of a string of cities and towns along Lake Michigan. With almost 600,000 people living in Milwaukee, that makes Milwaukee the 22nd-largest city in the country. Madison is also another important city in Wisconsin. With a population of just over 225,000 people, it is a city that grows very fast. A of Madison, Middleton, was also ranked the "Best Place to Live in America" in 2007 by "Money Magazine". There are a bunch of medium-sized cities and towns (meaning their populations are between 25,000 and 100,000 people) in Wisconsin. 12 cities in Wisconsin with a population of 50,000 or more.

</doc>
<doc id="12413" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12413" title="Odia Coates">
Odia Coates

Odia Coates (1942 - May 19, 1991) was an American singer. She is best remembered for her duet with Paul Anka, "(You're) Having My Baby" from 1974. The song was #1 on the "Billboard" Top 100 chart for three weeks in 1974.

</doc>
<doc id="12414" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12414" title="Amy Grant">
Amy Grant

Amy Lee Grant (November 25 1960) is an American singer and songwriter. She is known for her Contemporary Christian music, as well as pop music hits. Grant is the best-selling contemporary Christian music singer ever. She released her first album in 1977 at the age of 16.
Grant was born in Augusta, Georgia.

</doc>
<doc id="12416" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12416" title="Dalida">
Dalida

Dalida (real name: Iolanda Cristina Gigliotti) (January 17, 1933 - May 3, 1987) was an Egyptian-born Italian/French singer and actress. She was born in Cairo to an Italian family. She had Italian citizenship all her life. From 1961, she also had French citizenship. She died of an overdose of barbiturates in Paris.

</doc>
<doc id="12417" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12417" title="The Bangles">
The Bangles

The Bangles are an all-female American rock band. The band started in Los Angeles, California in 1981. The Bangles are best known for their hit (popular) songs "Walk Like an Egyptian" (which featured a dance where a person walks by bending the left hand forward and the right hand backward), and "Manic Monday".

</doc>
<doc id="12418" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12418" title="Britcom">
Britcom

"Britcom" is short for "British sitcom". It is a situation comedy show produced in the United Kingdom. This is what they are called especially in the United States and Australia, where they have cult followings. Some of them like "Till Death Do Us Part" and "Steptoe and Son" were remade as American comedy TV shows ("All in the Family" and "Sanford and Son").

</doc>
<doc id="12421" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12421" title="Millimetre">
Millimetre

The millimetre is a metric unit of length. The symbol for the millimetre is mm. There are 1,000 millimetres in a metre.

</doc>
<doc id="12425" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12425" title="Kris Kristofferson">
Kris Kristofferson

Kristoffer "Kris" Kristofferson (born June 22, 1936) is an American actor, musician, and writer. He is known for writing country songs for other people or singing them himself. He is also a well-known actor and appeared in films like "Star is Born", "Bring Me the Head of Alfredo Garcia", "Alice Doesn't Live Here Anymore", "Blade", and "Planet of the Apes".
He is the author of a number of country standards, such as "Me and Bobbie McGee" and "Sunday Morning Coming Down".

</doc>
<doc id="12427" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12427" title="Mathematical constant">
Mathematical constant

A mathematical constant is a number, which has a special meaning for calculations. For example, the constant π (pronounced "pie") means the ratio of the length of a circle's circumference to its diameter. This value is always the same for any circle.
In contrast to physical constants, mathematical constants do not come from physical measurements.
--Tables structure--
"You can choose the order of the list by clicking on the name, value, OEIS, etc.."
Here are some important mathematical constants:

</doc>
<doc id="12432" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12432" title="Leaning Tower of Pisa">
Leaning Tower of Pisa

The Leaning Tower of Pisa is a building in Pisa, Italy. It is a bell tower. It is famous because it is not vertical. The tower was once leaning more and more to the ground, but recently much restoration work has been done to stop it from falling over completely. There was scaffolding all around the tower for 20 years. On 26 April 2011, the last bit of scaffolding was removed so that the tower can be seen properly again.
The height of the tower is about 56 metres from the ground. Its weight is about 14,500 tonnes. It now leans at about 3.99 degrees. The tower has 294 steps.
When the second floor was built in 1178, the tower started to lean. This was because it had a small three-meter foundation in soft soil. The design of this tower was bad from the beginning. Construction was stopped for almost 100 years because the people of Pisa were often at war with Genoa, Lucca, and Florence.
Like the Roman Colosseum, the Leaning Tower of Pisa is one of the seven wonders of the medieval world that is located in Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="12433" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12433" title="Tower">
Tower

A tower is a tall structure. Towers are different from buildings because people do not live in them. Many castles have towers. Today, towers are very tall. Some things they are used for are to send radio signals, for observation, or to hold up bridges.

</doc>
<doc id="12435" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12435" title="Tel Aviv">
Tel Aviv

The city of Tel Aviv-Yafo (;  ) is a municipality in Israel, often just called Tel Aviv. It is Israel's second largest city and main commercial, financial, and industrial center. It is on the eastern shore of the Mediterranean Sea.
In 2009, 405,400 people lived in the city of Tel Aviv. Tel Aviv is a part of an area of cities called Gush Dan. About 3,850,000 people live in this urban area.
The city calls itself Israel's capital of culture, economy and trade.
In 1909, Jewish people started building Tel Aviv northeast of Jaffa. Tel Aviv was part of Jaffa at first, but it became a separate town in 1921. Tel Aviv grew quickly as Jewish immigrants arrived, mainly from Europe.
between the years 1925-1929 the Scottish city planner Sir Patrick Geddes was design the first city plan for the tel aviv.
in the early 1930s the area of the Yarkon River mouth area has began to develop with the opening of the international trade fair - the "Orient Fair" and the opening of the "Tel Aviv Port" beside him. from the other side of the Yarkon River was built the Reading Power Station and the Sde Dov Airport.
It was Israel's first capital when the nation was established in 1948. The capital was moved to Jerusalem in 1949, but the Israeli Ministry of Defense and many foreign embassies stayed in Tel Aviv. Most Israeli government departments have offices in Tel Aviv.
In 1950, Tel Aviv and Jaffa (called "Yafo" in Hebrew) joined to into the city of Tel Aviv-Yafo. Tel Aviv-Yafo is the official name of the city, but it is almost always called Tel Aviv.
Tel Aviv continued to grow quickly in the 1950s and 1960s. The fast growth of the Tel Aviv area caused problems such as air pollution, slums, and traffic that took until the 2000s to fix. Most of the people of Tel Aviv live in apartment buildings.
During the Persian Gulf War of 1991, Iraq fired about 25 missiles toward Tel Aviv. Several missiles and falling debris struck residential areas in or around Tel Aviv. Two people were killed, and about 7,500 apartments were damaged.
The cultural center of Tel Aviv is a downtown intersection of streets at Dizengoff Circle. Fashionable shops and sidewalk cafes line the nearby streets. The 37-story Shalom Tower is in the city's financial district, several blocks south of Dizengoff Circle. It is the tallest building in Israel. The southwestern part of the city was once the separate town of Jaffa. Jaffa, an ancient port from Biblical times, has many historic place that have been restored by archaeologists. Jaffa also has many art galleries, cafes, restaurants, and nightclubs.
The Israeli opera, and Habima Theater, Israel's national theater, was are in Tel Aviv. 
Tel Aviv is home to a number of dance centers and companies. The Batsheva Dance Company, a contemporary dance group, as well as the Bat-Dor Dance Company and the Israel Ballet are headquartered in Tel Aviv. Tel Aviv's center for modern and classical dance is the Suzanne Dellal Center.
Museums in Tel Aviv include Haaretz Museum and the Tel Aviv Art Museum.
Tel Aviv University is one of the city's several institutions of higher learning. Bar Ilan University is in Ramat Gan, a suburb of the city.
The Tel Aviv area is Israel's main manufacturing district. About half of the nation's business companies are in the area. Their products include computer software, electronic equipment, machine tools, building materials, chemicals, clothing, and processed foods. The city is also the nation's main center for banking, publishing, and trade and the home of the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange.
Tel Aviv has a partnership with Los Angeles (), and is twinned with:

</doc>
<doc id="12436" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12436" title="Trigonometry">
Trigonometry

Trigonometry (from the Greek "trigonon" = three angles and "metron" = measure) is a part of elementary mathematics dealing with angles, triangles and trigonometric functions such as sine (abbreviated sin), cosine (abbreviated cos) and tangent (abbreviated tan). It has some connection to geometry, although there is disagreement on exactly what that connection is; for some, trigonometry is just a section of geometry.
Trigonometry uses a large number of specific words to describe parts of a triangle. Some of the definitions in trigonometry are:
There are three main trigonometric ratios for right triangles, and three reciprocals of those ratios. There are 6 total ratios. They are:
Sine (sin) - The sine of an angle is equal to the formula_1
Cosine (cos) - The cosine of an angle is equal to the formula_2
Tangent (tan) - The tangent of an angle is equal to the formula_3
The reciprocals of these ratios are:
Cosecant (csc) - The cosecant of an angle is equal to the formula_4 or formula_5
Secant (sec) - The secant of an angle is equal to the formula_6 or formula_7
Cotangent (cot) - The cotangent of an angle is equal to the formula_8 or formula_9
Students often use a mnemonic to remember this relationship. The "sine", "cosine", and "tangent" ratios in a right triangle can be remembered by representing them as strings of letters, such as SOH-CAH-TOA:
or:
or:
Sitting On Hard Concrete Always Hurts Try Other Alternatives
With the sines and cosines one can answer virtually all questions about triangles. This is called "solving" the triangle. One can work out the remaining angles and sides of any triangle as soon as two sides and their included angle or two angles and a side or three sides are known. These laws are useful in all branches of geometry, since "every polygon may be described as a combination of triangles".
Trigonometry is also vital in surveying, in vector analysis, and in the study of periodic functions.
There is also such a thing as spherical trigonometry, which deals with spherical geometry. This is used for calculations in astronomy, geodesy and navigation.
Basic Trigonometry course in Khan Academy

</doc>
<doc id="12437" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12437" title="Monotheism">
Monotheism

Monotheism is the belief in only one god, rather than two or more, which would be polytheism. Many religions are monotheistic, such as Judaism, Christianity, Islam, Baha'i Faith, Sikhism, Eckankar, Zoroastrianism, deism, Cao Dai and Tenrikyo. Zoroastrianism is among the oldest monotheistic religions.

</doc>
<doc id="12438" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12438" title="Polytheism">
Polytheism

Polytheism means believing in many gods. A person that believes in polytheism is called a polytheist. A religion with polytheism can be called a polytheistic religion.
Polytheism is well documented in historical religions of classical antiquity, especially Ancient Greece and Ancient Rome. Other ancient people who were polytheists include Germanic paganism, Slavic mythology, the Celts and the Norse. 
There are various polytheistic religions practiced today, for example Hinduism, Shintoism, Chinese folk religion, Thelema, Wicca, Druidism, Taoism, Asatru and Candomblé.
Usually, a polytheistic religion has a set of stories about the gods. This is called mythology. The most famous and complete mythology is Greek mythology. 

</doc>
<doc id="12439" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12439" title="Nelvana">
Nelvana

Nelvana is an animation studio. It was founded in 1971 in Toronto, Ontario, Canada by Michael Hirsh, Patrick Loubert, and Clive A. Smith. The company is now owned by Corus Entertainment. It is named after a local comic book superheroine of the 1940s.
It specialises mainly in the field of child-friendly TV shows and movies. Some of them are:

</doc>
<doc id="12441" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12441" title="Jeb Bush">
Jeb Bush

John Ellis "Jeb" Bush (born February 11, 1953) is an American businessman and politician. He served as the 43rd Governor of Florida from 1999 to 2007.
Bush is the second son of former President George H. W. Bush and former First Lady Barbara Bush, the younger brother of former President George W. Bush, and grandson of the late Prescott Bush, United States Senator from Connecticut. Following his father's successful run for Vice President in 1980, he moved to Florida and pursued a career in real estate development. In 1986, Bush was named Florida's Secretary of Commerce, a position he held until his resignation in 1988 to help his father's successful campaign for the Presidency.
In 1994, Bush made his first run for office, losing the election for governor by less than two percentage points to the incumbent Lawton Chiles. Bush ran again in 1998 and defeated Lieutenant Governor Buddy MacKay with 55 percent of the vote. He ran for reelection in 2002. He won with 56 percent to become Florida's first two-term Republican governor. During his eight years as governor, Bush helped create environmental improvements, such as conservation in the Everglades, supporting caps for medical malpractice litigation, moving Medicaid recipients to private systems, and creating reforms to the state education system, including the issuance of vouchers and promoting school choice.
Bush was a candidate for the Republican nomination in the 2016 presidential election. 
Bush was born in Midland, Texas. He was raised in Houston, Texas. His father is George H. W. Bush, the 41st President of the United States and 43rd Vice President of the United States. His mother is Barbara Pierce. The nickname "Jeb" is made up of his initials J.E.B. (John Ellis Bush).
Bush received poor grades at first and occasionally smoked marijuana. He made the honor roll by the end of his senior year and served as captain of the tennis team. He studied at the University of Texas at Austin. At the age of 17, Bush taught English as a second language and worked in the building of a school in Ibarrilla, a small village outside of León, Guanajuato, Mexico/ It was part of a student exchange summer program. While in Mexico, he met his future wife, Columba Garnica Gallo.
Following his father's successful run for Vice President in 1980, he moved to Florida and pursued a career in real estate development. In 1986, Bush was named Florida's Secretary of Commerce, a position he held until his resignation in 1988 to help his father's successful campaign for the Presidency.
In 1994, Bush made his first run for office. He lost the election for governor by less than two percentage points to the incumbent Lawton Chiles.
Bush ran again in 1998 and beat Lieutenant Governor Buddy MacKay with 55 percent of the vote. Bush's administration was marked by a focus on public education reform.
While Governor, Bush reduced taxes by $19 billion, reduced the size of state government by 6.6 percent, and vetoed $2 billion in new spending. Bush eliminated civil service protection for over 16,000 state jobs, which had the effect of making it easier to fire employees in those positions.
Bush signed legislation to restore the Everglades as part of an $8 billion project in conjunction with the federal government. Bush supported more than a dozen new protections for gun owners. In 2005, Bush signed into law Florida's stand-your-ground law, which was the first such state law in the United States. In 2004, Bush supported an unsuccessful bill to allow illegal immigrants to be issued drivers licenses by the state.
He ran for reelection in 2002 and won with 56 percent to become Florida's first two-term Republican governor.
During his eight years as governor, Bush was credited with initiating environmental improvements, such as conservation in the Everglades, supporting caps for medical malpractice litigation, moving medicaid recipients to private systems, and instituting reforms to the state education system, including the issuance of vouchers and promoting school choice.
Bush was considered a potential candidate in the 2016 presidential election since the end of the 2012 election.
At a press conference on April 16, 2013, at Bluefield College, Bush stated he had not begun the decision making process about a run but that he would begin to consider a run soon. On October 2, 2014, Bush's brother George said that his brother "wants to be President". On December 16, 2014, Bush announced via Facebook that he would be "actively exploring" a 2016 run to become President of the United States and at the end of the year resigned several corporate boards.
Bush announced his candidacy on June 15, 2015. Bush was high on Republican polls for president in June, but slipped as he lost to Donald Trump, Ted Cruz and to Marco Rubio. After loosing the Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina caucuses, Bush suspended his campaign on February 20, 2016.
Bush married Columbia Bush in 1974. They have three children: George, Noelle, and John.
In 1995, Bush converted from Anglicanism to Roman Catholicism. In 2004, he became a Fourth Degree Knight of Columbus. Bush, a member of Father Hugon Council 3521 in Tallahassee, has joined Father Hugon Assembly.

</doc>
<doc id="12442" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12442" title="Auckland">
Auckland

Auckland is the largest city in New Zealand. About 1.4 million people live in the Auckland region. For a short time in New Zealand's history it was the capital city. Now Wellington is the capital city.
Auckland is in the north of the North Island. It is situated on two harbours: the Manukau and Waitemata harbours. It is known as the "City of Sails" because there are many sailing boats in the city. The Hauraki Gulf has many different islands and provides safe anchorage and good sailing that is recognised around the world. It has a temperate oceanic climate ("Cfb" in the Koeppen climate classification).
Auckland is built on a series of dormant volcanos. The youngest and largest of these is called Rangitoto. Rangitoto is an island just a few kilometres from the city centre. It has many pohutukawas, native trees also known as the New Zealand Christmas tree because of their brilliant red flowers which bloom in December.
According to the NIWA, Auckland has a subtropical climate, with warm, humid summers and mild, damp winters. Under Köppen's climate classification, the city has an oceanic climate ("Cfb"). It is the warmest main centre of New Zealand and is also one of the sunniest, with an average of over 2000 sunshine hours per annum. The average daily maximum temperature is in February and in July. The absolute maximum recorded temperature is , while the absolute minimum is . High levels of rainfall occur almost year–round with an average of per year spread over 136 rain days, but is most frequent in Winter. Snowfall in Auckland is extremely rare; recorded instances include 27 July 1939 and 15 August 2011, although without any accumulation.
The early morning calm on the isthmus during settled weather, before the sea breeze rises, was described as early as 1853: "In all seasons, the beauty of the day is in the early morning. At that time, generally, a solemn stillness holds, and a perfect calm prevails...". Many Aucklanders use this time of day to walk and run in parks.
Auckland occasionally suffers from air pollution due to fine particle emissions. There are also occasional breaches of guideline levels of carbon monoxide. While maritime winds normally disperse the pollution relatively quickly it can sometimes become visible as smog, especially on calm winter days. The west of Auckland is slightly wetter and cooler than the eastern side, with the gulf islands being warmer and drier still.

</doc>
<doc id="12446" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12446" title="Capitalism">
Capitalism

Capitalism is an economic system. In it the government plays a secondary role. People and companies make most of the decisions, and own most of the property. Goods are usually made by companies and sold for profit. The means of production are largely or entirely privately owned (by individuals or companies) and operated for profit.
Most property, for example, is owned by people or companies, not by the government. People work for money so they can buy things they need or want, including food. Capitalism has a more or less free market economy. That means prices move up or down according to the demand for products. People buy and sell things by their own judgment. In most countries there is some regulation (trade laws) and some planning done by the government. They are sometimes called "mixed economies" to indicate this. Some people disagree on whether capitalism is a good idea, or how much of capitalism is a good idea.
The word comes from "capital", meaning something of value. This can be money (""financial capital"") or any other goods that can be traded. The word "capital" originally comes from the Latin word "caput", meaning "head." It was used to mean how many "head" of cattle a rich person owned, in days long ago when cattle were used as money. In fact, the words "capital" and "cattle" both come from "caput". 
The philosopher Adam Smith's book, "The Wealth of Nations", was an important book that developed the ideas of capitalism and the free market. The word "capitalism" was not used until the 19th century. The greatest invention of capitalism is often said to be the joint stock company. A joint-stock company is a business where different stocks can be bought and owned by shareholders. Each shareholder owns company stock in proportion to the number of their shares.
In capitalism, people may sell or lend their property, and other people may buy or borrow it. If one person wants to buy, and another person wants to sell to them, they do not need to get permission from higher power. People can have a market (buying and selling with each other) without anyone else telling them to. People who own capital are sometimes called "capitalists" (people who support capitalism are called capitalists, too). They can hire anyone who wants to work in their factories, shops or lands for them for the pay they offer.
The word "capital" can be used to mean things that produce more things or money. For example, lands, factories, shops, tools and machines are capital. If someone has money that can be "invested", that money is capital too. 
In capitalist systems, many people are workers (or "proletarians"). They are employed to earn money for living. People can choose to work for anyone who will hire them in a free market. 
This is different from many older economic systems. In "feudalism", most people were "serfs" and had to work for the people who owned the land they lived on. In "mercantilism", the government makes it hard to buy things from other countries. In many countries with "mixed economies" (part capitalism and part socialism) there are laws about what you can buy or sell, or what prices you can charge, or whom you can hire or fire.
An "investment" is when people invest (give) their money in things. People can put their money together to buy or build things, even if they are too big for one person to make alone. The people who invest get to be the owners of what they buy or build together. The stock market lets people buy and sell investments.
Investing is important to capitalism. The word "capitalist" can mean two things: it can mean someone who likes capitalism; but it can also mean someone who invests. For example, a "venture capitalist" invests in new businesses.
People who start businesses, or invest in businesses, can make a lot of money. A business sells things that people want. The investors make extra money, which is called "profit". Investors can take their profit and invest it in more businesses, or in making the business bigger. The investors can get more and more profit if the businesses are successful.
"Socialists" and "communists" are people who do not support capitalism. They say it hurts workers, because businesses make more money by selling things than they pay the workers who make the things. Business owners become rich while workers remain poor and exploited (taken advantage of). They also argue society would be more efficient if people thought less about competing against one another for their own interests and thought more of working together for the overall good of society. Another argument is that each person has a right to basic needs (such as food and shelter). Within capitalism, sometimes people might not get everything they need to live. 
Karl Marx was a famous communist philosopher from Germany. He wrote a famous book called "The Capital" (or "Das Kapital" in German). He said that capitalism would go away after workers decided to take over the government in a revolution. There were violent communist revolutions in many countries. Many people were killed because of this. But capitalism did not go away, and most of these communist systems have collapsed and do not exist today, or else they have become more capitalist. Some people think that communism in those countries did not work because Marx's ideas, though nice in thought, did not really work. Others think that communist countries collapsed because of the attacks (military, political and economic) from capitalist countries.
Anarchists (that are not anarcho-capitalists) do not support capitalism either. They do not think workers should take the government, but that there should be no government at all. They think that communism failed because the communists set up dictatorships that said that they would rule in the name of workers, instead of letting workers organize themselves freely.
There are different words for people who support capitalism. In many parts of the world, these people are called either "conservatives" or "liberals" (especially "market liberals"). In the United States, the word "liberal" can mean someone whose beliefs lean toward socialism - what other countries might call a "social liberal". "Libertarian" is a word that in America and some other countries means someone who wants the government to have little or no power to tell people what to buy or sell.
The reasons for capitalism are not just economic. They are political. They believe that government control of the economy leads to loss of liberty by the citizen. The argument was put best by Friedrich Hayek, who connected the open society with respect for the individual, and tolerance for the differences between people.
People who support capitalism also have disagreements. Most people agree that capitalism works better if the government keeps people from stealing other people's things. If people could steal anything, then nobody would want to buy anything.
In most countries, the government does more than that. It tries to make sure that people buy and sell fairly and that employment is fair. Because the government takes a lot of money in taxes, it also buys a lot of things and gives a lot of money away. It spends money on guns and ships for the military, on science research in universities, and on schools and libraries. It also gives money to people who do not have jobs, and to businesses that the political leaders think are important. When the government is in charge of part of the economy, this is called a "[mixed economy]."
A few people think that people can protect themselves without any government. Instead of having laws against stealing, people could protect their own things, or agree to pay other people such as arbitrators, insurers, and private defenders to protect them. This belief is called "anarcho-capitalism." These people think that the government is a thief, because it takes taxes away from people against their will and keeps them from making agreements between themselves.

</doc>
<doc id="12447" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12447" title="Ghana">
Ghana

The Republic of Ghana (formerly the Gold Coast) is a country in West Africa. Twenty-three million people live there; its capital is Accra. It is in Western Africa, bordering the Gulf of Guinea, between Côte d'Ivoire and Togo. 
Since Ghana is near the Equator, the climate is very warm and tropical. The eastern coastal belt is warm and comparatively dry. South west corner is hot and humid. The north is hot and dry. Lake Volta (the world’s largest artificial lake) extends through eastern Ghana.
Most Ghanaians have access to primary and secondary education. Ghana has a 6-year primary school system. There are 6 public universities and 10 private universities.
Ghana has many natural resources. The main exports are gold, timber, cocoa, diamonds, and more. Ghana has one of the strongest economies in Africa.
Ghana used “Cedi” for their currency but in July 2007, “Ghana Cedi” became the new currency. 1 Ghana Cedi is equal to 1000 Cedi. 1 US dollar is around 0.93 Ghana Cedi.
Ghana is a country located on the Gulf of Guinea. It is only a few degrees north of the Equator. This gives it a warm climate. The country has an area of . It is surrounded by Togo to the east, Côte d'Ivoire to the west, Burkina Faso to the north and the Gulf of Guinea (Atlantic Ocean) to the south.
The country has flat plains, low hills and a few rivers. Ghana can be divided into five different geographical regions. The coastline is mostly a low, sandy shore backed by plains and scrub. It is crossed by several rivers and streams. The northern part of the country has high plains. Southwest and south central Ghana is made up of a forested plateau region with the Ashanti uplands and the Kwahu Plateau. The hilly Akuapim-Togo ranges are found along the country's eastern border.
The Volta Basin also takes up most of central Ghana. Ghana's highest point is Mount Afadjato. It is and is found in the Akwapim-Togo Ranges.
There are two main seasons in Ghana: the wet and the dry seasons. Northern Ghana has its rainy season from March to November. The south, including the capital Accra, has the season from April to mid-November.
Ghana is divided into 10 administrative regions. The regions are divided into a total of 170 districts. The regions are:
Football is the most popular sport. The national men's football team is known as the Black Stars. The under-20 team is known as the Black Satellites. Ghana has been in many championships including the African Cup of Nations, the FIFA World Cup and the FIFA U-20 World Cup. In the 2010 FIFA World Cup, Ghana became the third African country to reach the quarter final stage. There are several club football teams in Ghana, which play in the Ghana Premier League and Division One League. Both are managed by the Ghana Football Association.
The country also has quite a few quality boxers such as Azumah Nelson a three time world champion, Nana Yaw Konadu also a three time world champion, Ike Quartey, and Joshua Clottey.

</doc>
<doc id="12448" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12448" title="Strawberry Shortcake">
Strawberry Shortcake

Strawberry Shortcake is a doll. The doll has red hair and smells like strawberries. She first appeared on cards by American Greetings, and there soon were a series of dolls (each that smell like a different fruit and had a pet) and several TV specials produced by DIC and Nelvana. The characters in the collection from the 1980s were:
In 2002, after other 1980s toys (Care Bears, G.I. Joe,etc.) were brought back for youndger kids and parents who played with them and new line of dolls was released and along with several direct-to-DVD specials. 
The new dolls are:

</doc>
<doc id="12450" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12450" title="Christina Aguilera">
Christina Aguilera

Christina María Aguilera (born December 18, 1980) is an American singer-songwriter, record producer and actress. Aguilera made her debut in "Star Search" in 1990. Three years later, she starred on "The New Mickey Mouse Club". She was signed to RCA Records after making the song "Reflection" for the movie "Mulan". Aguilera received a Best New Artist Grammy Award for her first album "Christina Aguilera" (1999). She made a Latin pop album "Mi Reflejo", and a Christmas album "My Kind of Christmas". "Mi Reflejo" won a Latin Grammy Award. Aguilera received Grammy Awards for her second album "Stripped" (2002), and her third album "Back to Basics" (2006). In 2008 she released her first greatest hits album, "Keeps Gettin' Better – A Decade of Hits"; a new song, "Dynamite" and new versions of "Genie in a Bottle" and "Beautiful": "Genie 2.0" and "You Are What You Are (Beautiful)". In 2011 Aguilera became a coach on "The Voice".
Christina María Aguilera was born in Staten Island, New York, in December 18, 1980. Her parents Fausto Xavier Aguilera, was a soldier in the United States Army and Shelly Loraine (nee Fidler), was a violinist and pianist, respectively. Her father has Ecuadorian ancestry. Her American mother has German, English, Irish, Scots-Irish, and French ancestry. Throughout her father's service in the Army, her family moved to various locations, including New Jersey, Texas, New York, and Japan. Her parents divorced when Aguilera was six years old. She, her mother, and her younger sister Rachel then lived at her grandmother's home in Rochester, Pennsylvania, a town outside Pittsburgh. Her mother later remarried.
In October 2011 Aguilera performed "Smile" and "Dirty Diana" at Michael Jackson Forever. 
Aguilera released her seventh album "Lotus" on November 9, 2012. Two singles were released from the album. The first single "Your Body". Aguilera made a Spanish song for the 2012 movie "Casa de Mi Padre". Aguilera also sung a song on the sound track of the 2013 movie "" called "We Remain". She sung on A Great Big World's single "Say Something".
She is a soprano. She has a whistle register.
In 2010 Aguilera acted in a film for the first time. It was a musical called "Burlesque". She played a woman called Ali. She sang eight of the songs in the soundtrack. 

</doc>
<doc id="12456" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12456" title="Chicken">
Chicken

A chicken ("Gallus gallus domesticus") is a kind of domesticated bird. It is raised widely for its meat and eggs. There are 24 billion chickens worldwide. They are usually kept by humans as livestock, which means it is kept for its meat and eggs. Most breeds of chickens can fly for short distances and some roost in trees if these are provided.
A male chicken is called a "rooster" or a "cock" (short for cockerel). A female chicken is called a "hen". A young chicken is called a "chick". Like other female birds, hens lay eggs which can hatch into chicks. 
When raising chickens, a farmer needs to build a chicken coop (like a little house) for the chickens to roost (sleep) in. They also need a run or yard where they can exercise, take dust baths, eat, and drink. The chickens also need to be protected from predators such as foxes, which is often done with fences. 
Chickens can also be farmed intensively. This lets farms make a lot of chicken meat and eggs, but this is not as good for the chickens.
Chickenpox has nothing to do with chickens. When chicken pox was first described, it was noted that the pox spots looked like the vegetable called chickpeas placed upon the skin. The Latin word for chick peas is "cicer", and that is the original word that chicken pox got its name from.
Chickens are well known for their eggs. Many people eat them.
Because of the low cost, chicken meat (also called "chicken") is one of the most used kinds of meat in the world. Americans eat 8 billion chickens every year. The most popular dishes with chicken are Buffalo wings, butter chicken, chicken rice, chicken balls, chicken pot pie, chicken soup, fried chicken (see picture), roasted chicken, and tandoori chicken.
In some parts of the world people breed chickens to fight and they bet money on which of two gamecocks will win. In many places this is illegal.

</doc>
<doc id="12460" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12460" title="Floppy disk">
Floppy disk

The floppy disk (or a 3½ floppy for today's standard) is a removable magnetic storage medium. Floppy disks are used for moving information between computers, laptops or other devices. Some early digital cameras, electronic music instruments and older computer game consoles use floppy disks. Floppy disks are inserted in to a floppy disk drive or simply floppy drive to allow data to be read or stored.
Floppy disks store much less data than a CD-ROM disk or USB flash drive. A normal 3½ inch disk can store 1.44 megabytes of data. This is usually enough for simple text documents.
A special type of floppy disk was made in the late 1980s. It could store 2.88 MB of data. They did not become popular. Larger size floppy disks became available in the 1990s. The 2 most popular were the Zip drive and the Jaz drive, both made by Iomega.
Floppy disk technology has been around since the early 1970s (the 8-inch floppy was the first). Today, floppy disks have been replaced by other storage media, like USB flash drives.
A floppy drive (often called drive “A” on a computer) can be connected to or installed in a personal computer (PC). It is the part of a computer that reads and writes the disk that can be removed. A disk, often called a "floppy disk", is used to store files and carry them from one computer to another by using the floppy drive. The floppy drive reads the disk (or diskette) and the user is then able to open and change the files saved on the disk.

</doc>
<doc id="12461" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12461" title="Nat King Cole">
Nat King Cole

Nathaniel Adams Coles, professionally known as Nat King Cole, (March 17, 1919 - February 15, 1965) was an American jazz musician, singer and songwriter. He was born in the southern city of Montgomery, Alabama. His father was a Christian minister. Millions of Nat King Cole’s recordings were sold while he was alive. He died of cancer of the lung in February, 1965. He was only forty-five years old. People around the world still enjoy listening to the music of one of America’s greatest performers of popular and jazz music.
When Cole was four years old, his parents moved the family north to Chicago, Illinois. He learned to play the piano when he was very young. His mother was the only piano teacher he ever had. He gave his first public performance when he was four. By the time he was twelve, Cole was playing piano at his father’s church.
Cole played piano in New York City and Los Angeles, California when he was a young man. In 1937, he formed a group that played jazz music. Oscar Moore played the guitar and Wesley Prince played the bass. The trio reportedly did not need a drummer because Cole’s piano playing kept the beat so well. They named the group, The King Cole Trio. At the same time, Cole also changed his name into Nat King Cole. The trio soon became very popular. Nat sang some songs, but mostly played the piano.
By the middle 1940s, Nat King Cole was beginning to be known as a popular singer as well as a jazz piano player. He was one of the first musicians to record with new Capitol Records.
The first song he recorded for Capitol was “Straighten Up and Fly Right.” He wrote the song. The words were based on his father’s teachings. The song became one of the biggest hits of 1943. It sold more than 500,000 copies.
Nat recorded hundreds of songs. Some of the most popular include “Sweet Lorraine,” “Nature Boy,” “Those Lazy-Hazy-Crazy Days of Summer,” “When I Fall in Love,” and “Mona Lisa.” In 1950, the American film industry gave him an award for his recording of “Mona Lisa.” That song made him famous as a singer.
Nat King Cole also acted in movies. The best known one is "Saint Louis Blues". He played the part of the jazz composer W.C. Handy. He also appeared in a movie about himself called "The Nat King Cole Story".
In the 1950s, he sang with some of the best known orchestras of the time.
He received many awards during his life. He also received many more after his death. One was a 1990 Grammy Award for lifetime achievement.
By 1956, Nat King Cole was known internationally. He signed an agreement to perform at the Sands Hotel in Las Vegas, Nevada.
Cole often performed in places that only admitted white people. Black leaders did not like this about him. Cole said he tried to take legal action against those places but often failed.
Cole earned more money and moved to California. He bought a house in an area where white people lived. At that time, many white Americans did not want to live near blacks. White home owners nearby protested the purchase of a house by a black family. Cole and his family refused to leave and lived in the house without problems.
Cole was the first black man to have his own television program. His program began on NBC Television in 1956. NBC agreed to support "The Nat King Cole Show" for a while. It hoped American companies would pay to sell their products on the program. However, major companies were not willing to advertise on a program that had a black performer. They believed that white people in the southern part of the United States would not buy their products. Many Americans watched the show, but NBC stopped production after a year.
Nat King Cole was married two times. In 1936, he married a dancer, Nadine Robinson. Their marriage failed. In 1948, he married Maria Ellington. They had three children. They also adopted and raised two other children.
Nat’s daughter, Natalie followed her father as a singer. She recorded many songs after her father died. In 1991, Natalie Cole recorded an album called "Unforgettable". It contains 22 of Nat King Cole’s songs, including the song “Unforgettable.” Modern technology made it possible to mix her voice with a recording of her father singing the same song.

</doc>
<doc id="12463" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12463" title="Voice of America">
Voice of America

The Voice of America (VOA) is the official broadcasting service of the United States government. It is one of the best-known stations in international broadcasting. Along with English, VOA broadcasts in many other languages. VOA's broadcasts are made to share a positive view of the United States with the world. Americans in the United States are not part of VOA's intended audience, but many Americans do listen to the program.
VOA was organized in 1942 under the Office of War Information with news programs aimed at Europe and North Africa occupied by Germany. VOA began broadcasting on February 24, 1942. Transmitters used by VOA came from shortwave transmitters used by the Columbia Broadcasting System (CBS) and National Broadcasting Company (NBC). Voice of America began to transmit radio broadcasts into the Soviet Union on February 17, 1947.
During the Cold War, VOA was placed under the United States Information Agency. In the 1980s, VOA also added a television service, as well as special regional programs to Cuba, Radio Marti and TV Marti.
The Voice of America broadcasts in 46 different languages. Television broadcasts are marked with a star:

</doc>
<doc id="12465" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12465" title="George Gershwin">
George Gershwin

George Gershwin (September 26, 1898; Brooklyn, New York – July 11, 1937; Hollywood, California) was an American composer.
George Gershwin was born on September 26, 1898, in Brooklyn, New York.
His family immigrated to the United States. Gershwin, his two brothers and sister had a close, happy family life. George liked playing games on the streets of New York. He liked exploring the city, but he did not like school or studying.
While exploring the city, Gershwin heard jazz and blues music spilling out of public drinking places. However, he did not become seriously interested in music until he heard another boy playing the violin in a concert at his school. Gershwin began to take piano lessons. His teacher was a fine classical musician. He immediately recognized Gershwin's unusual ability. The teacher wrote about him to a friend: "I have a student who will make his mark in music, if anybody will. The boy is a genius, without doubt."
Gershwin studied classical piano, and he was a first-rate pianist,but his strongest interest continued to be jazz and popular music. At the age of fifteen, he left school and went to work in the music business. The New York City street where most music publishers had their offices was called "Tin Pan Alley."
The phonograph and radio had been invented in the late 1800s. But it would be many years before there were musical recordings or regular radio broadcasts. Tin Pan Alley publishers needed another way to sell new songs, so they employed people to play the piano to do this.
The piano players played the songs all day long to interested singers and other performers. Gershwin was one of the youngest piano players in Tin Pan Alley. Soon, he was considered one of the finest there. He was already writing his own songs. He succeeded in getting one published when he was only 18 years old. It had a long title: "When You Want 'Em, You Can't Get ‘Em, When You've Got 'Em, You Don't Want 'Em. "
Gershwin was now a real composer. The rest of his life was an unbroken record of success. He wrote song after song. His ideas were so endless that he was not even troubled when he once lost some music he had been writing. "There is plenty more where that came from," he said.
Gershwin had his first big hit in 1919, when he was twenty-one years old. It was a song called "Swanee." A popular entertainer, Al Jolson, sang the song. "Swanee" was made into one of the first musical recordings. Gershwin was suddenly famous.
Music critics note that "Swanee" is not like most of Gershwin's music. Later, he wrote true love songs. Some were light and funny. Some were full of intense feeling. Many of these songs were written for the popular musical theater. One of his most emotional love songs never became part of a musical play, however. It is called "The Man I love." The song was sung by the Francine Evans role [played by Liza Minnelli in
Martin Scorsese's film, New York, New York]and supposedly 'written' by her character for her soon to be husband, Jimmy Doyle [superbly played by Robert De Niro], of the Jimmy Doyle Orchestra.His character also 'wrote'the title song, New York, New York, who was actually written by Fred Ebb, music by Kanter, his partner. The song became New York's official anthem in 1985.
Gershwin's older brother, Ira, wrote the words to "The Man I Love". As George became famous, Ira wrote the words to more and more of his songs.
The two brothers were very different. Ira, the writer, was quiet and serious. George, the musician, was outgoing—the life of any party. When they had to finish a new musical Ira locked George in a hotel room until it was done. But George wrote better songs with Ira than with anyone else. 
One of many examples of the Gershwin's combined work is the song "They Can't Take That Away From Me." The Gershwins wrote the song for dancer and actor Fred Astaire for the film "Shall We Dance." That was George and Ira Gershwin's first movie musical. 
Many of George Gershwin's songs were first written for musical plays performed in theaters in New York City. These comedies, with plenty of songs, were a popular form of entertainment in the 1920s and 1930s. 
One of Gershwin's musical plays, "Girl Crazy," introduced a young singer named Ethel Merman. She became one of the most celebrated performers in America. In the play, Merman sang a song George Gershwin wrote just for her. It was called "I Got Rhythm".
Many songs that George Gershwin wrote for musical plays and movies have remained as popular as ever. Over the years, they have been sung and played in every possible way—from jazz to country.
One example is the song, "Someone to Watch Over Me." It was written for the 1926 musical "Oh, Kay!"
In the nineteen twenties, there was a debate in the United States about jazz music. Could jazz, some people asked, be considered serious music?
In 1924, jazz musician and orchestra leader Paul Whiteman decided to organize a special concert to show that jazz was serious music. Gershwin agreed to compose something for the concert before he realized how little time he had to do it. The concert was just a few weeks away. Gershwin got busy, and, in that short time, he composed a piece for piano and orchestra. He called it "Rhapsody in Blue."
Gershwin himself played the piano part of "Rhapsody in Blue" at the concert. The audience included some of the greatest classical musicians of the time. When they heard his music, they were electrified. It seemed to capture, for the first time, the true voice of modern American culture. Today, we can still hear Gershwin playing "Rhapsody in Blue." An old mechanical piano recording Gershwin created has been reproduced exactly. There are also very early versions of "Rhapsody in Blue" which feature Gershwin playing the piano with Whiteman's orchestra. Those recordings, because they are early, do not sound like modern recordings. But they are recordings of Gershwin at the piano. This makes those recordings important.
"Rhapsody in Blue" made George Gershwin famous all over the world. Several hundred thousand copies of the printed music sold immediately. Gershwin was satisfied that he had shown that jazz music could be both serious and popular.
Gershwin also wrote an opera, "Porgy and Bess. " It was based on a book by DuBose Heyward. It is a tragic love story about black Americans along the coast of South Carolina.
"Porgy And Bess" opened in Boston, Massachusetts in 1935. Audiences loved it. But most critics did not know what to think of it. It was not like any other opera or musical play they had ever seen.
Gershwin did not care about the critics' opinions. He believed some of his greatest music had gone into the opera. He said he had created a new musical form—an opera based on popular culture. Today "Porgy And Bess" is considered a masterpiece.
Another well-known Gershwin piece is "An American in Paris. " It is a long tone poem for orchestra. Its first public performance was by the New York Philharmonic Orchestra in 1928.
Once again, opinion was mixed. Most people loved "An American in Paris," as they loved all of Gershwin's music. Some critics liked it, too. They called it happy and full of life. Others hated it. They called it silly and long-winded.
George Gershwin died in 1937, just days after doctors learned he had brain cancer. He died while having surgery to remove the brain tumor. He was only thirty-eight years old. Newspapers all over the world reported his death on their front pages. Everyone mourned the loss of the man and all the music he might have written. Gershwin is still considered one of America's greatest composers. His works still are performed by many singers and groups. They are probably performed more often than any other serious American composer.
Austrian composer Arnold Schoenberg was one of the people who praised George Gershwin. Schoenberg said Gershwin was a man who lived in music and expressed everything through music, because music was his native language.

</doc>
<doc id="12468" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12468" title="Aaron Copland">
Aaron Copland

Aaron Copland (1900-1990) was an American composer who wrote modern music.
Aaron Copland wrote many kinds of music. He wrote music for the orchestra, piano, and voice. He wrote music for plays, movies, and dance. Copland also was a conductor, pianist, speaker, teacher, and writer.
Music critics say Copland taught Americans about themselves through his music. He used parts of many old American folksongs in his work. He wanted to do this after studying music in France. He said that composers there had a very French way of writing music. He said Americans had nothing like that in this country. So he decided to compose music that was truly American.
Aaron Copland was born November 14, 1900 in Brooklyn, New York. He died at the age of 90 on December 2, 1990. He was the youngest of five children. His parents had come to the United States from eastern Europe. They owned a store in Brooklyn. Aaron began playing the piano when he was a young child. He wrote his first song for his mother when he was eight years old. His dreams of becoming a composer began when he was young. When he was sixteen, he asked his parents to let him study composing with Rubin Goldmark. Goldmark had taught the composer George Gershwin.
When he was in his early twenties, Copland went to Paris, France, where he studied music with Nadia Boulanger. She was one of the most important music teachers of the time. He returned to New York in 1924.
The famous conductor of the Boston Symphony Orchestra, Serge Koussevitzky, learned about Copland's music. Koussevitzky led the orchestra for the first performance of Copland's early work, "Music for the Theater", in 1925. Koussevitzky also conducted Copland's "Concerto for Piano and Orchestra" in 1927. This work was unusual because Copland used ideas from jazz music in his concerto.
Copland later wrote the music for two ballets about the American West. One was about the life of a famous gunfighter called Billy the Kid. Copland used music from American cowboy songs in this work. This piece from "Billy the Kid: Ballet Suite" is called "Street in a Frontier Town".
In 1942, the conductor Andre Kostelanitz asked Copland to write music about a great American, Abraham Lincoln. Copland wrote "Lincoln Portrait" to honor America's 16th president. Copland's music included parts of American folk songs and songs popular during the American Civil War. He added words from President Lincoln's speeches and letters.
"Lincoln Portrait" has been performed many times in America. Many famous people have done the speaking part.Eleanor Roosevelt, the wife of President Franklin D. Roosevelt, was one of them. Here, actor James Earl Jones performs in Copland's "Lincoln Portrait."
In 1942 the music director of the Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra asked 18 composers to write music expressing love for America. For the competition, Copland composed "Fanfare for the Common Man. " This music is played in America during many national events, including some presidential inaugurations (when they become presidents).
Experts say "Fanfare for the Common Man" was an example of the way Copland changed the kind of music he wrote during the 1940s. He began writing music that was more easily understood and more popular. Copland wrote about this in 1941 in his book, "Our New Music".
He wrote that the radio and record player was helping people who had never listened to music before to enjoy music. He said that there was no reason to continue writing music as if these things had not been invented. So he decided to write music in a simpler way.
Copland spread his ideas about music in other ways. He taught at the New School for Social Research in New York City and at Harvard University in Cambridge, Massachusetts. One of the many awards he received was the Pulitzer Prize. He won it in 1945 for his famous music for a ballet called "Appalachian Spring." It is one of his most popular works. The last part of the ballet is based on a traditional song, "A Gift to be Simple".
Copland also wrote music for several major movies. He won an Academy Award in 1950 for composing the music for the movie "The Heiress". Then he began experimenting with what is called the twelve-tone system. His music was no longer as easy to understand, nor as popular.
Copland stopped composing at the end of the 1960s. Yet he continued to be active as a conductor and speaker. In 1982, Queens College of the City University of New York established the Aaron Copland School of Music.
Copland was a strong supporter of liberal ideas. In the early 1950s, he and other famous writers, actors and intellectuals were accused of supporting communism. Public opinion changed, though. In 1964, President Lyndon B. Johnson presented him with the Presidential Medal of Freedom. It is America's highest award to civilians. Aaron Copland died in 1990 at the age of 90. But his music lives on.
The article above is a reuse and modification from a script available as public domain under Terms of Use & Privacy Notice of Voice of America.

</doc>
<doc id="12484" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12484" title="464 BC">
464 BC


</doc>
<doc id="12485" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12485" title="Diphthong">
Diphthong

A diphthong (pronounced "DIF-thong" or "DIP-thong") is a vowel that the speaker has to move their mouth into two different positions to make. It is a vowel where two different vowel qualities can be heard. Examples are:
waist, die, noise, road, house, fierce, bear, sure. Each of these is a different vowel sound.
A monophthong is a simple vowel sound that a person does not have to move his or her mouth to make, like the "oo" sound in "book." In a diphthong, the person combines two different monophthongs, as with the "oi" sound in the word "oil". The speaker starts with the mouth in the position to make an "o" sound, then quickly moves the mouth to make a hard "e" sound. Another example is the "ou" sound in the word "house". The mouth starts out making a sound like the soft "a" sound in "flat", then moves to make the a hard "oo" sound like the one in "caboose".
Just like with every other part of language, the exact way to pronounce a diphthong is a little different for different accents.
The word diphthong is derived from the old Greek language. Here, "di" means "two" or "double", while the part "-phthong" means "sound" or "tone", from the basic word "phthalein", which means "speak", "creating sound by the voice". 
A diphthong can be a lexeme of a language and as such it may be one syllable, but rarely. 

</doc>
<doc id="12489" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12489" title="The Price is Right">
The Price is Right

The Price is Right is a USA game show on CBS. The current version started in 1972, and was hosted by Bob Barker for a long time. However, in 2006, Bob Barker announced that he would leave the show. His last episode aired in June 2007. Comedian Drew Carey is now the host; his first episode aired in October 2007.
In this game, a person uses his shopping skills to correctly guess the price of different products, like in a market. Some products are simple household items, like toothpaste and vitamins. Other items are more expensive products, like furniture and cars. After the third and sixth games, the "Showcase Showdown" is played. The three players who got on stage in both halves of the show spin a wheel. They get two spins of the wheel. They have to be closest to $1.00 without going over. The person with the highest total moves on to the Showcase at the end of the show. If a player gets $1.00, they win $1,000 and get another spin. If they hit the $1.00 space on that spin, they win another $25,000. If they hit the 5¢ or 15¢ space, they win another $10,000. In the Showcase, the winners of the two Showcase Showdown games are shown prize packages. They make a bid on them, and whoever comes closest to the price of their showcase without going over wins it. If they are $250 or less from the price of their showcase, they win both showcases. If someone's bid was higher than the price of the real price, that person went over, and was disqualified from winning in that round.
From 1956 - 1963, the show aired on NBC and was hosted by Bill Cullen. From 1963 - 1965, the show aired on ABC and was also hosted by Bill Cullen.
Three nighttime syndicated versions of the show aired. The first one aired from 1972 to 1980. Until 1977, it was hosted by Dennis James. For the rest of its run, it was hosted by Bob Barker. From 1985 - 1986, another nighttime version of the show, named "The Nighttime Price Is Right", was made and was hosted by Tom Kennedy. A third nighttime version, "The New Price Is Right", was made from 1994 - 1995 and was hosted by Doug Davidson. Also special million dollar prime-time episodes where people could play different versions of games for $1,000,000 were made due to CBS shows being canceled.

</doc>
<doc id="12503" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12503" title="Monophthong">
Monophthong

A monophthong (pronounced "Mono-F-thong") is simply a vowel. The word monophthong comes from the old Greek language. "Mono" means "one" or "single", and the "-phthong" means "sound" or "tone", from the basic word "phthalein", which means "to speak", "create sound with the voice". The word monophthong shows that a vowel is spoken with exactly one tone and one mouth position. For example, when you say "teeth", then while you are creating the sound of the "ee", nothing changes for that sound.
A monophthong can be a lexeme of a language and as such it can as well be a syllable. There is no shorter syllable than a single monophthong.

</doc>
<doc id="12505" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12505" title="Kalua">
Kalua

Kalua is a Hawaiian cooking method. It means "da pit." the hole. The oven is a hole in the ground called an imu. Kalua is most often used to cook pig. Kalua pig is a popular food at luaus.
Ancient Hawaiians used rocks from rivers to cook pig. They heated the rocks in the imu and the pig cooked with steam. They covered the pig with banana leaves, ti leaves, old mats and then dirt to keep the heat inside. This produced a unique taste that cannot be reproduced.
People today kalua pig in the same way that ancient Hawaiians did. Kalua pig is still served at luaus. However, it is illegal to sell kalua pig if it has been cooked underground. Hawaiians today still enjoy kalua pig that has been cooked in an imu at baby luaus and parties. Some companies try to imitate the flavor using liquid smoke to make kalua pig, but if you have had the real thing braddah, you can tell the difference!

</doc>
<doc id="12509" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12509" title="Ultraviolet">
Ultraviolet

Ultraviolet is the part of the electromagnetic spectrum shown on the left side of the picture below as black—because humans cannot see light of such short wavelength (or high frequency). Many animals such as some insects, some reptiles, crocodiles, salamanders, and small birds can see things that this light. UV is a common abbreviation of ultraviolet, mainly used in technical contexts.
Ultraviolet is beyond the visible violet light in terms of frequency, wavelength, and energy. Its wavelengths are between about 10 nanometers (nm) about 400 nanometers. Frequency and wavelength are closely related. The equation that shows this relationship is: ν = c/λ . Saying that something has a short wavelength is the same as saying that it has a high frequency.
Ultraviolet light is a type of ionizing radiation. It can damage or kill cells. Any electromagnetic radiation (light) that has a wavelength shorter than 450 nm may cause trouble. Therefore humans that live in places with more ultraviolet light have adapted by getting darker skins. Pigments absorb the ultraviolet radiation, so it does not get through the skin to kill or injure cells inside. Injury to the skin by ultraviolet is called "sunburn."
The violet light and ultraviolet light differ in their wavelength, frequency, and quantum energy. The differences between ultraviolet light and x-rays are also wavelength, frequency and quantum energy. In the electromagnetic spectrum, ultraviolet is beyond violet, x-rays are beyond ultraviolet, and gamma rays are beyond x-rays. 
Technically, electromagnetic waves with a frequency of 789 terahertz or more are called ultraviolet.
This corresponds with a wavelength from 380 nanometers down to approximately 5 nanometers.
A single light quantum or photon of ultraviolet carries an energy around some 3.26 electron volt. The higher a photon's frequency, and so the shorter its wavelength, the more energy a photon carries. 
Although the air of the Earth is transparent to a broad range of ultraviolet, some ultraviolet sunlight is absorbed at a very high altitude by the ozone layer. Recent and ongoing destruction of ozone in high altitudes caused by human influence—mostly by industrial chemicals and air travel—has greatly increased the amount of ultraviolet light reaching the Earth's surface. This, in turn, has increased the risk of skin cancer to mankind, and this risk will only increase with time unless the ozone layer is better protected.
Ultraviolet wavelengths less than 200 nanometers, X-rays, and gamma rays, are collectively called ionizing radiation since the energy in any such light quantum is high enough to 'kick' an electron out of an atom. This is why these kinds of radiation are dangerous to life.
Ordinary glass does not let radiation through if its wavelength is less than 200 nanometers, so it acts as a shield against the more dangerous range of ultraviolet light, but some special sorts of glass do not shield as well, including many car windows.
One use for ultraviolet radiation is tanning. Use of tanning devices can cause skin cancer because ultraviolet goes through the skin and causes destruction to cells, causing sunburn. 
Because of the destructive power of ultraviolet light, it can be used to kill germs. Sunlight is a powerful disinfectant.
An ultraviolet lamp is one that emits mostly ultraviolet light. These germicidal lamps are often used to kill microbes (germs). They can be very powerful, so the people who work around them when they are turned on may need to wear protective glasses and keep their skin covered to avoid injury.
In the laboratory pictured, ultraviolet lights are turned on when the workers are gone, so that anything on the table surface will be killed. Besides ultraviolet light, which makes up most of the light produced by these lamps, there is also a little violet and blue light. This lets people know when the ultraviolet lamps are turned on.

</doc>
<doc id="12513" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12513" title="Ornithology">
Ornithology

Ornithology is the study of birds. A person who studies birds is called an ornithologist. 
Several aspects of ornithology differ from other disciplines, because they are easy to see and are often attractive. Many studies of birds have been done by amateurs working in a scientific manner.
Konrad Gesner wrote his "Vogelbuch" and "Icones avium omnium" around 1557. Later, England developed a tradition of ornithology. Francis Willughby, John Ray, Gilbert White, John Gould (who studied the birds of Australia) and Peter Scott are good examples.

</doc>
<doc id="12514" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12514" title="Rod Stewart">
Rod Stewart

Rod Stewart (10 January 1945) is a British pop singer. He was born in London to an English mother and Scottish father. When he started singing in the 1960s, he was player for Brentford F.C., a football team. He started singing in local R&B groups, in the 1970s he began a solo career which made him very famous.

</doc>
<doc id="12515" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12515" title="Sean Connery">
Sean Connery

Sir Thomas Sean Connery KBE (born 25 August 1930) is a Scottish actor. He has won an Academy Award, two BAFTA Awards (one of them a BAFTA Academy Fellowship Award) and three Golden Globes (including the Cecil B. DeMille Award and a Henrietta Award). He is known for his charm and good looks, which have made him very famous. He is best known for playing James Bond in several of the James Bond movies. Connery is the tallest actor to play James Bond to this day.
He was born in Fountainbridge, Edinburgh. He was born as Thomas Connery, but later added Sean as his stage name which is what most people call him. Connery was married to Diane Cilento from 1962 until they divorced in 1973. He has been married to Micheline Roquebrune since 1975. He has a son, actor Jason Connery, by Cilento.
In 1993, news that Connery was undergoing radiation treatment for an undisclosed throat ailment sparked media reports that the actor was suffering from throat cancer following years of heavy smoking, and he was falsely declared dead by the Japanese and South African news agencies. In 2008, he chipped a bone in his shoulder after falling while playing golf. In October 2009, he told "Wine Spectator" magazine that he has been diagnosed with a heart condition. 

</doc>
<doc id="12521" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12521" title="1666">
1666


</doc>
<doc id="12522" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12522" title="1867">
1867


</doc>
<doc id="12526" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12526" title="The Specials">
The Specials

The Specials were an English new wave/ska band. They were originally from Coventry, England and formed in 1977. They were part of the ska revival in Britain in the late 1970s and early 1980s. 
During the ska revival, bands began playing 1950s-style Jamaican ska music. The Specials often mixed other popular music styles from the 1970s and 1980s into their music, such as pop music and rock and roll.

</doc>
<doc id="12528" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12528" title="KC &amp; the Sunshine Band">
KC &amp; the Sunshine Band

KC & The Sunshine Band was a disco group, that was popular in the 1970s. They formed in Miami in 1973.
Hits are "That's the Way (I Like It)", "(Shake, Shake, Shake) Shake Your Booty", "Give It Up", "Get Down Tonight", and "Please Don't Go".

</doc>
<doc id="12529" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12529" title="Roberta Flack">
Roberta Flack

Roberta Flack (born February 10, 1939) is an American R&B singer. She was born in Black Mountain, North Carolina. She has released nineteen studio albums. She has had three number one singles. "The First Time Ever I Saw Your Face" was her first number one. It won the 1973 Grammy Record of the Year. In 1974 Flack performed "When I Grow Up" with Michael Jackson. In 1999 a star was put in the Hollywood Walk of Fame for her.
Roberta Flack was born in Black Mountain, North Carolina. She was raised in Virginia. Howard University gave her a music scholarship because she was good at playing piano. When she was fifteen she became a student there.
Flack released her first album "First Take" in 1969. The album went to number one in the US album chart. It was her most successful album. In 1970 Flack's second album "Chapter Two" was released. It was less successful. In 1972 "Roberta Flack & Donny Hathaway" was released. In 1973 "Killing Me Softly" was released. In 1980 Flack's second album with Donny Hathaway was released.

</doc>
<doc id="12537" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12537" title="Arad, Romania">
Arad, Romania

Arad (pronunciation in Romanian: ; Hungarian: "Arad"; Serbian: Арад, "Arad") is the capital city of Arad County, in the western part of Romania, in Crişana, Ardeal. It is found on the Mureş River. 

</doc>
<doc id="12539" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12539" title="Transsexualism">
Transsexualism

Transsexual people change their sex. Some transsexual people go from male to female. Others go from female to male. They change how they look and act. They see doctors who can give them drugs and surgery. They change their name and sex through the law. 
People who go from male to female (MTF) are transsexual women. People who go from female to male (FTM) are transsexual men.
Transsexual women take female hormones. They may also take drugs that stop male hormones called androgens. Taking estrogen pills makes breasts grow. It does not make beards go away. It does not make voices higher. They remove their facial hair so it does not grow back. This takes a long time and hurts. Some transsexual women with low voices have surgery to raise them. Other transsexual women try to make their voice sound higher and more female without surgery. Some transsexual women also get surgery on their genitals. This is called a vaginoplasty. This is done by making a vagina from the skin of their penis, which is turned inside out. Some transsexual women also have surgery to make their faces look more feminine. Some also have surgery to make their breasts larger.
Transsexual men take male hormones. This will make their voices lower. It will make a beard grow. It can also stop their menstruation. Some transsexual men look like any other man after hormones. 
Some transsexual men have surgery. One surgery is removal of breasts (mastectomy). Some transsexual men also get surgery on their genitals. One surgery is removal of the uterus and ovaries (hysterectomy). Some may also get surgery on their outside genitals. One way takes their skin and tissue and makes it into a penis (phalloplasty). Another way takes the clitoris (which grows bigger with hormones) and puts it where the penis usually is (metoidioplasty). The place where urine comes out (urethra) can be run through the new penis. The phalloplasty looks more like a penis. A metoidioplasty has more sexual function, but it is 5 or 6 centimeters long. Some ways also make a scrotum from the labia. They may also have the vagina taken out or closed.

</doc>
<doc id="12540" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12540" title="Pianist">
Pianist

A pianist is a person who plays the piano.
A pianist can play music for piano alone or play together with other musicians in an ensemble or orchestra. Pianists also play along singers, solo musicians, and other performers in their leading performance.

</doc>
<doc id="12541" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12541" title="Telephone book">
Telephone book

A telephone book is a kind of book that has lists of phone numbers of people and businesses. People use phone books to look up the phone numbers of people and places when they need to call them.

</doc>
<doc id="12542" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12542" title="French dip sandwich">
French dip sandwich

The French dip sandwich is a popular dish. It is a sandwich, usually on French bread, with roast beef on the inside. It comes with a special sauce called "jus" which is usually made with the juice and fat that came off the roast beef when they were cooking it. It was not originally from France; two restaurants in Los Angeles, California, "Cole's" and "Philippe's", both claim to have invented it.

</doc>
<doc id="12543" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12543" title="Coventry">
Coventry

Coventry is a city and metropolitan borough in the West Midlands county in England. It was badly bombed in World War II. The city is known for its cathedral and sports team, Coventry City F.C.

</doc>
<doc id="12544" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12544" title="Billy Preston">
Billy Preston

Billy Preston (September 2, 1946 - June 5, 2006) was an American R&B musician. He is best known for his piano and organ playing. 
Preston began playing piano when he was three years old. He worked with many other musicians including Aretha Franklin, Sammy Davis Jr., Quincy Jones, Eric Clapton, the Jackson 5 and the Rolling Stones.
He worked on The Beatles's last album, "Let It Be", in 1969, including the song "Get Back". Many people thought that Preston would join the group, but the Beatles broke up shortly afterwards. He later worked with George Harrison, who had been a Beatle.
Preston's biggest success also came from working with another musician. He did a with Syreeta Garrett on "With You I'm Born Again" in 1979. It sold over a million copies and reached Number 2 in the United Kingdom singles chart.
Preston was gay. He died of respiratory failure after being in a coma from pericarditis (an infection of the heart). 

</doc>
<doc id="12546" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12546" title="Pop">
Pop

A pop is an onomatopoeic term for a quick sharp explosion.
Pop or POP could also mean:

</doc>
<doc id="12549" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12549" title="Computer virus">
Computer virus

A computer virus is a program that is able to copy itself when it is run. Very often, computer viruses are run as a part of other programs. Biological viruses also work that way, as they copy themselves as part of other organisms. This is how the computer virus got its name. 
In addition to copying itself, a computer virus can also execute instructions that cause harm. For this reason, computer viruses affect security. They are part of malware. 
Very often, the term is also used for other kinds of malware, such as trojan horses and worms. Even though this is wrong, it may be difficult to tell the difference between different kinds of malware; they often occur together, and only an expert may be able to tell them apart. Such programs also fit more than one category.
Computer viruses are created for a cause, sometimes they are created to spread political messages and they are also created to hack some system files. 
Computer viruses are spread through many ways. Some of the types of spreading are: email, removable hardware, downloading and so on. 
There are different kinds of computer viruses:
In the beginning, the operating systems used on Personal Computers did not have the concept of access control. There were no "users", everyone could do everything. More modern operating systems have the concept of access control. There can be more than one user, and there are "privileges". Certain users are only able to read certain files, and they may have no access to certain files. Other users are able to modify or delete certain files. These privileges can be specified for each file. 
The damage a virus can cause is influenced by the rights it has; if the user has no rights to write to certain places in the system, the virus will not be able to spread. 
Another problem is that sometimes the system for rights management may be available, but that it is not used by default. This is the case with systems such as Windows NT or Windows XP, where by default all users have all rights.
Antivirus software can protect against known viruses. Some antivirus software scan files and compare a hash code for each file with its database of hash codes. If the code matches, it has likely found a virus. This way of doing things has some problems. It will only protect against viruses whose hash code (or "signature") is known. The companies who wrote the antivirus need to keep the virus signatures up to date and need to give this information to the PC that is to be protected.
There are two possible modes of scanning: Either the file is scanned "on demand" (or "manually"), or it is scanned when the system registers an access to the file (commonly called "on access")
Antivirus software cannot offer full protection, even in the case the virus is known. Some viruses use something called polymorphic code to change their signature every time they move. No matter how many signatures the company has, they will not be able to stop these types of viruses.
Another way that antivirus software can protect against viruses is to use heuristics. Instead of knowing each virus by its signature, heuristic antivirus software looks at the behavior of software. If the software does something that seems bad, the antivirus software stops it. Since every step needs to be watched, this is a very slow way to do things.
The best protection against viruses can be obtained by using a system that boots off a read-only medium, such as a CD, or DVD, and that does not allow write access to hard disk drives (or other removable media).

</doc>
<doc id="12552" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12552" title="Mac">
Mac

Mac can be:
"MAC" can be:

</doc>
<doc id="12557" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12557" title="Tom Jones">
Tom Jones

Tom Jones can refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="12558" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12558" title="Hades">
Hades

Hades is a god in Greek mythology, and the eldest son of the Titans Kronos and Rhea (mythology). He is the god of the Greek underworld. In Roman mythology he is called Pluto. In his Roman form not only is he god of the underworld but also the god of riches and despair.
Hades is the brother of Zeus, Poseidon, Hestia, Hera and Demeter. He owns the three-headed dog Cerberus. Cerberus acts somewhat as a guardian of the Underworld.
Persephone is to go there every six months since she ate the seeds of a pomegranate, this is what the ancient Greek believes causes the seasons to change. Lonely in the underworld, Hades saw and fell in love with Persephone, who was picking flowers. Persephone was the daughter of Demeter. Hades then arose from the earth and carried Persephone into the Underworld. At her absence, Demeter became anguished and searched the earth for her missing daughter, neglecting her duty of bringing flourishing plants to the mortals. The distressed mortals starved and prayed to Zeus, who had no choice but to tell Hades to give up Persephone.

</doc>
<doc id="12559" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12559" title="Superlative">
Superlative

A superlative, in grammar, is an adjective describing a noun that is the best example of a given quality. In other words, a superlative describes a noun that has more of some quality than any other. 
Some examples:
In English, most superlatives can be formed by adding -EST to an existing adjective, like the examples above. (For adjectives that end in "-y", like "crazy", you often change the "y" to an "i" before you add the -EST on the end.)
Some adjectives have irregular superlative forms, which do not follow the rules, such as far ("farthest"). 
Other adjectives have no superlative form at all, and the superlative is made simply by adding the adverb "most" before the adjective. For instance, you do not say "funnest," or "interestingest". Instead, you say "most fun," and "most interesting." 
This way of making the superlative is used for almost all adjectives ending in "ing" (like "interesting", "fascinating", "disgusting" or "appealing".)

</doc>
<doc id="12565" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12565" title="Learning disability">
Learning disability

People with learning disabilities, also called learning difficulties, are people who find it hard to understand things in the same way others do. Some people with learning difficulties also find it hard to fit in with other people because there are many things that people must know to live in society that are not easy to learn.
Learning difficulties can be things that people can learn to live with on their own, like dyslexia (a difficulty with reading and writing). They can also be big things that mean a person needs more help (like autism). Adults with learning disabilities may have average intelligence. They do not have a mental illness. They can often deal with their difficulties by doing things in different ways. 

</doc>
<doc id="12568" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12568" title="Wheelbarrow">
Wheelbarrow

A wheelbarrow is a kind of vehicle that is built to be pushed around with a load inside it. It is usually used in gardens.
Most wheelbarrows have one wheel, but some have two.
Wheelbarrows are used to carry heavy stuff which some people cannot carry.

</doc>
<doc id="12570" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12570" title="Cold">
Cold

Cold is a relative term used in comparison with the adjective warm (opposite of cold). Because it is relative, there is no range in coldness. The temperatures in the winter season are often categorized as being cold. Cold is the opposite of hot. 
The coldest possible temperature is −273.15 °C, which can be expressed as about -459.67 °F on the Fahrenheit scale. This is called absolute zero. Absolute zero is also 0 K on the Kelvin scale and 0 °R on the Rankine scale
Cooling is when an object gets cold, or lowers in temperature. This can happen by taking away heat, or by putting something in a place with a lower temperature. Fluids used to cool objects are called coolants.
Air cooling making the temperature of an object lower using air. This will only work if the air is at a lower temperature than the object. The process will work better if there is more surface area on the object or if the item's mass can be made smaller.
Other ways to cool objects include using ice, dry ice, or liquid nitrogen. This works by convection; the heat is taken from the relatively warm object to the relatively cold coolant.

</doc>
<doc id="12572" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12572" title="Electrical conductivity">
Electrical conductivity

Electrical conductivity is the measure of a material's ability to allow the transport of an electric charge. Its SI is the "siemens per metre", (Asmkg) (named after Werner von Siemens) or, more simply, Sm. 
It is the ratio of the current density to the electric field strength. It is equivalent to the electrical conductance measured between opposite faces of a 1-metre cube of the material under test. 
Electrical conductance is an electrical phenomenon where a material contains movable particles with electric charge (such as electrons), which can carry electricity. When a difference of electrical potential is placed across a conductor, its electrons flow, and an electric current appears.
A conductor such as a metal has high conductivity, and an insulator like glass or a vacuum has low conductivity. A semiconductor has a conductivity that varies widely under different conditions.
Electrical conductivity is the reciprocal (or inverse) of electrical resistivity.

</doc>
<doc id="12574" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12574" title="Pierre Omidyar">
Pierre Omidyar

Pierre Omidyar (born June 21, 1967) created and is now the chairman of eBay. He was born in Paris, France to a French-Iranian family. Born in Paris, France, brought up by Iranian parents, Omidyar moved to the United States at the age of six. He grew up in Washington D.C. and developed an interest in computing while still at St. Andrew’s Episcopal School in Bethesda, Maryland. He graduated high school in 1984. In 1988 he graduated in computer science from Tufts University. He helped write MacDraw in 1989 for Claris, a part of Apple Computer. Two years later he co-founded Ink Development (later renamed eShop). He was 28 when he wrote the original computer code for what eventually became e-Bay. The site was launched on Labor Day, Monday, September 4 1995, under the more basic name “Auction Web.”

</doc>
<doc id="12642" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12642" title="Caribert of Laon">
Caribert of Laon

Caribert of Laon, son of Martin of Laon, was the grandfather of Charlemagne. He was the father of Charles's mother, Bertrada of Laon. In 721, he signed, with his mother Bertrada of Prüm, the foundation act of the Abbey of Prüm. The same year, also with his mother, he made a donation to the Abbey of Echternach. In 744, his daughter Bertrada of Laon (by Bertrada of Cologne) married Pepin the Short, mayor of the palace of Neustria and Burgundy and later king of the Franks. He died before 762.

</doc>
<doc id="12643" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12643" title="First Lady of the United States">
First Lady of the United States

The First Lady of the United States is the wife of the President of the United States. If the President is not married, or his wife is unable to do the jobs of First Lady, a family member such as daughter or sister usually is considered the First Lady. The current first lady is Michelle Obama.
Some famous former first ladies include Martha Washington, Abigail Adams, Dolley Madison, Mary Todd Lincoln, Julia Grant, Lucy Webb Hayes, Eleanor Roosevelt, Jacqueline Kennedy, Lady Bird Johnson, Pat Nixon, Betty Ford, Rosalynn Carter, Nancy Reagan, and Hillary Rodham Clinton.
The First Lady is not chosen by the people of the United States, and there are no things that she must do. She is also not paid anything for being First Lady. However, she joins in many official ceremonies with the President. Sometimes she does these things for him.

</doc>
<doc id="12644" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12644" title="Star Wars">
Star Wars

Star Wars is a series of science-fiction movies by George Lucas. The seven movies have been made through the company, Lucasfilm Ltd, released by 20th Century Fox, and distributed by United International Pictures.
"Star Wars" has been so popular that there have been "Star Wars" books, video games, television shows, toys, and more.
They are also known for one of the most popular pieces of music ever written for a movie, by John Williams.
In these movies, robots are called droids, taken from the English word "android" (meaning human-like), even though many of them do not have a very human appearance. Some of the main heroes and villains in the movies use energy swords called lightsabers that can cut almost anything.
The Force is a magic-like power, and in ways it is like a religion. It is a belife that the force flows through every living thing. In the words of Obi-Wan Kenobi:
People who can control the Force with their minds get a number of special powers, like telepathy, telekenesis (moving things with your mind) and precognition (knowing about things before they happen). If you close your eyes and focus you will then feel the force going through you.
The Jedi are a group of beings who use the Force to bring peace and harmony to people, planets, and cultures. They are trained to use the force for good purposes. They are sworn enemies with another group called the Sith. Usually, they use green, blue, orange, yellow or purple lightsabers.
The Sith are a group of beings who use the force as a power source; they are trained to use the force to gain ultimate power. The Sith normally use the force to gain power in battles with their enemy who are the Jedi. They also use the force to bring destruction to the universe and anything in their way. They are the antagonists, and they usually use red lightsabers. The Sith are normally two persons, a master and an apprentice.
The lightsaber is a weapon used by the Jedi and the Sith. It can be described simply as a light sword. These weapons are very special to a Jedi or Sith. They are custom built to special specifications by the Jedi or Sith. The Sith tend to take a Jedi's lightsaber as a prize if they win the battle. Many epic battles have been fought with lightsabers between the Jedi and the Sith. For the lightsaber to be a weapon it is powered by a special crystal called a kybre crystal. The reason it is dangerous, is that when someone touches the blade, you get cut straight away.
Anakin Skywalker is a young boy who meets Obi-Wan Kenobi and learns the ways of the force (and to become a jedi). Although Jedi are not allowed to get married, as an adult Anakin falls in love with Senator Padmé Amidala and they get married. Anakin later goes to the Dark Side and turns against Obi-Wan Kenobi and the rest of the Jedi. He then renamed himself Darth Vader. Before he turned against his wife, Anakin has two children with Senator Amidala, Leia and Luke Skywalker, that he does not know about. Senator Amidala dies after giving birth to their twins. After birth, the twins are separated to prevent the Dark Side from finding and hurting the children. Obi-Wan Kenobi sends Luke to a planet called Tatooine to live with his Uncle Owen and Aunt Beru. Leia is raised by Senator Bail Organa of the planet Alderaan; she is called Princess Leia Organa. When they get older, Luke and Leia meet again.
At first they don't know that they are brother and sister, but they eventually find out. They help fight the evil government, called the Galactic Empire. Luke also learns the ways of the Jedi from Obi-Wan Kenobi and Yoda. In the end, they defeat the Empire, and Luke helps his father Anakin become good again but unfortunatly Anikin dies. The galaxy is then saved for a while.
Many books, short movies, and video games have been produced that deal with events that do not happen in the original movies. They also tell more about things that did happen in the movies. For example, the book "Death Star" tells about the building and destruction of the space station from the original movie. It tells much about things seen in that movie but from the point of view of the people on the station. Most of the stories in the Expanded Universe are about the rebuilding of the Republic after the Empire's defeat. They are set anywhere from the early Sith Wars which happened 5,000 years before to more than one hundred years after Episode VI.
"Star Wars" prequel trilogy:
"Star Wars" original trilogy:
"Star Wars" sequel trilogy:
"Star Wars Anthology" films:

</doc>
<doc id="12646" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12646" title="Korean language">
Korean language

The Korean language (Korean), is spoken mainly in North and South Korea. It is spoken by more than 78 million people (most of whom are North or South Koreans).
In South Korea, it is called "han'gukmal" (한국말) or "han'gugeo" (Hangeul: 한국어, Hanja: 韓國語). In North Korea, however, it is called "chosŏnmal" (조선말) or "chosŏnŏ" (조선어, 朝鮮語). They are named differently because the common names for North and South Korea are different. In additional, Koreans usually call their language "urimal" (Hangeul: 우리말) or "urinara mal" (Hangeul: 우리나라 말) meaning "our language" or "our country's language".
The Korean language uses two different writing systems. The first is Hangul, the main alphabet. In North Korea, only Hangeul (Known as Chosǒngǔl in North Korea) is used by law. In South Korea, only Hangeul should be used in most public areas like education, but the second system, Hanja, is still used in some newspapers and professional areas. Hanja is the system of Chinese characters that are used in Korean. Hanja was the only way to write Korean before the creation of Hangeul in the 15th century, and it was common in novels before the 19th century. Despite the fact that King Sejong the Great led the development of Hangeul in order to allow literacy to spread among common people and to create a writing system that more accurately represented the Korean language than Hanja, it was not adopted by the upper classes of Koreans, and therefore Hanja would continue to be the official writing system util the late 19th century. Despite it being rejected by the elite classes, Hangeul was used often by lower classes as a way to write down Korean literature and for lower classes to communicate with each other. 

</doc>
<doc id="12647" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12647" title="Kansas">
Kansas

Kansas () is a state in the Midwestern United States of America. Kansas has a total population of 2.9 million, with an area of , making Kansas the 34th largest state by population and the 15th largest state by area. The name of the state comes from the Kansa Native Americans, whose name comes from a Siouan-language phrase meaning "people of the south wind". The land that would become Kansas was bought in the Louisiana Purchase in 1803. Kansas became the 34th state to be admitted to the United States on January 29, 1861. Kansas' capital is Topeka, and its largest city is Wichita.
Kansas is in a region known as "America's Breadbasket". Like other states in this area, Kansas is a large producer of wheat and other grains, producing one-fifth of all wheat grown in the United States. In addition to wheat, Kansas produces large amounts of grain sorghum, summer potatoes, and sunflowers, with other industries in Kansas including aviation and communications.
The terrain of Kansas consists of mountain ranges, prairies, and forests. All of Kansas is in the Great Plains.
In 1539, Marcos de Niza, a friar, reported rumors of Cíbola, a city of gold, to Spanish colonial officials in Mexico City. Niza said the city was in modern-day New Mexico. In response to the rumors, two years later, Francisco Vázquez de Coronado, with an army of 300 Spaniards and 800 Mexicans, marched northward from Culiacán in hopes of finding the city. When Coronado did not find the city in New Mexico, he continued northeast into the Mississippi Valley, crossing the present area of Kansas diagonally. This made Conrado and his army the first Europeans to see the Great Plains, including Kansas. Later, Juan de Oñate also traveled to Kansas in 1601.
In 1682, Marquette, Joliet, Hennepin and other French leaders took formal control of the Mississippi Valley, including the land that would become Kansas. This land, known as the Louisiana territory, was used to organize trade with Native Americans. In 1762, France ceded the Louisiana territory to Spain. However, in 1801, Spain receded the territory back to France in the Third Treaty of San Ildefonso. On April 30, 1803, Napoleon sold the Louisiana territory to the United States in the Louisiana Purchase. In the early 1800s, Kansas was used to hold Native Americans that were removed from their native lands.
On May 30, 1854, the Congress signed the Kansas-Nebraska Act. The Kansas-Nebraska Act stated that Kansas and Nebraska were both territories of the United States. It also stated that Kansans would vote on the legality of slavery.
Upon hearing this, about 1,200 armed New Englanders came to Kansas to vote against slavery. However, thousands of southerners, mostly from Missouri, came to vote for slavery. The final vote was to make slavery legal, and Kansas adopted most of Missouri's slave laws. There was fighting between Southerners and Northerners in Kansas. In one fight, John Brown and his men killed five people in the Pottawatomie Massacre. Later, Southerners destroyed Lawrence, Kansas. Kansas was called "Bleeding Kansas".
Between 1854 and 1861, Kansas proposed four state constitutions. Out of the four proposed constitutions, three did not allow slavery. Finally, in July 1859, Kansas passed the Wyandotte Constitution, which was anti-slavery. The constitution for statehood was sent to the U.S. government in April, 1860 to be voted on. The constitution was passed by the House of Representatives, but rejected by the Senate. This is because southern voters in the Senate did not like that Kansas would become a state without slavery. In 1861, after the Confederate states formed, the constitution gained approval from the Union, and Kansas became a state.
Four months after Kansas became a state, the Civil War started. Out of the 381 battles in the Civil War, four were fought in Kansas. Throughout the war, Kansas remained a Union state.
On August 21, 1863, William Clarke Quantrill led a force of 300 to 400 Confederates into the town of Lawrence, Kansas. Quantrill and his troops burned, looted, and destroyed the anti-slavery town. This battle became known as the Lawrence Massacre. In total, 164 Union soldiers and 40 Confederate soldiers died in the Lawrence Massacre. In the Battle of Mine Creek, on October 25, 1864, Union soldiers attacked Confederates as they were crossing the Mine Creek. The Union surrounded the Confederates, and captured 600 men and two generals. 1,000 Confederate soldiers and 100 Union soldiers died in the battle. In total, 8,500 people from Kansas died or were wounded in the Civil War.
After the Civil War, many free slaves came to Oklahoma and Kansas. In fact, between the years of 1879 and 1881, about 60,000 African Americans came to this region. This is because the slaves wanted economic opportunities, which they believed awaited them in Kansas. African Americans also came to Kansas for better political rights and to escape sharecropping.
From 1930 to 1936, Kansas went through a period of time called the Dust Bowl. During this time, Kansas had little rainfall and high temperatures. Thousands of farmers became very poor and had to move to other parts of the United States. In total, 400,000 people left the Great Plains area. The years from 1930 to 1940 was the only time the population of Kansas went down. The number of people living in Kansas decreased 4.3 percent.
During the 1950s, school segregation was required in fifteen U.S states. However, Kansas was not one of these states. Instead, school segregation was permitted by local option, but only in elementary schools. In 1896, the ruling from "Plessy v. Ferguson" stated that segregation was allowed, but equal facilities should be made available for blacks and whites. Often, however, black schools received less funding and had fewer textbooks than white schools.
For these reasons, Linda Brown and her family sued the Board of Education of Topeka, Kansas. Brown won the case, and the ruling was to overturn the "Plessy v. Ferguson" decision. This was considered by many a landmark case in the Civil Rights movement.
Kansas is the 15th-largest state in the United States. It covers an area of 82,282 square miles (213,109 km). Of this, about 462 square miles (1196.57 km) are water. This makes up 0.60% of the total area of the state.
Kansas is one of six states on the Frontier Strip. Kansas shares borders with Nebraska to the north, Oklahoma to the south, Missouri to the east, and Colorado to the west.
Kansas increases in elevation from east to west. All of Kansas is in the Great Plains, where the land is mostly flat with prairies and grasslands. Eastern Kansas has hills and forests, like the Flint Hills and the Osage Plains in the southeastern part of the state. The highest point in the state is Mount Sunflower near the Colorado border. Mount Sunflower is 4,039 ft (1,231 m) tall. The lowest point is the Verdigris River in Montgomery County, at 679 ft (207 m) above sea level.
Kansas has a varied climate with an average yearly temperature of 56°F (13°C). The record high in Kansas is 121 °F (49.4 °C). This occurred in Fredonia on July 18, 1936, and in Alton on July 24, 1936. The record low in Kansas is -40 °F (-40 °C). This occurred in Lebanon on February 13, 1905. Kansas is in a temperate area of the country. Like other states in this region, Kansas has four distinct seasons.
Kansas can have extreme weather in all four seasons. For example, in spring and autumn, Kansas has many tornadoes. In fact, the state averages 55 tornadoes per year. This is because Kansas is in the area known as Tornado Alley, where cold and warm air masses come together to make severe weather.
In summer, Kansas has experienced severe droughts. For example, in 1934, 1936, and 1939, Kansas had less than average rainfall and widespread dust storms as a part of the Dust Bowl.
In winter, Kansas has snow in most parts of the state. The average snowfall in the northern half of the state is 16 inches, with the average snowfall in the southern half of the state being 8 inches. Blizzards and related snowstorms are rare in Kansas.
Kansas had 627 cities in 2008. The largest city in Kansas is Wichita, which had a population of 382,368 in 2010. The other largest cities in Kansas are: Overland Park, 173,372; Kansas City, 145,786; Topeka, 127,473; and Olathe, 125,872. Between the years of 2000 and 2010, the Kansas population increased 6.1 percent. 83.3 percent of Kansans are Caucasian, 5.9 percent are African American, and 10.8 percent are another race.
Farming has always been an important part of the state economy of Kansas. The main crop grown in Kansas is wheat. In fact, Kansas farmers produce about 400 million bushels of wheat per year. Kansas also ranks first in the United States in grain sorghum produced, second in cropland, and third in sunflowers produced. However, farming is not the only important part of the economy of Kansas. Many parts of airplanes are made in the city of Wichita. Also, many important companies are near Kansas City, Missouri. For example, the Sprint Nextel Corporation is one of the largest telephone companies in the United States. Its main operational offices are in Overland Park, Kansas.
The median household income for Kansas was $47,709 in 2009. The gross domestic product (GDP) for Kansas was $122,700,000,000 ($122.7 billion) in 2008. Overall, Kansas' GDP accounts for less than 1 percent of total U.S. economy.
The state symbols of Kansas are:
Carin Terrier state dog
 This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: 

</doc>
<doc id="12648" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12648" title="James Buchanan">
James Buchanan

James Buchanan (April 23, 1791 - June 1, 1868) was the 15th President of the United States. He was the only President not to have married. His niece, Harriet Lane, stood in as First Lady. He was an experienced politician and he became president in 1857.
James Buchanan was Born on April 23, 1791 in Cove Gap, Pennsylvania, into a prosperous merchant family. He had four sisters and three brothers, and studied at the Old Stone Academy before entering Dickinson College in 1807. There he studied law and was admitted to the bar in 1812. He was engaged to Anne C. Coleman but she died before they were married, and he never had children. He served in both the House and Senate, representing Pennsylvania, as well as the Minister to Russia, under Andrew Jackson, before stepping taking the presidential career.
During the beginning of his presidency, he called slavery an issue of little importance. This was clearly not the case at the time; Northerners and Southerners were very divided on slavery, almost to the point of war. Buchanan is the only United States President who was never married. 
The Supreme Court declared that African-Americans were not American citizens and that the states were allowed to keep slavery legal. James Buchanan supported that decision because he did not want the pro-slavery states to stop being part of the United States.
Buchanan supported the rights of slave owners to keep their slaves and wanted Kansas to adopt a constitution that allowed slavery. Because of that, the Democratic Party was divided on that issue and after the 1858 Congressional election, there were more Republicans in Congress than Democrats. He did not get along with the Republicans.
He ordered troops to fight against Utah based on untrue information that Utah was planning a revolt. Buchanan later realized that he made a mistake and apologized.
During his term, the country was becoming more and more divided over the slavery issue. A few months before his term ended, some of the southern states decided that they were going to not be a part of the United States any more.
Buchanan believed that it was a bad thing, but he did nothing about it because he felt that using force against the south was against the Constitution. He did not even prepare the country for war. 
At the end of his term, he left the next president, Abraham Lincoln, to face the greatest crisis in United States history, the Civil War. 
Many historians think that he is the worst U.S. president.

</doc>
<doc id="12653" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12653" title="Hand">
Hand

A hand is the part of the body at the end of an arm. Most humans have two hands. Each hand usually has four fingers and a thumb. On the inside of the hand is the palm. When the fingers are all bent tightly, the hand forms a fist. The joints that are the hardest part of the fist are called knuckles. Many other animals, especially other primates, have hands that can hold things. Human hands can do things other hands cannot.

</doc>
<doc id="12655" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12655" title="Rule">
Rule

When something always does the same thing, one can say that there is a rule that it does what it does.
The word "rule" has many uses, including the following:
A "rule" in mathematics is a formula which allows a person to work out parts of the solution if he or she has certain information. For example, Pythagoras' theorem is a rule which states that if a person knows the lengths of two sides of a right-angled triangle he or she can work out the length of the third.
Rules, however, can also means laws created by people in power - for example, school rules are the "laws" of a specific school.

</doc>
<doc id="12656" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12656" title="1910s">
1910s

The 1910s was the decade that started on January 1, 1910, and ended on December 31, 1919.

</doc>
<doc id="12658" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12658" title="Bahrain">
Bahrain

Bahrain (officially called Kingdom of Bahrain) is an island nation in the Persian Gulf. Saudi Arabia is to the west and is connected to Bahrain by the King Fahd Causeway, and Qatar is to the south across the Persian Gulf. The Qatar-Bahrain Friendship Bridge, not yet built, will link Bahrain to Qatar as the longest fixed bridge in the world.
People have lived in Bahrain before there was writing. It has been ruled and influenced by the Assyrians, Babylonians, Greeks, Persians, and the Arabs, who made the island Muslim. Bahrain was in old times known as Dilmun, Tylos, Awal and Mishmahig.
The islands of Bahrain, set in the middle south of the Persian Gulf, have attracted many invaders in history. The word "Bahrain", "Two Seas", means that the islands contain two kinds of water, sweet water springs and salty water in the sea.
A location between East and West, fertile lands, fresh water, and pearls made Bahrain important in history. About 2300 BC, Bahrain started trading with Mesopotamia (now Iraq) and the Indus Valley (now near India). It was then called Delmon, and was linked to the Sumerian Civilization about 2000 BC. Bahrain also became part of the Babylonian empire about 600 BC. Historical records called Bahrain the "Life of Eternity", "Paradise", the "Pearl of the Persian Gulf" and other names.
Until 1521, Bahrian also ruled Al-Hasa and Qatif (both are now the eastern province of Saudi Arabia) and Awal (now the Bahrain Islands). The country had all of the land from what is now Kuwait to Oman. This was called "Iqlim Al-Bahrain" (Province of Bahrain). In 1521, the Portuguese took Awal (now Bahrain) from the rest and since then the name of Bahrain only means today's Bahrain.
The modern history of Bahrain begins with Great Britain exploring the area, trying to keep Iran from taking more land. The British gave support to the Al-Khalifa family, who made a power base in the island and allied with the British to keep the island from Iran. The British got free passage to the Persian Gulf through this agreement. In November of 1957, the Iranian parliament declared that Bahrain was the Fourteenth Province of Iran. Later the British would become involved in the politics of Bahrain by choosing an Emir of the island. Iran and Britain later agreed that the United Nations Secretary General would judge the political situation in Bahrain. In a Plebiscite to decide the country's future, the majority of the people of Bahrain chose to reject Iran's claims, and to define their country and their culture to be Arabic, and not Persian.
Oil was found in the early 20th century and brought modern improvements to the country. Relations with the United Kingdom also became closer, and the British brought more military bases to the nation. British influence grew, until Charles Belgrave became an advisor; Belgrave brought modern education to Bahrain.
After World War II, anti-British feeling spread through the Arab world and led to riots in Bahrain. The British left Bahrain in 1971, making it an independent country. The sales of more oil in the 1980s brought money to Bahrain, but even when the sales of oil decreased in later years, it did not cause as many problems in Bahrain as in other oil countries, because the economy of Bahrain had grown into other areas.
In 1973 the election of first parliament was done but the government stopped & dissociate the parliament in 1975 which result in strong protests by the Bahraini opposition (Moderate Islamic & non-Islamist opposition).
In 1994, many highly educated Bahraini people signed a letter to Prince of Bahrain at that time Isa bin Salman Al Khalifa
to re-establish the parliament life which is strongly refused & the leader of the opposition at that time Sheikh Abdulamir Aljamri was jailed then a huge protest & conflicts occurs between Bahraini nation & the armed forces.
In 1999, Sheikh Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa followed his father as head of state and called for elections for parliament to resolve the congestion that occurred over that last period. The women were given the right to vote and the new ruler released all political prisoners in 2001.
In 2002 the King released a new constitution without any voting from the nation & canceled 1973 constitution which caused strong refuse from the most of nation parties & opposition.
The situations became worse later & some of political activists were jailed like Abdulhadi Al-Khuwajah, Hasan Mushaima.
Many political websites that refused these changes were blocked like Bahrain online forum (the most popular website in Bahrain): www.bahrainonline.org Until 2009 there were many riots & conflicts especially from Shia group which faces a huge organized discrimination according to Human Rights Watch & US Congress.
Bahrain is a constitutional monarchy ruled by the King, Shaikh Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa; the head of government is the Prime Minister, Shaikh Khalifa bin Salman Al Khalifa. He has a cabinet of 15 members. Bahrain has a bicameral legislature with a lower house, the Chamber of Deputies, elected by all of the people and the upper house, the Shura Council, appointed by the King. Both houses have forty members. The first elections were held in 2002, with Members of Parliament serving four year terms.
Women were given the right to vote and stand in national elections for the first time in 2002's election, but no women were elected to office that year, and Shia and Sunni Islamists won a majority of seats. Because no women were elected, six were appointed to the Shura Council, which also includes members of the Kingdom’s Jewish and Christian people.
The King recently created the Supreme Judicial Council to organise the country's courts and the government offices.
Bahrain is split into five governorates. Until July 3 2003, it was divided into twelve municipalities.
For further information, see: Decree-Law establishing governorates from the Bahrain official website.
The largest cities in Bahrain are:
Other towns include: Awali, Diraz, Hidd, Sar, Bani Jamrah.
In Bahrain, petroleum (oil product) producing and processing is about 60% of the money from export, 60% of government money, and 30% of Gross Domestic Product. The economy has changed as the sales of oil have changed since 1985, for example, during and after the Persian Gulf War of 1990 - 1991. Bahrain has high quality communications and transport, and so the country is home to many international companies with business in the Persian Gulf. A large part of the country's income comes from petroleum products made from imported crude oil. There are several major industrial projects being built. Unemployment, especially among young people, and the decrease of both oil and water resources are major economic problems.
Bahrain is a flat and dry archipelago, with a low desert plain rising gently to a low central hill, in the Arabian Gulf, east of Saudi Arabia. The highest point is the 122 meter Jabal ad Dukhan ("Mountain of Smoke").
Bahrain has a total area of 620 km², which is a few square kilometres larger than the Isle of Man. As an archipelago of 33 islands, Bahrain does not share a land border with any other country, but it does have a 161 km coast line and claims a further 12 nm of territorial sea and a 24 nm contiguous zone. Bahrain enjoys mild winters and has very hot, humid summers.
Bahrain's natural resources include large amounts of oil natural gas as well as fish. Only 1% of the country includes land where crops can be grown. 92% of Bahrain is desert, and droughts and dust storms are the main natural dangers.
Environmental problems in Bahrain include desertification, which is causing the land where crops can be grown to decrease, and damage to coast lines, coral reefs, and sea vegetation caused by oil spills from large tankers and oil refineries.
The official religion of Bahrain is Islam; most of the people are Shi'a and Sunni Muslims, but there are also small Jewish and Christian minorities. Most Bahrainis are Arabs, although some tribes came from Persia. Today, many of the people in Bahrain are guest workers who come from Iran, South Asia and Southeast Asia. A "Financial Times" article from 31 May 1983 found that "Bahrain is a polyglot (speaking many languages) state, both religiously and racially. Leaving aside the temporary immigrants of the past 10 years, there are at least eight or nine communities (groups of people) on the island".
The present communities may be classified as Al-Khalifa, Arab tribes allied to Al-Khalifa, the Baharnah (Shia Arabs), the Howilla (Sunni Arabs from Persia), Sunni Arabs (from the mainland), Ajam (Persian Shia), Indians who traded with Bahrain and settled before the age of oil (used to be called Banyan), a tiny Jewish community, and a group which contains everyone else.
Manama, Bahrain's capital city, is as modern as other cities in the world. But life in the island's many villages (and in parts of Manama itself) remains traditional. Where there is tradition in the Persian Gulf area, there is Islamic conservatism: women cover themselves from head to foot and women travellers are expected to wear long skirts and one-piece bathing suits. Bahrain's population is 85% Muslim and Islam is the state religion. Arabic is the official language, but many people speak English.
Traditional folk art continues in several places around Bahrain: dhows (fishing boats) are built near Manama and Muharraq, cloth is made at Bani Jamrah and pottery is made at A'ali. A few goldsmiths still work in the Manama souk, though much of the work is now done in other countries. One of the important parts of Bahraini culture is the drinking of traditional Arabian coffee. Traditional Arabian street food like shawarma (lamb or chicken cut from a large spit and served in pita bread) and desserts such as baklava are also found.
Bahrain is the home of Formula One racing in the Middle East, hosting the Bahrain Grand Prix.

</doc>
<doc id="12664" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12664" title="William Christopher">
William Christopher

William Christopher was born on October 20, 1932 in Evanston, Illinois. He is an American actor. He is most well known for playing Father Mulcahy on the television series "M*A*S*H". He also played Private Lester Hummel on "Gomer Pyle, U.S.M.C." His wife's name is Barbara O'Connor; together they wrote a book, "Mixed Blessings", about their experiences raising their autistic son.

</doc>
<doc id="12666" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12666" title="Boxer shorts">
Boxer shorts

Boxers shorts are men's underwear. They are shorts with a stretchy band, and named after the shorts worn by boxers.
They were first made in the 1930s, but did not begin to be popular until 1947. These days, briefs (Y-fronts) are sold more than boxer shorts.
Some boxer shorts have openings with a snap button for using the toilet (urinating). Others just have an elastic waistband and can be pulled on or off like briefs. They can be made in different colors or patterns. Television displays more men in boxer shorts than in other underwear.
There are mainly 5 types of mens underwear in which Boxer shorts are among the most worn shorts. Studies proved that mens are found more comforetable in Boxer shorts, than any other.

</doc>
<doc id="12679" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12679" title="Compact disc player">
Compact disc player

A CD player is a device that can read the binary data on a CD (compact disc) and turn that into sound waves.
A CD player has a laser and an optical sensor. A CD has tracks and bumps on the tracks. The CD player passes a laser beam along the track of the CD. The areas that are reflected (without the bumps) are 1s to the player and the areas that are reflected (with the bumps) are 0s to the player. When the 1's and 0's are added to the CD a complicated coding is used that enables error corrections to prevent the CD "skipping" in the event of a small scratch. The CD player converts the series of 1's and 0's into sound waves by sending a varying voltage into an amplifier which then drives a speaker. The conversion of digital data into an analogue signal is achieved through the use a matrix(maths not the movie), imaginary numbers and trigonometric functions.

</doc>
<doc id="12680" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12680" title="Fluid dynamics">
Fluid dynamics

Fluid Dynamics talks about how fluids (liquids and gases) work. It is one of the oldest parts of the study of Physics, and is studied by physicists, mathematicians, and engineers. Mathematics can describe how fluids move using mathematical formulas called equations. The fluid dynamics of gases are called aerodynamics.
Understanding how fluids behave helps us understand things like flight or ocean currents. For example, fluid dynamics can be used to understand weather, because clouds and air are both fluids. Fluid dynamics can also be used to understand how aeroplanes fly through the air or how ships and submarines move through water.
Computer programs can use the mathematical equations of fluid dynamics to model and predict the actions of moving fluids. Computers have helped us understand fluid dynamics very much, and some people study how to model or simulate fluids only with a computer. Studying how fluid dynamics can be done with computers is called computational fluid dynamics (or CFD for short).
The mathematical equations that govern fluid flow are simple to think about but very hard to solve. In most real life cases there is no way to get an solution that can be written down and a computer must be used to calculate the answer instead. There are three fundamental equations based on three principles.
Conservation of mass: mass is neither created nor destroyed, it simply moves from one place to another. This gives the mass conservation equation. Sometimes this may not apply such as a flow involving a chemical reaction.
Conservation of energy: this is the first law of thermodynamics, energy is never created or destroyed, it just changes form (i.e. kinetic energy into potential energy) or moves around.
Conservation of momentum: this is Newton's Second Law and it states that Force = rate of change of momentum. Momentum is mass times velocity. The momentum equations are the equations that make it hard to solve problems in fluid dynamics. There are a number of different versions that include a number of different effects. The Navier-Stokes equations are momentum equations, and the Euler equations are the Navier-Stokes equations but with viscosity not included. There is one momentum equation in a 1D problem and three, one in each space direction, in 3D.
To solve the equations more information is often needed in the form of an equation of state. This relates thermodynamic properties (usually pressure and temperature) to each other for a specific type of fluid. An example is the "Ideal Gas" equation of state that relates pressure, temperature and density and works well for gases under normal pressures (like air at atmospheric pressure).

</doc>
<doc id="12682" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12682" title="Ernest Hemingway">
Ernest Hemingway

Ernest Miller Hemingway (July 21, 1899 - July 2, 1961) was an American writer. He is generally thought to be a member of the Lost Generation. Some people say that, of the many characters he created in his books, the author himself was his best creation.
Ernest Hemingway was born in 1899. He grew up in Oak Park, Illinois, near the midwestern city of Chicago. He was the second child in a family of six. His father was a doctor. His mother was a painter and a pianist.
Each summer, the family travelled to their holiday home in northern Michigan. Ernest's father taught him how to catch fish, hunt, set up a camp, and cook over a fire.
At home in Oak Park, Ernest wrote for his school newspaper. He tried to write like a famous sports writer, Ring Lardner, and he made his writing skills better.
In 1917, Hemingway decided not to go to a university. The United States had just entered World War I and he wanted to join the Army, but they rejected him because his eyesight was not good enough.
Ernest found a job with the "Kansas City Star" newspaper in Kansas City, Missouri. He reported news that happened at the hospital, police headquarters, and the railroad station. One reporter said: ""Hemingway liked to be where the action was.""
The Kansas City Star told its reporters to write short sentences, and to report unusual details of an incident. Hemingway quickly learned to do both.
Hemingway worked for the newspaper for nine months. He then joined the Red Cross to help on the battle fields of Europe. His job was to drive an ambulance and to take wounded soldiers off the battlefield.
The Red Cross sent him to Italy. There, he soon saw the first wounded. This was when a weapons factory in Milan exploded. Later, he was sent to the battle front. He went close to the fighting to see how he could act in the face of danger. Soon, he was seriously wounded.
Soon after healing, the war ended. Hemingway returned to the United States. After less than a year he had changed forever: he needed to write about what he had seen. Hemingway wrote many short stories about people who experienced World War I.
Some time later, Hemingway left home for Chicago to prove to himself, and to his family, that he could earn a living from his writing.
But he ran out of money and began to write for a newspaper again. The Canadian newspaper, the Toronto Star, loved his reports in Chicago. They hired him and paid him well.
In Chicago, Hemingway also met Sherwood Anderson. Anderson was one of the first American writers to write about common people. Hemingway saw that Anderson's stories showed life as it really was. This was similar to what he wanted to do.
Anderson gave Hemingway advice about his writing. He told Hemingway to move to Paris. Life was less costly there. Anderson said that Paris had many young artists and writers from many nations.
Hemingway decided to move to Paris. Before he did, in America, he married a woman he had recently met. Her name was Hadley Richardson.
Paris was cold and grey when Hemingway and his new wife arrived in 1921. They lived in one of the poorer parts of the city. Their rooms were small and they did not have water from pipes. But the "Toronto Star" employed him as its European reporter, so they had enough money for the two of them to live. That job gave Hemingway time to write his stories.
Hemingway enjoyed exploring Paris, learning French customs, and meeting friends. Some of these new friends were artists and writers who had come to the city in the 1920s. Among them were poet, Ezra Pound, and writers Gertrude Stein, John Dos Passos, and F. Scott Fitzgerald. Seeing that Hemingway was a good writer, they helped him publish his stories in the United States. He was thankful for their support at the time, but later denied that he had received their help.
Hemingway travelled all over Europe. He wrote about politics, peace conferences, and border disputes, as well as sports, skiing, and fishing. Later he would write about bullfighting in Spain. The "Toronto Star" was pleased with his work, and wanted more of his reports, but Hemingway was busy with his own writing.
He said this: "Sometimes, I would start a new story and could not get it going. Then I would stand and look out over the roofs of Paris and think. I would say to myself: 'All you have to do is write one true sentence. Write the truest sentence you know.' So finally, I would write a true sentence and go on from there. It was a wonderful feeling when I had worked well."
Hemingway's first book of short stories was called "In Our Time". One of its stories, "Big Two Hearted River," told of the effects of war on a young man who was taking a long fishing trip in Michigan. Hemingway had learned from his father, when he was a boy, about living in the wild.
The story is about two kinds of rivers. One is calm and clear, and is where the young man fishes. The other is a dark, threatening swamp. The story shows its main character trying to forget his past, as well as the war. He does not talk much about the war. The reader learns about the young man, not because Hemingway tells his readers what the man thinks, but because he shows that man learning about himself. Many people believe it is one of the best modern American stories of all time. Because of this, "Big Two Hearted River" is often published in collections of best writing.
After the book was published in 1925, Hadley and Hemingway returned to the United States for the birth of their son, after which they quickly returned to Paris.
Hemingway was working on a long story. He wanted to publish a novel so he would be recognized as a serious writer. And he wanted the money a novel would earn.
The novel was called "The Sun Also Rises". It is about young Americans in Europe after World War One. The war had destroyed their dreams and had given them nothing to replace those dreams. The writer Gertrude Stein later called these people members of "The Lost Generation."
The book was an immediate success. At the age of 25 Ernest Hemingway was famous. Many people, however, did not like Hemingway's art because they did not like what he wrote about.
Hemingway's sentences were short, the way he had been taught to write at the Kansas City Star newspaper. He wrote about what he knew and felt. He used few descriptive words. His statements were clear and easily understood.
He had learned from earlier writers, like Ring Lardner and Sherwood Anderson, but Hemingway brought something new to his writing. He was able to paint in words what he saw and felt. In later books, sometimes he missed. Sometimes he even looked foolish. But when he was right he was almost perfect.
With the success of his novel, Hemingway became even more popular in Paris. Many people came to see him. One was an American woman, Pauline Pfeiffer. She became Hadley's friend. Then Pauline fell in love with Hemingway.
Hemingway and Pauline saw each other secretly. One time, they went away together on a short trip. Years later, Hemingway wrote about returning home after that trip:
"When I saw Hadley again, I wished I had died before I ever loved anyone but her. She was smiling and the sun was on her lovely face. "
But the marriage was over. Ernest Hemingway and Hadley separated. She kept their son. He agreed to give her money he earned from his books.
In later years, he looked back at his marriage to Hadley as the happiest time of his life.
At twenty-five, Hemingway was living in Paris. He was a famous writer. But the end of his first marriage made him want to leave the place where he had first become famous.
Much later he said, "the city was never to be the same again. When I returned to it, I found it had changed as I had changed. Paris was never the same as when I was poor and very happy."
Hemingway and his new wife returned to the United States in 1928. They settled in Key West, an island with a fishing port near the southern coast of Florida.
Before leaving Paris, Hemingway sent a collection of his stories to New York to be published. The book of stories, called "Men Without Women", was published soon after Hemingway arrived in Key West.
One of the stories was called "The Killers." In it, Hemingway used a discussion between two men to create a feeling of tension and coming violence. This was a new method of telling a story:
Nick opened the thingy and went into the room. Ole Andreson was lying on the bed with all his clothes on. He had been a heavyweight prizefighter and he was too long for the bed. He lay with his head on two pillows. He did not look at Nick.
"What was it?" He asked.
"I was up at Henry's," Nick said, "and two fellows came in and tied me up and the cook, and they said they were going to kill you."
It sounded silly when he said it. Ole Andreson said nothing, "they put us out in the kitchen," Nick went on. "They were going to shoot you when you came in to supper."
Ole Andreson looked at the wall and did not say anything. "George thought I ought to come and tell you about it."
"There is not anything I can do about it," Ole Andreson said.
Any new book by Hemingway was an important event for readers. But stories like "The Killers" shocked many people. Some thought there was too much violence in his stories. Others said he only wrote about gunmen, soldiers, fighters, and drinkers.
This made Hemingway angry. He felt that writers should not be judged by those who could not write a story.
Hemingway was happy in Key West. In the morning he wrote, in the afternoon he fished, and at night he went to a public house and drank. One old fisherman said: "Hemingway was a man who talked slowly and very carefully. He asked a lot of questions. And he always wanted to get his information exactly right."
Hemingway and his wife Pauline had a child in Key West.
Soon afterwards, he heard that his father had killed himself. Hemingway was shocked. He said, "My father taught me so much. He was the only one I really cared about."
When Hemingway returned to work there was a sadness about his writing that was not there before.
His new book told about an American soldier who served with the Italian army during World War One. He meets an English nurse, and they fall in love. They flee from the army, but she dies during childbirth. Some of the events are taken from Hemingway's service in Italy. The book is called "A Farewell to Arms".
Part of the book talks about the defeat of the Italian army at a place called Caporetto:
"At noon we were stuck in a muddy road about as nearly as we could figure, ten kilometres from Udine. The rain had stopped during the forenoon and three times we had heard planes coming, seen them pass overhead, watched them go far to the left and heard them bombing on the main highroad. . . .
"Later we were on a road that led to a river. There was a long line of abandoned trucks and carts on a road leading up to a bridge. No one was in sight. The river was high and the bridge had been blown up in the center; the stone arch was fallen into the river and the brown water was going over it. We went up the bank looking for a place to cross. . . . we did not see any troops; only abandoned trucks and stores. Along the river bank was nothing and no one but the wet brush and muddy ground. "
"A Farewell to Arms" was very successful. It earned Hemingway a great deal of money. It permitted him to travel.
One place he visited was Spain, a country he loved. He said, "I want to paint with words all the sights and sounds and smells of Spain. And if I can write any of it down truly, then it will represent all of Spain."
He wrote a book called "Death in the Afternoon". It describes the Spanish custom of bull fighting. Hemingway believed that bull fighting was an art, just as much as writing was an art. And he believed it was a true test of a man's bravery, something that always concerned him.
Hemingway also travelled to Africa. He had been asked to write a series of reports about African hunting. He said, "Hunting in Africa is the kind of hunting I like. No riding in cars, just simple walking and feeling the grass under my feet."
The trip to Africa resulted in a book called "The Green Hills of Africa" and many smaller stories.
One story is one of Hemingway's best. The story, called "The Snows of Kilimanjaro", tells of Hemingway's fears about himself. It is about a writer who betrays his art for money and is unable to remain true to himself.
In 1936, the Civil War in Spain gave him a chance to return to Spain and test his bravery again. He agreed to write about the war for an American news organization.
It was a dangerous job. One day, Hemingway and two other reporters were driving a car near a battlefield. The car carried two white flags to show they were not fighting. But rebel gunners thought the car was carrying enemy officers. Hemingway was almost killed. Later he said that "bullets are all the same. If they do not hit you, there is no story. If they do hit you, then you do not have to write it. "
The trip to Spain resulted in two works: a play called "The Fifth Column", and a novel called "For Whom the Bell Tolls". The novel tells the story of an American who has chosen to fight against the fascists. He realizes that there are lies and injustice on his side. But he sees no hope except the victory of his side. During the fighting, he escapes his fear of death and of being alone. He decides that "he can live as full a life in seventy hours as in seventy years."
The book was a great success. Hemingway enjoyed being famous. His second marriage was ending. He divorced Pauline and married reporter Martha Gellhorn. He had met her while they were working in Spain. They decided to live in Cuba, near the city of Havana. Their house looked out over the Caribbean Sea.
But this marriage did not last long. Hemingway was changing. He began to feel that whatever he said was right. Martha went on long trips to be away from him. He drank heavily to forget his loneliness.
When America entered World War Two, Hemingway went to Britain as a reporter. Later he took part in the invasion of Europe and the freeing of Paris.
During the war, Hemingway met another reporter, Mary Walsh. In 1945, when his marriage to Martha was legally over, he married Mary.
After the war, Hemingway began work on his last important book, "The Old Man and the Sea". It is the story of a Cuban fisherman who refuses to be defeated by nature.
Hemingway said, "I was trying to show the experience of the fisherman so exactly and directly that it became part of the reader's experience."
In 1954, Hemingway won the Nobel Prize for Literature. But he was too sick to take part in the ceremony.
Ernest Hemingway was 60 years old, but he said he felt like he was 86. Even worse, he felt that he no longer was able to write. He seemed to be living the story about the writer who had sold his writing skill in order to make money.
In 1961, Ernest Hemingway shot himself dead. Among the papers he left was one that described what he liked best:
"To stay in places and to leave. . . to trust, to distrust. . . to no longer believe and believe again. . . to watch the changes in the seasons. . . to be out in boats. . . to watch the snow come, to watch it go. . . to hear the rain. . . And to know where I can find what I want."
Ernest Hemingway owned many cats, especially cats with extra toes. Today these cats are sometimes called "Hemingway cats" in his honor. His house in Key West, Florida is now a home for his cats and their kittens.
The article above is a rewriting of public domain material, provided by Voice of America Special English

</doc>
<doc id="12685" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12685" title="MSN">
MSN

MSN (formerly the Microsoft Network), is a web portal (a website used to enter the Internet).
The web portal launched on August 24 1995 by Microsoft. The site was launched at around the same time as Windows 95. Through MSN, people can create an e-mail account using MSN Hotmail, a blog using MSN Spaces, a group using MSN Groups and plenty more. It is now the #2 visited site in the world behind Yahoo!. Many people have come across this site in one way or another because it is the default main page of Internet Explorer.
MSN is also the name for MSN Messenger (now called Windows Live Messenger). It is an instant messenger, which allows people to communicate through conversations over an internet connection. As well as conversations using text, this program also allows voice and video conversations. You can even use small "emoticons" to express what you are trying to say. Messages are sent and received very quickly from around the globe. Its current messenger client is Windows Live Messenger.
Hotmail is a free email service from MSN. It started in 1995. It was bought by Microsoft in 1997. Microsoft Hotmail accounts are used to log in to MSN Messenger.

</doc>
<doc id="12690" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12690" title="Reed (instrument)">
Reed (instrument)

A reed is a piece of dry bamboo that is used in some musical instruments such as saxophones, clarinets and oboes. The musician blows air through the mouthpiece where the reed is firmly placed, and the air makes the reed vibrate; this vibration in the mouthpiece produces sound all along the instrument, which is changed into specific musical notes depending on the physical nature of the instrument.
Musical instruments that use reeds are members of the woodwind family, because many years ago the instruments were all made of wood. Today the instruments can be made of metal (brass, silver, gold), wood, or a hard plastic made to look like wood.
The bassoon family of instruments and the oboe family of instruments play with a double reed. Players play through blowing air through the double reed, making the reeds vibrate. A mouthpiece is not needed.
Other reeds can be made from metal or plastic.

</doc>
<doc id="12697" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12697" title="1790">
1790


</doc>
<doc id="12698" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12698" title="Nuuk">
Nuuk

Nuuk (Danish: Godthaab or Godthåb) is the capital of Greenland. It is around the mouth of island Nuup Kangerlua (Danish: "Godthåbsfjorden") on the west coast of Greenland, about 240 km (150 mi) south of the Arctic Circle. The city has a population of 15,047 people. 
It was founded in 1728 by the Norwegian missionary Hans Egede. Egede named the city Godthåb which means "Good Hope". Today, the people of Nuuk are mainly Inuit and Danes. 
Nuuk is the location of the University of Greenland.

</doc>
<doc id="12699" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12699" title="Lumberjack">
Lumberjack

A lumberjack is a person who cuts down trees to be made into lumber. Lumberjacks used to cut with axes, but now lumberjacks use chainsaws.

</doc>
<doc id="12702" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12702" title="Muhammad">
Muhammad

Muhammad ( ;AD 570 – 12 July 632 ) was an Arabian religious and political leader. Muslims and Baha'is believe he was a messenger and a prophet of Allah (God). He is believed to be a descendant of Ishmael, a son of Abraham, and a seal to all prophets. He is seen as an example for all Muslims to follow. 
Muhammad was born about 570 AD in Mecca. His father, whose name was Abdullah, died six months before Muhammad's birth. His mother, Amina, died when he was six years old. So, his grandfather, Abdul-Muttalib, took care of him after the death of Amina but unfortunately he too died two years later when the prophet was eight. After his grandfather's death, his uncle Abu Talib took care of him, and was a support to him for many years of his adult life.
In 610 AD, when Muhammad was forty years old, he went for a walk to the mountain of Hira near Mecca. According to Muslims, the angel Jibrail (Gabriel) spoke with him in a cave on the mountain. The story says that when Muhammad first saw the angel Gabriel, he fainted, because Gabriel was so large. This is what Jibrail said to Muhammad:
"Read... in the name of God Who made man from a drop of blood... God is Most Rewarding... He Who taught man to write with pen... and taught man what he knew not."
Muhammad went back home to his wife Khadijah, and told her what had happened. New revelations came to him commanding him to preach what was being sent "down" from God. When Muhammad first started teaching, many of the people of Mecca, who worshipped idols, did not like the things that Muhammad said. But there were also people who listened to his preaching and obeyed his messages. These people were the first of the followers of Islam. Leaders of Mecca punished and tortured the followers of Islam. Some followers of Islam were executed. Muhammad resisted this and continued to teach Islam.
After Muhammad finished in Mecca, he took his message to Medina, where some people learned about him and his followers. They welcomed him into their city, and Muhammad wanted them to convert to Islam. They agreed, and many of his followers went to Medina. This movement from Mecca to Medina is called the "Hijrah". The Hijra was also the beginning of the Islamic calendar. Muhammad stayed behind until all of his people left Mecca safely.
As Muhammad stayed in Mecca, his uncle Abu Lahab trained seven men to kill Muhammad in his sleep. According to the history, they did not see him leave Mecca. The men went into his house and found his cousin, Ali. Abu Lahab and his horsemen went to the desert to look for him and his friend, Abu Bakr.
Muhammad and Abu Bakr arrived in Medina. Some people welcomed Prophet Muhammad to their homes. He used his camel to show everyone where he would build his house. Also, the first mosque of Medina, a small place for prayer, was built in the back of this house.
The people in a strong Jewish tribe in Medina disagreed with the teachings and rules set by Muhammad. This tribe told their allies in Mecca to sell of all the things and homes that Muslims of Mecca left behind. The Muslims and those from Mecca were advised to fight for their property. Prophet Muhammad told them not to do that.
Muslims were called all over Medina to gather at a mosque that Prophet Muhammad prayed in. They were told to fight against the people of Mecca who burned down their homes and stole their property.
The Quraysh pagans of Mecca heard about this, and they sent a larger army numbering 1000 warriors to fight the Muslims. They met in Badr, but the pagans were defeated and Abu Jahl, one of the pagan leaders, was also killed.
But, the Muslims lost the second battle at Uhud. One year after the fight at Badr, the army of Mecca had outside help. Muslim archers failed to listen to Muhammad's instructions and Khalid ibn al-Walid cleverly took advantage of that. Hamza, Muhammad's last uncle, was killed when a slave from Mecca threw a spear into his chest. Muhammad himself was injured.
Then in 627, Abu Sufyan led the Quraysh and its allies to attack Medina itself. However, they could not pass the trench that the Muslims had dug around Medina. After several weeks, the coalition broke up and went home. The Medinians were considered victors.
After the pagans of Mecca failed to gain control of Medina, the Muslims became stronger. The pagans then decided to sign a truce with the Muslims. This means that they would not fight each other for ten years. The Muslims used this as a chance to talk to other people all over Arabia. In three years, many people changed their religions to Islam.
But, this truce did not last for long. After three years of it, a small group of horsemen from Mecca attacked a Muslim camp and killed a few of them. The Muslims in Medina heard of this, and the truce was cancelled. Abu Sufyan, third leader of Mecca in Muhammad's lifetime, tried to resume the truce, but Muhammad politely refused the offer. Muhammad told his followers to be ready to capture Mecca. After Mecca was captured, they went on to capture the Torkan.
In 630, most people in Arabia had become Muslims, and they became part of Muhammad's large army to capture Mecca. Because of the big size of the army, the people of Mecca were afraid to fight back. Abu Sufyan, who was feeling unhappy over the broken truce, went to Muhammad's camp outside Mecca to ask for forgiveness. Muhammad did not say that he would forgive him, so he returned back home. While he was with Muhammad, he changed his religion to Islam by saying the Testimony (ash-Ashaada):
"I testify that there is no other god but Allah, and I testify that Muhammad is the Messenger of Allah."
The next day, the Muslim army walked towards Mecca. Everyone ran to their homes and closed all doors and windows. They were afraid that the Muslims were going to kill them, because of the bad things they did to the Muslims many years ago. But, the Muslims went towards the Ka'aba, believed to be built by Abraham and his elder son, Ishmael. Bilal ibn Ribah, a former Ethiopian slave, shouted out loud to the people of Mecca that they were all safe: "All those who lay down arms are safe. All those in the house of Abu Sufyan are safe. All those behind closed doors are safe."
Abu Sufyan heard this in his home. From this, he learns that Muhammad forgave him. At that time, Muhammad and his followers removed and broke all idols from the Kaaba. The idols were statues that were worshiped as gods. Muhammad forgave all citizens of Mecca. At the end, Bilal climbed to the top of the Kaaba and called for prayer. This was Muhammad's victory in spreading Islam all over Arabia. But, because he was old, he would not live for long.
In 632 AD, on June 8, Muhammad became very sick. Before he died, he told his followers about his death. He is buried in the chamber of his wife Aisha (RA) in Medina, where the Masjid al-Nabawi (Mosque of the Prophet) is. In Medina, his friend Abu Bakr went to the Masjid al-Nabawi and shouted to the people:
"If any of you worship Muhammad, you should know that Muhammad is dead. But those of you who worship Allah(swt) (God), let it be known that Allah(swt) (God) is alive and cannot die."
Although Muhammad died, Islam soon spread all over the Middle East. Then, centuries later, it continued till it reached Africa, Asia and Europe. Islam has become one of the world's biggest and fastest growing religions.
When Muslims say or write the name of Muhammad, they usually follow it with "Peace and Blessings be upon him" (Arabic: "sall-Allahu `alayhi wa sallam"). For example, "Muhammad (Peace and Blessings be upon him)". In printed matter, a calligraphic symbol is frequently used instead of printing the phrase. Sunnis believe that Abu Bakr succeeded Muhammad. Shias believe that Ali should have succeeded.
Most Muslims do not make or show images of Muhammad. The Qur'an does not state that images of Muhammad must not ever be made, but it does contain passages that forbid the creation of idols. There are also passages against the creation of images of God in the Hadith. Muslims, especially Sunni Muslims, believe there should be no pictures of Muhammad. When people create images of Muhammad, some Muslims may view this as disrespectful, offensive and emotionally injurious.
In 2005, a Danish newspaper published political cartoons of Muhammad . This led to violent protests in the entire Muslim world. More than 100 people died as a result of the protests. Johan Galtung, a Norwegian mathematician and peace activist, tried to help both sides come together and talk about this. According to Galtung, the attacks against Danish institutions ended after the government had invited talks.
A list of his wives' names in chronological order
1. Khadijah bint Khuwaylid 
Abdullah ibn Jafar reported that he heard Sayyiduna Ali saying in Kufa that Allah's Messenger, (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him) said, "The best of the women of her time was Maryam, daughter of Imran, and the best of women of her time was Khadijah, daughter of Khuwaylid."
2. Sawda bint Zamʿa
Sawda bint Zam'a, may Allah be pleased with her had been the first woman to immigrate to Abyssinia in the way of Allah. She was middle-aged, rather plump, with a jolly, kindly disposition, and just the right person to take care of the Prophet's household and family.
3. Aisha
Aisha was a very intelligent and observant young girl with a very good memory. Aisha spent the next nine years of her life with the Prophet, she remembered all that she saw and heard with great clarity, and reported to us a great deal of the Prophets narrations.
4. Hafsa bint Umar
By marrying Hafsa  the Prophet strengthened the ties between two of his closest Companions, the two who would become the first two rightly guided khalifs after his death. He was now married to the daughter of Abu Bakr, A'isha and to the daughter of Umar, Hafsa.
5. Zaynab bint Khuzayma
She offered herself in marriage to the Prophet who accepted her proposal and married her. Zaynab bint Khuzayma was so generous to orphans and the poor that she came to be known as the 'Mother of the Poor'. She died only eight months after.
6. Umm Salama
She was not the only wife to have been widowed as a result of the battle of Uhud, and thanks to this marriage, many of the Companions followed the Prophet's example, marrying widows and thereby bringing them and their children into the circle of their families, instead of leaving them to struggle on their own.
7. Zaynab bint Jahsh
As with all the marriages of Muhammad, there was much for all the Muslims to learn from it. This one was to show that Zayed ibn Haretha was not the Prophet's son and to demonstrate that the social level matters when it comes to tieing the knot. She bragged about the fact that her marriage had been arranged by Allah. It was at this point that the Prophet changed her name from Barra to Zaynab.
8. Juwayriyya bint al-Harith
The Prophet was thinking of how to save her and all her tribe from an ignoble fate. By marrying Juwayriyya, the Banu Mustaliq would be able to enter Islam with honor, and with the humiliation of their recent defeat removed, so that it would no longer be felt necessary by them to embark on a war of vengeance that would have continued until one of the two parties had been annihilated. 
9. Ramla bint Abi Sufyan
She has narrated that once the Prophet said to her, "A house will be built in Hevean for anyone who, in the space of a day and a night, prays twelve voluntary prayers;" and she added, "I have never stopped doing this since
10. Safiyya bint Huyayy
The only person who could save her from becoming a slave after having enjoyed such a high position was the Prophet. Although her father had planned to assassinate Muhammad after the battle of Uhud, and had conspired with the Banu Qurayza to exterminate all the Muslims during the battle of al-Khandaq, it was characteristic of the Muhammad that he did not bear any grudges.
11. Maymunah bint al-Harith
The Prophet gave her the name, Maymuna, meaning "blessed", and Maymuna lived with the Prophet for just over three years, until his death. She was obviously very good natured and got on well with everyone and no quarrel or disagreement with any of the Prophet's other wives has been related to her. 'A'isha said, "Among us, she had the most fear of Allah and did the most to maintain ties of kinship."
12. Maria al-Qibtiyya
Maria was honored and respected by the Prophet and his family and Companions. She spent three years of her life with the Prophet, until his death, and died five years later. For the last five years of her life, she remained a recluse and almost never went out except to visit the grave of the Prophet or her son's grave. After her death, Umar ibn al Khattab led the prayer over her and she was buried in al Baqi.

</doc>
<doc id="12705" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12705" title="Ford Mustang">
Ford Mustang

The Ford Mustang is a very popular American sports car built by the Ford Motor Company beginning in 1964. The first cars were built in Ford's Dearborn, Michigan factory on March 9 of that year and the car was first shown to the public on April 17 at the New York World's Fair. It did not cost a lot of money, but it was still very fancy and looked like a much more expensive car. People could order their Mustang with many options and body styles, such as a convertible, 2+2 (fastback), or coupe. Many different engines were available, from the 170 CID six-cylinder to some of Ford's biggest and most powerful V-8 engines in later years. This meant car buyers could have a Mustang that saved gas or a more powerful and fast car. More than one million Mustangs were sold in only two years. The Mustang is still being sold today and is still very popular. It was so popular and so different when it was introduced that the Mustang and other cars from other makers which looked like the Mustang were given the name "ponycar." 
The so-called "1964 1/2" Mustang was designed by Joe Oros and Dave Ash of Ford's Mercury division, was based on another Ford car, the Falcon and was proposed by Ford's president, Lee Iacocca. The Falcon was not expensive to build and that helped Iacocca get the Mustang the approval it needed to be built. The people who ran the Ford company did not want to take a chance on a car like that because they lost a lot of money on another car, the Edsel, just a few years back. It set sales records and became one of the best selling cars of all time. It would remain mostly the same until 1966. So popular was the Mustang that three Ford assembly plants worked to build it. Not only was the Mustang built in Dearborn, but in Metuchen, New Jersey and San Jose, California as well.
The very first Mustang built to be sold to the public was a white convertible with a black interior and a V-8 engine. It was purchased by a pilot from Newfoundland. Ford offered the one millionth Mustang to the owner in exchange for the first one. That first Mustang, serial number 5F08F100001, is still on display at the Henry Ford Museum in Dearborn. 
Its second body style came out in 1967, its third in 1969 and its fourth in 1971. Bigger, more powerful engines were offered starting in 1967, making some Mustangs into musclecars. Some of those special Mustangs had special names such as Mustang GT, Mach 1, Boss 302, Boss 351, Boss 429 and 429 SCJ, or "Super Cobra Jet." By 1971, the Mustang had become a much larger car. The car grew in size so that Ford could put its biggest engines in it, but insurance companies were charging very high prices to insure powerful cars and sales began to drop. Many people missed the original, smaller Mustang.
A new Mustang came out in 1974 called Mustang II and was based on the Ford Pinto, although far less than the original car had been based on the Falcon. This new car was almost the same size as the original car, but emissions controls and the Arab oil embargo meant that the Mustang II was not a very powerful car. 1974 was not only the first time Ford had built a car which looked like an older model, it was also the first American car to be built on the metric system. The short, low hood meant that neither the inline six-cylinder engine nor V-8 would fit, so engine choices were changed to a 2.3 liter four-cylinder engine built by Ford in Brazil and a more expensive V-6 engine built by Ford in Germany. A 5.0 liter V-8 engine was offered in 1975 which meant that Ford engineers had to redesign much of the car to make it fit. No matter which engine was used, the Mustang II was a heavier car than the 1964-66 model.
The Mustang II helped keep the ponycar alive between 1974 and 1978. General Motors almost stopped building their popular Chevrolet Camaro and Pontiac Firebird; Chrysler Corporation stopped building the Dodge Challenger and Plymouth Barracuda during that time. General Motors stopped building the Camaro in 2002, but they brought back a new version in 2009. Chrysler brought back a new Challenger in 2008 as well; they, like today's Mustang, are made to look like older models.
The new Mustang that came out in 1979 may have been the most important Mustang ever. One reason was the return of a powerful V-8 in 1982 which was developed in later years into an even more powerful engine. The basic design carried all the way through the 2004 model year, but with hundreds of thousands of improvements over the years. Very few parts except for some minor chassis parts stayed unchanged.
The 2005 model was the first all-new Mustang since 1979. Because the original Mustang was and is one of the most popular cars ever, Ford made the new Mustang coupe and convertible look very much like the first Mustangs, especially the 1967 and 1968 models. The engines of the 2005 Mustang were based on the older engines, but had more power. The 4.0-liter V6 engine made 210 hp and the 4.6-liter V8 300hp, which rose to 315 hp on the 2008 Bullitt. All models were available with manual and automatic transmissions.
Both Ford and Carroll Shelby recently brought back the a new version of the very fast Shelby GT-500 Mustang in 2007. Mr. Shelby helped create the special Shelby GT-350 and GT-500 versions of the Mustang beginning in 1965. The 2007 Shelby GT500 had a 5.4-liter V8, which produced 500 hp. In 2008 a KR version with 540 hp was added.
The 2010 Mustang in turn looks much like the 2005-09 model, but all the body parts except for the roof are different. The rear turn signals of the 2005-2010 cars blink in a one-two-three sequence like the 1967-68 Mercury Cougar and 1964-66 Ford Thunderbird. Power for the V8 rose to 315 hp. In 2011, the Mustang received new engines, a 3.7-liter V6 base engine with 305 hp and a new 5.0-liter engine with 412 hp. Power on the Shelby GT500 rose to 550 hp and later to 662 hp in 2013. A Boss 302 performance version powered by a 444 hp V8 was introduced for 2012.
For 2015, a completely new Ford Mustang will be introduced.

</doc>
<doc id="12721" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12721" title="Red Hat Linux">
Red Hat Linux

Red Hat Linux is a discontinued Linux operating system, replaced by RHEL (Red Hat Enterprise Linux).
Red Hat made it public in the past and it was used by many Linux users. The last publicly-released version was Red Hat Linux 9 in April, 2003. Red Hat then decided to discontinue a future release of Red Hat Linux and started the paid "Red Hat Enterprise Linux" instead. There are some redistributions of RHEL, though such as CentOS which are free and come without Red Hat's branding, logos etc. due to trademark restrictions.
Red Hat Linux 7.3 version is still widely used around the world for servers and workstations.
Around 2005, The Red Hat company released their system as Fedora Core, intended to be a test platform for new technologies. It is now called just 'Fedora' and its present release acts as a base for the next release of RHEL.
List of Linux distributions

</doc>
<doc id="12723" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12723" title="Sacavém">
Sacavém

Sacavém is a city in Portugal, near the capital Lisbon. There is about eighteen hundred people living there. Sacavém is on the border of the River Tagus. It confines with the parishes of "Bobadela", "Camarate", "Moscavide", "Portela", "Prior Velho" and "Unhos". 
Sacavém is very well known for its ceramics.

</doc>
<doc id="12724" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12724" title="Shooter">
Shooter

A shooter is a kind of video game. The aim of the game is to beat enemies by shooting (or otherwise killing) them. The enemies shoot back. The aim of the game is to stay alive as long as possible.
Many of the oldest computer games were shooters; the first video game ever made was a shooter called "Computer Space". And one of the first games that many people played was a shooter called "Space Invaders". 
There are lots of different kinds of shooter. Now many people like first-person shooters. But there are other kinds too. In Japan many people play shooters where the enemies fire lots of bullets. The bullets make beautiful patterns on the screen. This kind of shooter is called a "barrage shooter" or a "curtain fire shooter". It is also called by the Japanese name, "danmaku".

</doc>
<doc id="12725" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12725" title="Sushi">
Sushi

Sushi is made with specially prepared rice. The rice is mixed with vinegar, salt, and sugar. Sushi also contains raw or cooked seafood, and sometimes vegetables as well. Sometimes sushi is wrapped in a sheet of seaweed called "nori".
There are many different kinds of sushi. The most common sushi in Japan is "nigirizushi": fish that is placed on top of a small portion of sushi rice. Sometimes you may find other ingredients on top of rice, such as egg instead of fish. "Makizushi" consists of rice rolled around fish and/or vegetables. In America, "makizushi" is more popular than "nigirizushi". Another type is known as "temaki" or a hand roll. This kind of sushi comes in a cone-shape, created by the "nori" wrapped around the ingredients inside. They are usually filled with a mixture of rice, fish, and vegetables.
Sushi can be eaten with hands or chopsticks. Soy sauce and wasabi are commonly eaten with sushi. "Gari" (sweet, pickled ginger) can often be found alongside a plate of sushi, used as a palate cleanser.
In Japan, sushi is sometimes sold in "conveyor-belt shops" called "kaiten zushi", where plates of sushi are put on a moving belt that passes by the customers. People freely take the sushi they want as it passes. The color of the plate shows the price of the sushi. This way of serving sushi is becoming more popular in other countries as well. 
The origin of sushi goes back to Southeast Asia around the 4th century B.C.. In that time, it was called 'narezushi'. Originally the fish was eaten alone, without rice.
Then, a style of sushi called 'namanarezushi' reached Japan. 'Namanarezushi' combined the fish with rice. 
What we call "sushi" today, was created by Hanaya Yohei (1799–1858) at the end of the Edo period in Edo. Sushi invented by Hanaya was an early form of fast food that was not fermented (therefore prepared quickly) and could be easily eaten with one's hands. Originally, this sushi was known as Edomae zushi because it used freshly caught fish in the Edo-mae (Edo Bay or Tokyo Bay). Though the fish used in modern sushi no longer usually comes from Tokyo Bay, it is still formally known as Edomae nigirizushi.
As with most foods, eating sushi has some health risks. However, most can be minimized with proper preparation. Some large fish, such as tuna (especially bluefin), can contain high levels of mercury. Tuna can cause mercury poisoning when consumed in very large quantities over time. Parasite infection by raw fish is not common in the modern world (less than 40 cases per year in the U.S.). Infections can generally be avoided by boiling, burning, preserving in salt or vinegar, or freezing to a certain temperature. Although "nigirizushi" will almost always appear in a raw form, often much of the fish has been previously frozen to specific temperatures to prevent parasites.
The kinds of the sushi vary according to each country. 

</doc>
<doc id="12733" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12733" title="The Thinker">
The Thinker

The Thinker () (1902) is a bronze statue. It was made by the sculptor Auguste Rodin. It depicts a man sitting and thinking with his arms bent on his knee and his chin on his hand. Rodin first called the statue "The Poet". It was part of a commission by the Museum of Decorative Arts in Paris to create a huge gate based on the epic poem "The Divine Comedy" of Dante. Each of the statues in the piece represented one of the main characters in the poem. "The Thinker" was originally meant to depict Dante himself in front of the Gates of Hell considering his great poem. Over twenty casts of the sculpture exist. They are now in museums around the world. Some of those copies are enlarged versions of the original work, while others have somewhat different proportions.

</doc>
<doc id="12747" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12747" title="Nazko Cone">
Nazko Cone

Nazko Cone is a small volcano in central British Columbia, Canada. It is approximately 75 km west of the town of Quesnel. It is in the eastern part of the Anahim Volcanic Belt. The most recent eruption of Nazko Cone was 7200 years ago.
A series of small earthquakes occurred in the area of Nazko Cone beginning on October 10, 2007. Most of these earthquakes were magnitude 1.0 or less; some as strong as magnitude 3.2 were centered 25 kilometers below the surface. The cause of these earthquakes is believed to be the rising of molten magma because there are no faults or tectonic plate boundaries. The source of this magma is from the Anahim hotspot and continues to this day.

</doc>
<doc id="12748" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12748" title="Anahim Volcanic Belt">
Anahim Volcanic Belt

The Anahim Volcanic Belt is a nearly east-west line of volcanoes stretches from the west coast of British Columbia, Canada, just north of Vancouver Island, and reaches into the Interior Plateau near Quesnel. The farther away from the coast, the younger the volcanoes tend to be. These volcanoes are thought to have formed because of the North American continent sliding westward over the Anahim hotspot. Volcanoes in this belt include the Rainbow, Ilgachuz, and Itcha Ranges, and the Nazko Cone, which last erupted about 7200 years ago.

</doc>
<doc id="12749" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12749" title="Chilcotin Group">
Chilcotin Group

Chilcotin Plateau basalts cover a large area in British Columbia. Basaltic lava formed a volcanic plateau running parallel with the Garibaldi Volcanic Belt, about 150 km from the ocean. 
During the Miocene and Pliocene, a volcanic field occurred in British Columbia's Interior Plateau. The basalt is assumed to cover up to 50,000 km of the Pacific Northwest. It forms a medium-sized large igneous province, of volume 3300 km. 
Volcanism still continues from time to time. Eruptions were most vigorous 610 million years ago (mya) and 23 mya, when most of the basalt was released. Smaller eruptions continued from 1.6 mya to 0.01 mya.

</doc>
<doc id="12751" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12751" title="Garibaldi Volcanic Belt">
Garibaldi Volcanic Belt

The Garibaldi Volcanic Belt is the northern part of the Cascade Volcanic Belt. It is in British Columbia and the northwestern United States. Its volcanos are the most explosive in Canada. 
The volcanoes are also the closest to British Columbia's densely populated southwest corner. These volcanoes are the result of subduction of the Juan de Fuca tectonic plate: the plates meet just seaward of the west coast of Vancouver Island. The volcanoes of the Garibaldi Volcanic Belt are stratovolcanoes typical of subduction zones, and include Mount Garibaldi, Mount Cayley and Mount Meager. Meager's eruption 2,350 years ago is the youngest explosive eruption in Canada. It was similar to that of Mount St. Helens in 1980 and the ongoing eruption of Montserrat in the Caribbean.

</doc>
<doc id="12753" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12753" title="Mount Garibaldi">
Mount Garibaldi

Mount Garibaldi is an eroded, dacitic strato volcano in southwestern British Columbia. Both Garibaldi and Mount Baker to its south are part of the Cascade volcanic arc. Mount Garibaldi, 80 km due north of Vancouver, is made up of Mount Garibaldi, Atwell Peak,and Dalton Dome. This Pleistocene volcanic center is part of a volcanic field that contains some 13 vents in an area 30 km long by 15 km wide, much of which is in Garibaldi Provincial Park. 
The eruptive history of Mt Garibaldi involves an initial period of volcanism (200,000-300,000 years ago) followed by a period of quiescence. Renewed activity in the last 50,000 years has rebuilt the edifice in a series of violent eruptions, like when Mount Pelee erupted in 1902 and destroyed the town of St. Pierre on the island of Martinique. As successive pyroclastic flows travelled down the mountain's gentle slopes and were deposited, the volcano took on a broad, conical form. Part of the volcano's southwest flank built out onto thick glacial ice filling the Squamish River valley. Subsequent rapid melting of the ice at the close of the last ice age removed support from the western part of the cone. The volcano collapsed,producing much of the existing rugged topography of Mount Garibaldi and Atwell Peak. This catastrophic failure left a scarp on which is exposed the internal structure of the volcano and a debris fan with an estimated volume of 150,000,000 m at the foot of the mountain north of the town of Squamish. As valley glaciers retreated, two lava flows erupted Clinker Peak, immediately north of Mt. Garibaldi. The northernmost Rubble Creek flow was party confined by a wall of ice, resulting in a lava flow over 244 m (800 ft) thick. The steep, northern edge of the Rubble Creek flow party collapsed several times, most recently in 1855-1856; the village of Garibaldi was abandoned because of the danger of future collapses. The most recent period of activity occurred shortly after the disappearance of the glacial ice filling the valley, 10,700 to 9,300 radiocarbon years ago, and ended with the eruption the Ring Creek lava flow from Opal cone on Garibaldi's southeastern flank.
The Ring Creek flow is very unusual. It is 15 km long - a length usually only attained by basalt flows,except that the Ring Creek flow is dacite. Renewed volcanism in the Garibaldi area would pose a serious threat to the local communities of Whistler and Squamish. Although no
Plinian-style eruptions are known, even Pelean-type eruptions could produce large quantities of ash that could rise to several hundred meters above the volcano. As it is close to Vancouver, this would make it a hazard for air traffic. The danger from lava flows would be low to moderate because the nature of the lavas would prevent them from travelling far from their source,even though the Ring Creek lava flow ends only 6 km from Squamish. Melting of remnant glacial ice capping the Mt. Garibaldi area could produce floods, lahars,or debris flows that might endanger small communities including Brackendale.
Highway 99, which links Whistler and Squamish with Vancouver, is already plagued by landslides and dedris flows from the precipitous Coast Mountains. An eruption producing floods could destroy segments of the highway. Flooding and debris flows could also have serious coneequences for the salmon fishery on the Squamish, Cheakamus, and Mamquam rivers. In addition,explosive eruptions and the accompanying ash could cause short and long-term water-supply problems for Vancouver and much of the lower mainland. The catchment area for the Greater Vancouver watershed is downwind from the Garibaldi area. Air-fall material could also have a deleterious effect on the ice fields to the east of Mt. Garibaldi, causing increased melting and spring flooding. This in turn could theaten water supplies from Pitt Lake as well as fisheries on the Pitt River.

</doc>
<doc id="12754" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12754" title="Mount Meager">
Mount Meager

Mount Meager is a potentially active volcano in the Canadian province of British Columbia, Canada, 150 kilometers north of Vancouver. The top of the mountain is mostly covered by snow and glaciers. It lies in the Garibaldi Volcanic Belt and is the northernmost volcano of the Cascade Volcanic Arc that extends down to northern California. Its most common type of rock is lava that is almost a million years old (with a thickness in some places over 1 km).
The mountain is part of the Pacific Ranges of mountains and is 2,680 meters (8,793 feet) high. It was previously called "Cathedral Mountain".
Meager is known for its last major eruption about 2,350 years ago. The strange thing about the eruption was the fact it released the debris from the northeast side of the volcano, as rock and ash blocked a major river called the Lillooet River. The river was dammed to a height of at least 100 meters, forming a lake. The lake reached a maximum elevation of 810 meters and was at least 50 meters deep. The breccia soon eroded from water activity within the lake, forming Keyhole Falls. There was a massive flood when the water first broke through the breccia, carrying small house sized blocks of breccia. During this eruption, ash was hurled into the air over 20 kilometers above sea level. The ash was carried eastward as far as Alberta.
Meager is an unstable volcano. It is built of unstable volcanic and has dumped clay and rock several meters deep into the Perberton Valley at least three times during the last 7,300 years. Two earlier debris flows, around 4,450 and 7,300 years ago, sent rubble at least 32 kilometers from the volcano. Recently, the volcano has created smaller landslides about every ten years, including one in 1975 that killed four geologists near Meager Creek. Logging, mining, tourism and wilderness recreation on nearby slopes and valleys are vulnerable to the volcano’s excellent geomorphic activity. The possibility of Mount Meager covering settled parts of the Pemberton Valley in a debris flow is estimated at about one in 2400 years. There is no sign of volcanic eruptions with these events, however scientists warn the volcano could release another massive debris flow over populated areas anytime without warning.
The explosive nature of past eruptions at Mount Meager indicates that this volcano also poses a considerable long-distance treat to communities across southern British Columbia and Alberta. It is also a local treat to the town of Pemberton, British Columbia, about 50 km away. Another explosive eruption at Mount Meager would also have a considerable impact on local mining and logging operations, as well as significant negative impacts on the Lillooet River fishery.

</doc>
<doc id="12758" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12758" title="Metaphysics">
Metaphysics

Metaphysics is a major branch of philosophy. It concerns existence and the nature of things that exist. Altogether it is a theory of reality.
Ontology is the part of metaphysics which discusses "what" exists: the categories of being. Apart from ontology, metaphysics concerns the "nature" of, and "relations" among, the things that exist.
The metaphysical idea that reality exists independently of one's mind and yet can be known is called realism. The metaphysical idea that no mind-independent reality exists or can be known is idealism. These are two main battlegrounds of metaphysics.
In the West, metaphysics is usually traced to the natural philosophers in ancient Greece, where Aristotle systematized a metaphysical description of nature equivalent to today's theoretical science. 
By the 4th century AD in Alexandria, Egypt, alchemy was starting its transformation into chemistry, the conventional view is that alchemy was steeped in mysticism and that chemistry did not quite become what we would call science until it entered the 19th century.
In the early 17th century, Galileo introduced to physics his experimentations with earthly objects, the dawn of empirical science in Western Europe. Galilean laws of motion led to the overthrow of Aristotle's ideas, a revolution more or less completed by the wide acceptance of Cartesian physics, built upon Copernican and Galilean mechanics.
Newtonian physics rapidly replaced Cartesian physics. Isaac Newton, like others that we now call "scientists", was known as a "natural philosopher". In the 1830s, Auguste Comte created positivism, the first modern philosophy of science. It sought the divorce of science from religionn and also from metaphysics.
In 1847, Hermann von Helmholtz's paper "On the conservation of energy", stated the first law of thermodynamics, and tried to reduce physiology to physics. In 1859, Darwin proposed an explanation of evolution by natural selection. This seemed both plausible, and compatible with physical theory.
By the 1860s, the term "science" (as meaning something distinct from "philosophy") entered the dictionary. Today the term "metaphysics" usually refers to discussion of aspects of reality which are beyond physics. Particularly among those seeking to be scientific, the term "metaphysics" can be pejorative to varying degrees. However, philosophers of science recognize that science is impossible without metaphysics. At the very least, before beginning empirical investigation, one needs an ontology. This is because categories are needed to sort observations into.

</doc>
<doc id="12773" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12773" title="Washington (state)">
Washington (state)

Washington is a state in the Pacific Northwest region of the United States. It is north of Oregon, west of Idaho, east of the Pacific Ocean, and south of British Columbia. (British Columbia is part of Canada.) There are more than 6,000,000 people in Washington. Most live in the western part of Washington, which gets more rain. About a quarter of the people live in the east part, where it gets less rain, and some parts have a desert climate. The largest city on the east part is Spokane, and it is also the second biggest city in the state. The Cascade Mountains go down the middle of the state and break it into two sides. The state's nickname is the "Evergreen State" because it has a lot of pine trees. Washington was the 42nd state to join the United States, on November 11, 1889. It is often called "Washington State" so that it does not get confused with the nation's capital, Washington, D.C.
The capital of Washington is Olympia. Olympia is a small city on the west side of Washington, at the south end of Puget Sound. Washington's biggest city is Seattle, Seattle is also on Puget Sound.
Washington has many beautiful forests, rivers, gorges (gorges are small canyons), and mountains. Because it's next to the ocean, it has a long beach. However, because Washington is north of Oregon and California (the other two states on the West Coast of the United States), the ocean is cold, and usually not good to swim in.
The biggest universities in Washington are the University of Washington and Washington State University. The University of Washington is in Seattle. Washington State University is in a small town called Pullman. Pullman is on the east side of the state.
National parks and monuments
There are three National Parks and two National Monuments in Washington:
National forests
Nine national forests are located (at least partly) in Washington:
Federally protected wildernesses
31 wildernesses are located (at least partly) in Washington, like:
National wildlife refuges
23 National Wildlife Refuges are located (at least partly) in Washington like:
Other federally protected lands
Other protected lands of note like:
Military and related reservations
There are many large military-related reservations, like:

</doc>
<doc id="12808" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12808" title="Clematis">
Clematis

Clematis is a genus of plants that is widely known for its beautiful flowers.
There are many varieties in this group as gardeners around the world have produced many varieties. They can be found not only in Western countries but also in Japan.
This plant grows up as a vine. It uses its leaflets and leaf stalks to twine around any support. In nature it often climbs up a nearby tree. The original species can mostly be found in temperate areas on Earth. Some species can also be found on high mountains.

</doc>
<doc id="12810" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12810" title="Rational number">
Rational number

In mathematics, a rational number is a number that can be written as a fraction. Rational numbers are all real numbers, and can be positive or negative. A number that is not rational is called irrational.
Most of the numbers that people use in everyday life are rational. These include fractions and integers.
All rational numbers can be written as a fraction. Take 1.5 as an example, this can be written as formula_1, formula_2, or formula_3.
More examples of fractions that are rational numbers include formula_4, formula_5, and formula_6.
A terminating decimal is a decimal with a certain number of digits to the right of the decimal point. Examples include 3.2, 4.075, and -300.12002. All of these are rational. Another good example would be 0.9582938472938498234.
A repeating decimal is a decimal where there are infinitely many digits to the right of the decimal point, but they follow a repeating pattern.
An example of this is formula_7. As a decimal, it is written as 0.3333333333... The dots tell you that the number 3 repeats forever.
Sometimes, a group of digits repeats. An example is formula_8. As a decimal, it is written as 0.09090909... In this example, the group of digits 09 repeats.
Also, sometimes the digits repeat "after" another group of digits. An example is formula_9. It is written as 0.16666666... In this example, the digit 6 repeats, following the digit 1.
If you try this on your calculator, sometimes it may make a rounding error at the end. For instance, your calculator may say that formula_10, even though there is no 7. It rounds the 6 at the end up to 7.
The digits after the decimal point in an irrational number do not repeat in an infinite pattern. For instance, the first several digits of π (Pi) are 3.1415926535... A few of the digits repeat, but they never start repeating in an infinite pattern, no matter how far you go to the right of the decimal point.

</doc>
<doc id="12814" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12814" title="Saint Patrick's Day">
Saint Patrick's Day

Saint Patrick's Day is the feast day of Saint Patrick, the patron saint of Ireland and a day of celebration for Irish people. It is celebrated on March 17 all over Ireland and everywhere in the world where Irish people or their descendants live. New York City has one of the biggest parades. It is a very Irish festival and it involves a lot of feasting and celebrations, which includes traditional Irish music, drinking Guinness and eating bacon and cabbage. Another tradition is one has to wear green clothing or they will be pinched.
Green is the color for Saint Patrick's day as it is the national color of Ireland and people often wear green on that day or have some type of shamrock on their clothing. 
Saint Patrick’s Day is also called Paddi’s day, it’s the national day for Ireland and is a cultural and religious celebration on the 17th March. The normal traditional is to dress in green, party with beer and music. The Celebrations generally involve public parades and festivals. It is very normal that they wear a Shamrock, a three leaved plant which is also a symbol for Ireland. 
The first St Patrick's Day parade in Ireland was held in Waterford in 1903. In the beginning, it was a 3 day long celebration, but now it is a 5 day celebration.

</doc>
<doc id="12816" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12816" title="MP">
MP

MP can be:

</doc>
<doc id="12819" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12819" title="Edgar Cayce">
Edgar Cayce

Edgar Cayce (March 18, 1877 – January 3, 1945), known as "The Sleeping Prophet" and "America's Greatest Mystic", is one of America's famous psychics. He wanted people to think of him as a healer and not a psychic. 
Cayce worked in a trance. This means he could talk while sleeping and answered questions about a person's health, past and future. This information is called "readings". At first, these readings were about the physical health of the person ("physical readings"). Later, there were readings on "past lives", "business advice", "dream interpretation", and also "mental or spiritual health". The Association for Research and Enlightenment (ARE) currently takes care of all of his readings and follow-ups to the readings. The readings have had a large effect on New Age thinking.
Edgar Cayce was born on March 18,1877 near Hopkinsville, Kentucky. He read the Bible many times starting when he was 10 years old. He wanted to tell people about God and heal them. His family worked on a farm.
His family moved to Hopkinsville in December, 1893. Edgar's first jobs (1894 – 1898) were at Richard's Dry Goods Store. He next worked in Hopper's Bookstore. Both stores were located on Main Street. He married Gertrude Evans in 1903.
In 1900, Cayce went into business with his father. They sold insurance. Cayce became very sick with laryngitis in March. In April 18, he could not talk at all. He had to live at home with his parents for almost a year. He became a photographer because it did not require talking. He worked in the photography studio of W. R. Bowles in Hopkinsville.
A hypnotist and entertainer called Hart was entertaining at the Hopkinsville Opera House in 1901. He heard that Cayce was sick and asked if he could try to cure him. Cayce said yes and the entertainer tried to cure Cayce in front of an audience. Cayce was able to talk while in a hypnotic trance but when he woke up he could not talk. Hart hypnotized Cayce so that his voice would be normal after the trance but Cayce's voice did not become normal.
Hart had to leave. Another hypnotist, Al Layne, continued to help Cayce have a normal voice. Layne asked Cayce to tell him the cause of his illness and it's cure while in a trance. Cayce described his illness from a first person plural point of view – 'we' – instead of the singular "I." In later readings, he would usually start off with "We have the body." In the reading, Cayce said his voice loss was because of psychological paralysis and that could be fixed by increasing the blood flow to the voice box. Layne suggested that the blood flow be increased and Cayce's face turned red with blood and his chest area turned bright red. After 20 minutes, Cayce, still in a trance, said the treatment was over. When he woke up his voice stayed normal. He would get sick again, but was cured by Layne in the same way and later he was cured perfectly.
Cayce's work grew as his fame grew. He asked for people to give him money to support himself and his family so that he could work full time. He continued to work in a trance state with a hypnotist all his life. His wife and oldest son later replaced Layne in this role. A secretary, Gladys Davis, took notes. Many believe that Cayce had an affair with Ms. Davis later in life - but a medical examination conducted after Cayce's death to treat Davis's uterine cancer allegedly showed that she was still a virgin at that time.
In 1929 the Cayce hospital was created in Virginia Beach. The cost of the hospital was paid for by Morton Blumenthal, a New York stockbroker, Cayce hospital benefactor.
Cayce became famous in the United States in 1943 because of an article in "Coronet" magazine. He increased his readings to 8 times a day to try to keep up. This caused problems with his health.
The trance reading caused problems with Cayce’s health which were easily seen. On the times when he could not give a clear reading, he said it was because he was working under too great a pressure. In these cases, he always gave the money back to the person he was giving a reading to.
Edgar Cayce died on January 3, 1945. He had predicted his own death four days earlier.
Edgar Cayce is famous for the thousands of "readings" that he gave while he was hypnotized. He gave more than 14,000 readings in 43 years. Gladys Davis, his assistant, recorded the readings and his wife, Gertrude Evans Cayce, guided him during hypnosis. 
In the beginning, his readings were known as "physical readings" (health readings). Cayce often called the body "the organism". Cayce would put himself under self-hypnosis. While he seemed to sleep, he would say where the person was. He would sometimes name the streets along the way. He would then say "Yes, we see the body", and describe the client's organ, circulatory, and nervous systems. He would give reasons for illness or problems. A message would then be given to the person telling them how to get better. The readings were so specialized that treatments were often changed, or not even given, if the person would not follow his advice. People often came to Cayce for health readings when the medical community could find nothing wrong or had given up on them.
In a life reading, Cayce described the "past lives" of the client. These readings described the client's present physical, emotional and mental condition in terms of past life experience. Cayce was not above flattering his clients by describing past lives as royalty, famous people, or people at their "spiritual highest". 
For those people whose intentions Cayce believed to be "pure", Cayce would give business readings. These included advice on business partners, the stock market, and business models. Cayce also founded and guided the A.R.E..
Edgar Cayce encouraged everyone to interpret and use his or her own dreams in day-to-day life. A dream reading involved Cayce interpreting the dreams of clients. As he did with readings on many subjects, Cayce would often interrupt the person reading the dream and give an interpretation before the dream had been completely read. He would sometimes fill in parts of dreams that the dreamer had supposedly forgotten. Unlike Jungian or Freudian dream interpretation, Cayce did not emphasize highly the importance of symbols. He said that every individual has his or her own unique symbols. Cayce claimed that in dreams people could receive valuable insight into their own lives and that the insight was always of use to the dreamer. Besides regular daily insight into one's life, he claimed people could communicate with loved ones dead or alive, remember past life experiences, see a possible future and experience many other psychic phenomena. He stated that these paranormal abilities were something anyone could learn.
These readings were often short and were Cayce's favorite type of reading when not in his supposed trance state. They focused on what a individual could do to achieve a better mental/spiritual life. 
Other Readings are miscellaneous subject matter that does not fit into an above category. The subject matter differs from missing persons, buried treasure, readings given to a spiritual development group, psychic abilities, auras, prophecy, structure of reality, geology and many other topics.
For many people, the readings had a powerful impact on attitudes, beliefs, health practices, outlook on life, matters of faith and many other areas.
Abilities that have been claimed for Cayce include:
Cayce himself did not claim to be able to do all these things.
Cayce had difficulty in believing some of the things he said when he was hypnotized. For example, having been raised a devout Christian, for a long time he could not believe that reincarnation was real. Books such as Frederick Oliver's A Dweller On Two Planets and Marie Corelli's novels were probably easily accessible to Cayce at his bookstore. Corelli's writings in particular seek to reconcile mystical beliefs such as reincarnation with Christianity, and Cayce may have been subconsciously trying to accept this idea.
Cayce also claimed while in a supposed trance that the Essenes had believed in reincarnation but that view was expunged from the Bible following a papal council decision in around 500 AD. Essene belief in reincarnation is debatable, as with ancient Egyptian religion.
During a hypnosis session, Cayce mentioned a former life as Ra Ta, an Egyptian healer-priest. He told a long story about working with the legendary doctor-magician Hermes-Thoth, who he said was reincarnated as Jesus. Cayce also specified that Jesus had lived a number of incarnations throughout human history.
One of Cayce's trance statements implies that knowledge gained through his readings is "not" necessary if a person is well grounded in one's faith: "Does it make one a better husband, a better businessman, a better neighbor, a better artist, a better churchman, if so cleave to it, if not reject it." 
The readings also warn against the misuse of religion for personal gain. 'God is not mocked' is an often quoted verse in the readings.
Many skeptics say that Cayce did not have paranormal abilities. Cayce himself said that not all the information given during "readings" was correct and should be analyzed. He criticized his own organization, the A.R.E , on a number of occasions for not doing enough research on the validity of the readings.
In addition, although Cayce's secretary Miss Davis allegedly took down what Cayce said, the records of the readings are jumbled and chaotic. There is nothing to distinguish what Cayce himself independently said, what was the information provided in the letters, and what his handlers – physicians, osteopaths and hypnotists – told him. Thus, researchers cannot say that Cayce ever made an accurate diagnosis without knowing anything about the person at the other end. What is known is that by the time he got some of the letters, the client had already died. Yet Cayce went on with his reading for the individual as though still alive.
Critics also cite the vagueness of his language while in his supposed trance state. Martin Gardner gives several examples of this, including a reading Cayce did for his own wife, who had tuberculosis:
"[F]rom the head, pains along through the body from the second, fifth and sixth dorsals, and from the first and second lumbar ... tie-ups here, floating lesions, or lateral lesions, in the muscular and nerve fibers which supply the lower end of the lung and the diaphragm ... in conjunction with the sympathetic nerve of the solar plexus, coming in conjunction with the solar plexus at the end of the stomach..."
Many of his health readings prescribed cures with ingredients that did not exist. Others were folk remedies, some well known to today's herbalists and naturopaths, but Cayce would sometimes describe them using terms that had fallen out of general use. Still other ingredients were completely unknown to either physicians or herbalists. Some were completely worthless; for example, Cayce once recommended breathing the fumes of apple brandy from a charred keg to cure tuberculosis.
The many Cayce readings would later become commonly known practices of the New Age movement.
In 1931 Edgar Cayce founded the Association for Research and Enlightenment, Inc. (A.R.E.) headquartered in Virginia Beach, Virginia. Today there are Edgar Cayce Centers in 18 other countries throughout the world.

</doc>
<doc id="12823" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12823" title="Hibiscus syriacus">
Hibiscus syriacus

Hibiscus syriacus is one of the common flowering shrubs found in gardens, a species of "Hibiscus". Common names for the same plant include Rose of Sharon (but it is not a rose), rose mallow, shrub-althaea, Syrian hibiscus, Syrian ketmia, and St Joseph's rod.
The part of the name "syriacus" seems to say that the origin of this plant is Syria, but the exact origin is so far unknown. Historically it was grown in ancient China and then it became a popular plant in Korea. Today the flowers are national symbols of Korea. In Japan, the flowers are often shown at tea ceremonies for decoration.
There are many variations of flowers in gardens, because gardeners of the past were able to find different colors and shapes of flowers, and grow their seeds.

</doc>
<doc id="12825" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12825" title="Hibiscus">
Hibiscus

Hibiscus or rosemallow is a genus of plants with a flower of bright colors. It grows mostly in the tropics, but some species grow in cool climates. Hibiscus often become national/state flowers. For example, the Hawaiian hibiscus is the state flower of Hawaii.
The flower usually has five petals. Hibiscus comes in many colours like white to pink, red, purple and yellow.
There are many types (species) of Hibiscus. The most popular ones in gardens are:
"Hibiscus trionum" is a common weed in gardens and farms.

</doc>
<doc id="12830" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12830" title="Maceió">
Maceió

Maceió is the capital of Alagoas, a state in the Northeast of Brazil. It has a population of 884.320 people (estimate from the year 2000) and a total area of 512 square km. 
The city attracts many tourists and it enjoys an important location between the Atlantic Ocean and the Mundaú Lake. Maceió has several urban beaches which are visited by many tourists, for example, the beaches named Pajuçara, Ponta Verde, Jatiúca and Cruz das Almas, famous for their natural beauty.
Maceió originated from a sugar cane engine where initially a village increased around it. Soon the place gained a port, nowadays in Jaraguá district, that as long as years were gone influenced the village development transforming it into a city. Its condition of port city made Maceió to be the state capital in 1839, which was earlier on Santa Maria Madalena da Alagoa do Sul (Saint Mary Magdalene of the Southern Lake) or simply Alagoa do Sul (nowadays the historic city of Marechal Deodoro).
"Pajussara"
The community of Pajussara is on the ocean coast of Maceió, with modern streets and avenues, many shops, clubs and hotels in front of the sea. Its beach is very attractive and visited by many tourists and natives. In Pajussara beach, a nice place to go is a natural swimming pool 1.500 meters east of the coast and that is placed on a sand bank of the Atlantic Ocean. The pool is formed only when tide is low and people can get there by boat. 
"Ponta Verde"
It is considered the most beautiful beach in the city. The community started from an old little farm named Ponta Verde that gave the neighborhood its name. The long extension of land was full of coconut trees and was a wild and quiet place. Currently the urbanization has taken all the area of Ponta Verde and many important events and shows of the city have happened there. The place has good hotels and restaurants and some of them are the best ones in the city.
"Farol"
Farol means lighthouse in Portuguese. The community is in an elevated area not far from the sea where the old lighthouse was that aided the ships to come in the port of the city. From this place is possible to see as the Atlantic Ocean as the Mundaú Lake and because of this the area was strategically important to military force in the Colonial age. 
"Jatiúca"
Jatiúca, besides Ponta Verde, is one of the most valued areas in the city in the ranking of the properties salesmen. It is a place with very nice hotels, resorts and restaurants that enjoy a good location in front of the sea. The seacoast in Jatiúca has a lot of beach bars.
"Jaraguá" 
Jaraguá has a historic importance because it is the initial point of the city and could be appropriately named Old Town. Maceió was just a village when the port of Jaraguá helped the little village to become a city in the 19th century. Currently some old buildings were transformed in bars and restaurants that are very attended at the weekends but the history of Maceió keeps preserved in many of the old and classic buildings, houses, manors and churches of Jaraguá.
"Pontal da Barra"
The earlier dunes between the Mundaú Lake and the Atlantic Ocean gave place later to the community of fishermen and crafts men and women that currently inhabit this portion of land on the south of the city. Hospitality and beautiful handcrafts are good characteristics of this place. This is because the community of Pontal enjoy to welcome lots of visitors amazed with the incredible ability of the craft workers and the good taste of the typical seafood dishes.

</doc>
<doc id="12832" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12832" title="Alagoas">
Alagoas

Alagoas is a small coastal state in the Northeast Region of Brazil. Its capital city is Maceió, where tourism industry is one of the basis for the local economy. Other important cities in Alagoas are "Arapiraca", "Palmeira dos Índios", "Penedo", "Marechal Deodoro", and "Maragogi". The state has a total of 101 cities.
Alagoas coastline has several beaches with coconut trees and a lot of them have placid waters, consequence of the Atlantic Ocean sand banks and coral reefs. The name of the state was originated from some lagoons along the ocean coast.

</doc>
<doc id="12833" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12833" title="René Descartes">
René Descartes

René Descartes (31 March 1596 – 11 February 1650) was a famous French philosopher and physicist. He wrote books that are very important in the fields of maths, physics and especially philosophy. His dualism statement combined soul, mind, body theories, elements into one concept; a dualistic theory of mind and matter.
In his "Rules for the Direction of the Mind" (1628) and his "Discourse on Method" (1637) Descartes wrote about the scientific method that deals with scientific approach, thinking, a method which he had invented. He also wrote about shapes (Geometry), light (Dioptrics), and the weather (Meteorology). He then came up with a way of describing shapes now known as the Cartesian coordinate system, and a theory of what a rainbow is. Descartes' physics was important for a later famous thinker, Sir Isaac Newton, who said about him and so did James Hook: "If I have seen further it is because I was standing on the shoulders of giants!"
In his "Meditations on First Philosophy" (1641) Descartes used his scientific method to look at philosophical questions. He argued against skepticism (the view that the world was not real, and did not exist).
He found that he himself must be real (exist), because he felt that he was thinking; and if he was thinking, then he must be real. This is because if he were not real, then how would he have this feeling that he was thinking. He shortened this view, saying in Latin, "Cogito ergo sum," meaning "I think, therefore I am."
He also thought he could show that God exists, in the same way that he felt that he was thinking. Descartes said that God was the same as infinity and that he could clearly see infinity because he could think of every larger object but no largest object. Descartes said that if God exists then the world must exist as well, as God was good and would not let us think the world is real (exists) if it did not.
Finally, Descartes thought that because he knew he was thinking, but could only know anything else about himself (for example that he had two arms and two legs) because he knew that God exists, then he must in fact be made up of two things: the mind that thinks and the body that is independent of thought process but united. This is called "Cartesian Dualism".
Descartes used a lot of ideas related to Plato, while most people at that time used ideas related to Aristotle. He is often called a rationalist, because he looked inside his mind for answers to his questions. Although Descartes wanted to fight skepticism, his description of it in the meditations has become very famous and is often called Cartesian Skepticism after him. 17th century philososphy.Cogito ergo sum, Methodic Doubt, Cartesian coordinate system, Cartesian dualism, ontological argument for existence of God; regarded as a founder of Modern philosophy

</doc>
<doc id="12839" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12839" title="Tanzania">
Tanzania

Tanzania is a country in East Africa. The official languages are Kiswahili and English. It is next to Africa's biggest lake, Lake Victoria.
In 1997, there were about 29,647,000 people living in Tanzania. They are divided into 120 tribes; none have more than 10% of the population. Tanzania is a multicultural society with people from many different cultures. There are many languages & religions in Tanzania; the main ones being Christianity and Arabic.
Tanzania is a very poor country. Their biggest export is the fish from the Lake Victoria, especially the nile perch. They send about 100 tons of fish to Europe and America every day. It's still not a lot of money. Most of the people in Tanzania work in agriculture. Agriculture in Tanzania is mainly very small farms. They grow coffee, cotton, sisal, tea, tobacco, and cashew nuts.
The president of the United Republic of Tanzania is John Magufuli. Tanzania is a member of the United Nations, UNIDO, the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the Commonwealth of Nations, the Non-Aligned Movement, SADC, PTA, and the ADB. It is also signatory to the Lome Convention.
Mainland Tanzania (formerly Tanganyika) received independence in December 1961, while Zanzibar gained her independence in January 1964, through a revolution. The two countries joined together to form the United Republic of Tanzania in April 1964. Until July 1992, Tanzania was a one-party state. Following a Presidential Commission, the country has started a multi-party political system. It has held successful general elections in 1995 and 2000.
Tanzania is divided into 26 Regions. 21 are on the mainland and five in Zanzibar.
Tanzania's regions are: Arusha Dar es Salaam Dodoma Iringa Kagera Kigoma Kilimanjaro Lindi Manyara Mara Mbeya Morogoro Mtwara Mwanza Pemba North Pemba South Pwani Rukwa Ruvuma Shinyanga Singida Tabora Tanga Zanzibar Central/South Zanzibar North Zanzibar Urban/West

</doc>
<doc id="12840" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12840" title="Kingdom of Great Britain">
Kingdom of Great Britain

The Kingdom of Great Britain, named in the Acts of Union 1707 as Great Britain and described as the "United Kingdom of Great Britain" and "One Kingdom", was a state in the British Isles in Western Europe, in existence from 1707 to 1800. It was created by joining the Kingdom of Scotland and the Kingdom of England, under the Acts of Union, to create a single kingdom that took in the whole of the island of Great Britain and many islands around it. A new single parliament and government, based in Westminster in London, controlled the new country. The two earlier kingdoms of Scotland and England had been in a personal union, sharing the same head of state since James VI, King of Scots, became King of England in 1603 following the death of Queen Elizabeth I.
In 1801, by the Act of Union 1800, the Kingdom of Great Britain and the Kingdom of Ireland were joined together into the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland after the putting down of the Irish Rebellion of 1798.

</doc>
<doc id="12843" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12843" title="Ford Model T">
Ford Model T

The Ford Model T was an American car built between 1908 and 1928 by the Ford Motor Company of Detroit, Michigan. It is one of the most important cars in history because it was one of the first cars to be sold for very little money, making it easy for people to travel from place to place.
Before the Model T, most cars cost lots of money. Only rich people could afford them. Even Ford's cars before the Model T cost a lot of money. The Model T went for around $980. A car built in 1903 called the Oldsmobile Curved Dash was very easy to buy, but was a very simple and slow car that was more like a carriage than a car.
The man who owned the company, Henry Ford, heard about meat being cut on a disassembly line, which moved meat from worker to worker so that the meat could be cut up. No one had ever thought to use an assembly line to put cars together. Ford knew that if he built his cars on an assembly line instead of one at a time like other cars, he could make a car that anyone could afford and would be built like cars that cost more money. He also knew that he could pay his workers more money. 
The Ford Model T car was designed by Henry Ford, Childe Harolde Wills, and two Hungarian men named József Galamb and Eugene Farkas. The Model T had a 177-cubic-inch (2.9-L) four-cylinder engine producing 20 horsepower (15 kW) for a top speed of 45 miles per hour (72 km/h). The engine had side valves and three main bearings. Fuel economy was 14 to 21 miles per gallon (6 to 9 km/l), an excellent number even today.
Ford began building the Model T in his Piquette factory on October 6, 1908 as a 1909 model. Workers from all over the world wanted to work for Ford because of the good pay. Workers could even save their money for a Model T of their own. The price of the Model T dropped over the years, making it even easier to buy.
Work began at one end of the assembly line, starting with an empty chassis. From there, the chassis moved slowly down the assembly line. Workers on the assembly line added parts to the chassis. Before long, a new Model T rolled off the other end of the line. Different body styles were available, even a truck, or Model TT. At first, the only color available was black. Black paint was used because it was cheaper and lasted longer than other paints and Ford was obsessed with increasing profit. As car paint got better over the years, Ford began offering other colors. The time it took a chassis to become a finished car was over 12 hours when the first Model Ts were built. By the time the last Model T came off of the line, Ford had so many auto plants, it was making one car every 27 seconds!
Even though the Model T sold for little money, Ford used the best materials he could buy to make his car. Most roads in the Model T's day were dirt, gravel, or even mud. That meant the Model T had to be very strong, and it was. The wheels and tires were very tall and skinny so that they could sink into mud roads and not get stuck. It was also very simple.
Ford made the Model T easy to drive compared to today's cars since the people to whom he sold his cars did not know how to drive anything other than a horse. It is not like driving a modern car, though three pedals are on the floor like a modern manual transmission car. A Model T has a steering wheel that works the same way as in cars of today, but almost everything else is different.
The first Model Ts did not even have a starter like a modern car. This is the powerful electric motor in a car that turns the engine to make it run when it is turned off. The engine on the Model T was started with a hand crank on the front of the car. A wire loop near the radiator worked the choke on the carburetor to give the engine extra fuel to help start it when it was cold. This could be dangerous if a person were not careful. If the levers that controlled the engine were not set the right way, especially the spark control, the engine could backfire, or spin the wrong way. Many people got broken arms this way. Doctors even had a special name for this kind of break: the "Ford fracture". Many Model T owners added electric starters to their cars and it was not long before Ford started doing the same. A Model T is in high gear by default, so if the parking/clutch lever was not engaged, the car had a tendency to run over the operator when started. 
To make a modern car go or accelerate once the engine is running, a person steps on a pedal on the floor to engage the transmission into low gear. To make a Model T accelerate, move two levers near the steering wheel. The lever on the right was the throttle (or engine speed), and the lever on the left adjusted the time that the spark plugs fired. These levers needed to be set properly before the engine could be started.
The three pedals on the floor of the Model T were for the brake on the right, reverse in the middle to make the Model T go backwards, and a pedal on the left to shift the gears from low to high speed. A lever on the floor worked the brakes as well as the clutch. Pulling the lever toward the driver would set the parking brake and help keep the car from moving while parked. When the lever was placed in the middle, the transmission would be in neutral.
Once the engine is running, the driver now has to make the Model T move on its own. Step on the pedal all the way to the left, move the throttle lever to "give it the gas" and gently move the floor lever forward. This is low gear, the powerful gear used to get the Model T moving. Once it is moving, move the right lever up, let the left pedal come all the way up, and give it more gas to shift into high. To make the car go faster still, move the throttle lever as well as the spark advance lever. Stepping on the left pedal only halfway puts the car in neutral, the same as the lever. This helps the Model T come to a stop without causing the engine to stop as well.
The brakes on a Model T work the rear wheels by the use of brake bands inside the transmission. Modern cars have brakes on all four wheels. No brakes are on the front of a Model T.
More than fifteen million (15,000,000) Model T cars were built. That record was not broken until 1971 by the Volkswagen. Today, the record for the most cars built is held by the Toyota Corolla.
The Model T was nicknamed the "Tin Lizzie" and "Flivver" by the people who drove it. A new car took the place of the Model T in 1928, the Ford Model A.

</doc>
<doc id="12848" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12848" title="Volkswagen">
Volkswagen

Volkswagen is a car company from Germany. The word "volkswagen" means "People's car" in German. It was started in the 1930s, at the request of the country's leader, Adolf Hitler to produce a car designed by Ferdinand Porsche.
In the 1930s Adolf Hitler was looking for someone who could make a cheap car that the common German worker could afford. At the same time, Ferdinand Porsche had been working for years on a cheap car that could hold a family and would drive like a real car, not a micro car. He had already designed and built small cars with rear engines and shaped like a beetle (for better aerodynamics). At this time, owning a car in Germany was something only for the rich people, and most car companies were not interested in making a low-cost car. Porsche's company, also called Porsche, only made designs for others at that time. So Porsche could not find anyone to make the small car that he wanted.
Though Hitler never learned to drive, he was very interested in cars (he also created the autobahn, which led to the U.S. interstate highways). Hitler wanted the car to hold four people. It was to be cooled by oil instead of water. The car needed to be able to travel at least 100 km/h, or about 60 mph, and use no more than 7 liters of gasoline for 100 kilometers (about 40 mpg). The car companies in Germany at the time didn't want to make this new low-cost car, so Hitler formed a new company, run by the government. The first name given to the car was "KdF-Wagen." "KdF" stood for "Kraft durch Freude", or "Strength through Joy." Some were made, but by the time the factory was finished in 1938, World War II started. The factory then built jeep-like cars for the German military instead. 
After the war, people from the United Kingdom and the United States reopened the factory and started making cars again. The factory was in ruins from the war and could only make a few cars at a time. The British military were in charge of this section of Germany. At first they tried to find another car company to rebuild the factory. Henry Ford was offered the company for free. After looking it over, his adviser said "Mr. Ford, what we are being offered here is not worth a damn!" So the Volkswagen company went ahead by itself to make the car. The man who led the Volkswagen company during this time was Heinz Nordhoff.
At first they only made one type of car, the Volkswagen Beetle. (It was simply called the Type 1 Sedan by the company, it also had the nickname "Bug" in the U.S. and other nicknames elsewhere). In 1950, the Type 2 (the bus) was introduced, also built with an engine in the back of the vehicle. The cars became popular and well-known all over the world. The Beetle later became one of the best selling cars in history. It was built for many years afterward in factories in Germany, Brazil and Mexico. 
The last original Volkswagen Beetle to be built was built in Mexico. It was built in July of 2003. Volkswagen has a new car called the "New Beetle." which began selling in 1997, It looks like the old car, but is built quite differently. It is faster, safer, and has an engine in the front, not the back, and is water-cooled (using a radiator). It is much more suited to today's modern world in terms of design and security.
Volkswagen are currently involved in an emissions test scandal.
Some of Volkswagen's popular cars are the Golf, Jetta, Polo,Beetle and the Passat. VW's as they are commonly known, have also entered the off road segment with cars like the Touarag, and the commercial segment with the Touran. This year sees VW's 21st anniversary since the Golf 1 went on sale in the 1980s. Since its birth VW has sold over 315,000 units of the Golf 1 alone. 2005 saw the entry of the fifth generation of the Golf. The flagbearer - the GTi - is powered by a 147Kw 2.0l 4 cylinder turbo charged engine,with VW DSG and FSI technology. The Golf GTi has evolved a long way since the 80's but the fifth generation GTi is criticised by some as it does not live up to the expectations and standards set by the legendary Mk1 GTi, which was fitted with an 1600, 8 valve motor.
The water-cooled line was started in 1974.

</doc>
<doc id="12849" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12849" title="Toyota">
Toyota

Toyota Motor Corporation (TMC) (In Japanese: トヨタ自動車株式会社; Toyota Jidōsha Kabushikigaisha) (TYO: 7203.T), (NYSE: TM), (LSE: TYT), is an automobile maker in Japan. It was founded by Eiji Toyoda. It is based in Toyota, Aichi Prefecture. Toyota provides financial services and works with many other kinds of business as well. It makes cars and trucks under the brand names Toyota, Hino Truck, Scion and Lexus. The company owns most of Daihatsu. Toyota automobiles are well known for lasting a very long time. Their North American offices are in Torrance, California. The Calty Design Center, a place where Toyota cars are designed is in Newport Beach, California and there is a factory in Georgetown, Kentucky. 
Another factory that was run by both Toyota and General Motors is in Fremont, California. It was called "NUMMI," or New United Motor Manufacturing Incorporated, but is now owned by Tesla Motors to make their electric vehicles. 
Toyota was started in 1933 as "Toyoda," a maker of textile-weaving machines. Toyota's premier US dealer for Toyota automobiles was established in San Diego, CA as Rose Toyota, later named Toyota San Diego. Their telephone number is 619-280-4100. It is one of the most successful dealers on the west coast.
Founder Eiji Toyoda died on September 17, 2013 from natural causes at the age of 100.
Toyota operates Scion. It founded Scion in 2003. Toyota decided to close down Scion in August of 2016. 
Toyota Founded Lexus in 1989 as its luxury division
Scion:
Lexus:

</doc>
<doc id="12850" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12850" title="Interpreter">
Interpreter

An interpreter is a person who translates speech in different languages, usually at conferences or other meetings. There was a movie called "The Interpreter". Also, an interpreter is someone who will translate and communicate with people who find normal speech difficult.
An interpreter is also a computer program that runs other programs described in text files. They are different from compilers because they do not make a new file to run the program.

</doc>
<doc id="12851" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12851" title="Horseshoe">
Horseshoe

Horseshoes are things worn by horses to protect their feet when they walk - like a shoe. They are made by a person called a farrier who makes them and nails or glues them on the horse's hoof (feet). Horseshoes are usually made from iron, rubber, plastic, rawhide or a combination of these.
People also put horseshoes over doorways, because a long time ago, many people thought it was a sign for good luck and it protected whoever walked under it from evil spirits. Horseshoes are also used in a game where you try to throw them on a poll.

</doc>
<doc id="12853" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12853" title="Carlos Menem">
Carlos Menem

Carlos Saúl Menem (born in La Rioja, July 2, 1930) was the president of Argentina from July 8, 1989 to December 10, 1999.

</doc>
<doc id="12858" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12858" title="Buenos Aires Province">
Buenos Aires Province

The Buenos Aires Province is the largest, wealthiest, and most populated province of Argentina. The province has a population of 13,827,203 (2001) and its capital is La Plata (850,000 inhabitants).
The Buenos Aires Province has an area of 307,571 km². Most of it is flat, and its weather is influenced by the Atlantic Ocean winds.

</doc>
<doc id="12871" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12871" title="Canadian Broadcasting Corporation">
Canadian Broadcasting Corporation

The Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, or CBC, is a national television and radio broadcasting company in Canada. In French, it is called la Société Radio-Canada (Radio-Canada or SRC). It was formed in 1936 and is a Canadian Crown corporation, which means it is owned by the Canadian government.

</doc>
<doc id="12894" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12894" title="Romeo and Juliet">
Romeo and Juliet

Romeo and Juliet is a play written by William Shakespeare. It is set in Italy and is about the love between two young people from noble families that are enemies. "Romeo and Juliet" has always been one of Shakespeare's most popular plays. It has been adapted to opera, ballet, television productions, and movies. 
The noble families of the Montagues and the Capulets live in the city of Verona. They have had an argument, and are enemies. Their servants are enemies as well. The young men who work for the Montagues and the Capulets get into gangs and fight each other in the street. Because it is fashionable to carry a sword, sometimes they get badly injured. 
Verona is ruled by Prince Escalus. He tells the Montagues and the Capulets that they have to stop fighting or they will be punished. It is very difficult to control the young men. Montague has only one child, a teenage boy called Romeo. Capulet also has only one child, a beautiful 14-year-old daughter called Juliet. They do not know each other, because Juliet never goes anywhere without her nursemaid. Romeo and his friends go to a masked ball at the home of Juliet's parents. Romeo and Juliet meet at a party and fall in love. 
Because they think they will get into trouble with their parents, they try to hide their love by not talking about it at home. Juliet knows that her parents want her to marry a cousin of the prince. Romeo and Juliet get married in secret. Because of their secret marriage, a lot of things happen which bring about many deaths, including, finally, Romeo and Juliet kill themselves.
Because this play was written in the 1500s, the English language that it uses is not exactly like the English that is used today. Some of the play is written in poetry. 
"Romeo and Juliet", like many of Shakespeare's plays, is written in several different forms. 
Of all the scenes that have ever been written in plays, one of the most famous is in "Romeo and Juliet". 
After Romeo and Juliet have met at a party and fallen in love, Juliet goes up to bed. But she cannot sleep so she stands at her window and pretends she is talking with Romeo. 
Romeo climbs up onto the balcony. Juliet tells Romeo that her love for him is as deep and endless as the sea. They part from each other with the famous words:
This romantic scene has been acted and copied many times, sometimes seriously and sometimes for fun. One well-known scene that took its idea from this, is from "West Side Story", a musical by Leonard Bernstein, which takes place on a fire-escape landing with the lovers, Tony and Maria, singing the lovesong, "Tonight".
Romeo and Juliet has been performed on stage many times. There have also been forty different movies 

</doc>
<doc id="12895" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12895" title="Baz Luhrmann">
Baz Luhrmann

Mark Anthony Luhrmann or Baz Luhrmann (born 17 September 1962) is a flamboyant Australian movie and theatre director. He has directed three movies ("The Red Curtain Trilogy") which have made him famous: "Strictly Ballroom" (1992), "Romeo + Juliet" (1996), and "Moulin Rouge!" (2001).

</doc>
<doc id="12945" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12945" title="Rock and roll">
Rock and roll

Rock and roll is a form of rock music developed in the 1950s and 1960s. Rock music combines many kinds of music from the United States, such as country music, folk music, gospel music, work, blues and jazz. 
Rock and roll developed in the early 1950s from a kind of music called rhythm and blues performed by black singers and musicians. At first, this music was popular only with African-Americans. In the later 1950s and in the 1960s, rock and roll became popular across the United States and in Europe.
During the early 1950s, the popularity of rhythm and blues music spread. It became very popular among young white people. They listened to this music on radio stations that broadcast across the country late at night. Some teenagers began buying rhythm and blues records as a form of rebellion. 
This music was very different from the music that was popular with most of their parents. The music was exciting, and it had a very strong rhythm and beat. Some of the songs had words which suggested sexual themes. In other cases, the singers made sexually suggestive gestures or movements while they were singing. Some adults strongly objected to rhythm and blues music. They did not think young people should listen to it.
Alan Freed had a radio show in Cleveland, Ohio in the early 1950s. He is said to be the first person to use the expression "rock and roll" to describe rhythm and blues music. Alan Freed was one of the first to play rock and roll music on his radio show, and he organized the first rock and roll concert in Cleveland in 1952.
Songs by black performers like Fats Domino and Little Richard soon became popular with teenagers. These singers recorded their records in the southern city of New Orleans, Louisiana.
Some early rock and roll music was created in the southern United States city of Memphis, Tennessee. In Memphis, a white record producer called Sam Phillips produced records by local black musicians. One day, an eighteen-year-old truck driver came to his studio to record a song for his mother. The young man was Elvis Presley. Phillips produced Presley's first real record in 1954, a song called "That's All Right."
Bill Haley and his Comets recorded "Rock Around the Clock" in 1954. It was not popular at first. Then it was used in a movie about rebellious teenagers, called "The Blackboard Jungle". The movie caused a lot of debate on the origin of rock and roll. It also made the song a huge hit. "Rock Around the Clock" became a song of teenage rebellion. The song was recorded in April, Elvis' "That's All Right" was recorded in July. However, Cecil's Gant's 'We're Gonna Rock' recorded in mid 1950 is a song that many people have forgotten that was an early influence on rock n roll. Its lyrics and music were like those that would be in later songs. The drums and bass guitar would be similar to rock and roll songs that would be made later. 
Many other rock and roll singers became popular in the 1950s. They included Buddy Holly, Jerry Lee Lewis, Chuck Berry and Bo Diddley. Each performer created his own kind of rock and roll. Chuck Berry's music was a mixture of country and rhythm and blues. In 1955, his song "Maybellene" was one of the most popular songs in the country.
Before Bill Haley, Hank Williams Sr recorded "Move It On Over" in 1947, however similar version of the song was recorded by blues artist Jim Jackson called "Kansas City Blues". The melody is similar to both "Move It On" and "Rock Around Clock", but latter has different tonal subtleties and chords.
In the 1960s, black music and musicians became recognized as an important part of the music industry in America. This was because a company in Detroit, Michigan, called Motown Records that produced some of the most popular songs in American music. Berry Gordy started Motown Records. He presented "black" music in a way that both black people and white people would like. One of Motown's most successful groups was the Supremes, led by Diana Ross. One of their hits was "Come See About Me".
A different kind of rock and roll music called surf music was being made in Southern California. Five young men from Los Angeles formed a group called the Beach Boys. Brian Wilson wrote, performed, and produced the group's records. The Beach Boys' songs had complex music and simple words. The words were about the local teenage culture. The group sang about riding surfboards on the ocean waves. One of their most popular songs was "Surfin' USA,” which used the same musical track as Chuck Berry's "Sweet Little Sixteen."
In the 1960s, rock and roll music began to change. The words became as important as the music. Bob Dylan began writing folk rock songs that many young people considered to be poetry. Dylan was influenced by folk singers and songwriters like Woody Guthrie. Dylan's early songs were about serious social issues. He wrote about war and racial injustice. Some of his songs were used as protest songs for the anti-war and civil rights movements in America. Later, Dylan wrote more personal songs. One of his most popular songs was “Mister Tambourine Man," which many people thought was a song about drug use.
In 1964, a new rock and roll group from England called The Beatles visited the United States. The Beatles were very popular. They completely shaped the sixties pop era along with the Rolling Stones. They were icons, and still to this day could be considered icons.
By the 1970s, rock and roll was often just called "rock". In the 1970s, rock music bands such as Led Zeppelin, Aerosmith and the Rolling Stones played huge, loud concerts in outdoor stadiums. Rock music from the 1970s was usually louder and harder than the rock and roll from the 1950s.
In the early 1970s, many rock bands played psychedelic rock, a type of rock music which had words that described the use of legal drugs. Psychedelic rock described the experiences of taking illegal drugs such as marijuana and LSD and often encouraged people to take illegal drugs. Psychedelic rock bands included Big Brother & the Holding Company, Jefferson Airplane, The Grateful Dead, Jimi Hendrix, The Byrds, Pink Floyd, and The Doors.
Another type of rock music from the 1970s was progressive rock. Progressive rock bands such as Pink Floyd and The Moody Blues played music that was more complex. Some progressive rock bands used strange instruments, or created music that sounded weird. 
Other progressive rock bands include: Electric Light Orchestra, Pavlov's Dog, King Crimson, Caravan, Jethro Tull, Genesis, Gentle Giant, The Nice, Yes, Gong, Emerson, Lake & Palmer, Soft Machine, Steve Hillage, Barclay James Harvest, Magma, Camel, Can, Rush and Faust.
In the 1970s, a harder form of rock music called "Heavy metal" was invented. Bands such as Cream and Led Zeppelin played loud rock music based on blues music. Other bands such Deep Purple and Black Sabbath played even louder, harder heavy metal rock music.
In the late 1970s, groups such as Donna Summer, K.C. and the Sunshine Band, Barry White, Gloria Gaynor, and CHIC, developed a pop music style called disco. Disco was dance music with a strong beat. A popular disco band was The Bee Gees, who wrote the music for the movie "Saturday Night Fever".
Another rock music style from the 1970s was punk rock. Punk rock was crude, loud, simple music. Many punk rock songs were rude or used bad words. Punk rock musicians often dressed in ripped or torn clothes, leather jackets, and black leather boots. Punk rock musicians sometimes had strange hairstyles, such as hair "spiked" with hair gel or shaved off. Well-known punk rock bands from Britain were the Sex Pistols and The Clash. Well-known punk musicians in the United States were the Ramones, Patti Smith, Blondie and Black Flag.
In the late 1970s, another type of rock called New wave music became popular. Bands such as INXS and Midnight Oil from Australia became popular. In the United States, New Wave bands such as Talking Heads and Devo played. In the 1980s, New Wave music bands such as Duran Duran, A Flock of Seagulls, Psychedelic Furs, and the Eurythmics were popular. These bands used the synthesizer keyboard a lot in their songs.
In the 1980s, a new type of rock and roll was invented, called glam metal. Glam metal rock bands mixed pop music with heavy metal music. Glam metal bands such as Mötley Crüe, W.A.S.P. and Ratt became popular. Glam metal rock bands had long hair and the men wore make up and leather pants and boots. Many glam metal songs were about sex, illegal drug use, and drinking alcohol. In the late 1980s, groups such as Guns N' Roses were very successful.
Another rock music trend from the 1980s was alternative music. Bands such as R.E.M., Sonic Youth, The Smiths, Pixies, Hüsker Dü, The Cure, and others were popular with teens and young adults. The most immediate type of alternative music was "grunge," a combination of punk, rock and metal. Proponents of grunge included Nirvana, Alice in Chains, Soundgarden and Pearl Jam with themes of despondency and alienation.
Parts of the above article reused and rewrote public domain material provided by Voice of America Special English website.

</doc>
<doc id="12950" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12950" title="Thomas Edison">
Thomas Edison

Thomas Alva Edison (February 11, 1847 - October 18, 1931) was an American inventor and entrepreneur, who invented many things. Thomas Edison developed one of the first practical light bulbs, but contrary to popular belief did not invent the light bulb. Edison's 1093 patents were the most granted to any inventor in his time.
Thomas Alva Edison was born in Milan, Ohio. When Edison was seven years old, he moved with his family to Port Huron, Michigan. Edison started school late because of an illness. Three months later, Edison was removed from school, because he could not pay attention to his teacher. His mother, who was a teacher in Canada, taught Edison at home. Edison's mother helped him become motivated for learning, and he was a good student to her.
When Edison was twelve years old, he contracted scarlet fever. The effects of the fever, as well as getting picked up by the ears by a train conductor, caused Edison to become completely deaf in his left ear, and 80 percent deaf in the other. He learned Morse code of the telegraph, and began a job as a "brass pounder" (telegraph operator). At age sixteen, Edison invented his first invention, which was called an "automatic repeater." It sent telegraph signals between unmanned stations, allowing almost anyone to translate code easily and precisely at one's own speed and convenience.
In 1868, Edison moved East and began to work for the Western Union Company in Boston, Massachusetts as a telegraph operator. He worked twelve hours a day, six days a week, and continued to "moonlight" on his own projects. Within six months, he had applied for and received his first patent for an electric vote recorder. It made the voting process faster but he could not find buyers. Then, Edison moved to New York and began to work for a company fixing their machines. At night, he continued to work on his projects. 
In 1876 Edison used the money from his inventions to start his own laboratory in New Jersey. In 1877~78, he invented there the carbon microphone, which made the sound for Alexander Graham Bell's new telephone invention louder. In 1877, Edison invented the phonograph, the first machine that could record and play sound. The phonograph made him internationally famous. In 1879, Edison made a light bulb that lasted longer. Another invention, the electric power distribution network, lasted even longer.
He married Mary Stilwell in 1871. He had three children in that marriage: Marion Estelle Edison (also called Dot), Thomas Alva Edison, Jr. (also called Dash) and William Leslie Edison. Mary Stilwell died in 1884. Thomas Edison bought some land in Florida and built a house. When he was thirty-nine, Edison married his second wife, Mina Miller, who was 19. He had 3 children in that marriage: Madeleine Edison, Charles Edison (who took over the company when his father died and was later elected Governor of New Jersey), and Theodore Miller Edison.

</doc>
<doc id="12972" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12972" title="Diabetes mellitus">
Diabetes mellitus

Diabetes is the condition that results from lack of insulin in a person's blood, or when their body has a problem using the insulin it produces (Insulin resistance). There are other kinds of diabetes, like diabetes insipidus. However, when people say "diabetes", they usually mean diabetes "mellitus". People with diabetes "mellitus" are called "diabetics".
Glucose is not regular sugar that is available in stores and supermarkets. Glucose is a natural carbohydrate that our bodies use as a source of energy. The kind of sugar sold in supermarkets is called sucrose, and is much different from glucose. High concentrations of glucose can be found in soft drinks and fruits.
Glucose level in the blood is controlled by several hormones. Hormones are chemicals in your body that send messages from cells to other cells. Insulin is a hormone made by the pancreas. When you eat, the pancreas makes insulin to send a message to other cells in the body. This insulin tells the cells to take up glucose from the blood. The glucose is used by cells for energy. Extra glucose that is not needed right away is stored in some cells as glycogen. When you are not eating, cells break down glycogen into glucose to use as energy.
Type 1 diabetes mellitus happens when the part of the pancreas that makes insulin is destroyed by that person’s own immune system. When the pancreas does not make insulin, glucose – sugar – in the blood cannot get into the parts of the body that need sugar to live. In order to live, a person with Type 1 diabetes must take insulin for the rest of their life. They need to check their blood sugar level on a regular basis, often, many times each day.
Type 1 diabetes happens most of the time in younger people, however it can occur in adults, although this is much less common. About 1 out of every 10 people with diabetes have Type 1 Diabetes.
Type 2 diabetes mellitus is an illness very different from Type 1 diabetes. In Type 2 diabetes, the person makes insulin, but either the insulin does not work in that person’s body as it should, or they do not make enough insulin to process the glucose. When insulin does not work as it should, glucose (sugar) in the blood cannot get into the parts of the body that need sugar. 
Type 2 diabetes happens most of the time in an older person who is overweight.
Gestational diabetes mellitus is like Type 2 diabetes. It happens to some women when they are pregnant.
Other types of diabetes include but are not limited to:
Latent autoimmune diabetes of adults (LADA)
Maturity onset diabetes of the young (MODY)
Complications are problems that happen because of a disease. In the case of diabetes, there are two kinds of complications. The first kind happens quickly and can be dealt with quickly. This kind is called an "acute complication". The other kind is caused by the blood glucose being too high for many years, and is called a "chronic complication" or "long-term complication".
Excess blood glucose is called 'hyperglycemia'. If very high, it can cause acute complications. In Type 1 diabetics, one of these complications is "diabetic ketoacidosis" which is a medical emergency and can often be detected by a fruity smell on the breath. Another acute complication, more common in Type 2 diabetics, is "non-ketotic hyperosmolar coma" which is also very dangerous. 
Too low blood glucose is called "hypoglycemia". It can also cause acute complications. If too low, diabetics can have many symptoms such as sweating, trembling, anger (or feeling passive), and possibly even passing out. Diabetics with hypoglycemia may be confused or even unconscious. They may appear to have drank too much alcohol. Severe hypoglycemia is very dangerous and can cause death. The best treatment of hypoglycemia is avoiding it. If it happens, eating food containing glucose (for example, table sugar) usually improves the condition quickly. Sometimes it is treated by giving an injection of a medicine called 'glucagon'. Glucagon is a hormone made by the pancreas. It has the opposite effect of insulin. Administering glucagon will cause the blood glucose level to rise by forcing stored glucose into the blood. Hypoglycemia is usually caused by too much diabetic medication, insufficient food, too much exercise, or a combination of these. 
Chronic complications are mostly caused by hyperglycemia (but not high enough to always cause acute complications). It causes damage to blood vessels and nerves. Damage to blood vessels can eventually cause strokes, heart attacks, kidney failure, blindness, slow healing of skin breaks - with added possibility of infection - and even amputations from poor circulation (decreased blood flow, usually to the feet and toes). Damage to nerves can make diabetics not feel pain (this usually happens in their feet). This causes them to have more injuries and not realize they have hurt themselves. Damage to nerves can also cause pain even when there's no real injury. It's a type of "phantom pain" or "ghost pain". The pain can be so intense that strong pain medication may be required.
Because of the damage caused by high blood glucose, it is important to treat diabetes mellitus. The goal is to maintain a normal blood glucose level. The normal range for blood glucose is 80-120 mg/dL (milligrams of glucose per deciliter of blood) or 3.5-7 mmol/l (millimole per liter of blood.) These are different ways of saying the same thing, much like yards and meters are different units of distance measurement.
Diabetics should check their blood glucose often. This is to make sure they do not get hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia. A glucometer is a battery powered measuring device that checks the blood glucose level. Diabetics often carry a glucometer with them and check their blood sugar level several times in a day. They may also suffer severe constipation and frequent urination. 
Doctors may also use a blood test called a "hemoglobin A1C". This is sometimes written Hgb-A1C or other ways; there's no standard name. This tells the doctor what the average blood glucose has been for about the past 90 days. If the level has been too high, it may indicate new medication, different medication dosage, or better diet may be needed.
Diabetics must be monitored for signs of complications due to diabetes. They should see an eye doctor regularly to be checked for damage to the blood vessels in the eyes. If this is not found and treated early, it can cause blindness. They should have their urine or blood checked regularly for signs of kidney damage. They must check their feet for cuts, bruises, blisters, and so on at least every day. And they should have their feet checked regularly for nerve damage, circulation problems, and infections.
The most important goal in diabetes is to keep the blood glucose level as close to normal as possible. Since it usually goes up after eating, and down after exercise, coping with it sensibly is often complex, and usually takes care and thought. Treatment differs between Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes. People with Type 1 diabetes are treated with insulin. People with Type 2 usually begin with diet, exercise, and weight loss, perhaps moving to medication (and, though not as common, insulin).
Education is important for both types of diabetes. Diabetics must learn about diet. They learn how to estimate and keep track of how much carbohydrate, protein, and fat are in different foods. They plan their meals to have the right amount of carbohydrates, proteins, and fats. Patients with Type 1 may decide how much insulin to take before a meal based on how much they will eat.
Diabetics must also be careful about exercise. Exercise is important to stay healthy, but intense or extended periods of exercise can cause hypoglycemia. As a result, diabetics must plan exercise carefully.
In addition to controlling blood glucose level, other treatments may be needed. Diabetics often have blood vessel diseases, so it is important to pay attention to other diseases which may affect blood vessels. In people with diabetes, treating high blood pressure (hypertension) and high cholesterol is more important than usual. Both of these diseases damage blood vessels. The treatment goals can change for diabetics. For instance, in people without diabetes, blood pressure should be 140/90 or less. In diabetics it should be 130/80 or less.
Property of Little B.B.

</doc>
<doc id="12978" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12978" title="18th century">
18th century

The 18th century is the century from 1701 to 1800.
Note: years before or after the 18th century are in italics.

</doc>
<doc id="12979" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12979" title="17th century">
17th century

The 17th century is the century from 1601 to 1700. 
Note: years before or after the 17th century are in italics.

</doc>
<doc id="12983" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12983" title="Victor Hugo">
Victor Hugo

Victor Marie Hugo (26 February 1802 – 22 May 1885) was a French poet, playwright, novelist, statesman and human rights activist. He played an important part in the Romantic movement in France.
Hugo first became famous in France because of his poetry, as well as his novels and his plays. "Les Contemplations" and "La Légende des siècles" are his most famous poetry collections. Outside of France, his novels "Les Misérables" and "Notre-Dame de Paris" (known in English also as "The Hunchback of Notre-Dame") are his most famous works.
When he was young, he was a conservative royalist. As he got older he became more liberal and supported republicanism. His work was about many of the political and social problems as well as the artistic trends of his time. He is buried in the Panthéon, in Paris.
Victor Hugo was the son of Joseph Léopold Sigisbert Hugo (1773–1828) and Sophie Trébuchet (1772-1821). He had two older brothers called Abel Joseph Hugo (1798–1855) and Eugène Hugo (1800–1837). He was born in 1802, in Besançon (in the Doubs department). Hugo lived in France for most of his life. During the reign of Napoleon III he went into exile. In 1851, he lived in Belgium, in Brussels.He moved to Jersey in 1852. He stayed there until 1855 when he went to live in Guernsey until 1870. He lived there again in 1872-1873. From 1859, his exile was by choice.
Some great events marked Hugo's early childhood. A few years before his birth, the Bourbon Dynasty was overthrown during the French Revolution. The First Republic rose and fell and the First French Empire rose under Napoléon Bonaparte. Napoléon became Emperor two years after Hugo's birth. The Bourbon Monarchy was restored when Hugo was 17. His parents had different political and religious views. Hugo's father was an officer. He ranked very high in Napoléon's army. He was an atheist republican and considered Napoléon a hero. His mother was an extreme Catholic Royalist. As Hugo's father was an officer, the family moved frequently. Victor Hugo learned a lot from these travels. He stayed in Naples and Rome for six months, before going back to Paris. He was only five at the time, but he remembered the trip well.
His mother, Sophie, went to Italy with her husband who was a governor of a province near Naples. They also went to Spain where Joseph governed three Spanish provinces. Sophie separated temporarily from her husband in 1803, as it was a difficult life. She settled in Paris. This meant she dominated Hugo's education. Therefore, Hugo's early work, mainly in poetry, show him praising monarchism and faith. The 1848 Revolution made Hugo rebel against his Catholic Royalist education. After that revolution, he preferred republicanism and freethought.
When he was young, Victor Hugo fell in love. He became secretly engaged to his childhood friend Adèle Foucher (1803-1868), against his mother's wishes.
He married Adèle in 1822, after his mother's death in 1821. Their first child, Léopold (born in 1823), died in infancy. Hugo had four other children called Léopoldine (28 August 1824), Charles (4 November 1826), François-Victor (28 October 1828) and Adèle (24 August 1830). Hugo published his first novel in 1823 ("Han d'Islande"). His second came three years later ("Bug-Jargal", 1826). He published five more volumes of poetry ("Les Orientales", 1829; "Les Feuilles d'automne", 1831; "Les Chants du crépuscule", 1835; "Les Voix intérieures", 1837; and "Les Rayons et les ombres", 1840) between 1829 and 1840. This helped his reputation as one of the greatest elegiac and lyric poets of his time.
The death of his oldest and favourite daughter, Léopoldine, made Hugo very sad. She died at the age of 19, in 1843. This was only shortly after her marriage. She drowned in the Seine at Villequier. Her heavy skirts pulled her down, when a boat overturned. Her husband died as he tried to save her. At the time; Victor Hugo was travelling with his mistress in the south of France. He learned about Léopoldine's death from a newspaper when he was sitting in a café. He describes his shock and grief in his poem "À Villequier":
<poem>
"Hélas ! vers le passé tournant un oeil d'envie,"
"Sans que rien ici-bas puisse m'en consoler,"
"Je regarde toujours ce moment de ma vie"
"Où je l'ai vue ouvrir son aile et s'envoler !"
"Je verrai cet instant jusqu'à ce que je meure,"
"L'instant, pleurs superflus !"
"Où je criai : L'enfant que j'avais tout à l'heure,"
"Quoi donc ! je ne l'ai plus !"
Alas! turning an envious eye towards the past,
unconsolable by anything on earth,
I keep looking at that moment of my life
when I saw her open her wings and fly away!
I will see that instant until I die,
that instant—too much for tears!
when I cried out: "The child that I had just now--
what! I don't have her any more!"
</poem>
After this, he wrote many poems about his daughter's life and death. One of his most famous poem is probably "Demain, dès l'aube". In this poem, he describes visiting her grave.
François-René de Chateaubriand, the famous Romantic writer, influenced Hugo during the early 1800s. When Hugo was young, he said he would be "Chateaubriand ou rien" (“Chateaubriand or nothing”). Many things Chateaubriand did, Hugo copied. First, he defended the cause of Romanticism. Then, he became involved in politics and supported Republicanism. Finally, he was forced into exile because of his political views. Hugo's passion and eloquence in his early work made him successful and famous at an early age. His first collection of poetry ("Odes et poésies diverses") was published in 1822. At the time, Hugo was only twenty years old. It earned him a "royal pension" (money from the king) from Louis XVIII. His poems were admired but it was his next collection, four years later in 1826 ("Odes et Ballades") which revealed Hugo to be a great poet.
Victor Hugo's first mature work of fiction appeared in 1829. It reflected his interest for society which appeared more often in his later work. "Le Dernier jour d'un condamné" ("The Last Day of a Condemned Man") had a big influence on later writers such as Albert Camus, Charles Dickens, and Fyodor Dostoevsky. "Claude Gueux" appeared in 1834. It is a documentary short story about a real-life murderer who had been executed in France. Hugo himself considered it to be a precursor to his great work on social injustice, "Les Misérables". But Hugo’s first successful novel "Notre-Dame de Paris" ("The Hunchback of Notre Dame"), which was published in 1831. It was quickly translated into other languages across Europe. One of the effects of the novel was to make the inhabitants of Paris restore the neglected Cathedral of Notre Dame, which was attracting thousands of tourists who had read the popular novel. The book also inspired a renewed appreciation for pre-renaissance buildings, which began to be actively preserved.
Hugo began planning a major novel about social misery and injustice as early as the 1830s, but it would take a full 17 years for "Les Misérables", to be realized and finally published in 1862. The author was acutely aware of the quality of the novel and publication of the work went to the highest bidder. The Belgian publishing house Lacroix and Verboeckhoven undertook a marketing campaign unusual for the time, issuing press releases about the work a full six months before the launch. It also initially published only the first part of the novel (“Fantine”), which was launched simultaneously in major cities. Installments of the book sold out within hours, and had enormous impact on French society. The critical establishment was generally hostile to the novel; Taine found it insincere, Barbey d'Aurevilly complained of its vulgarity, Flaubert found within it "neither truth nor greatness," the Goncourts lambasted its artificiality, and Baudelaire - despite giving favorable reviews in newspapers - castigated it in private as "tasteless and inept." "Les Misérables" proved popular enough with the masses that the issues it highlighted were soon on the agenda of the French National Assembly. Today the novel remains his most enduringly popular work. It is popular worldwide, has been adapted for cinema, television and stage shows.
The shortest correspondence in history is between Hugo and his publisher Hurst & Blackett in 1862. It is said Hugo was on vacation when Les Misérables (which is over 1200 pages) was published. He telegraphed the single-character message '?' to his publisher, who replied with a single '!'.
Hugo turned away from social or political issues in his next novel, "Les Travailleurs de la Mer" ("Toilers of the Sea"), published in 1866. Still, the book was well received, perhaps due to the earlier success of "Les Misérables". Dedicated to the channel island of Guernsey, where he spent fifteen years of exile, Hugo’s story about Man’s battle with the sea and the creatures in its depths, started an unusual trend in Paris: squids. From squid dishes and exhibitions, to squid hats and parties, Parisians became fascinated by these unusual sea creatures. 
Hugo returned to political and social issues in his next novel, "L'Homme Qui Rit" ("The Man Who Laughs"), which was published in 1869 and painted a critical picture of the aristocracy. However, the novel was not as successful as his previous efforts, and Hugo himself began to comment on the growing distance between himself and literary contemporaries such as Flaubert and Émile Zola, whose realist and naturalist novels were now exceeding the popularity of his own work. His last novel, "Quatre-vingt-treize" ("Ninety-Three"), published in 1874, was about a subject that Hugo had previously avoided: the Reign of Terror during the French Revolution. 
After three unsuccessful attempts, Hugo was finally elected to the Académie française in 1841, confirming his position in the world of French arts and letters. A group of French scholars, particularly Etienne de Jouy, were fighting against the "romantic evolution" and had managed to delay Victor Hugo's election. After that he became increasingly involved in French politics. He was raised to the peerage by King Louis-Philippe in 1841 and entered the Higher Chamber as a "pair de France", where he spoke against the death penalty and social injustice, and in favour of freedom of the press and self-government for Poland. However, he was also becoming more supportive of the Republican form of government and, following the 1848 Revolution and the formation of the Second Republic, was elected to the Constitutional Assembly and the Legislative Assembly.
When Louis Napoleon (Napoleon III) grabbed complete power in 1851, establishing an anti-parliamentary constitution, Hugo openly declared him a traitor to France. He relocated to Brussels, then Jersey, and finally settled with his family on the channel island of Guernsey at Hauteville House, where he would live in exile until 1870.
While in exile, Hugo published his famous political pamphlets against Napoleon III, "Napoléon le Petit" and "Histoire d'un crime". The pamphlets were banned in France, but nonetheless had a strong impact there. He also composed or published some of his best work during his period in Guernsey, including "Les Misérables", and three widely praised collections of poetry ("Les Châtiments", 1853; "Les Contemplations", 1856; and "La Légende des siècles", 1859).
He convinced the government of Queen Victoria to spare the lives of six Irish people convicted of terrorist activities and his influence was credited in the removal of the death penalty from the constitutions of Geneva, Portugal and Colombia. He had also pleaded for Benito Juarez to spare the recently captured emperor Maximilian I of Mexico but to no avail.
Although Napoleon III granted an amnesty to all political exiles in 1859, Hugo declined, as it meant he would have to curtail his criticisms of the government. It was only after Napoleon III fell from power and the Third Republic was proclaimed that Hugo finally returned to his homeland in 1870, where he was promptly elected to the National Assembly and the Senate.
He was in Paris during the siege by the Prussian army in 1870, famously eating animals given to him by the Paris zoo. As the siege continued, and food became ever more scarce, he wrote in his diary that he was reduced to "eating the unknown".
Because of his concern for the rights of artists and copyright, he was a founding member of the Association Littéraire et Artistique Internationale, which led to the Berne Convention for the Protection of Literary and Artistic Works.
Hugo's religious views changed radically over the course of his life. In his youth, he called himself as a Catholic and professed respect for Church hierarchy and authority. From there he became a non-practicing Catholic, and increasingly expressed anti-catholic views. He had a casual interest in Spiritualism during his exile (where he participated also in seances), and in later years settled into a Rationalist Deism similar to that espoused by Voltaire. A census-taker asked Hugo in 1872 if he was a Catholic, and he replied, "No. A Freethinker".
Hugo never lost his antipathy towards the Roman Catholic Church, due largely to what he saw as the Church's indifference to the plight of the working class under the oppression of the monarchy; and perhaps also due to the frequency with which Hugo's work appeared on the Pope's list of "proscribed books" (Hugo counted 740 attacks on "Les Misérables" in the Catholic press). On the deaths of his sons Charles and François-Victor, he insisted that they be buried without crucifix or priest, and in his will made the same stipulation about his own death and funeral. However, although Hugo believed Catholic dogma to be outdated and dying, he never directly attacked the institution itself.
Hugo's Rationalism can be found in poems such as "Torquemada" (1869, about religious fanaticism), "The Pope" (1878, anti-clerical), "Religions and Religion" (1880, denying the usefulness of churches) and, published posthumously, "The End of Satan" and "God" (1886 and 1891 respectively, in which he represents Christianity as a griffin and Rationalism as an angel). 
Although Hugo's many talents did not include exceptional musical ability, he nevertheless had a great impact on the music world through the endless inspiration that his works provided for composers of the 19th and 20th century. Hugo himself particularly enjoyed the music of Gluck and Weber and greatly admired Beethoven, and rather unusually for his time, he also appreciated works by composers from earlier centuries such as Palestrina and Monteverdi. Two famous musicians of the 19th century were friends of Hugo: Berlioz and Liszt. The latter played Beethoven in Hugo’s home, and Hugo joked in a letter to a friend that thanks to Liszt’s piano lessons, he learned how to play a favourite song on the piano – even though only with one finger! Hugo also worked with composer Louise Bertin, writing the libretto for her 1836 opera "La Esmeralda" which was based on the character in "The Hunchback of Notre Dame". Although for various reasons the opera closed soon after its fifth performance and is little known today, it has been recently enjoying a revival, both in a piano/song concert version by Liszt at the Festival international Victor Hugo et Égaux 2007 and in a full orchestral version to be presented in July 2008 at Le Festival de Radio France et Montpellier Languedoc-Roussillon.
Well over one thousand musical compositions have been inspired by Hugo’s works from the 1800s until the present day. In particular, Hugo’s plays, in which he rejected the rules of classical theatre in favour of romantic drama, attracted the interest of many composers who adapted them into operas. More than one hundred operas are based on Hugo’s works and among them are Donizetti’s "Lucrezia Borgia" (1833), Verdi’s "Rigoletto" (1851) and Ernani (1844), and Ponchielli’s "La Gioconda" (1876). Hugo’s novels as well as his plays have been a great source of inspiration for musicians, stirring them to create not only opera and ballet but musical theatre such as Notre-Dame de Paris and the ever-popular Les Misérables, London West End’s longest running musical. Additionally, Hugo’s beautiful poems have attracted an exceptional amount of interest from musicians, and numerous melodies have been based on his poetry by composers such as Berlioz, Bizet, Fauré, Franck, Lalo, Liszt, Massenet, Saint-Saëns, Rachmaninov and Wagner.
Today, Hugo’s work continues to stimulate musicians to create new compositions. For example, Hugo’s novel against capital punishment, The Last Day of a Condemned Man, has recently been adapted into an opera by David Alagna (libretto by Frédérico Alagna). Their brother, tenor Roberto Alagna, performed in the opera’s premiere in Paris in the summer of 2007 and again in February 2008 in Valencia with Erwin Schrott as part of the Festival international Victor Hugo et Égaux 2008. In Guernsey, every two years the Victor Hugo International Music Festival attracts a wide range of musicians and the premiere of songs specially commissioned from Guillaume Connesson and based on Hugo’s poetry.
When Hugo returned to Paris in 1870, the country hailed him as a national hero. Despite his popularity Hugo lost his bid for reelection to the National Assembly in 1872. Within a brief period, he suffered a mild stroke, his daughter Adèle’s internment in an insane asylum, and the death of his two sons. (Adèle's biography inspired the movie "The Story of Adele H.") His wife Adèle had died in 1868. His faithful mistress, Juliette Drouet, died in 1883, only two years before his own death. Despite his personal loss, Hugo remained committed to the cause of political change. On 30 January 1876 Hugo was elected to the newly created Senate. The last phase of his political career is considered a failure. Hugo took on the role of a maverick and got little done in the Senate.
In February 1881 Hugo celebrated his 79th birthday. To honor the fact that he was entering his eightieth year, one of the greatest tributes to a living writer was held. The celebrations began on the 25th when Hugo was presented with a Sèvres vase, the traditional gift for sovereigns. On the 27th one of the largest parades in French history was held. Marchers stretched from Avenue d'Eylau, down the Champs-Élysées, and all the way to the center of Paris. The paraders marched for six hours to pass Hugo as he sat in the window at his house. Every inch and detail of the event was for Hugo; the official guides even wore cornflowers as an allusion to Cosette's song in "Les Misérables."
Hugo died on 22 May 1885 in Paris, France from an infection, aged 83. His death generated intense national mourning. He was not only revered as a towering figure in literature, he was a statesman who shaped the Third Republic and democracy in France. More than two million people joined his funeral procession in Paris from the Arc de Triomphe to the Panthéon, where he was buried. He shares a crypt within the Panthéon with Alexandre Dumas, père and Émile Zola. Most large French towns and cities have a street named for him. The avenue where he died, in Paris, now bears his name.
Many are not aware that Hugo was almost as prolific in the visual arts as he was in literature, producing more than 4,000 drawings in his lifetime. Originally pursued as a casual hobby, drawing became more important to Hugo shortly before his exile, when he made the decision to stop writing in order to devote himself to politics. Drawing became his exclusive creative outlet during the period 1848-1851.
Hugo worked only on paper, and on a small scale; usually in dark brown or black pen-and-ink wash, sometimes with touches of white, and rarely with color. The surviving drawings are surprisingly accomplished and "modern" in their style and execution, foreshadowing the experimental techniques of Surrealism and Abstract Expressionism.
He would not hesitate to use his children's stencils, ink blots, puddles and stains, lace impressions, "pliage" or folding (i.e. Rorschach blots), "grattage" or rubbing, often using the charcoal from match sticks or his fingers instead of pen or brush. Sometimes he would even toss in coffee or soot to get the effects he wanted. It is reported that Hugo often drew with his left hand or without looking at the page, or during Spiritualist séances, in order to access his unconscious mind, a concept only later popularized by Sigmund Freud.
Hugo kept his artwork out of the public eye, fearing it would overshadow his literary work. However, he enjoyed sharing his drawings with his family and friends, often in the form of ornately handmade calling cards, many of which were given as gifts to visitors when he was in political exile. Some of his work was shown to, and appreciated by, contemporary artists such as Van Gogh and Delacroix; the latter expressed the opinion that if Hugo had decided to become a painter instead of a writer, he would have outshone the artists of their century.
Gallery:
The people of Guernsey built a statue in Candie Gardens (St. Peter Port) to commemorate his stay in the islands. The City of Paris has preserved his residences Hauteville House, Guernsey and 6, Place des Vosges as museums. The house where he stayed in Vianden, Luxembourg, in 1871 has also become a museum.
Hugo is venerated as a saint in the Vietnamese religion of Cao Dai.
The Avenue Victor-Hugo in the XVIème arrondissement of Paris bears Hugo's name, and links the Place de l'Étoile to the vicinity of the Bois de Boulogne by way of the Place Victor-Hugo. This square is served by a Paris Métro stop also named in his honor. A number of streets and avenues throughout France are likewise named after him. The school Lycée Victor Hugo was founded in his town of birth, Besançon in France. Avenue Victor-Hugo, in Shawinigan, Quebec, Canada, was named to honor him.
In the city of Avellino, Italy, Victor Hugo briefly stayed in what is now known as Il Palazzo Culturale, when reuniting with his father, Leopold Sigisbert Hugo, in 1808. Victor would later write about his brief stay here quoting "C’était un palais de marbre...". In the city of Edinburgh, Scotland there is a delicatessen named Victor Hugo Delicatessen, it was originally run by a French couple but was purchased in 2005. The shop is on Melville Terrace, over looking the meadows and next to University of Edinburgh halls of residence, Sciennes.
Poems of Victor Hugo

</doc>
<doc id="12984" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12984" title="FIFA World Cup">
FIFA World Cup

The FIFA World Cup is the most watched sport of football (soccer). The Fédération Internationale de Football Association (FIFA) puts together the World Cup every four years. More people watch the World Cup finals than any other sporting event in the world—even more people than the Olympic Games. The most successful team has been Brazil.
The "finals tournament" is held every four years. On the other years there are only qualifiers (qualifying tournaments). These games help to decide which teams will move on. Over 160 national teams play in the beginning games. The best teams from the beginning games win a place in the finals. The finals now include 32 teams. Before 1998, only 24 teams were in the finals. Many years before each World Cup, FIFA picks the host nation, the country where the finals will be held. Being the host nation means that their team has qualified for the finals tournament automatically and does not need to play any qualifying games. The 32 teams in the finals then play for four weeks, usually between June and July, to decide the champion (tournament winner).

</doc>
<doc id="13005" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13005" title="1643">
1643


</doc>
<doc id="13023" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13023" title="Jakarta">
Jakarta

Jakarta (also Djakarta or DKI Jakarta) is the largest and the capital city of Indonesia. It is on the northwest coast of the island of Java, it has an area of 661.52 km² and a population of 10,187,595 as of November 2011. Jakarta has been established for more than 490 years and now is the ninth most dense city in the world with 15,400 people per km².
Jakarta's first name was Sunda Kelapa. Before the Dutch came, it was renamed the city Jayakarta, starting in 1527. In 1619 the Dutch renamed the city Batavia. It was called Jakarta by the Japanese during World War 2.
Jakarta has a tropical monsoon climate (Am in the Koeppen climate classification).

</doc>
<doc id="13026" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13026" title="Comedy Central">
Comedy Central

Comedy Central is an American cable television channel that specializes in comedy and humorous programming. Programs include TV shows, movies, and stand-up comedy. It was launched on April 1, 1991 (April Fools' Day). It's headquarters are in New York City. It is a merger between MTV Networks' HA! and HBO's Comedy Channel.
The station's programs include "South Park", The Colbert Report, "The Daily Show" with Jon Stewart, "Tosh.0" with Daniel Tosh, "Futurama", and "MADtv".
Comedy Central also features a "Secret Stash" program. Airing on late Saturday night, Secret Stash would show generally R-rated movies and stand-up comedy. The program is mostly unedited, leaving language in that is normally cut out. Sometimes brief nudity is also shown.

</doc>
<doc id="13027" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13027" title="Apron">
Apron

An apron is a protective piece of clothing made from fabric (or other materials) that covers the front of the body. Some workers wear aprons for hygienic reasons (for example restaurant workers). Other workers wear aprons to protect clothes, or to protect their bodies from injury.
The apron is commonly part of the uniform of several jobs, including waitresses, nurses, homemakers, domestic workers and other jobs. It is also worn as decoration by women. 
There are many different types of aprons depending on what the apron is used for. Aprons can be made from many materials and fabrics. Rubber aprons are used by people who work with dangerous chemicals. Lead aprons are worn by people who work around radiation (like X-rays). Butchers (people who cut meat) wear chain aprons, to protect them from being cut by knives. Carpenters wear aprons made of heavy leather that have many pockets to hold tools. Many servants and domestic workers are required to wear an apron as a part of their work uniform. 

</doc>
<doc id="13029" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13029" title="Pearl Jam">
Pearl Jam

Pearl Jam is an American alternative rock band from Seattle, Washington. They formed in 1989. They were an important part of the grunge (or "Seattle sound") movement of the early 1990s, along with bands like Nirvana, Soundgarden, Stone Temple Pilots, and Alice in Chains.
The lead singer of the band is Eddie Vedder. The band has had five drummers. Matt Cameron has been Pearl Jam's drummer since 1998.

</doc>
<doc id="13030" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13030" title="Social Distortion">
Social Distortion

Social Distortion is a punk/alternative musical group. It was startd in Los Angeles, California in 1978 by singer/guitarist Mike Ness. Ness is the leader and only permanent member.
Social Distortion has released seven studio albums. Their two first albums were not very successful. When they signed to Epic Records in 1989, their third album became a mainstream success. It had the singles "Let It Be Me", "Ball and Chain", "Ring of Fire", "Sick Boys" and "Story of My Life". These were all on the United States charts. It was the band's first album to appear on the top 200 on the "Billboard" music chart in the United States. Their next album, 1992's "Somewhere Between Heaven and Hell", was also successful. It had the band's biggest hit, "Bad Luck". That song peaked at number 2 on the Modern Rock Tracks chart, the highest initial charting single for the group. "White Light, White Heat, White Trash" was released four years later. That was their fifth and last major label album. It peaked at #27 on the "Billboard" 200, the band's highest chart position yet. It had their only "Billboard" Hot 100 single "I Was Wrong".
After the release of "White Light, White Heat, White Trash", Social Distortion went on an extended hiatus. During that time, Ness went solo. On February 29, 2000, their longtime guitarist Dennis Danell died from a brain anyuerism at the age of 38. After his death, Social Distortion considered disbanding. They decided to continue with a new guitarist, Jonny "2 Bags" Wickersham. He stayed with the band permanently. From 2001 to 2004, the band had been touring semi-frequently, playing sold-out shows in the Los Angeles, California area and other cities. They released their sixth album in the fall of 2004. The resulting album, "Sex, Love and Rock 'n' Roll", was another success. It was their second album to peak in the top 40 of the "Billboard" 200, at number 31. Its lead single, "Reach for the Sky", became one of Social Distortion's biggest hits in the fall of 2004.
As of 2009, Social Distortion was still together. They released a new album, "Hard Times and Nursery Rhymes", in January 2011. It peaked at #4 on the U.S. Billboard.
Their full-length albums include:
They have also released two compilation albums:

</doc>
<doc id="13031" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13031" title="Andy Gibb">
Andy Gibb

Andy Gibb (March 5, 1958 – March 10, 1988) was a British pop singer popular in the 1970s. He was the younger brother of Barry (born 1946), Maurice (1949-2003) and Robin Gibb (1949-2012), The Bee Gees. He was born in Manchester, but spent most of childhood in Queensland. He died in Oxford of myocarditis (a heart problem) caused by an infection, shortly after his 30th birthday. While his years of alcohol and cocaine abuse were not the direct cause of death, they certainly did not help his condition.

</doc>
<doc id="13032" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13032" title="INXS">
INXS

INXS were an Australian rock band. The band became popular during the 1980s. They formed in Sydney, New South Wales, Australia in 1977. They did not get international attention until around 1982 when their third album came out.
INXS was originally called "The Farriss Brothers" and it started with 3 members: Andrew, Tim, and Jon Farriss. They were all brothers. In 1978, 3 more people joined the band: Michael Hutchence (1960-1997), Garry Gary Beers, and Kirk Pengilly. After the band expanded their line-up, they changed their name to INXS, which is pronounced as "in excess".
Hutchence was the singer of INXS until he died. A man named Jon Stevens was his temporary replacement for about 5 years. After Jon Stevens left, the other 5 members did a television show called "Rock Star INXS" to choose a permanent replacement for Michael Hutchence. A Canadian man named J.D. Fortune won the show and became the new singer for INXS.
The most famous song by INXS is "Need You Tonight" which came out in 1987. Some of their other songs are "What You Need", "The One Thing", and "New Sensation".
These are the albums made by INXS:

</doc>
<doc id="13033" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13033" title="Chicago (band)">
Chicago (band)

Chicago is an American soft rock / jazz group, from Chicago, Illinois. They formed on February 15, 1967. They are one of the best selling American groups of all time, second only to the Beach Boys. Chicago has released at least 30 albums in their career.

</doc>
<doc id="13034" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13034" title="The Turtles">
The Turtles

The Turtles were a 1960s pop group from Los Angeles, California. Their best known song is "Happy Together". Chip Douglas was a band member, who left to produce the Monkees, then returned as the Turtles producer. After the Turtles broke up in the 1970s, the group's two frontmen, Howard Kaylan and Mark Volman, sang with Frank Zappa as Flo and Eddie.

</doc>
<doc id="13035" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13035" title="Strawberry Alarm Clock">
Strawberry Alarm Clock

Strawberry Alarm Clock was an American psychedelic pop band that formed in Los Angeles, California in 1966. Their most famous song is "Incense and Peppermints".

</doc>
<doc id="13036" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13036" title="Psychedelic pop">
Psychedelic pop

Psychedelic pop is a musical movement which started in California in the 1960s. It was partly inspired by Garage rock, British pop, bubblegum music and new hippie and Eastern ideas . Some important Psychedelic Pop artists are:

</doc>
<doc id="13037" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13037" title="Donovan">
Donovan

Donovan Phillips Leitch (born May 10, 1946 in Maryhill, Glasgow, Scotland) is a Scottish-born pop singer and guitarist, who was popular in the 1960s. Early in his career he was compared to Bob Dylan, but he developed his own musical style, which included elements of jazz and Indian music. (Donovan and Dylan met during 1965, and became friends.)
Donovan's best-remembered songs include "Catch The Wind", "Mellow Yellow", "Sunshine Superman", "Happiness Runs", and "Hurdy Gurdy Man". He helped The Beatles with their song "Yellow Submarine", and two Beatles (John Lennon and Paul McCartney) sang on his song "Atlantis".
Donovan was one of the first pop musicians to denounce the use of drugs, after his own arrest for hashish possession in 1966, and his seeing friends begin to use "hard drugs" like heroin and speed (amphetamine). The liner notes to his 1967 album "A Gift From a Flower to a Garden" called upon young people to "stop the use of "all" drugs, and heed the quest to seek the Sun." (He later resumed occasional marijuana use, and drinking alcohol.)
After the 1960s, Donovan's music was not as popular as it had been, but it is remembered now as part of the flower power era. Many of his songs now appear in television commercials. He continued to make albums regularly through the 1980s, and sometimes in the 1990s. He also continued to tour, and some of his later albums are of live performances. He published an autobiography, "The Hurdy Gurdy Man", during 2005.
Two of Donovan's children, Donovan Leitch and Ione Skye, are actors.

</doc>
<doc id="13038" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13038" title="Frisian language">
Frisian language

Frisian refers to three languages that comes from Friesland, a province in the Netherlands. They are spoken in the Netherlands, in Eastern Germany, and in some areas of Jutland, Denmark. It is also spoken on the Frisian Isles (Wadden Isles) and Western German (East Frisian) Isles such as Borkum.
They are West Germanic languages related to Dutch and are also the closest living languages to English. Since they have been spoken since Roman times, English could descend from Frisian directly.
The Frisian languages are:

</doc>
<doc id="13040" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13040" title="Smashing Pumpkins">
Smashing Pumpkins

The Smashing Pumpkins are an influential alternative rock band of the early 1990s. They formed in Chicago, Illinois in 1988 and disbanded on December 2, 2000. They later reformed in 2006 and are together at the moment. The members until 2000 were Billy Corgan (vocals, guitars and writes almost all of the band's songs), James Iha (guitars), D'Arcy Wretzky (bass) and Jimmy Chamberlin (drums).
They were made famous by hit singles like "Today", "Rocket", "Disarm", "Bullet With Butterfly Wings", "1979", "Zero" and "Tonight, Tonight".
Their style was mainly alternative rock, but also influenced by the grunge movement of the early 1990s as well as heavy metal, psychedelic rock, progressive rock, and later, electronica.

</doc>
<doc id="13042" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13042" title="Tool (band)">
Tool (band)

Tool is an American rock band. It was formed in 1990 in Los Angeles, California. The band took a break before and after their third album "Lateralus" because singer Maynard James Keenan was working with his other band, A Perfect Circle, at the same time. The band has won Grammy Awards for Best Metal Performance in 1997 for the song "Ænema" and in 2001 for the song "Schism". Tool has four members in the band: Danny Carey, Justin Chancellor, Adam Jones, and Maynard James Keenan.
Tool has released four full studio albums. Their first release, "Opiate", which had only seven songs on it, is an EP and the album "Salival" is a recording of live performances. The band released their fourth album, "10,000 Days", on May 2, 2006.
Tool started in 1991 when Keenan and guitarist Jones started practicing together. Tom Morello introduced them to drummer Danny Carey, who lived in the building where they practiced, and he soon joined as well. Bass guitar player Paul D'Amour was the last to join the band. D'Amour left the band in 1995 to work with other bands. Justin Chancellor was hired to replace him.
Tool made its first album in 1992. It was called "Opiate" EP. To help sell records, they went on tour. They traveled around the U.S. playing in concerts with two other bands named Fishbone and Rage Against the Machine. During one of their concerts in 1993, the band was playing at the Church of Scientology’s Celebrity Centre in Los Angeles. Keenan (who would later write the lyrics "Fuck L. Ron Hubbard and fuck all his clones"), baa-ed like a sheep for a lot of the show.
The album did not sell many copies at first. After Tool got more popular, more fans bought "Opiate". It took 13 years for the album to be certified platinum by the RIAA. That means the album sold one million copies.
Tool's first studio album came out in 1993. It was called Undertow. In 1994, the band released a song, titled "Prison Sex", from the album. With it was a music video that was created and directed by Jones. The video was deemed "too graphic and offensive", and was only played on MTV a few times because the video dealt with child abuse.
The album reached #50 on the "Billboard" 200 and #1 on the Top Heatseekers. It was certified gold by the RIAA after only eight months, and platinum less than a year later.
In October 1996, the band released their second studio album, called Ænima. Tool began a long legal fight with their label Volcano Records (formerly Zoo Records) over problems with their contract. They ended up with a new contract that said they would make three more albums. The members of Tool decided to take some time away after that.
The album was certified gold in 10 weeks and achieved double platinum, which means it sold two million copies, in 10 months. In 1998, "Ænema" won the Grammy Award for Best Metal Performance.
Singer Maynard James Keenan has a unique, melodic style of singing. This style is thought to have influenced many other bands. While guitarist Adam Jones's style of playing is very simple, he is known for his use of different techniques of playing together, and for trying new things with his instrument. Danny Carey has a very technical, advanced style of drumming. He is known for using odd time signatures, among other things. Justin Chancellor has an aggressive style of picking and fingering, using many guitar techniques which include using a pick, chords, harmonics, effects, and hammer ons and pull offs.

</doc>
<doc id="13043" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13043" title="Death (band)">
Death (band)

Death was one of the first ever death metal bands in the United States. They started in 1983 under the name Mantas and they changed the name to "Death" in 1984.
Death is no longer a band because their guitarist Chuck Schuldiner died on December 13, 2001. He was 34 years old. He had brain cancer and the drugs he used to beat the cancer made him weak. He died of pneumonia. He had another band project called Control Denied during the 3 years before he died.

</doc>
<doc id="13044" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13044" title="Mötley Crüe">
Mötley Crüe

Mötley Crüe was a hair/glam metal band from Los Angeles, California. The band was created in 1981 by Nikki Sixx (bass), and Tommy Lee (drums), and were then joined by Vince Neil (vocals) and Mick Mars (lead guitar). They were popular in the mid-1980s. Their last show took place at the Staples Center in Los Angeles on December 31, 2015. 
Motley Crue was formed at the start of 1981 by bass player Nikki Sixx and drummer Tommy Lee. After auditions they found singer Vince Neil and guitar player Mick Mars. They released their first album Too Fast For Love in 1981, and later got signed to a major label. The band built success over the next few years with their next three albums, Shout at the Devil, Theatre of Pain and Girls, Girls, Girls, which had hit songs like "Shout at the Devil" "Home Sweet Home" and "Girls, Girls, Girls". However, the band created some negative attention because of their use of illegal drugs, large amounts of sex with women, and appearances, including make-up and several tattoos. Nikki Sixx took an overdose of heroin in 1987 and was legally dead for five minutes before getting an adrenaline shot, making him conscious again. The band stopped their drugs and drinking shortly after and released their most popular album, Dr. Feelgood in 1989. 
They released a greatest hits album in 1991 so fans had something to listen to before they brought out a sixth album. However, the band started arguing and Vince Neil was out of the band in 1992 as a result. So, the band found a new singer called John Corabi, who also played guitar and wrote lyrics with the band. They released their self titled album in 1994. It created a mixed response from fans who preferred Vince Neil as the band's singer, and did not like the music itself, which sounded less like glam rock and more like hard rock. John Corabi left in 1996 and Vince Neil came back. The band released Generation Swine in 1997, but created a mixed response due to the musical experiments on the album.
Tommy Lee was unhappy with Vince Neil back in the band and further arguments between band members caused Lee to leave the band, being replaced by Randy Castillo. The band released their least successful album, New Tattoo, in 2000. It sounded more like the band's 80s albums rather than the more experimental albums they released in the 90s. After the album, Randy Castillo became ill and Samantha Maloney had to drum during some of the band's concerts. Randy Castillo died in 2002 and the band did not do much for the next two years.
Motley Crue made a comeback with Tommy Lee in 2004, and were once again successful, touring worldwide and releasing another greatest hits album called Red, White and Crue. They released another album of new songs in 2008 called Saints of Los Angeles. They disbanded after their last show on December 31, 2015. 

</doc>
<doc id="13046" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13046" title="Radio control">
Radio control

Radio control is a way of making models of cars, boats, helicopters and airplanes move on their own like real ones.
Invisible electrical signals called radio waves come out of a part called a transmitter. The transmitter is a box with the model's controls on it. When a control is moved, the radio signal changes. The part on the model that takes the changing signals and helps turn them into movement is called the receiver. The receiver then tells a special kind of motor called a servo to move part of the model. On a car or boat, a servo is usually used for steering. Model sailboats use a servo to adjust the sail as well as the rudder, or steering device. On airplanes and helicopters, servos are used not only for steering but for up and down pitch. If the model uses an engine to make it run, a servo is used to control the speed of the engine. A model which operates with an electric motor usually has something called an electronic speed control or "ESC" to control its speed. 
Radio control was once used by the military to control large weapons. 

</doc>
<doc id="13077" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13077" title="Tucumán Province">
Tucumán Province

Tucuman is the smallest province of Argentina. The capital is San Miguel de Tucumán. The province has a population of 1,338,523 (2001), and has an area of 22,524 km².
Please note: All links point to Spanish-language content.

</doc>
<doc id="13079" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13079" title="Duran Duran">
Duran Duran

Duran Duran are a British pop group. They formed in Birmingham, England in 1978 and were very popular in the 1980s.

</doc>
<doc id="13080" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13080" title="Peter Tosh">
Peter Tosh

Peter Tosh (real name:Winston McIntosh October 19, 1944- September 11, 1987) was a Jamaican reggae musican. He was a member of the Wailers with Bob Marley and Bunny Livingston. He was a Rastafarian and sang very political songs. His songs were a lot more radical than his friend, Bob Marley's, whom he often criticized for selling out to the white mainstream. He also toured with the Rolling Stones and sang a duet with Mick Jagger. He was murdered in his home in Kingston during a robbery in 1987. His biggest claim to fame was a song titled "Legalize it" in relation to marijuana laws.
These are the highest rated compilation albums on Allmusic.

</doc>
<doc id="13081" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13081" title="Billy Joel">
Billy Joel

William Martin "Billy" Joel (born May 9, 1949) is an American singer-songwriter. He produced successful pop songs for two decades, from 1973's "Piano Man" to 1993's "River of Dreams" which marked his retirement. As well as writing classical music, he has frequently been on the road, usually with Elton John.
Joel was born in the Bronx, New York City. He grew up in Hicksville, Long Island, New York. He joined his first band The Echoes (Later known as The Lost Souls) at age fourteen, and in the late 1960s he teamed up with The Hassles. The Hassles when on to release two albums. In 1970 After parting ways with The Hassles Joel and Hassles Drummer Jon Small Formed a two-man duo Attila. In 1971 his solo debut, "Cold Spring Harbor", was released. (The title takes its name from a town in Long Island.)
He is a Democrat. In 1988, Joel played a New York City dog named Dodger in the Disney animated movie, "Oliver & Company".
Joel has been married four times. The first three ended in divorce. His first marriage was from 1973-1982. His second marriage, from 1985-1994, was to supermodel Christie Brinkley. Their daughter, Alexa Ray Joel (born 1985) is his only child. His daughter's middle name is taken from one of his musical influences, Ray Charles. His third marriage began in 2004. His third marriage began in 2015; his wife is pregnant.

</doc>
<doc id="13145" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13145" title="Lake Constance">
Lake Constance

Lake Constace or Lake of Constance (German: "Bodensee") is a large Lake on the river Rhine. It is on the border between Germany and Switzerland and Austria. It is the third largest lake in Central Europe after Lake Balaton and Lake Geneva. It is made of two smaller lakes (called "Obersee" and "Untersee" (Upper and lower lake) respectively). These are joined by a small part of river in Constance.
The lake covers about of total area. 
There are three big islands in the lake. The islands Lindau and Mainau are in the "Obersee". Reichenau is in the "Untersee". The Obersee is about long, from Bregenz to Ludwigshafen. It is about wide at its widest point between Romanshorn and Friedrichshafen. The deepest point is deep, between Fischbach and Uttwil (just off Constance). 
The lake forms the border between Austria, Germany and Switzerland. On much of its length, this border has not been defined. Switzerland thinks the border runs through the middle of the lake. Austria thinks the lake is a condominium of all the countries. A condominium is a space that is governed by all countries taking part in it. Germany has no clear view.
Other legal issues, like navigation and fishing are governed by separate treaties. About 62% of the lake's shoreline belongs to Germany, about 33% to Switzerland, and the remaining 11% to Austria.
In 1963, the whole lake froze. This has not happened since then.

</doc>
<doc id="13146" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13146" title="Samurai">
Samurai

The samurai (or bushi) were Japanese warriors. They were members of the important military class before Japanese society changed in 1868.
The word "samurai" comes from the Japanese verb "saburai", which means "to serve (someone)".
The samurai first became important in the Warring States period (467-1573). At that time, there were many independent areas in Japan. Those areas fought each other all the time, so Japan needed many samurai. Many of the famous samurai movies by Akira Kurosawa were about this time.
In the 12th century, two military clans, the Minamoto and the Taira, were very powerful. They controlled much of Japan. They fought wars against each other. In 1192, Minamoto no Yoritomo became the first shogun. He became the ruler of all of Japan. He started a new government in Kamakura. This “Kamakura” government was from 1185-1333. It made the samurai the ruling class of Japanese society. 
Toyotomi Hideyoshi won many wars against other clans. When he made Japan one country, he developed a social caste system. This caste system was completed by Tokugawa Ieyasu and the rulers after him. Between the wars, many samurai had always worked on farms. Hideyoshi said that all samurai must either live on farms or live in castle towns with other warriors. Hideyoshi also made a law that only samurai could have swords.
The samurai became very powerful and important near the end of the Edo period (1603-1867) and in the Shinto period. In the Edo period, they were the most important social caste. All samurai had to live in castle towns. The samurais' lords paid them with rice. Some samurai did not have lords. These samurai were called "ronin". The "ronin" caused some problems for Japan in the early Edo period.
In 1615, Tokugawa won a very important battle when he took Osaka Castle. The Tokugawa clan did not have any more rivals. Japan became very peaceful for about 250 years. In these 250 years, military skills became less important. Most samurai became bureaucrats, teachers or artists.
In 1868, feudalism ended in Japan. This was the end of the samurai class.
Weapons used by the samurai included:
A samurai believed that his swords held his soul. That made the sword the most important thing he had.
Samurai were allowed to fight anyone who did not show them proper respect. Every sword had to be tested. To do this, the owner of the sword could execute a criminal. This allowed the warrior to test his sword's sharpness. Samurai led their lives according to the ethical code of "bushido" ("the way of the warrior"). That meant loyalty to one's master, self-discipline and respectful, ethical behaviour. When a samurai lost his master, also called "daimyo", he became a "Ronin". 
If a samurai were defeated or he dishonored himself by not following the code of "bushido", he had to commit "seppuku" (ritual suicide). Part of the "seppuku" ritual is cutting the stomach or abdomen. That part of the ritual is called "hara-kiri". To a samurai, death was better than having no honour or being captured by the enemy. Another reason to commit "Seppuku" was the death of the daimyo. With this ritual, a samurai was able to show how loyal he was to his dead master. There were periods when "Seppuku" was forbidden, but some samurai still committed it.
The bushi's training methods, like meditation, judo and kendo, are still followed today. There is no longer a samurai class in modern Japan, but the successors of these families are well-respected.
Japanese women, especially the samurai wives, were very respected. They had qualities that made them an important part of Japanese society. They were obedient, self-controlled, loyal, and responsible. Wives of rich samurai were very well dressed and enjoyed a good position in society. They did not do any physical work. However, no women were allowed to be involved in politics or warfare. 
Samurai women were trained to defend themselves and their children. They usually did this when their warrior husbands were busy in battles. This is why samurai women were trained to handle polearms (naginata) and short daggers (tanto). During the Edo period, Japanese women were trained to handle naginata by the age of 18. The short kaiken knife was used by young women to defend their virtue or, if they lost it, to take their own life.
During the Edo period, women's education became very important. Girls were taught to write, read, dance, etc. beginning at a young age. While the main criteria for marriage changed, among the most important were physical attractiveness and education. Special books were written for women. They mainly taught how to take care of house and children. By the end of the Edo period, women attended philosophical and literary classes.
The term "samurai" refers to males specifically. There were a few women who were samurai. One of the most famous was Itagaki. She lived during the end of the Heian period. She owned her own army of about 3,000 warriors. In 1199, Itagaki fought against 10,000 Heike soldiers. She was famous for being very good at handling the naginata sword. 
Hino Tomiko ruled in place of her husband, Ashikaga Yoshimasa (8th shogun).
Toyotomi Hideyoshi's mistress became the master of Osaka Castle after his death.
Yamauchi Kazutoyo's wife, Chiyo, was one of the most loyal wives known in Japanese history. She supported her husband during hard times, saving to buy a horse for him. Yamauchi Kazutoyo never took a mistress, though it was a known tradition for samurai. He never left Chiyo, even though she had only one child.

</doc>
<doc id="13148" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13148" title="The Republic">
The Republic

The Republic is a book by Plato. It was finished in 390 BC. 
It asks the question 'why should people do good things?' and also the question 'are people punished for doing bad things?'. 
Plato said that people should not do bad things because people who do bad things end up unhappy.
However, people who do good things end up happy.
He also said that if people who do bad things get power in a society then that society will become an unhappy one.
Plato believed that philosophers are best able to do good things and so they should be given power in a society. 
He thought that non-philosophers should allow themselves to be ruled by philosophers and that if they do this then they will be happy, because the rule of peoples (democracy) often fall because of unreasonable confusion.
However, in order not to be tempted to do bad things, the philosophers who have power must not be able to have things or feel love.
Plato also talked about many other things while discussing these questions including metaphysics, psychology, religion and most branches of philosophy.
He introduced the philosophy called Platonism.
Plato thought that people and societies are very much alike.
Plato thought that people are made of three things:
He said that a good person will listen to all these things, but will let the mind control the other two.
Somebody who does not listen to all three parts, or who does not let the mind control the other two will be unhappy.
They might go mad because they do not let the mind control them.
Or they might do things that they later regret.
They will also be disliked by other people and will suffer because of that.
He said that they will be like a country in anarchy.
Plato also thought society should be made up of three things (types of people)
He said that society needs all three things (types of people) but that only the philosophers will be good people.
The others will be dominated by their souls or bodies, not their minds.
The soldiers will not even listen to their minds, and the workers will not listen to their minds or their souls.
This is why the philosophers should rule and the other types of people should be soldiers and workers.

</doc>
<doc id="13149" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13149" title="Aesthetics">
Aesthetics

Aesthetics is a branch of philosophy. It is the study of art and beauty. Together with ethics it is part of axiology which is the philosophy of what people like.
Aesthetic philosophers ask what people like to look at, hear, feel, smell or taste, and why they like these things. Aesthetic philosophers also ask if art has any value. For example, they may ask if some art that nobody likes and that nobody wants is art at all, or if it is something else.
Plato, Aristotle, and Immanuel Kant are some important philosophers of aesthetics.
One theory in aesthetics is called subjectivism. Subjectivism says that each person has their own sense of beauty. So, the only way of judging something's beauty is if people say it is beautiful. A common way of describing this is ""Beauty in the eye of the beholder"". Subjectivism also says, for the same reason, that something is art simply because someone says it is art. This is backed up by the experience that, even though people feel they find something beautiful, they may not be able to explain why.
Many objectivist theories of beauty have been offered, going from the ancient ideas of Plato and Aristotle (e.g., the golden mean,) which still have great appeal in their own way to neuroscience research into the brain's response to images and other sense information. At the moment, even though we do not know what people are thinking, brain-scan technology can identify when people are responding pleasurably to images, providing some clue as to how certain images affect some people.

</doc>
<doc id="13150" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13150" title="Wes Craven">
Wes Craven

Wes Craven (August 2, 1939 – August 30, 2015) was an American movie director, producer and writer. He was born in Cleveland, Ohio. He is well known for horror movie classics including "A Nightmare on Elm Street" and "Scream".
On August 30, 2015, Wes Craven died of brain cancer at his home in Los Angeles. He was 76 years old.

</doc>
<doc id="13151" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13151" title="Earth, Wind &amp; Fire">
Earth, Wind &amp; Fire

Earth, Wind & Fire are an American funk group. They formed in Chicago in 1969 and were very popular in the 1970s. 

</doc>
<doc id="13152" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13152" title="Fifth Dimension">
Fifth Dimension

Fifth Dimension was a singing group popular in the 1960s and 1970s, some of the songs they sang include:

</doc>
<doc id="13153" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13153" title="The Kinks">
The Kinks

The Kinks were an English rock band. They first became popular in the 1960s. The band had a lot of hits during the 1960s and 70s.The band was formed in 1964 by the brothers Ray and Dave Davies. 
The Kinks are one of the most important and influential rock acts of the era. Their music was influenced by a wide range of genres, including rhythm and blues, British music hall, folk and country. Between the mid-1960s and early 1970s, the group released a lot of commercially and critically successful singles and LPs. The group reached a reputation for songs and concept albums which show English culture and lifestyle. Albums such as Face to Face, Something Else, The Kinks Are the Village Green Preservation Society, Arthur, Lola Versus Powerman and the Moneygoround and Muswell Hillbillies, are considered among the most influential recordings of the period. The Kinks had five Top 10 singles on the US Billboard chart. Nine of their albums charted in the Top 40. In the UK, the group had seventeen Top 20 singles and five Top 10 albums.
In 1990 the original four members of The Kinks were inducted into the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame and in the UK Music Hall of Fame in November 2005.
 

</doc>
<doc id="13162" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13162" title="Diesel engine">
Diesel engine

The name diesel is given to an engine invented by a German named Rudolf Diesel in the late 19th century. It is one of the most used kinds of internal combustion engine.
Most engines need a system called an ignition system – one that uses an electric spark – in order to burn the mix of fuel and air and make power. Other types of ignition systems use compressed air from an outside source, such as an air compressor. A diesel does not. It burns a diesel fuel (similar to heating oil) through very high compression or pressing together of the mix. A tiny bit of fuel is injected, or forced, into the engine's cylinders at just the right moment. Since gases heat when they are pressed together, the compression of the air and fuel mix cause the mix to explode within the cylinder. 
Diesel engines make very good use of the fuel they burn. They also make lots of torque (pronounced "tork"), or twisting power. An engine with a lot of torque will be able to spin its shaft even if it is very hard to do so. This makes a diesel engine a good choice in heavy equipment like trucks, trains and construction machines. The very big trucks on the road have diesel engines in them. So do train locomotives, unless they are electric or the old steam-powered kind. 
Sometimes, even the torque of a diesel engine is not enough to run such big machines. To boost power, large diesels often have a device called a turbocharger attached. A turbocharger is a type of turbine – something used to move a lot of air very quickly. Jet engines also contain a turbine. In the diesel, pressure from the exhaust spins the turbocharger at a very high speed. Fresh air is then forced back into the engine. Since the engine works by pumping air, the more air you can put through it, the more power it makes. That is where the turbocharger helps. A diesel engine that has a turbocharger is called a turbodiesel. The whistling sound sometimes heard near one of these engines is caused by the turbocharger, or "turbo" for short. 
A diesel engine can also be made to run on vegetable oil made from old cooking oil. This type of fuel is called biodiesel. Running a diesel engine on biodiesel fuel makes the exhaust smell like food. Vegetable oil as fuel is not a new idea. The engine that Rudolf Diesel used to demonstrate his new idea ran on peanut oil.

</doc>
<doc id="13163" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13163" title="Megabyte">
Megabyte

A megabyte (MB) is a large number used when talking about hard drives or computer memory. One megabyte is 1 million bytes or 1 thousand kilobytes.
Until December 1998, when the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) first defined a mebibyte as 2, or 1,048,576 bytes, "megabyte" also meant either 1,048,576 bytes, or 1,024,000 bytes. Casual computer users still often use megabyte to mean one of these numbers.
One thousand megabytes make one gigabyte.

</doc>
<doc id="13164" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13164" title="Waffle">
Waffle

A waffle is a cooked food made from a batter that consists of flour, water, baking powder, oil, and eggs. It has a gridlike appearance because it is cooked in between two hot metal plates in an electric kitchen appliance called a waffle iron. Waffles are cooked until they become golden-brown in color, with a crispy outer texture and a soft interior. Waffles are served as a breakfast or as a dessert, and they are usually served with sweet sauces or toppings.
In North America, waffles are often eaten for breakfast on weekends or holidays. Freshly-baked waffles are topped with maple syrup and served with breakfast sausages, eggs, orange juice, and hot coffee.
In Belgium, France, and the French-speaking Canadian province of Quebec, waffles are often served as a dessert, after dinner is finished. Freshly-baked waffles are topped with sweet toppings such as chocolate syrup, bananas, strawberries, or whipped cream.
Waffle is also a slang term meaning "to keep changing one's mind.". For example, if a reporter is asking a politician a question, and the politician does not give a clear answer, the reporter might say that the politician was "waffling." It can also mean to keep repeating the same information in a different way or make no useful points.

</doc>
<doc id="13165" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13165" title="Stargard">
Stargard

Stargard Szczeciński (German: "Stargard in Pommern") is a town in Pomerania, northwestern Poland, with 71,400 inhabitants (2003). Situated on the Ina river, it is the capital of Stargard County in West Pomeranian Voivodship.

</doc>
<doc id="13168" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13168" title="Disney">
Disney

Disney can mean either:
In entertainment:
The name also refers to several members of the Disney Family, such as:

</doc>
<doc id="13169" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13169" title="Ruby slippers">
Ruby slippers

Ruby slippers are red shoes that are worn by the character Dorothy (Judy Garland) in the movie "The Wizard of Oz". They are an important part of the story. Many pairs of slippers were made for the movie. One pair can be seen at the Smithsonian Institution in the United States. The others are owned by private collectors.
Dorothy gets the slippers after her house falls on the Wicked Witch of the East, killing the witch. The witch's sister, the Wicked Witch of the West, wants the ruby slippers. She attacks Dorothy many times during her journey down the yellow brick road. The Wicked Witch of the West wants the slippers for herself so she can become the most powerful witch in all of the land of Oz.
Dorothy knows that the slippers are powerful, but she does not know why. At the end of the movie, she learns their power: click your heels together three times, and repeat "There's no place like home."

</doc>
<doc id="13172" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13172" title="Pope John XXIII">
Pope John XXIII

The Saint Pope John XXIII (; ), born Angelo Giuseppe Roncalli (25 November 1881-3 June 1963), was an Italian priest of the Roman Catholic Church and the 262nd Pope from 1958 to 1963.
Roncalli was born in Sotto il Monte Giovanni XXIII in northern Italy.
In 1904 he was ordained as a priest in a Roman Church of Santa Maria. Later in 1905, the new Bishop of Bergamo, Giacomo Maria Radini Tedeschi, appointed Angelo his secretary. Angelo went with Bishop Giacomo to all his pastoral visits. Angelo also helped him with many other tasks like managing the diocesan bulletin, going on pilgrimages, and social works. Angelo did even more work in the seminary using his very good preaching skills he taught history, patrology and apologetics. It was in the seminary he met the two future saints that would affect his life dramatically. These two Saints were St. Charles Borromeo and St. Francis de Sales, who were both very good pastors in the same seminary, and had a kind of apprentice like relationship. Father Angelo was extremely devoted to Bishop Giacomo until his death in 1914. After Bishop Giacomo’s death, Father Angelo continued teaching in the seminary, but was dragged into World War I and served as a medical corps sergeant and after the war started Italy’s first home for poor young students. His life after the war started changing dramatically, and he even got the attention of Pope Pius XI.
From 1925 to 1944, Roncalli was a papal representative in the Balkans and the Mideast. 
Pope Pius XI named him Apostolic Visitator in Bulgaria, which brought him to the episcopate with the titular Diocese of Areopolis. He chose a motto, Oboedientia et Pax, which was his motto for the rest of his life.
Roncalli was Patriarch of Venice from 1953 to 1958. Venice is the see of a cardinal.
Cardinal Roncalli was elected pope on October 29, 1958. His coronation was televised in Europe, and filmed for viewing in other parts of the world.
Pope John expanded the College of Cardinals by naming the first African Cardinal, the first Japanese Cardinal, the first Filipino Cardinal. and the first Venezuelan Cardinal. 
He was the first Pope to make an official visit to the President of the Italian Republic at the Quirinal Palace. 
Pope John brought together the church's bishops and cardinals in a meeting called Vatican Council II. It was ended by the Pope's death.
John XXIII is buried with other popes in a crypt below St. Peter's Bascilica. According to the official news agency of the Soviet Union, the pope's reign "was marked by fruitful activity for the sake of consolidating peace and peaceful cooperation among nations."
On September 3, 2000, Pope John XXIII was beatified and given the title of "Blessed John XXIII". On April 27, 2014, Pope John XXIII was canonized by Pope Francis and declared the New Saint of the Catholic Church given the title of "Saint John XXIII" alongside Pope John Paul II now known as "Saint John Paul II".
 

</doc>
<doc id="13173" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13173" title="Beauty">
Beauty

Beauty is a property of certain things. Something is beautiful if it is nice to look at it, hear it, feel it, taste it, smell it or think about it. The opposite of beautiful is ugly. It is also the name of a feeling that is hard to describe. The nature of this feeling varies from person to person and culture to culture. It is not known if only humans can feel it.
There are many ideas about what beauty is. Some people say that beauty is:
There are many other theories. Some things that people say are beautiful are not explained by any of these ideas.

</doc>
<doc id="13174" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13174" title="2020s">
2020s

The 2020s decade, will begin on January 1, 2020 and will end on December 31, 2029. People think this decade will be called the "Twenty-Twenties", "The Twenties" or the "Two Thousand Twenties".

</doc>
<doc id="13183" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13183" title="Guitar">
Guitar

The guitar is a string instrument which is played by plucking the strings. The main parts of a guitar are the body, the fretboard, the headstock and the strings. Guitars are usually made from wood or plastic. Their strings are made of steel or nylon.
The guitar strings are plucked with the fingers and fingernails of the right hand (or left hand, for left handed players), or a small pick made of thin plastic. This type of pick is called a "plectrum" or guitar pick. The left hand holds the neck of the guitar while the fingers pluck the strings. Different finger positions on the fretboard make different notes.
Guitar-like plucked string instruments have been used for many years. In many countries and at many different time periods, guitars and other plucked string instruments have been very popular, because they are light to carry from place to place, they are easier to learn to play than many other instruments. Guitars are used for many types of music, from Classical to Rock. Most pieces of popular music that have been written since the 1950s are written with guitars.
There are many different types of guitars, classified on how they are made and the type of music they are used for. All traditional types of guitar have a body which is hollow. This makes the sound of the strings louder, and gives the guitar its quality. This type of guitar is called "acoustic". (An "acoustic" instrument is one that makes its own dynamics.)
From the 1930s, people started making and playing guitars that used electricity and amplifiers to control the loudness. These guitars, which are often used in popular music, are called "electric guitars". They do not need to have a hollow body. This is because they do not use acoustics to amplify the sound.
Most guitars have six strings, but there are also guitars with four, seven, eight, ten, or twelve strings. More strings make the instrument sound fuller. The neck of a guitar has bars or marks called frets. Frets help a guitarist know where to put his or her fingers to get the right pitch when playing.
The word "guitar" was adopted into English from Spanish word "guitarra" in the 1600s. In the Middle Ages the word "gitter" or "gittern" was used in England. Both "guitarra" and "gitter" came from the Latin word "cithara". The word "cithara" came from the earlier Greek word "kithara". "Kithara" could have come from the Persian word "sehtār". "seh" meaning "three" and "tār" meaning "string". There is also a similar but two-stringed Persian instrument named "dotār". "do" means "two" in Persian. The Indian sitar instrument was named after the Persian "sehtār". The sihtar itself is related to the Indian instrument, the sitar.
A person who plays a guitar is called a guitarist. A person who makes or fixes guitars is a "luthier", which comes from the word "lute". The word "lute", comes from the Arabic "Al-Uud", a stringed instrument from the Middle East.
The guitar appears to be derived from earlier instruments known in ancient central Asia as the Sitara. Instruments very similar to the guitar appear in ancient carvings and statues recovered from the old Iranian capitol of Susa. The modern word, guitar, was adopted into English from the Spanish word "guitarra", which came from the older Greek word kithara. Possible sources for various names of musical instruments that guitar could be derived from appear to be a combination of two Indo-European roots: guit-, similar to Sanskrit "sangeet" meaning "music", and "-tar" a widely found root meaning "cord" or "string".
The word "guitar" is a word that the Iberian Arabic language took from the Persian language. The word "qitara" is an Arabic name for various members of the lute family that preceded the Western guitar. The word "guitarra" was introduced into Spanish when such instruments were brought into Iberia by the Moors after the 10th century.
There have been instruments like the guitar for at least 5,000 years. The guitar may have come from older instruments known as the sitara from ancient India and central Asia. The oldest known picture of a guitar-like instrument is a 3300 year old stone carving of a Hittite bard. The oldest guitar-like instrument that is still complete is the "Warwick Gittern" in the British Museum. It belonged to Elizabeth I of England and probably to her father Henry VIII before it was given to her. It is about 500 years old.
The design of the modern guitar began with the Roman cithara. The cithara was brought by the Romans to Hispania (Spain) around 40 AD. In the 8th century the Moors brought the four-stringed oud into Spain. The introduction to the oud caused changes to the design of the cithara. In other parts of Europe, the six-string Scandinavian "lut" (lute) became popular wherever the Vikings had been. By 1200 AD, there were two types of the four string "guitar": the "guitarra morisca" (Moorish guitar) from Spain which had a rounded back, wide fingerboard and several soundholes, and the "guitarra latina" (Latin guitar) which was more like the modern guitar with one sound hole and a narrower neck.
The Spanish "vihuela", of the 16th century, was another instrument similar to the guitar. It had lute-style tuning and a body that was like a guitar. The vihuela was only popular for a short amount of time. It is not known whether it was simply a design that combined features of the oud and lute or a transition from the Renaissance instrument to the modern guitar.
The Vinaccia family from Naples, Italy were famous mandolin makers. It is thought that they also made the oldest six-string guitar that still exists. There is a guitar built that was signed and dated 1779 on the label by Gaetano Vinaccia (1759 - after 1831) Although there are many fakes that have dates on them from that time, this guitar is believed by experts to be genuine (real).
The guitar's design was improved (made better) by the famous Spanish luthier, Antonio Torres Jurado (1817-1892) and by Louis Panormo of London.
The electric guitar was made by George Beauchamp in 1936. Beauchamp co-founded a company called Rickenbacher to make guitars. However, Danelectro was the first to produce electric guitars for the public to use.
A guitar was described by Dr. Michael Kasha as an instrument that had "a long, fretted neck, flat wooden soundboard, ribs, and a flat back, most often with incurved sides".
Modern guitars come in four main types. The classical guitar is used for classical music. The term acoustic guitar is generally used for a guitar used for popular music, even though a classical guitar is also an acoustic instrument. There are many other different types of acoustic guitars from different parts of the world.
A electric guitar can be flat, hollow, or semi-hollow (solid with hollow pockets on the sides), and produces sound through its pickups, which are wire-wound magnets that are screwed onto the guitar. Some guitars combine the hollow acoustic body with amplified sound. Bass guitars are designed to make a low bass rhythm.
A special electric folding travel guitar called the Foldaxe (briefly manufactured by Hoyer in 1977) was invented for Chet Atkins (in Atkins' book "Me and My Guitars") by inventor and guitarist Roger Field, featuring a built-in way to keep the string tension and tuning the same even when folded, and ready to play when unfolded. Atkins demonstrated his several times on US television, and also on The Today Show with Les Paul, who was with him as a guest.
Guitars are used in many different genres of music, such as traditional, regional, and folk to modern punk, rock, metal or pop. Guitars are used as rhythm instruments, lead instruments, and sometimes both.
A capo is a device which can be placed on any of the guitar's frets which don't lie on the body itself. This enables the user to change key with out changing the tuning of the guitar strings. Their are multiple types of capos, some latch around the whole guitar neck and some just clamp onto the back and fret board. 

</doc>
<doc id="13184" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13184" title="List of guitarists">
List of guitarists

A guitarist is a person who plays the guitar. A guitar is a type of musical instrument.

</doc>
<doc id="13185" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13185" title="British Sea Power">
British Sea Power

British Sea Power is an indie rock band from England. They formed in 2000. Many band members come from Cumbria, but they are based in Brighton. They have released six albums and six EPs. They released their sixth album "Machineries of Joy" in April 2013.

</doc>
<doc id="13186" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13186" title="Jimmy Eat World">
Jimmy Eat World

Jimmy Eat World is an alternative rock band. They formed in Mesa, Arizona in 1994. To date, they have released six studio albums. They may record one more album on their label for a 2009 release, but after that will consider self-releasing. They have released many singles, including "Sweetness", "The Middle", "Bleed American", "Rockstar", and "Let It Happen".
They used to be part of the emo scene and many would still call them that. However, the band has never liked that term and do not even understand that. While their albums do have considerable emo influences, the album "Future" brought on a change of sound and a different fanbase.

</doc>
<doc id="13188" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13188" title="Phish">
Phish

Phish is an American rock band. They formed in Vermont in 1983, broke up in 2004, and reformed in 2009. Their lead singer is Trey Anastasio. Phish was often compared to the Grateful Dead, and had a similar following of "Phish Heads" following the band on tour. They went on a 5-year-long hiatus from 2004 to 2009. Their hiatus ended when they played shows on March 6, 7 and 8 at the Hampton Coliseum in Hampton, VA. The band surprised the audience with longer sets than usual.
Their music has a lot of improvisation, so when they play live, their songs are sometimes a lot longer. They use elements from many genres, including rock, jazz, funk, progressive rock, bluegrass, country, reggae, blues, Latin, and psychedelic rock.

</doc>
<doc id="13189" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13189" title="Green Day">
Green Day

Green Day is an American rock band that formed in 1986. The members of the band are Billie Joe Armstrong (vocals, guitar), Mike Dirnt (bass guitar, vocals), and Tré Cool (drums, percussion), Jason White (guitar/vocals) and Jason Freese (keyboard). Jason Freese only participates in concert tours. Green Day is often celebrated as the best punk rock bands currently performing.
At first, Green Day was part of the punk rock scene at 924 Gilman Street in Berkeley, California. Its record label debut "Dookie" (1994) became a success. Soon, it sold more than ten million copies in the United States alone, and 15 million copies worldwide. The album was well reviewed and the band were praised for its music and sales. Green Day had three more albums after that, "Insomniac", "Nimrod" and "Warning". They were still successful albums, reaching double platinum, double platinum, and gold status respectively. However none of these albums sold as well as their first, "Dookie". Green Day's 2004 rock opera "American Idiot" sold five million copies in the United States.
Green Day has sold over 85 million records worldwide, 32 million of them in the United States alone. They also have won three Grammy Awards, Best Alternative Album for "Dookie", Best Rock Album for "American Idiot", Record of the Year for the song "Boulevard of Broken Dreams" and have also been inducted into the Rock & Roll Hall Of Fame.
In 1987, Lookout! released Green Day's first album "39/Smooth". Green Day recorded two EPs: "Slappy" and "Sweet Children". Lookout! Records released "1,039/Smoothed Out Slappy Hours," an album that had the "39/Smooth," "Slappy," and "1,000 Hours" EPs in it. In late 1990, shortly after the band's first worldwide tour, Sobrante left the band. The Lookouts drummer Tré Cool became a replacement, and then became a permanent replacement because Sobrante did not want to come back. Green Day was on tour for most of 1992 and 1993, and played a lot of shows overseas in Europe. Its second album, "Kerplunk", sold about 50,000 copies in the U.S., which was a lot for the punk band in 1992.
"Kerplunk's" success made major record labels interested in Green Day, and they soon left Lookout! and signed with Reprise Records after getting the attention of producer Rob Cavallo. Signing to Reprise made many punk rock fans think Green Day as sellouts. After signing with Reprise, the band went to work on making its major label debut, "Dookie."
Released in February of 1994, and recorded in 3 weeks, "Dookie" became a commercial success, making it to MTV for the videos of the songs "Longview", "Basket Case", and "When I Come Around", all of which made it to the number one position on the Modern Rock Tracks charts.
"Insomniac" was a darker, more punk release for the band than the poppier "Dookie." "Insomniac" earned 4 out of 5 stars from "Rolling Stone Magazine", which said "In punk, the good stuff actually unfolds and gains meaning as you listen without sacrificing any of its electric, haywire immediacy. And Green Day are as good as this stuff gets." "Insomniac" won the band award nominations for Favorite Artist, Favorite Hard Rock Artist, and Favorite Alternative Artist at the 1996 American Music Awards. The video for "Walking Contradiction" got the band a Grammy nomination for Best Video, Short Form, and a Best Special Effects nomination at the MTV Video Music Awards.
In 1995, a new single for the "Angus" soundtrack was released, titled "J.A.R.". The single went straight to number one on the Billboard Modern Rock Tracks chart. After that, "Insomniac," Green Day's new album, was released in the fall of 1995. After that, the band stopped from going on a European tour so they could rest for a while.
In 1997, Green Day began to work on a new album. They came up with "Nimrod." The new album was released in October 1996. The success of "Good Riddance (Time of Your Life)" won the band an MTV Video Award for Best Alternative Video.
In 2000, Green Day released "Warning," an album that had types of songs that "Nimrod" did. Though the "Warning" made the hit "Minority" and a smaller hit with "Warning", some observers thought that the band was losing popularity. "Warning" was certified gold by the RIAA.
At the 2001 California Music Awards, Green Day won all eight awards that they were nominated for.
In the summer of 2003, the band went into a studio to write and record new songs for a new album titled "Cigarettes and Valentines." After making 20 tracks, the master tapes were stolen from the studio. The band was upset and chose not to try to re-create the stolen album, but instead start over with a vow to be even better than before. In this same year, Green Day went with Iggy Pop on two tracks for his album "Skull Ring." They took "band therapy," talking for a long time to work out the members' differences after accusations from Dirnt and Cool that Armstrong was "the band's Nazi" and a show-off bent on taking the limelight from the other band members.
The 2004 album, "American Idiot", was number one on the Billboard charts, the band's first ever album to top the chart, even with success of the album's first single, "American Idiot.
Through 2005, the band toured for about 150 days— visiting Japan, Australia, South America and the UK, where they had a crowd of 130,000 people in only two days. While touring for "American Idiot," they filmed and recorded the two concerts at the Milton Keynes National Bowl in England, which was voted 'The Best Show On Earth' in a "Kerrang!" Magazine Poll.
These recordings were released as a live CD and DVD called "Bullet in a Bible" on November 15, 2005. The DVD had a behind-the-scenes footage of the band, and showed how the band prepared to put on the show. The final shows of its 2005 world tour were in Sydney, Australia, and Melbourne, Australia, on December 14 and 17. On January 10, 2006 the band was awarded with a People's Choice Award for favorite group.
In 2006, Green Day won the Grammy Award for Record of the Year for "Boulevard of Broken Dreams" which spent 16 weeks at the number one position of Billboard's "Modern Rock Tracks".
In an interview with "Kerrang!", Billie Joe said that 2008 would "be a fair estimate of the release date of their new Untitled Eighth Studio Album." In October 2007, Billie Joe said more on this new album, saying he had been writing new songs on the piano, and had around 45 of them. He said he wanted the new music to dig into what he's feeling during that time - which is middle-aged.
In 2009 "Kerrang!" named "American Idiot" the best album of the decade, "NME" ranked it #60 in a similar list, and "Rolling Stone" ranked it 22nd.
In an interview with "Kerrang!", Armstrong said that 2009 would "be a fair estimate of the release date of their new untitled eighth studio album for Green Day." It was revealed that Butch Vig would be producing the upcoming album in an interview with Carson Daly. The gap of nearly five years between their previous album, "American Idiot", and their newest release was the longest gap in Green Day's career. While the band had been working on new music since January 2006, by October 2007 Armstrong had written 45 songs, the band showed no further signs of being close to releasing a new album until October 2008, when a video of the group recording with producer Butch Vig in the studio was posted on YouTube.
Their newest album, titled "21st Century Breakdown", was released on May 15, 2009. Called "Green Day at their best" by "Seattle Weekly's" Krist Novoselic, the album has received mostly positive reviews. Rating website "Metacritic" reported a rating of 70% as of July 2009, based on 30 reviews. After it was released, "21st Century Breakdown" reached #1 on the charts in fourteen different countries.
Green Day's sound is often compared to first wave punk rock bands such as the Ramones, The Clash, Sex Pistols, The Jam, and the Buzzcocks. Stylistically, the group is characterized as punk rock, pop punk and alternative rock.
Most of their songs are fast-paced and under the average song length of four minutes (4:00), though some of their songs run on longer such as "Jesus of Suburbia" which runs for nine minutes. Billie Joe Armstrong said that some of his biggest influences are alternative rock bands Husker Dü and The Replacements. Armstrong's lyrics mostly describe alienation, hysteria, girls, growing up, and what happens to someone if they take drugs. The Ramones had lyrical themes that were also close to Green Day's lyrics such as hysteria, alienation, girls, and drugs. Green Day has covered Ramones songs a few times, such as recording "Outsider" for the tribute album "We're a Happy Family", and performing "Blitzkrieg Bop" and "Teenage Lobotomy" when the Ramones made it into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2002.

</doc>
<doc id="13190" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13190" title="Live album">
Live album

A live album is an album that has live songs. These live songs are played on stage at a concert, instead of recorded in a studio. People record the songs and put them on a CD.

</doc>
<doc id="13191" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13191" title="Album (disambiguation)">
Album (disambiguation)

An album is a collection of songs on a CD or LP.
It may also refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="13194" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13194" title="Marvin Gaye">
Marvin Gaye

Marvin Gaye (born Marvin Pentz Gay, Jr., April 2, 1939 - April 1, 1984) was an American soul and R&B singer and songwriter. He was a famous artist recording on the Motown label in the 1960s and 1970s. He became an independent artist when he released his 1971 album, "What's Going On". After living in Europe in the late 1970s, Gaye had a comeback hit with 1982's "Sexual Healing". The record won him two Grammy Awards and became his biggest hit. He died on April 1, 1984 when he was killed by his father, Marvin Gay, Sr.. After he died, he was inducted to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.
Marvin Pentz Gay, Jr. was the eldest son of a Pentecostal minister and the second of four children. His family lived in a mostly African-American community in Washington, D.C. When he was a child, Gaye was abused by his father. He used music to help him cope with the abuse, playing instruments and singing gospel music in his father's church. When he was a teenager, Gaye became a fan of doo-wop and joined several groups before he left high school at the start of his senior year.
In 1956, when he was seventeen years old, Gaye left home and enlisted in (joined) in the United States Air Force. He was honorably discharged the following year. Gaye moved back to Washington D.C. and formed a group called The Marquees. The group was discovered by musician Bo Diddley and they recorded the songs "Good Morning Little Schoolgirl" and "Wyatt Earp". They then met Harvey Fuqua and joined with his group The Moonglows. They released a song called "Mama Loocie" in 1959. This was the first song recorded with Gaye singing as lead vocalist. The following year, the new Moonglows split up and with Fuqua as his mentor, Gaye traveled to Detroit, Michigan where they met Berry Gordy, who had formed Motown Records. Gordy was impressed by Marvin's talent as a piano player and drummer and signed him as a session drummer for Motown. Gaye played drums on most of Motown's early hits for artists like The Marvelettes, Mary Wells, the Miracles and Stevie Wonder. In 1961, Gordy signed Gaye as a recording artist and released "The Soulful Moods of Marvin Gaye". The album did not sell well.
Gaye's first became successful when he co-wrote the Marvelettes' top twenty hit, "Beechwood 4-5789". In 1962 he released his own song called "Stubborn Kind of Fellow". It was partly about his own life and got into the top fifty of the pop chart and number eight on the R&B side. His first top 40 single, "Hitch Hike", and his first top ten hit, "Pride & Joy", made him a teen idol. These early singles and those on his second release, "That Stubborn Kind of Fellow", featured Martha and the Vandellas in the backGaye had more successful songs like early success continued with "Can I Get a Witness", "Baby Don't You Do It", "You Are a Wonderful One" and "Try It Baby". In late 1964, Gaye recorded "How Sweet It Is (To Be Loved By You)", which peaked at the top ten of the American pop charts and became one of his first hits abroad reaching the top fifty in the United Kingdom. Gaye also worked with his friend, singer Smokey Robinson to write number-one singles, "I'll Be Doggone" and "Ain't That Peculiar".
After his early success, which Marvin had struggles with, Motown began to widen his role as a ladies man, having him record duet albums with Mary Wells, Kim Weston and Diana Ross. His first album with Wells, "Together", became Marvin's first charted album, and yielded two popular hits, while his single with Weston, the Sylvia Moy-penned "It Takes Two", hit the top twenty on both sides of the Atlantic. But it would be his collaboration with Philadelphia R&B singer Tammi Terrell that landed him his biggest known success in his duet work. Building on songs written by Ashford & Simpson, the team of Marvin and Tammi scored a multitude of hits including their original version of "Ain't No Mountain High Enough", "Your Precious Love", "Ain't Nothing Like the Real Thing" and "You're All I Need to Get By". Their success would be short-lived following Tammi's collapse during a show at Virginia in October of 1967. Having complained of headaches, Tammi was rushed to the hospital that night and was diagnosed with a brain tumor. Terrell braved it out but by the release of their third and last album together, "Easy", was losing her fight with the tumor. Tammi died in March of 1970 at the age of 24 from complications of her brain cancer. Marvin was said to be so devastated by Tammi's death that he said he felt a piece of him died with her, and reports state at her funeral, Marvin talked to her remains as if she was gonna respond. Promising not to tour again and not to record another duet album after that, Marvin went into a self-imposed seclusion that ended briefly. In 1973, Marvin would work on his final duet album with Diana Ross. Their recording was hampered by arguments between them as Marvin refused to stop smoking marijuana in the studio as Diana was then pregnant. The resulting album, "Diana and Marvin", became a top twenty U.S. success and reached the top ten in the U.K.
In 1968, Marvin returned to the top of the charts as a solo act with the Norman Whitfield-penned "I Heard It Through the Grapevine". The song, originally recorded in 1967, was initially blocked from release since Berry Gordy disapproved of the song. Instead, one of its cover versions by Gladys Knight & the Pips was released, and it ended up reaching number-two. Whitfield was determined to get Gordy to release Marvin's, and in October 1968, Motown finally issued "Grapevine" as a single where it eventually reached number-one in December of that year, it also reached number one in the U.K. and became the biggest-selling single in Motown history during the sixties. During this period, Marvin used his "Grapevine" success to produce a collection of singles for his background group the Originals. Those songs, "Baby I'm for Real" and "The Bells" became top 40 recordings. After two more top ten hits that followed, Marvin began working on a more personal production. Inspired by Tammi Terrell's death, his brother Frankie's Vietnam stories, footage of the Vietnam War and race riots in the U.S., Marvin's success with his first productions and a rough draft of a song composed by Four Tops member Obie Benson, Marvin recorded an introspective single titled "What's Going On". Like "Grapevine", Motown refused to release it due to it being "uncommercial" and "risky" since Gordy could not find a song to match anything with and also because Gordy was against anyone in his company to talk openly about serious issues. In spite of releases by the Temptations, the Supremes and Edwin Starr, which opened about inner city struggle, illegitimate pregnancy and wars respectively, Motown was afraid the song would ruin Marvin's squeaky-clean teen pop image. Marvin, confident in his own abilities, stood his ground, and in January of 1971, the song was released quickly becoming a hit single reaching number two on the Billboard pop chart and number one on the Cashbox pop chart, also hitting number-one on the Billboard R&B chart. A follow-up album of the same name was quickly released that May and with accompanying top ten singles "Mercy Mercy Me" and "Inner City Blues", songs that also talked about social issues including environmentalism, the album sold over a million copies and permanently made Marvin one of the first independent artists on the label. Inspired by Marvin's success, Stevie Wonder refused to renew his contract with Motown in May of 1971 after releasing the non-Motown approved "Where I'm Coming From", an album that also dealt with social issues. In 1972, Motown signed Marvin to a $1 million contract, making him at the time the highest-paid black recording artist in music history. Marvin celebrated the contract by releasing the pro-political single "You're the Man", which attacked the Nixon administration. Moving from Detroit to Los Angeles that year, he recorded the soundtrack to the movie, "Trouble Man". The soundtrack and its title track became top twenty and top ten hits on the charts respectively. In 1973, Marvin dramatically changed direction from social topics to sexual politics with the release of "Let's Get It On". The song became Marvin's second number-one Billboard hit and was the biggest-selling R&B single of that year. Its subsequent album became another critical milestone as "What's Going On" had been and with his new look as a wool hat-wearing, studded jean outfit, bearded "messiah", Marvin had become an icon of early seventies soul music.
In 1974, Marvin returned officially to touring after a four-year sabbatical following the death of Tammi Terrell and began to suffer from the effects of a long-developing cocaine addiction, which started in the late sixties. Marvin went a year without producing a record though through yet another new Motown contract, he built a recording studio in the middle of Sunset Boulevard. In 1976, Marvin released the erotic "I Want You" album, an album that had been delayed by his first wife, Anna Gordy's divorce case against him. The divorce was finalized after Marvin agreed to remit a portion of his royalties from his next album to Ms. Gordy. The result was the controversial "Here, My Dear" project, which came out in early 1979 after two years of holding the project from release. Marvin recorded a disco hit in 1977 titled "Got to Give It Up". The song hit number-one marking his third pop hit to reach the spot and his twelfth on the R&B side. It would end up being his last major hit with the Motown label. Following the release of "Here, My Dear", the album tanked and Marvin, already run dry by dwindling finances, numerous lawsuits, a troubling marriage to a second wife and an even more troubling cocaine addiction, eventually left his wife, three children, and the U.S. settling first in Hawaii and then settling in London in 1980 after a European promoter advised him to tour Europe. Recording most of his final Motown release, "In Our Lifetime", in London, the album was rush-released by Motown in early 1981 much to Marvin's chagrin: he complained that the label had edited certain songs, including one that seemed unfinished, and had taken off a question mark that he put at the end of the title to ask a question about life. Marvin stated he would no longer record for Motown and was granted his wish when CBS Records brought him out of his contract in April of 1982.
In 1981, Marvin settled in Ostend, Belgium thanks to a former Belgian sports promoter and with his encouragement began rebuilding his life cutting away from drugs and also rebuilding his music career. After a successful European tour, Marvin signed with CBS Records and began work on a new album in his adopted home. After his friend and biographer David Ritz arrived to interview him, Marvin and David collaborated on a reggae-styled track in which Ritz titled "Sexual Healing" after a conversation between the two evolved into pornography. The song was one of eight Marvin worked on to fit into his comeback release, "Midnight Love". Boosted by its Caribbean flavor, the song returned Marvin to the top of the charts, hitting number-one on the R&B chart for a period of ten weeks and also becoming a top ten hit in several countries including number-three in the U.S. pop chart and number-four in England. It also hit number-one in New Zealand. Selling over two million copies, it became Marvin's biggest-selling single to date and won him his first couple of Grammys in 1983. Marvin's comeback was cemented with his emotional performance of the national anthem at the NBA All Star Game and a reunited showcase at "Motown 25", where Marvin was reunited with his old Motown buddies. Marvin's performance consisted of him playing piano while speaking on the illustrious history of black music before singing "What's Going On" to a receptive audience. That year, Marvin went on the road to promote the "Midnight Love" album. It would end up being his final tour.
Settling in his parents' Los Angeles home after the tour, Marvin reportedly struggled with drug abuse and his troubling relationship with his father continued spiraling downwards. On the morning of April 1, 1984, Marvin and his father got into an argument after his father verbally assaulted Marvin's mother while they were arguing over misplaced business documents. The two men clashed and Marvin reportedly shoved his father to the ground during the struggle. After returning to his room, Marvin's father reentered Marvin's room with a loaded shotgun Marvin had bought for him for Christmas and shot him twice with one fatal shot to his chest. At approximately 1:10 pm, Marvin Gaye was pronounced dead on the scene at Cedars Sinai Medical Center. He was one day shy of his forty-fifth birthday. Marvin's death shocked his fans though family members and friends knew of Marvin's depression. Over 10,000 well-wishers paid their last respects at a star-studded funeral in Los Angeles. Marvin's ashes were spread to the beaches of the Atlantic Ocean. In 1985, Motown and CBS collaborated on two posthumous records while Motown re-released Marvin's famed material. In 1987, Marvin was posthumously inducted to the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame confirming his status as one of the greatest artists in music history.
Marvin first dated Anna Gordy in 1961. Anna was said to be the inspiration behind Marvin's sixties hits including "Stubborn Kind of Fellow" and "You Are a Wonderful One". He married her in 1964 and the couple adopted a boy they named Marvin Pentz Gaye III in 1965. Their marriage was rocky by the time Marvin began courting a beautiful seventeen-year-old high-school student named Janis Hunter in 1973. Hunter was reportedly the inspiration behind the song "If I Should Die Tonight" as he had sung the song to her in the studio. His 1976 album, "I Want You", was dedicated to Janis, who married him in 1977. The couple had two children together, daughter Nona and son Frankie. They divorced in 1981.

</doc>
<doc id="13211" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13211" title="Masturbation">
Masturbation

Masturbation is when a person touches their own sex organs to have pleasure. It often results in an orgasm. 
Masturbating may be done alone, but can also be done with another person. This is called "mutual masturbation". Vibrators and dildos can be used to make masturbation easier or feel better, but it is often done with just a person's hand. Studies have shown that a large number of people masturbate regularly. Some people do it once or twice a month, while other people do it several times a day.
The female sex organ most sensitive to touch is the clitoris. Therefore, female masturbation almost always involves stimulating the clitoris, either by hand or with a vibrator. Many women also enjoy the feeling of fingers or a sex toy in the vagina, however this is a secondary sensation that is not necessary for orgasm, and that rarely results in orgasm on its own. Some women find stimulation of the front vaginal wall, or G spot, particularly pleasurable. The anus is rich in nerve endings and is also sometimes stimulated during masturbation, as are the nipples.
Masturbation is usually continued until orgasm. Some women may have problems reaching an orgasm, especially when they are young, and have little experience masturbating. When this happens, more practice and a reliable vibrator with strong vibration can help a great deal.
Some women experience "multiple orgasms" - several orgasms in a row without loss of arousal. It should be noted, however, that women who are not capable of multiple orgasms report as much orgasmic satisfaction as women who are multi-orgasmic.
Masturbation for males is the act of stimulating the penis manually to provide self-pleasure. For older teens and adults, masturbation usually ends in what is called an ejaculation (the release of liquid called semen which contains sperm cells). This ejaculation is usually accompanied by a powerful, pleasurable feeling called an orgasm. Most boys start masturbating between the age of 12 and 15.
There are many ways in which a male can choose to masturbate. The most common of these techniques is using the hand. A man simply wraps his hand around the shaft of his penis and moves his hand up and down.
Usually the man will hold the penis (in erection) in his hand and move the hand up and down. Sometimes a lubricant is used to create a softer sensation. As the sensation increases in intensity, the rate of hand movement generally quickens until orgasm occurs. Orgasm is a very pleasurable feeling which results in semen being ejaculated from the penis.
Men may also rub and touch other sensitive areas of the body such as the scrotum (the place where the testicles are located), the nipples, and the anus. The anus is rich in nerve endings and is sometimes stimulated during masturbation.
People may not masturbate on any given day. Some people masturbate every day, sometimes even multiple times a day. How often someone masturbates, or the frequency of masturbation, depends on many things. One of the things that the frequency of masturbation depends on are hormones. Sexual arousal depends on hormones. Other things that the frequency of masturbation depend on are sexual habits. Sexual habits are sexual activities that people do because they are used to doing them. Other people of the same age or standing - called peers - can also influence this frequency. General health is another of the many factors. The general attitude towards masturbation is formed by culture. Medical causes have also been associated with masturbation.
"Forty-eight female college students were asked to complete a sexual attitudes questionnaire in which a frequency of masturbation scale was embedded. Twenty-four of the women (the experimental group) then individually viewed an explicit modeling film involving female masturbation. One month later, all subjects again completed the same questionnaire. Subjects in the experimental group also completed a questionnaire evaluating aspects of the film. Results indicated that the experimental group reported a significant increase in the average monthly frequency of masturbation, as compared to the control group. This same group, however, reported that the film had no effect on sexual attitudes or behavior."
A 2004 survey by Toronto magazine "NOW" was answered by an unspecified number of thousands. The results show that an overwhelming majority of the males — 81% — began masturbating between the ages of 10 and 15. Among females, the same figure was a more modest majority of 55%. (Note that surveys on sexual practices are prone to "self-selection bias".) It is not uncommon however to begin much earlier, and this is more frequent among females: 18% had begun by the time they turned 10, and 6% already by the time they turned 6. Being the main outlet of child sexuality, masturbation has been observed in very young children. In the book "Human Sexuality: Diversity in Contemporary America", by Strong, Devault and Sayad, the authors point out, "A baby boy may laugh in his crib while playing with his erect penis (although he does not ejaculate). Baby girls sometimes move their bodies rhythmically, almost violently, appearing to experience orgasm."
A 2004 magazine survey in Canada found that 43% started masturbating when they were about 12-13 years old. When boys start masturbating, wet dreams often stop since semen is taken out from his body regularly.
According to a Canadian survey of "Now" magazine readers, (cited above), the frequency of masturbation declines after the age of 17. However, most males masturbate daily, or even more frequently, well into their 20s and sometimes far beyond. This decline is more drastic among females, and more gradual among males. While females aged 13–17 masturbated almost once a day on average (and almost as often as their male peers), adult women only masturbated 8–9 times a month, compared to the 18–22 among men. It is also apparent that masturbation frequency declines with age. Adolescent youths report being able to masturbate to ejaculation six or more times per day, though some men in older middle age report being hard pressed to ejaculate even once per day. The survey does not give a full demographic breakdown of respondents, however, and the sexual history of respondents to this poll, who are readers of an urban Toronto lifestyle magazine, may not extend to the general population.
It appears that females are less likely to masturbate while in a heterosexual relationship than men. Both sexes occasionally engage in this activity, however, even when in sexually active relationships. Popular belief asserts that individuals of either sex who are not in sexually active relationships tend to masturbate more frequently than those who are; however, much of the time this is not true as masturbation alone or with a partner is often a feature of a relationship. Contrary to conventional wisdom, several studies actually reveal a positive correlation between the frequency of masturbation and the frequency of intercourse as well as the number multiple sex partners. One study reported a significantly higher rate of masturbation in gay men and women who were in a relationship.
The Catholic church regards masturbation as a 'gravely disordered action', Among men masturbation may be seen as a sign of weakness, and there are slang terms for it used as insults.
The Sambia tribe of New Guinea has rites of passage surrounding manhood which involve frequent ejaculation through fellatio. Semen is valued and masturbation is seen as a waste of semen and is therefore frowned upon even though frequent ejaculation is encouraged. The capacity and need to ejaculate is nurtured for years from an early age through fellatio so that it can be consumed rather than wasted. Semen is ingested for strength and is considered in the same line as mothers' milk.
Other cultures have rites of passage into manhood that culminate in the first ejaculation of a male, usually by the hands of a tribal elder. In some tribes such as the Agta, Philippines, stimulation of the genitals is encouraged from an early age. Upon puberty, the young male is then paired off with a "wise elder" or "witch doctor" who uses masturbation to build his ability to ejaculate in preparation for a ceremony. The ceremony culminates in a public ejaculation before a celebration. The ejaculate is saved in a wad of animal skin and worn later to help conceive children. In this and other tribes, the measure of manhood is actually associated more with the amount of ejaculate and his need than penis size. Frequent ejaculation through masturbation from an early age fosters frequent ejaculation well into adulthood.
Masturbation marathons have occurred in the U.S. and UK. These events provide a supportive environment where masturbation can be performed openly.
Masturbation may increase fertility during sexual intercourse. In females, it can regulate the conditions of the vagina, cervix and the uterus. This can either increase or decrease the chance of conception. Whether the chance is increased or decreased depends on the timing of the masturbation. This timing is a subconscious decision. If she has intercourse with more than one male, it favors the chances of one or the other male's sperm reaching her egg.
Female masturbation can also protect against cervical infections. It does this by increasing the acidity of the cervical mucus and by moving debris out of the cervix.
The function of masturbation in males is to flush out old sperm with low motility from the male's genital tract. The next ejaculate contains more fresh sperm, which has higher chances of achieving conception during intercourse. If more than one male is having intercourse with a female, the sperm with the highest motility will compete more effectively.
The physical effects of masturbation and having an orgasm or ejaculating creates heightened arousal while epinephrine courses through your body, producing the flushed face, shallow breath and post-climactic euphoria.
It is held in many mental health circles that masturbation can relieve depression, stress and lead to a higher sense of self-worth. Masturbation can also be particularly useful in relationships where one partner wants more sex than the other — in which case masturbation provides a balancing effect and thus a more harmonious relationship.
Mutual masturbation, the act by which two or more partners stimulate themselves in the presence of each other, allows a couple to reveal the map to their pleasure centers. Witnessing a partner masturbate is a educational activity to find out the method a partner pleases them selfs, allowing each partner to learn exactly how the other enjoys being touched".
In 2003, an Australian research team led by Graham Giles of The Cancer Council Australia concluded that frequent masturbation by males appears to help prevent the development of prostate cancer.
A study published in 1997 found an inverse association between death from coronary heart disease and frequency of orgasm even given the risk that myocardial ischaemia and myocardial infarction can be triggered by sexual activity. Excerpt: "The association between frequency or orgasm and all cause mortality was also examined using the midpoint of each response category recoded as number of orgasms per year. The age adjusted odds ratio for an increase of 100 orgasms per year was 0.64 (0.44 to 0.95)". That is, a difference between any two subjects appeared when one subject ejaculated at around two or more times per week than the other. Assuming a broad range average of between 3-5 ejaculations per week for a healthy males, this would mean 5-7 ejaculations per week. This is consistent with an article on the benefits against prostate cancer However, the article notes that "The question of causation is complex... several explanations are possible".
Masturbation is also seen as a sexual technique that protects individuals from the risk of contracting sexually transmitted diseases. Support for such a view, and for making it part of the American sex education curriculum, led to the dismissal of US Surgeon General Joycelyn Elders during the Clinton administration. A 2011 study from the Indiana University supports the assertion. After taking age and partner status into account, the study showed that sexually active boys who masturbated regularly were eight times more likely to have used a condom during their last intercourse than other boys. This positive outcome has been observed in other studies and has been the basis of public health policy in Great Britain promoting masturbation.
Some people actually consider masturbation as a cardiovascular workout. Masturbation makes most people feel good and can sometimes replace sexual intercourse when one cannot find a partner. It can also prepare one for sexual intercourse.
A small study has shown that a test group which only had intercourse experienced, as a whole, lower blood pressure in stressful situations than those who had intercourse but also had masturbated for one or more days.
Objects inserted into the vagina or anus should be clean and should not be able to scratch or break. Care should be taken not to fully insert anything into the anus — any object used should have a flared or flanged base; otherwise getting it out may need medical help. Modern dildos and anal plugs are designed with this feature.
Masturbation involving both a man and a woman (see "mutual masturbation") can result in pregnancy only if semen contacts the vulva. Masturbation with a partner can also theoretically result in transmission of sexually transmitted diseases by contact with bodily fluids.
A man whose penis has suffered a blunt trauma or injury during intercourse may rarely sustain a penile fracture or suffer from Peyronie's disease. Phimosis is "a contracted foreskin (that) may cause trouble by hurting when an attempt is made to pull the foreskin back". In these cases, any energetic manipulation of the penis can be problematic.
Lawrence I. Sank observed that masturbating prone (lying face downward) could be responsible for sexual problems in some men including anorgasmia and erectile dysfunction, as observed in four men he examined. He coined the term "traumatic masturbatory syndrome" to describe this theory. As of 2007, no follow-up research has been conducted and the idea is not familiar or widely-held within the medical community. Some sources, however, give credence to the idea. One sex therapist condemned masturbation by rubbing against a pillow or mattress and Lipsith et al. suggest that masturbation could play a part in male psychogenic sexual dysfunction (MPSD), citing Sank as their authority. MPSD is a difficulty in reaching orgasm during intercourse, and developing a dependence on masturbation.
Masturbating frequently presents no physical, mental or emotional risk in itself, but masturbation can be used to relieve boredom or stress. In either case, as with any "nervous habit", it is more helpful to consider the causes of the boredom or of the stress, rather than try to repress the behavior itself, in this case masturbation.
There is some discussion between professionals and other interested parties as to the existence or validity of sexual addictions. Nevertheless, there are lists of warning signs such as when sexual activity affects a person's ability to function in everyday life, or is placing them at risk, for example, of pursuing illegal or destructive activities. Very frequent and compulsive masturbation may be seen as a sign of sexual addiction.
Immanuel Kant considered masturbation a violation of one's duty to one's self and an unnatural act stating it was against natural law. Sigmund Freud regarded masturbation as unhealthy. Margaret Sanger frequently stated that masturbation was unwise.

</doc>
<doc id="13214" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13214" title="Animation">
Animation

Animation is a way of making a movie from many still images. The images are put together one after another, and then played at a fast speed to give the illusion of movement. 
Animation is a relatively new art form, and though the concept of moving images has been a theme throughout ancient civilizations, it was not until late into the 19th century that experimental animation truly began. Today, the industry of animation is booming, making up a huge commercial enterprise. However, among individual artists, it remains a sacred and unique form of art. 
A person who makes animations is called an "animator." 
There are three ways to animate:
Because it is expensive to make, most animation comes from professional companies. However, independent animators have existed since the 1950s in America, with many of those people entering the professional industry. In Europe, the independent movement has existed since the 1910s, with animators like pre-revolutionary Russia's Ladislas Starevich and Germany's Lotte Reiniger.
On the internet, many people use a computer program called Adobe Flash to create animations. Flash uses a combination of drawing and computer graphics to make animations. Many animations on the internet are made in Flash. Most animators on the internet do not work for professional companies.
Many television shows, especially those made for children, use limited animation. Companies such as UPA and Hanna-Barbera Productions do this. Simple, limited movement makes the images easier to draw, which allows quicker and cheaper production of animation.
Many people consider animation to be childish and unsophisticated. However, animation has changed the course of art history by giving artists possibilities, not just normal, stationary art. Many animated movies have been made, and some have made a big profit.

</doc>
<doc id="13215" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13215" title="Confucius">
Confucius

Confucius (born 551 BC, died 478 BC) was an important Chinese educator and philosopher. His original name was Kong Qiu or Zhong Ni. 
As a child, he was eager to learn about everything, and was very interested in rituals. Once he grew up, he worked as a state official who handled farms and cattle. Then he became a teacher.
Confucius lived in a time when many states were fighting wars in China.
This period was called the Spring and Autumn period of the Zhou Dynasty.
Confucius did not like this and wanted to bring order back to society.
Like Socrates, Confucius sometimes did not answer philosophical questions himself.
Instead he wanted people to think hard about problems and to learn from others, especially from history.
Confucius also thought that people should get power because they were good and skilled, and not just because they came from powerful families.
Confucius wanted people to think about other people more than about money or what they owned.
However he also felt that there should be strong rules in society and that people needed to obey them.
Confucius thought that there were five relationships people could have, and that they all had their own rules.
Two people could be
These were traditional relationships called the 'five prototypes'.
Confucius said that in all these relationships, both people must obey rules.
For example a subject must obey a prince, but also a prince must listen to a subject and must rule him well and fairly.
Confucius said that people should only do things to other people if they would be okay with other people doing those things to themselves.
This is sometimes called the Golden Rule and was also taught by Jesus Christ.
His students wrote down small stories about him, and things that he said.
These were put together to make a book called The Analects.

</doc>
<doc id="13216" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13216" title="Consciousness">
Consciousness

Consciousness means being awake, alert and responsive with the environment. The definition of consciousness may differ in psychology, neuroscience, philosophy and other related sciences.
Consciousness is a spectrum. There are several states between a fully conscious state and a fully unconscious state. In medicine, the degree of "loss of consciousness" is measured by using Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS); a score between 3 and 15 is given to each person at any time, to show how conscious he or she is. Higher scores show more conscious states.
The opposite of consciousness is subconsciousness/unconscious mind. This means people do things that are instinctive and do not think about them like breathing and making one's heart beat.
It is not known what causes consciousness. So, it is difficult to know if another person or thing is indeed conscious. For example, if a robot seems to react to its environment, how does one know if it has consciousness (see artificial life)?

</doc>
<doc id="13217" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13217" title="Architect">
Architect

An architect is a person who designs buildings and prepares plans to give to a builder. What he or she designs is called architecture. Architects make drawings with pens, pencils, and computers, and this is also called drafting. Sometimes they first make small toy-sized buildings called models to show what the building will look like when it is done. Some of these models survive for hundreds of years, such as St Paul's Cathedral, London. 
Architects decide the size, shape, and what the building will be made from. Architects need to be good at math and drawing. They need imagination. They must go to university and learn how to make a building's structure safe so that it will not collapse. They should also know how to make a building attractive, so that people will enjoy using it.
Although there has been architecture for thousands of years, there have not always been architects. The great European cathedrals built in the Middle Ages were designed by a Master Builder, who scratched his designs on flat beds of plaster. Paper did not exist in Europe at this time and vellum or parchment were very expensive and could not be made in large sizes. 
Some cathedrals took hundreds of years to build, so the Master Builder would die or retire and be replaced and often plans changed. Some cathedrals were never finished, like Notre Dame in Paris or Sagrada Família in Barcelona.
An architect has a very important job, because his or her work will be seen and used by many people, probably for a very long time. If the design, materials and construction are good, the building should last for hundreds or even thousands of years. This is rarely the case. 
Usually building cost is what limits the life of a building, but fire, war, need or fashion can also affect things. As towns and cities grow, it often becomes necessary to make roads wider, or perhaps to build a new train station. Architects are employed again and so the city changes. Even very important buildings may get knocked down to make way for change.
Famous architects include: Frank Lloyd Wright, Fazlur Khan, Bruce Graham, Edward Durell Stone, Daniel Burnham, Adrian Smith, Frank Gehry, Gottfried Böhm, I. M. Pei, Antoni Gaudí, and Oscar Niemeyer.

</doc>
<doc id="13218" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13218" title="La Jolla, San Diego">
La Jolla, San Diego

La Jolla is a neighborhood in the city of San Diego, in the state of California, in the United States. It is pronounced "La Hoya".
The University of California, San Diego is in La Jolla. Another famous place in La Jolla is the Salk Institute. 

</doc>
<doc id="13221" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13221" title="Arch">
Arch

An arch is an opening in a building that is curved on top. The curved part can be round, like part of a circle, or pointed, like two parts of circles next to each other. Arches are often used where buildings are made of lots of small stones or bricks. The stone at the very top of the arch, called the keystone, keeps the rest of the arch stones from falling down. Arches can go over doorways and windows. Many bridges are arches.
"Arch" can also mean to be clever or to know something.

</doc>
<doc id="13224" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13224" title="Vagina">
Vagina

The human vagina is a part of the female body. It is between the perineum and the urethra. Menstrual fluid (red, blood-filled liquid lost during menstruation) leaves the body through the vagina. During sexual intercourse, a penis is put into the vagina. During birth, the vagina opens to let the baby come out from the uterus. The vagina is reddish pink in color, though colors may vary.
The vaginal opening is much larger than the urethral opening.
Between the ages of 9-15 years, the vagina and uterus become bigger. The uterus is the organ in which a baby grows. The vagina is a tube leading from the uterus to the outside of the body. The opening of the vagina is inside the vulva, between the legs. A clear or whitish fluid may start to flow out of the vagina to keep it clean.
The vagina is the tube leading from the uterus to the outside of the body. The opening is between the legs, inside the labium, behind the opening to the urethra, and in front of the anus.
The vagina is an elastic, muscular tube. It starts at the cervix and ends at the vulva. It is about wide, and long. During sexual intercourse and childbirth, the vagina gets wider and bigger. It has to be lubricated to stay clean and allow sexual intercourse and childbirth. It is lubricated partially by the Bartholin's glands. This lubrication also allows sperm easier access to fertilize an ovum.
Like many tissues, the vagina has a natural biome, a flora and fauna of microscopic organisms. The vagina is an interface between the host and the environment. Its surface is covered by a protective epithelium where bacteria and other microorganisms grow. The ectocervix (that's the vaginal part of the cervix) is not sterile, but the endocervix (that's the canal of the cervix) and the upper genital tract are assumed to be sterile in healthy women. So, the cervix is a gatekeeper to protect the upper genital tract (ovaries and fallopian tubes) from microbes. 
Research on this biome is at an early stage. "Lactobacillus" species are associated with vaginal health, but what they do to keep the vagina healthy is not known. A big research program into this is part of the Human Microbiome Project (HMP).
The vagina releases blood and tissue during menstruation. Tampons or other products can be used to absorb some of the blood.
When a woman is aroused, she has pleasurable feelings in her genital region. The vagina gets up to wide. It can get bigger with more stimulation. During sexual intercourse, the man's penis is placed in the woman's vagina. The vagina is warm and soft, and it places pressure on the man's penis. That can feel good for both partners and usually makes the man have an orgasm after repeated thrusts. For orgasm in women, the vagina has significantly fewer nerve endings than the clitoris, and therefore rubbing or applying other consistent pressure against the clitoris is usually needed to help the woman have an orgasm. During the man's orgasm, he ejaculates semen from his penis into the vagina. The semen contains sperm. The sperm can move from the vagina into the uterus to fertilize an egg and make a woman pregnant.
The G-spot is a highly sensitive area near the entrance inside of the human vagina. If stimulated, it leads to a strong orgasm or female ejaculation in some women. Some doctors and researchers who specialize in the anatomy of women believe that the G-spot does not exist, and that if it does exist, it is an extension of the clitoris.
During birth, the vagina acts as a pathway for the baby to leave the mother's body. The vagina is very elastic and stretches to many times its normal diameter during birth.
Sperm needs to be deposited at the top of the vagina near the cervix and fertilize the ovum (egg) if pregnancy is to occur. In a normal childbirth, babies come out through the vagina.

</doc>
<doc id="13226" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13226" title="Breast">
Breast

The breast is an organ on the lower chest region of humans and other primates. Humans have two breasts. Both boys and girls have breasts at birth, but during puberty, the breasts on women become larger and visible. The breasts have mammary glands that produce milk. Breastfeeding is letting an infant drink breast milk.
Men also have breasts. They are built the same way as those of women but are much smaller and underdeveloped. Men cannot use their breast for breastfeeding. Their breasts will usually not produce milk, but might become larger and produce milk during some diseases or with some hormonal medical treatments.
Girls develop breasts during puberty due to sex hormones, mainly estrogen.
The appearance and size of the breasts of a woman may vary due to genetic factors, and the amount of fatty and connective tissue. Hormones also play a role.
Estrogen promotes the growth of mammary glands and ducts, while progesterone induces milk-producing cells to develop. Prolactin and oxytocin stimulate milk production. Oxytocin also causes milk to be spurted from a lactating breast.
The two breasts usually are not equal in size — one may be larger than the other, but this is common.
During menopause, as levels of estrogen decrease, tissue in the breasts reduce as well, and the breasts may start sagging. A study showed that breastfeeding does not cause sagging. Factors that do influence sagging are the size of the breast (before the first pregnancy), number of pregnancies, body mass index, smoking, and age.
The center of the breast is the nipple. The areola is a circular area around the nipple. The breast contains mammary glands. Ducts carry the milk produced by these glands to the nipples. After a woman has a baby, her breasts undergo lactation — the production of natural milk.
Feeding babies milk is called breastfeeding or "nursing".
The breasts of a woman also play a role in human sexual behaviour. They are one of the most visible or obvious female secondary sex characteristics. They play an important role in sexual attraction of partners. They can also give pleasure to the individual. When sexually stimulated, the size of the breasts increases, venous patterns across the breasts become more visible, and nipples grow harder. During sexual intercourse, it is common practice to press or massage breasts with hands. Breasts are sensitive to touch as they have many nerve endings. Oral stimulation of nipples and breasts is also common. Some women can achieve "breast orgasms". In the ancient Indian work the "Kama Sutra", marking breasts with nails and biting with teeth are explained as erotic.

</doc>
<doc id="13228" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13228" title="Thumb">
Thumb

The thumb is one of the five fingers on the human hand. Thumbs are different from the other four fingers because they are in a different direction, have only 2 bones (the others have 3), and are shorter. Thumbs allow us to pick things up. This is called having "opposable thumbs". Thumbs have an artery in them. Arteries have a pulse. This is why we should not take other peoples' pulses with our thumbs.

</doc>
<doc id="13241" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13241" title="Pregnancy">
Pregnancy

Pregnancy is when a female mammal has an unborn baby inside her. During pregnancy, a female is called "pregnant". A human pregnancy is about 38 weeks long, from conception to childbirth. Usually the mother has one baby at a time. Sometimes the mother has two babies at one time. Two babies are called twins. The mother can have three or more babies at one time. This does not happen very often. 
Pregnancy usually starts after a woman has sexual intercourse with a man. Her ovum (or egg) and his sperm (seed) come together and form a zygote (fertilized egg) inside her. 
Some people have trouble becoming pregnant. This is called "infertility". Women and men with infertility may take drugs or have surgery to help a pregnancy start. Some people use treatments that are not natural, like in vitro fertilization, to become pregnant with the help of a doctor.
When the woman's egg and the man's seed come together, it makes one cell called a "zygote". The zygote grows into an embryo, which grows into a fetus. When the fetus is ready, the baby is born. 
Human pregnancy is divided into three parts called "trimesters". A trimester is about three months long. During the first trimester, the woman might feel ill in her stomach. She might have to urinate often. During the second trimester, the woman's abdomen starts to stick out. During the third trimester, her abdomen sticks out even more, and she becomes even heavier. 
At the end of a full pregnancy, the woman's body pushes the baby out through her vagina. This is called "delivering a baby" or "giving birth". Mothers can get help for birth from a midwife, nurse, or doctor. In some places, mothers give birth at home. In other places, mothers give birth in a hospital. Mothers who are ill or hurt may need to go to a hospital.
Giving birth can hurt a lot at the end. In hospitals, a doctor or midwife can give drugs to the mother to reduce the pain. 
If the baby cannot be pushed out, then a doctor can cut the mother open to take the baby out. This operation is called a Caesarean section. 
The Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women says that pregnant women must be given time away from work or equal welfare for her baby without losing her job (Article 11).
Sometimes there are problems with pregnancies. A miscarriage (spontaneous abortion) is when the baby dies before it is born. A stillbirth is when the baby is dead when it is born. There are also diseases caused by pregnancy. 
Sometimes, women die from giving birth. In developed countries, this is much less common than it used to be. Every year, about 500,000 women die from giving birth, while about 7,000,000 mothers have big problems from giving birth. For example, giving birth can tear the mother's body and cause an obstetric fistula.
A pregnancy can also stop without the baby being born. This is called abortion. Doctors can do things that will stop a pregnancy. Such an abortion is called "induced abortion". Countries have different laws about induced abortions. Some countries allow it, and others do not. In some countries, it is allowed, but only for certain reasons, such as the pregnancy resulting from rape, or a doctor saying that the pregnant woman might die if the pregnancy is not stopped. People also have different opinions about abortion. Often, these are influenced by religious beliefs. 
There are a few diseases that can kill a woman or make her very ill if she has a baby. Having abortions could save the lives or health of these mothers. 
A pregnancy test is something that women use to tell whether they are pregnant. The woman urinates on the stick. If the woman is pregnant, a plus sign or two lines will appear on the stick. If the woman is not pregnant, then a minus sign or one line will appear on the stick.

</doc>
<doc id="13253" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13253" title="Forest">
Forest

A forest is a piece of land with many trees. Many animals need forests to live and survive. Forests are very important and grow in many places around the world. They are an ecosystem which includes many plants and animals.
Temperature and rainfall are the two of the most important things for forests. Forests can exist from the equator to near the polar regions, but the character of the forest differs greatly. In cold climates conifers dominate, but in temperate and tropical climates forests are mainly of flowering plants. Rainfall is also a major factor. No forests exist in deserts, just a few trees in places where their roots can get at some underground water.
The three major forest biomes are coniferous forests, deciduous forests, and tropical rain forests.
Evergreen coniferous forests stretch across Canada, Alaska, Northern Asia, and Northern Europe. They are composed of conifers which produce seeds in cones. 
The weather during the winter is cold, but the snow melts completely in the spring, turning some parts of the forest into swamps. There are only eight types of trees in the coniferous forests, including balsams, firs, and black spruce. There are not many different types of trees in coniferous forests because of the cold weather, and the poor soil. Fallen branches, needles, and dead animals do not decay as fast as in warmer regions. This is why the soil in coniferous forests is not very fertile. Also, only those trees that have adapted to cold weather and poor soil have been able to survive. These trees have flexible branches that support heavy snowfalls. Less water evaporates from their leaves because of the shape of their needles.
Many coniferous trees shade large parts of the soil below them, which keeps many plants from growing on the forest ground. Some animals that live in the coniferous forests are pine martens, deer, bears, caribou, moose, lynxes, beavers, and birds such as grey owls, crossbills, and warblers.
Deciduous forests grow in North America, Europe and Asia. They have a moderate climate during the spring, summer, autumn (fall) and winter, with rainfall of at least 500mm a year. Summers are warm and winters are cold, but not as cold as the northern coniferous forests. In the winter, snow covers the ground and the deciduous trees and plants lose their leaves. The decaying leaves help make the soil rich in nutrients. Many insects, spiders, snails, and worms make their homes in this rich soil. Wild flowers and ferns grow almost everywhere in the spring. New leaves capture the energy of the sun and sprout before the tall trees shadow them. 
During the winter, many birds migrate to warmer climate. Many small animals hibernate or aestivate, in other words, slow down their metabolism and sleep or stay in their burrows. Some of the other animals just slow down their metabolism and eat food they stored during the summer and fall months. The trees in winter are bare, but with the coming of spring, leaves sprout, birds return, animals are born, and all the forest animals get busy with their lives. Animals that we may see or hear in this biome include bears, deer, raccoons, otters, beavers, foxes, frogs, squirrels, snakes, salamanders, and birds such as woodpeckers, robins, owls, blue jays and the small birds usually called tits.
Tropical rainforests grow in South America, the Congo, Indonesia and some nearby countries, Hawaii, and eastern Australia. Tropical rain forests are aptly named, as it rains here on about half the days. The only season in a tropical rain forest is summer, so plants grow for all 12 months of the year. Trees are tall and thick in the rain forest and they grow so close together that they seem to form a big umbrella of greenery called a canopy. This blocks out most of the sunlight. The air is muggy as it filters through the dense canopy cover of the trees. The light that filters through this tree cover is dim and green. Only along river banks and in places that have been cleared does enough sunlight allow plants to grow on the forest ground.
Millions of species of plants and animals live in the world's tropical forests. Life in the rain forest exists at different levels or layers in the trees. Each of these layers have a special name, such as 'emergent', 'canopy', 'understory', and 'forest floor". Animal life is found on all levels.
Many forests are being cut down for their wood. This cutting down of forests is called deforestation and it is causing damage to the natural habitat of animals. Even roads have been built for the peoples to pass though the forest to reach their destination.

</doc>
<doc id="13254" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13254" title="Barber">
Barber

A barber is someone who cuts hair and shaves beards. Usually, it is men who go to a barber. Women usually go to hairdressers instead. Barbers sometimes have a pole outside, which is red and white in most countries. Barbering is a most ancient and honorable profession, with a very interesting history. Barbering is the practice of cutting or trimming hair and includes shaving or trimming facial hair. Besides cutting hair, barbers also shampoo and style hair, mostly for male clients. Other duties include scalp treatment, skin care and fitting or grooming hairpieces. In some states, barbers color, highlight or bleach hair. 
The main job of a barber is to cut a client's hair. The goal is to improve the appearance of the hair and to adapt styles to the customer's wishes. Barbers also shape and trim beards and mustaches. Instruments such as scissors and combs must be kept sterile and in good condition, and the barber is also responsible for keeping the shop clean by sweeping up hair. Owners of barbershops also order supplies, pay bills and may hire and supervise staff. Good interpersonal skills and a positive attitude are important qualities to have when working as a barber. Examples of famous barbers are Alex Kelly and Cameron Kelly formally known as the Kelly Cutters. Many barbers use these men as examples and aim to also deliver a very high quality service. 
With experience, barbers can manage a salon or barber shop, or eventually open their own shop. Advancement is also possible in teaching barbering. Some states combine barbering and cosmetology licenses into one. Some states allow transferring a barbering license from another state without additional formal training, but not all states allow this.

</doc>
<doc id="13256" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13256" title="Carpenter">
Carpenter

A carpenter is a person who works with wood. They can make cabinets, build houses, or do other things with wood.
Carpenters usually make very good foremen (people who watch over a job) on larger jobs as they deal with so much of the project from ground up. Carpenters are always adding to their tools and always learning how to use the new tools, materials, and ways of working with wood.
Many carpenters will choose to focus their skills in one of two broad ranging categories. Rough carpenters will focus on building things that need to be simple and structural. This includes framing for houses, or crates for shipping. Finish carpenters will focus on things that are detailed and artistic. For example, they can be furniture builders, cabinet makers or toy makers. Wood carvers are sometimes counted as carpenters.

</doc>
<doc id="13257" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13257" title="Electrician">
Electrician

An electrician is a person who fixes the wires and switches so that lights and outlets work the right way. Some electricians work in a building. 

</doc>
<doc id="13258" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13258" title="Roof">
Roof

A roof is the top surface of the building. The plural of 'roof' is 'rooves' or 'roofs'. The roof keeps out rain and snow and protects people from the sun. Some rooves are sloped, or pitched, so the rain and snow fall off easily. Some rooves are flat, but even flat roofs have a little bit of pitch so the water can flow away towards a drain. 
"Gable", "hip", "gambrel", and "mansard" roofs are types of pitched rooves. Those rooves are usually covered in shingles, but some are covered in metal, slate, or cement. It can be dangerous to walk on a pitched roof. Some pitched rooves have parts that stick out for windows. These are called dormers. The edges of pitched rooves are called 'eaves'. Often there are gutters and leaders at the eaves, which take away water from the roof.
Flat rooves are usually covered in rubber or types of plastic. You can walk on a flat roof. At the edge of a flat roof there is sometimes a parapet, which prevents people from falling off the roof. Rooves are often made of slates or other types of tiles.

</doc>
<doc id="13264" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13264" title="Brick">
Brick

A brick is a man-made building material used to make walls and make places to walk. It is a single unit of a kneaded clay-bearing soil, sand and lime, or concrete material, fire-hardened or air-dried, used in masonry construction.
Bricks are made mostly of clay. They are put into molds or cut with wires, and then baked in an oven. The color of a brick depends on the clay from which it was made.
Masons build brick walls. They join bricks together using mortar.
Bricks can be assembled into many different patterns. The most common pattern is called "running bond". A row of bricks is called a course. A wall that is just one brick thick has one wythe.
Bricks used outdoors on the ground are called "pavers". Engineering bricks are used for high load-bearing walls, and for damp=proof courses. They are more expensive, and are made of better clays and fired at a higher temperature.
The oldest shaped bricks found date back to 7500 B.C. They have been found in Çayönü, a place located in the upper Tigris area in south east Anatolia close to Diyarbakir. A bit later, between 7000 and 6395 BC, bricks come from Jericho and Catal Hüyük. 
Fired bricks are one of the longest-lasting and strongest building materials. They have been used since about 3000 BC in early Indus Valley cities. Sun-dried mud bricks are much older, and quite satisfactory in hot, dry climates. Fired bricks are much more resistant to cold and moist weather conditions. They allow permanent building in regions where the harsher climate prevents the use of mud bricks.
Most bricks from all places tend to be about the same size: ~9 x ~4¼ x ~2½ inches or 250 × 120 × 65 mm. This is because they are picked up by the brickie in one hand, while in his other hand is a trowel with cement on it.

</doc>
<doc id="13266" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13266" title="San Diego, California">
San Diego, California

San Diego () is the second largest city in the U.S. state of California and 8th largest in US. It is at the southwest corner of California, as well as the southwest corner of the continental United States. It was founded in 1769 and it is the oldest city in California. Mayor of San Diego as of 2015 is Kevin L. Faulconer
It has nice weather most of the year. There are many military bases in and near "San Diego". It has a lot of Pacific Ocean beaches. The San Diego Zoo is very famous.
San Diego is home to San Diego State University and the University of California, San Diego.
San Diego is on the border between the United States and Mexico. The city of Tijuana is just across the border in Mexico.
San Diego is home to the San Diego Chargers football team and the San Diego Padres baseball team.

</doc>
<doc id="13307" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13307" title="Oriole">
Oriole

The oriole ( or Old World oriole) is a bird in the family Oriolidae. They make up the genus Oriolus. Old World orioles are found areas of Africa, Asia and Europe. They are most often found in tropical areas but one species lives in cooler areas. The golden oriole is the only species of Old World oriole which is not a tropical bird.
Many species have bright coloured feathers.
The orioles evolved in Australasia, and later spread to Eurasia. They are not related to the New World oriole. New World orioles are members of the blackbird family "Icteridae" and are native to the Americas .
This is a list of kinds of orioles, in the English and Latin languages:

</doc>
<doc id="13308" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13308" title="Feather">
Feather

Feathers are the things which cover birds. They help keep birds warm. Feathers also protect them from injury. In most kinds of birds, feathers help them to fly.
The main feathers which cover the outside of a bird are called "vaned feathers". Vaned feather have a stiff center, with soft barbs on the side, which seem like hairs. The center is called a "quill". This type of feather is called pennaceous (= like a pen).
Young birds have small feathers, called "down", which keep them warm, but cannot be used for flying. Down is very soft. Adult birds have down, but also have vaned feathers on top of the down. Down is also used in blankets. Down feathers are just one example of plumaceous feathers (the word means 'fluffy'). Another example is the feathers on flightless birds such as the ostrich.
Birds lose their feathers at certain times. This is called "moulting". By moulting, a bird can replace old feathers with new ones. Many birds moult once every year.
Feathers give birds colour. The function of colour in birds is extremely important. It includes:
People use feathers for many purposes. In the past, quills were commonly used as pens, and colorful feathers were worn on hats. Many pillows, cushions, mattresses, coats, and quilts are stuffed with down. Feathers are also used by people of many tribes for decoration.

</doc>
<doc id="13309" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13309" title="Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen">
Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen

Mary-Kate Olsen and Ashley Fuller Olsen (born June 13, 1986) are twin American actresses who have been seen in movies and on television series since they were nine months old.
The twins began acting on the ABC series "Full House", a success between 1987 and 1995, in which both of them played Michelle Tanner.
In the early 1990s, they became the youngest entrepreneurs in Hollywood history by forming Dualstar Entertainment.
Later that decade, they were seen on "Two of a Kind" and "So Little Time", as well as their own animated series.
Movie credits of theirs include "It Takes Two" (1994), "New York Minute" (2003), and countless direct-to-video movies and specials.
In 2004, the Olsen twins said that they would be going to university.
Merchandise related to the Olsens is still very popular in the teenage market. The Olsens have a clothing line for girls ages 4-14 in Wal-Mart stores across North America, as well as a beauty line called "Mary-Kate and Ashley: Real fashion for real girls".
In mid-2004, Mary-Kate Olsen announced she had entered treatment for an eating disorder, anorexia nervosa. A Got Milk? ad featuring the twins was pulled following the announcement. On November 20, 2007 she was hospitalized for a reported kidney infection.
The twins have bought up a number of fashion labels, and this is now their main activity. In 2012 the girls decided to quit acting permanently and focus on fashion.

</doc>
<doc id="13311" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13311" title="The Walt Disney Company">
The Walt Disney Company

The Walt Disney Company, commonly nicknamed Disney, is one of the largest entertainment and media companies in the world. It was started in 1923 by Walt Disney and his brother, Roy Oliver Disney, as the Disney Brothers Cartoon Studio. It had the name of Walt Disney Productions from 1937 to 1985.
Disney Enterprises Inc. is a subsidiary of the company; the name is found in many of its franchises.
The company's main units are Studio Entertainment, Parks and Resorts, Media Networks and Consumer Products.
This unit, also called the Walt Disney Studios, is headed by Chairman Dick Cook. It consists of:
One of the Studios' largest assets lies in Walt Disney Feature Animation, which has made a successful string of animated movies for almost seven decades. Because of failures with most of their recent additions, it has changed its focus from traditional hand-drawn to CGI movies. Pixar, its biggest rival (also owned by Disney), dominates the latter industry.
Worldwide, Disney has eleven theme parks (as of 2016):
Disney once owned the sports teams, the Angels (baseball) and the Mighty Ducks (ice hockey), both based in Anaheim, California. They are now the property of other people.
The ABC television network, which Disney bought in 1996, serves as the centre of this unit. Cable television channels within it include Disney Channel, Toon Disney, ABC Family, ESPN and SOAPnet.It also partly owns Lifetime, A&E and E!.
Buena Vista Television, responsible for the syndication of many Disney series, produces some of its own as well: "Who Wants to Be a Millionaire", "Live with Regis and Kelly", and "Ebert & Roeper".
Merchandising and licensing within the company are overseen in this division. Disney Publishing Worldwide, part of this unit, has Disney Press, Disney Editions and Hyperion Books as its brands.
It once owned the Disney Store shopping chain until 2004. Jim Henson's Muppets have taken its place since then.
 

</doc>
<doc id="13312" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13312" title="Hypercholesterolemia">
Hypercholesterolemia

Hypercholesterolemia means that the cholesterol level is too high in the blood.
Cholesterol is a molecule in cells. It is a type of lipid which is a fat or fat-like molecule. Cholesterol is a special type of lipid that is called a steroid. Steroids are lipids that have a special chemical structure. This structure is made of four rings of carbon atoms.
Other steroids include hormone steroids like cortisol, estrogen, and testosterone. In fact, all steroid hormones are made from changing the basic chemical structure of cholesterol. When scientists talk about making one molecule from changing simpler ones, they sometimes call it "synthesis".
Cholesterol is usually in the walls of cells. It is "only" in animals. Plants do not synthesize cholesterol. So the cholesterol in the food people eat can only come from eating food from animals. But even vegans who eat "only" plant foods can have cholesterol. This is because "most" of the cholesterol that is in our bodies is synthesized "by" our bodies.
Cholesterol does many important jobs in a cell. Cholesterols main function is as a structural component of cell membranes. It is also the starting material for bile acids that are made by the liver and used to digest fats, and for steroid hormones. However, it is best known for something bad that it does. High levels of cholesterol can lead to atherosclerosis. This is an inflammatory disease of artery walls in which white blood cells invade the vessel wall and become engorged with cholesterol and other lipids. These 
areas can slowly close off a blood vessel or can suddenly rupture and trigger formation of a blood clot.
Not all cholesterol is bad. There are different kinds of cholesterol in the blood. Doctors often measure these different types to see if someone has hypercholesterolemia.
HDL, an acronym for 'high density lipoprotein' is sometimes called 'good cholesterol' because people with high levels of HDL cholesterol have "less" atherosclerosis.
LDL (low density lipoprotein) is sometimes called 'bad cholesterol' because people with high levels of LDL cholesterol have more atherosclerosis.
High blood levels of VLDL (very low density lipoprotein) also causes more atherosclerosis. However, measuring its level in blood is more expensive. So the blood level of triglycerides (a kind of fat) is used instead. High triglycerides (TG) are found in people with high VLDL.
When atherosclerosis gets bad enough, it can cause blockage of blood flow in arteries. This can hurt whatever the artery brings blood to. The organ or tissue that the blocked artery brought blood to can even die. If the organ or tissue dies, doctors call this an "infarction". If it is hurt from low blood flow, but not enough to die, it is called "ischemia". 
If the artery brought blood to the heart, people can have angina or a heart attack. A heart attack is also called a "myocardial infarction." Myocardial means relating to the heart muscle. Infarction means death of a tissue or organ. So a myocardial infarction or "heart attack" is when blood flow to part of the heart stops. Then that part of the heart dies. Angina is when the blood flow is "low" but not "totally blocked". 
If the blocked artery brought blood to the brain, people can have a stroke. If the blocked artery is to the kidneys, it can cause kidney failure. If the blocked artery is to an arm or leg, they may also die. If this happens, the arm or leg may need to be amputated (cut off) if the blood vessel cannot be fixed by doctors.
The best way to treat it is to not get it! Some people develop atherosclerosis faster than others. Some develop it very slowly. Many things make those differences between people. Some are things people can change. Some are not. 
However, once someone gets hypercholesterolemia which means high blood cholesterol, doctors treat them. The first way to treat hypercholesterolemia is to exercise, quit smoking, and eat better foods. If these work and the cholesterol blood levels become normal, no more treatment is needed. If these do not work, sometimes medicines are also needed. But even if medicine is used, it is still important to stop smoking, eat better, and exercise.
Once someone gets atherosclerosis from hypercholesterolemia, a better diet, exercise, and quitting smoking "may not be enough". If people already have atherosclerosis that causes problems like heart attack or strokes, medicine is almost always needed.
People with atherosclerosis must also be watched by doctors to make sure they do not get ischemia or infarction. Since they are more likely to get a myocardial infarction (heart attack) or stroke, they must watch for signs of these. Sometimes if a doctor thinks a person has atherosclerosis she may do tests to find atherosclerosis "before" it causes symptoms of ischemia or infarction. But if people get symptoms of these problems, it is important to see a doctor "immediately".
For all of these types of ischemia or infarction, doctors can try to reopen the blocked artery. This may be done by surgery or sometimes with very strong medicines to make the blood less able to make clots. If this is not done "fast enough", the tissue or organ with ischemia may be too badly hurt, and it might not be able to be saved.
The most common type of medicine to treat hypercholesterolemia are 'statin' drugs. They are called 'statins' because their names all end in -statin. They are also called "HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors". This is because they work by "inhibiting" the enzyme HMG-CoA Reductase. Inhibiting an enzyme means to make it work less well.
The HMG-CoA Reductase enzyme causes the body to make more cholesterol. If it is inhibited, the body makes "less" cholesterol. So statin drugs lower the amount of LDL (bad) cholesterol in the blood which stops atherosclerosis from getting worse. Statin drugs can even help make atherosclerosis better. However, statins are not as good at increasing the HDL (good) cholesterol. Low HDL is hard to treat with medicines, but goes up with more exercise!
There are two big problems with taking statins: Liver problems and 'Rhabdomyolysis.'
Rhabdomyolysis means a disease where muscle cells are damaged and die. Statins can cause damage to muscle cells. This can cause weakness and muscle pain. The worse problem though is that when muscle cells die, they release cell proteins into the blood. The kidney removes the muscle protein from the blood. If the kidney takes up too much protein, it can be hurt. If it is bad enough it can cause kidney failure. So if people take statins and get muscle pain or weakness, stop the medicine and see a doctor.
Statins can also cause liver problems. They can cause mild irritation of the liver. They can rarely cause very bad liver damage. Because of this, when someone starts taking a statin, doctors check liver blood tests after six weeks. Doctors also warn patients to watch for the signs of liver damage: pain in the right side of the abdomen, nausea, vomiting, and jaundice.
However, both of these problems are "rare". In someone with hypercholesterolemia, the benefit from statins is more than the risk. This means that someone is more likely to prevent problems than cause problems by taking them. There are many big scientific studies of this problem that show the same thing: if people have hypercholesterolemia and take statins, "they are more likely to live longer and be healthier".
There are other kinds of medicines to treat hypercholesterolemia. But statins are the most effective treatment.
"Fibrates" are medicines that lower cholesterol levels. They may also help people with Type II Diabetes. This is a good effect because diabetes and hypercholesterolemia cause some of the same problems. If both diabetes and hypercholesterolemia happen in the same person the problems from these diseases can be much worse. Fibrates can have rhabdomyolysis like the statins and also can cause upset stomach. Use of fibrates and statins at the same time makes rhabdomyolysis happen much more often.
Niacin is a vitamin that lowers cholesterol levels. It is also called Vitamin B3 or nicotinic acid. Severe niacin deficiency in the diet can cause a disease called "Pellagra". This is rare in the developed world today. However, less bad deficiency of niacin can cause high blood pressure, weight gain, and hypercholesterolemia. So sometimes Niacin is used to treat hypercholesterolemia. Niacin is one of the medicines that may make HDL (good) cholesterol go up. The biggest problem with taking enough Niacin to help cholesterol is that it causes severe "flushing" (hot, red, sometimes itchy skin). This 'side-effect' is so bad, sometimes people stop taking the medicine.
Bile Acid Resins are medicines that make people not absorb as much bile when they digest food. This causes them to take up less cholesterol also, which lowers blood levels of cholesterol.

</doc>
<doc id="13313" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13313" title="Cholesterol">
Cholesterol

Cholesterol is a molecule that is found in animal cells and body fluids. Cholesterol is not found in plant sources. It is a type of lipid which is a fat or fat-like molecule. Cholesterol is a soft waxy substance. Cholesterol is a special type of lipid that is called a steroid. Steroids are lipids that have a special chemical structure. This structure is made of four rings of carbon atoms. Cholesterol is found especially in animal fats.
Other steroids include hormone steroids like cortisol, estrogen, and testosterone. In fact, all steroid hormones are made from changing the basic chemical structure of cholesterol. When scientists talk about making one molecule from changing simpler ones, they sometimes call it "chemical synthesis".
Hypercholesterolemia means that cholesterol level is too high in the blood. High cholesterol levels show that heart disease may develop.

</doc>
<doc id="13314" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13314" title="Iowa">
Iowa

Iowa () is a state in the Midwestern United States. Its name comes from the Ioway people, one of the Native American tribes that lived in Iowa. Iowa was a part of New France, but was sold to the United States as part of the Louisiana Purchase. Its settlers were mostly farmers: Iowa is part of the Corn Belt and is often known as the "Food Capital of the World." However, Iowa's landscape, culture, and economy are diverse, with the economy changing in the second half of the 20th Century to include many kinds of business.
Iowa has more than 3 million people . Its capital and largest city is Des Moines. Iowa became a state in 1846. It was the 29th state to join the United States.
 Iowa is in the Midwestern United States. To the north of Iowa is Minnesota; to the west are Nebraska and South Dakota; to the south is Missouri; and to the east are Illinois and Wisconsin.
The eastern border of the state is marked by the Mississippi River which runs between Iowa and Illinois. The western border is marked by the Missouri and Big Sioux rivers. The northern border is a line 43 degrees, 30 minutes north latitude. The southern border follows the northern border of Missouri. Iowa and Missouri disagreed about the location of the Iowa-Missouri border. This argument was ended by the Supreme Court of the United States in the 1896 case, "State of Missouri v. State of Iowa", after a standoff called the Honey War. The border follows the Des Moines River for the far eastern part of the state and is at close to 40 degrees, 35 minutes north for the rest of the state.
Iowa has 99 counties, but 100 county seats because Lee County has two. The state capital, Des Moines, is in Polk County.
Most of Iowa is considered to be a plain.
The government of Iowa has three branches, similar to the federal government of the United States. The executive branch is headed by the governor, currently Terry Branstad (R). The legislative branch is the Iowa General Assembly, composed of two houses - the Iowa Senate and the Iowa House of Representatives. The judicial branch is headed by the Iowa Supreme Court under the chief justice, currently Marsha Ternus.
There are two major political parties in Iowa, the Iowa Democratic Party and the Republican Party of Iowa, as well as several unofficial third parties. No one party is in charge of the government ; the governor is a Republican and the House has a Republican majority under Kraig Paulsen, but the Senate has a Democratic majority under Mike Gronstal.
Iowa sends two senators and four representatives to Congress. The number of representatives was five, but starting with the 2012 elections is only four, because of redistricting.
Senators:
Representatives:
There are many farms in Iowa. Iowa is well known for its agriculture. Its main agricultural outputs are hogs, corn, soybeans, oats, cattle, and dairy products. Its industrial outputs include food processing and machinery. Iowa also produces more ethanol fuel than any other U.S. state.

</doc>
<doc id="13317" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13317" title="Gender identity">
Gender identity

In sociology, gender identity describes the gender that a person sees themselves as. Most people see themselves as a man or woman; a boy or girl. For almost everyone, the gender they identify as, matches what the doctor said they were when they were born. For a few people, however, they were called one thing when they were born, but they feel like the other gender; people in this group are called transgender. Sometimes, other people are called transgender, too, when they do not fit society's expectations about gender roles—that is, how a male or female of a certain age and culture should look and act.
The vast majority of adults in society think of themselves as being a man or a woman. Almost all children can identify themselves as a boy or a girl by age two or three. Society tends to think of gender as an either-or situation: that is, that everyone must be man or woman; boy or girl, a view that scholars call "the gender binary". And while that fits most people, it doesn't fit everyone. 
For the great majority of adults and children, what they were called when they were born—"It's a boy!" or, "It's a girl!"— and how other people see their gender as man, woman, boy, or girl matches how they feel about themselves. For a few people, what they were called at birth or how other people see them does not match their gender identity. Such people may be called transgender. Some people prefer to use different words for their gender identity, like genderqueer, and there are other terms as well. 
There are some people who feel like they are more than one gender, for example bigender or pangender, and others who feel like they are no gender (agender). In 2014, to keep up with changing views about gender identity, Facebook changed their gender options that users can pick from, to 58 different gender identities. This change was noticed and widely reported at the time.
Gender expression (also called, "gender presentation") means how a person dresses, looks, and acts. Someone who wears men's clothes and acts in a masculine way has a "male gender expression." This is different from "gender identity" because people can choose to look or behave one way even if that is not how they feel inside. Sometimes people call this "gender presentation" or just "presentation".
'Transgender' is something that means different things to different people.
Some transgender people feel like they were born with a physical gender that does not match who they feel they are. They are called transsexual. Some transsexual people change their body to make it more like their gender identity. These people may have surgery or take medicines to change their body.
Some people use the word 'transgender' to mean somewhat different things, as the word has expanded and changed since it was first invented in 1965.
Some factors involved in transgender identification are:
Most people have several factors that all match just one gender: an "assigned sex" (the label they were given at birth), gender expression (how they dress and act), and gender identity (what gender they feel they are inside). In most people all of the factors are in agreement—either male, or female. But in transgender people one or more factors can be different.
It is possible to have every different combination of sex, gender identity, and gender expression. 
A person may be assigned female at birth but have a male gender identity. Many people like this may dress and act like men and take jobs that are usually done by men. This person may call himself a man, transgender, or a "transman". If he has surgery or takes testosterone, he may call himself transsexual.
A man might like to dress up in women's clothes (in drag). This is often done as a performance on a stage. This man may have a male gender identity and a male sex. He may also have a male gender role most of the time, but when he 'does drag' he may have a female gender role.
Some people may have a gender identity that is different from their sex. However, if they live in a place where transgender people are not accepted they may hide this. They may also hide it because they are afraid their family will not accept them. So a transgender woman like this might have a female gender identity, but have a male sex "and" a male gender presentation. She might want to have a female gender expression, but does not because of fear.
When a person's gender identity and body do not match, they may go to see a doctor. The doctor may help them change their body if that is what they want. A psychiatrist diagnose this person with Gender identity disorder. Principle 18 of the Yogyakarta Principles, a document about international law on human rights states that "any classifications to the contrary, a person's gender identity is not in and of itself, medical condition". And "Activist's Guide" to them says that "gender identity" or "gender identity disorder" exists still in categories of mental illness, contrary to the "sexual orientation" removed from such categories.
This is a controversial subject. Some transgender or transsexual people do not think they have an illness or disease. They may feel like this because disease and illness can make it seem like something is wrong with a person. They see being transgender or transsexual as a "trait" or "characteristic", like being left-handed.
However, some transgender people may not mind the words illness or disease. This is especially important for transgender people who get medical treatments. Some national health insurances pay for transsexual treatments. But if these were not seen as an illness, they might not pay.

</doc>
<doc id="13318" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13318" title="America's Army">
America's Army

America's Army is a multiplayer first-person shooter computer game series. It can be played using Windows, Macintosh, or Linux. It is the official game of the United States Army. The first version was free. It came out on July 4, 2002. It has been updated many times since then. The second important release was "America's Army: Special Forces" in November 2003. "America's Army" was made by the "MOVES Institute" at the Naval Postgraduate School. It is based on the Unreal engine.
"America's Army" is a tactical shooter. It is also called a "serious games". According to the game's website, America's Army "provides civilians with an inside perspective and a virtual role in today's premier land force: the U.S. Army. The game is designed for verisimilitude and to provide an accurate portrayal of Soldier experiences across a number of occupations. In the game, players will explore progressive individual and collective training events within the game. Once they successfully completed these events they will advance to multiplayer operations in small units."
On February 20, 2005 there were 4.6 million registered players, and 2.7 million of them had finished basic training. Also, there were more than 15,000 servers being used, and 1.3 million rounds being played each day. The game has been changed a lot. This keeps people interested in the game. It can be found as a free download on the Internet or on a CD-ROM at recruiting centers around the United States.
In 1999, Lieutenant Colonel E. Casey Wardynski, a professor at the U.S Military Academy at West Point decided to tell the Deputy Chief of Staff for Personnel and the Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Army for Military Manpower about his idea for an online computer game. His basic idea eventually became America's Army. In the same year, fewer people were joining the army.. Congress decided to use "aggressive, innovative experiments" including America's Army to get more people to join the Army.
The first release was July 4, 2002, and other changes (called patches) were added. On November 6, 2003, version 2.0 of "America's Army: Special Forces" was made. (Go here for more information about the different version). The Army is spending about USD$3 million a year to make more versions of the game.
Another AA version called "America's Army: Rise of a Soldier" is available on Playstation 2 and Xbox. This version was developed by UbiSoft. 
Since "America's Army" was created, people have complained about its purpose. People have argued about the Army using its money to make a game. They are also worried about how this game will change people's lives.
In "America's Army" there are teams of soldiers fighting in a war. The person who is playing controls a soldier of the "US Army" from the character's eyes. This is called first person.
Players fight as either the US Army or Indigenous forces ("IF"). They fight against a team called "OPFOR" (Army lingo for "Opposing Forces"). There are different kinds of OPFORs called "insurgents", "enemy forces" or "terrorists".
One of "America's Army"'s different features is the way the enemies are. The players are split into two different teams. There is usually an "assault" group and a "defense" group. The "assault" loses the round if the time limit runs out, which is usually ten minutes.
The players on each team see themselves as American soldiers with American weapons, such as the "M16A2". Their opponents look like non-uniformed people with Eastern bloc weapons, like the "AK-47" (the counterpart of the "M16A2" in the game). In training maps the only distinguishing features are the players' uniforms. The development team did this to make the game realistic for players on both sides. They allowed everyone to play on the side of the American forces. They also avoided the problem of asking players to kill American soldiers.
On the Special Forces maps, players can also play as non-uniformed people with Eastern bloc weapons (known as Indigenous forces ("IF") in the game), but be on the same team as regular army forces.
This is confusing to many players because when they pick up an enemy weapon, it works differently than the US version. An AK-47 removed from a fallen opponent is fully automatic, more powerful, but less accurate than his M16. But when his opponent had it, to him it "was" an M16. The important thing is that each weapon behaves as the owner sees it. It transforms when it is picked up. If people pay a lot of attention might notice that the enemies weapons behave wrong, but it is hard to notice.
Every round starts with both teams spawning at the same time. Players can join the other team, but cannot play as the OPFOR. Equipment is not bought but selected through choosing a class.
The goal of the game is to complete the objectives, kill the enemy team. For example, one objective could be to kill the "V.I.P.", who is trying to survive and escape. If a player joined the other team, he would have to protect the same V.I.P. The round is over if a team wins0, or if the time limit is reached. For a listing of missions gohere.
The game remembers how many people each player has killed, how many times each team has won, how many times each player has been killed, and how well the player is completing the objectives. The game then distributes score which calculates the player's "Honor" level.
Every time a player is killed, every time he fails to protect an objective which he is assigned to defend, and especially every killing of teammates or his allies caused by friendly fire is called a violation of the "ROE" (Rules of engagement) in the game and has an extremely negative effect on his score and "Honor". If too many points are lost in a round, the player is put in "jail" and kicked out of the server. As of February 2005 95.2% of AA players had 0-20 HONOR points, 3.3% had 20-40 points, 1% had 40-60, and .4% had 61-80 points.
Every healing of injured teammates and every killing of opponents increases a players score and "Honor". Completing the game's missions affects a player's score in a good way and his "Honor" points as well. The score is saved in the player's account that was being used. Some servers only allow players with certain Honor levels to join. The most common is to not let anyone with less than 10 Honor in because this is the base level that everyone starts with. Some also do not let players with too much Honor in. The developers say that "Honor" is based on the values of the Army: "Loyalty, Duty, Respect, Selfless Service, Honor, Integrity and Personal Courage or Leadership". Its main purpose in the game is stop "team-killing", which is a problem in a lot of online first-person shooters (see team killer).
The game depicts real guns. The guns have all the same traits as the real versions. Each gun has different accuracy, power, recoil, and rate of jamming. To aim, there are cross-hairs and iron sights.
Players may select a "class" like "squad leader", "rifleman", "automatic rifleman", "grenadier", or "sniper"; these classes decide what weapon the player will have at the beginning of each round. Some players from each team may be "medics". Medics can help their teammates get better after they get shot. Being a medic is an extra ability which is added to the class. The Honor points are used to decide which players gets which class. Players with more Honor usually get to pick their class first.
Each gun also can jam in action. When a gun jams it means that it stops working because a part is stuck. The player then needs to press a button to fix the gun. This can be a problem because it makes it so that the player cannot shoot for a few seconds. AA was the first game ever to have player's guns jam.
Every firearm in the game has either iron sights or a telescopic sight (for sniper rifles); while using the sights, a zoom effect enlarges objects in view. The iron sights enlarge to a small degree, the telescopic sights to large one. Until he stops zooming, the player's moving speed is additionally decreased.
In the first few versions, weapons could only hurt players and glass. For example, a grenade could not destroy a television but a gun could put a bullet hole in the screen. Compared to most games, the grenades and are more deadly. They tried to make the blast radius of grenades more like real life than it usually is in other games. Getting hurt by weapons always leads to some bleeding, which causes a player's health gauge to go down over time. Injuries make players slower, they also make it harder for the player to shoot where they are aiming. Sometimes, if the player does not get help from a medic, they will die.
In the newer versions of the game players can make changes to their weapons. For example, the M4 Carbine can be change in different ways and let the soldier have features that work better on a certain map. For example, on a large map a scope and a bi-pod might be picked, but in a city a player might choose only iron sights and a M203 grenade launcher.
Every player starts the round with one or two guns, some grenades and, on some maps, night vision goggles or binoculars. A list of the weapons is here:
The map list is sorted by the version they were released with, with newer maps coming first. The game currently has 28 multiplayer maps and 14 single player training missions. Completing these training missions unlocks things like the ability to play online or to become a medic, a special forces unit or a sniper. Maps have different sizes, objectives, and weapons that players can have. 
However, no known custom maps have been made because there is no level editor for the game and the developers made it impossible for players to use the level design computer program "UnrealEd", which works for other Unreal engine games.
Newest Version is 2.8.3.1
Version 2.7 came out June 2006
Version 2.6 is available for Microsoft Windows, Linux and for Mac OS X.

</doc>
<doc id="13319" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13319" title="Heterosexuality">
Heterosexuality

Heterosexual people love people (sexually and romantically) of the opposite gender. A heterosexual man loves women. A heterosexual woman loves men. Another less formal word for heterosexual is "straight".
Heterosexual is seen as different from homosexuality, bisexuality or asexuality. Most people describe themselves as heterosexual. Society is described by some people as 'heteronormative', which is a word that describes an attitude that homosexuality is not 'normal'.

</doc>
<doc id="13322" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13322" title="Hate crime">
Hate crime

A hate crime is when someone breaks a law by hurting another person because of prejudice against a group the victim belongs to. Normally, a hate crime is not caused in any way by something the victim did or said, but just because of who they are. Hate crime is often in the form of physical violence, but can also be vandalism and damage to property, insults or other hurtful words, or other violations of human rights. People often commit hate crime because of prejudice about the victim's sex, ethnicity, religion, nationality, gender identity, class, sexual orientation, age, or other things about them. 
The term "hate crime" was first used in the 1980s in the United States, when crimes caused by bias against certain types of people were being talked about in the media. Hate crime is sometimes a way to frighten other people who belong to the same group. This intimidation can be seen as terrorism when it is carried out on a large scale.
In 2009, the Matthew Shepard Act has changed the definition of a hate crime in the law of the United States. It says that crimes which were committed because of the victim's sexual orientation, gender identity or disability are hate crimes. It is the first law that protects transgender people. 

</doc>
<doc id="13323" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13323" title="Gay bashing">
Gay bashing

Gay bashing and gay bullying is when someone attacks a person or group of people because they are gay or lesbian or bisexual or transgender.
Studies show that bullying happens to people who are gay or lesbian more often than to others in general. As teenagers, gay young men are more likely to be bullied than lesbians.
Gay bullying can become a type of hate crime or hate speech.

</doc>
<doc id="13324" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13324" title="Emergency medicine">
Emergency medicine

Emergency Medicine is a specialty of medicine. A specialty is a special part of medicine where a doctor may have more knowledge. Examples are Pediatrics (doctors who care for children), Geriatrics (doctors who care for elderly people), and Cardiology (doctors who know more about the heart.)
Emergency Medicine (abbreviation EM) is sometimes also called "Accident and Emergency Medicine" (AEM). 
EM doctors specialize in treating diseases and injuries that need "immediate" care. These kind of diseases or injuries are called "emergencies". If they are not helped quickly, the person may become more sick or even die.
Doctors that specialize in EM usually work in Emergency Departments. This is also called an Accident and Emergency Ward. These are places in hospitals where people go if they have an emergency. They may have a red cross or red letters on the sign to show it is the Emergency Department. This way, even people who cannot read know where to go.
Doctors who specialize in EM must know some about all of the different specialties of medicine. They treat people of all ages. They treat both men and women. They must know how to treat any kind of emergency. But they may not know "quite" as much about the "chronic" treatments of diseases over years. However, many people come to the Emergency Department with problems that are not emergencies. So EM doctors must also know about how to treat "non"-emergencies.

</doc>
<doc id="13325" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13325" title="Berkeley, California">
Berkeley, California

Berkeley is a city in the U.S. State of California. It is a suburb of San Francisco. It is famous for the college, University of California, Berkeley, where many political protests were held in the 1960s. It is also famous for its gourmet food and art scenes. Also, it is the native city of the punk band Green Day. BOINC or the Berkeley Open Infrastructure for Network Computing was created at the University of California in Berkeley.

</doc>
<doc id="13326" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13326" title="Medical specialty">
Medical specialty

Medicine is a very complex field. In the past, a doctor could learn almost all that we knew about medicine. Now that is impossible. So after finishing medical school, young doctors choose what kind of doctor they wish to be. After school, they usually do more years of training to learn about the kind of medical specialty they want to do.
Some doctors try to learn "some" about all of the different subjects of medicine and how to treat all patients. These kind of doctors are called 'primary care' doctors or "primary care physicians" (PCPs). Sometimes they are also called 'generalists' or even 'general practitioners.' In the United States, these kind of doctors are sometimes called family practitioners or family medicine doctors. When a problem is strange or complex, they give it to a specialist. 
There are other doctors who are also 'primary care' doctors. Pediatricians are primary care doctors, but only for children. Internists are primary care doctors for adults. Some gynecologists do primary care, but for women only.
Other doctors are called 'specialists'. This means they have learned more about certain types of medical care. For example:
In the broadest meaning of 'medicine', there are many different specialties. However, within medical circles, there are two broad categories: "Medicine" and "Surgery." 
There are some medical specialties that do not fit into either of these categories, like radiology, pathology, and anesthesia. 
In the U.S., all specialties must pass all three steps of the national medical board examinations. Steps I and II happen during medical school. Step III happens during intern year, where a person works as a student at a hospital. 
After a person passes these exams, they then have to pass more exams that are specifically about their specialty. These tests are both written and oral. 
A doctor is board-certified in their specialty after: 
There are only a few training spots per specialty each year, so some specialties can be very competitive. Some medical students do not get to train in the specialty they want. Other specialties do not have nearly enough doctors. This can happen because not enough doctors apply for training spots; because more training spots are needed; or because many people fail out of their training program. 
Surgical training requires at least five years of residency after medical school. Sub-specialties of surgery often require seven or more years. In addition, fellowships can last another one to three years. Because fellowships can be competitive, many trainees spend another two years on research. Because of this, for some people, their surgical training will not finish until more than a decade after medical school. 
Surgical training can be very difficult and can take a lot of time. An average surgical resident works 75 hours per week. 
Some subspecialties of surgery, like neurosurgery, require even longer hours. Residents training in these specialties often work 80 hours a week. Officially, these specialties only allow their residents to work up to 88 hours per week. However, many surgical programs still require residents to work more than 88 hours a week. 
Attempts to limit the amount of hours that surgical residents work have been difficult, because: 
Medical training, unlike surgical training, requires three years of residency training after medical school. Doctors can then do a one- to two-year fellowship in their subspecialty. In general, medical residents work less hours than surgical residents.

</doc>
<doc id="13327" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13327" title="Pediatrics">
Pediatrics

Pediatrics is the specialty of medicine that cares for infants, children, and adolescents. The ages can vary from the early months until 21.
Pediatricians can be primary care doctors or they can be specialists.
Pediatricians take care of diseases that children get. They also make sure that children develop normally and try to prevent illness. One of the most important ways that children's diseases can be prevented is by immunization. Immunization is also called vaccination.
In the nineteenth century, one in five children died before the age of five. Most of these deaths were from infectious diseases. Today "some" of these deaths are prevented by treating disease when it happens. Most of it is from preventing disease with immunizations.
Pediatricians also try to prevent other diseases and injury before they happen. They teach parents about safety and nutrition. They may teach older children or "adolescents" about avoiding injury or addiction to alcohol and tobacco. Because childhood is such a time of change, prevention is a major part of pediatrics.

</doc>
<doc id="13328" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13328" title="Jenna Bush Hager">
Jenna Bush Hager

Jenna Welch Bush Hager (born "Jenna Welch Bush" November 25, 1981) is the younger of two fraternal twin girls born to George W. Bush, President of the United States. Her twin sister is Barbara Pierce Bush.
Jenna graduated from the University of Texas in 2004. She has become a public school teacher like her mother Laura Bush was.
Jenna has been married to Henry Chase Hager since May 10, 2008. They have one child together, a daughter named Margaret Laura Hager (b.April 14, 2013).

</doc>
<doc id="13329" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13329" title="Uncyclopedia">
Uncyclopedia

Uncyclopedia, "the content-free encyclopedia", or "fake Wikipedia", is a website parody of Wikipedia founded by Jonathan Huang and a friend called "Stillwaters" on January 5, 2005. It is a comedy wiki. The information there is not factual. It is meant as a joke. Users make fun of things by creating pages about them. Uncyclopedia, unlike Wikipedia, has its own opinions about things, an example being that Uncyclopedia says Aquaman is the worst superhero ever. Uncyclopedia also has its opinion about Conservapedia, labeling conservatists (people who use Conservapedia) as "retards".
Its logo is a hollow potato named Sophia, making fun of Wikipedia's globe logo. They have a guide on writing called HTBFANJS (How To Be Funny And Not Just Stupid).
Uncyclopedia is in many different languages. These include:

</doc>
<doc id="13330" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13330" title="Barbara Pierce Bush">
Barbara Pierce Bush

Barbara Pierce Bush was born November 25, 1981 at Baylor University Medical Center in Texas. She is the older of two fraternal twin girls born to George W. Bush, the 43rd President of the United States. Her sister is Jenna Bush. Barbara was named after her grandmother, the former first lady, Barbara Bush.
Barbara graduated from Yale University in 2004. After that, she spent some time working in the re-election campaign of her father.

</doc>
<doc id="13331" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13331" title="Esperanto">
Esperanto

Esperanto is a constructed language that was designed to make international communication easier, and to be easy to learn. Ludovic Lazarus Zamenhof, a Polish eye doctor created the language in the 19th century.
At first, Zamenhof called the language ', which means "The International Language" in Esperanto. Soon, people began calling it the simpler name ', which means "a hopeful person." That name comes from "" ("Doctor Hopeful"), which is what Zamenhof called himself in his first book about Esperanto.
There are people who speak Esperanto in many countries and in all the major continents. No one knows exactly how many people now speak Esperanto in the world. Most sources say that there are between several hundred thousand and two million Esperanto speakers. A few people grew up speaking Esperanto as their first language. There may perhaps be around 2,000 of these people. Therefore Esperanto is the most used constructed language in the world.
A person who speaks or supports Esperanto is often called an "Esperantist".
Ludovic Lazarus Zamenhof created Esperanto. He grew up in Białystok, a town that was in the Russian Empire, but is now in Poland. People in Białystok spoke many languages. Zamenhof saw conflicts between individual ethnic groups living there (Russians, Poles, Germans and Jews). He thought that lack of a common language caused these conflicts, so he began creating a language people could share and use internationally. He thought this language should be different from national languages. He wanted it to be culturally neutral and easy-to-learn. He thought people should learn it along with national languages and use Esperanto for communication between people with different native languages.
First, Zamenhof thought about bringing Latin back into use. He learned it in school, but he realized it was too difficult for normal use. He also studied English and understood that languages did not need to conjugate verbs by person or number. Once he saw two Russian words: "швейцарская" (reception, derived from "швейцар" - receptionist) and "кондитерская" (confectionery, derived from "кондитер" - confectioner). These words with the same ending gave him an idea. He decided that regular prefixes and suffixes could decrease the number of word roots, which one would need for a communication. Zamenhof wanted the root words to be neutral, so he decided to use word roots from Romance and Germanic languages. Those languages were taught in many schools in many places around the world at that time.
Zamenhof did his first project "Lingwe uniwersala" (Universal Language) in 1878, but his father, a language teacher, regarded his son's work as unrealistic and he destroyed the original work. Between 1879 and 1885 Zamenhof studied medicine in Moscow and Warsaw. In these days he again worked on an international language. In 1887 he published his first textbook ' ("The International Language"). According to Zamenhof's pseudonym ' ("Doctor who hopes"), many people started calling the language as "Esperanto".
Zamenhof received a lot of enthusiastic letters. In the letters, people wrote their suggestions for changes to the language. He noted all of the suggestions. He published them in the magazine "La Esperantisto". In this magazine, Esperanto speakers could vote about the changes. They didn't accept them. The magazine had many subscribers in Russia. It was banned there because of an article about Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy. Publishing of the magazine ended after that. The new magazine "Lingvo Internacia" replaced it.
In the first years of Esperanto's life, people used it only in written form, but in 1905 they organized the first (1st) World Congress of Esperanto in Boulogne-sur-Mer, France. This was the first notable use of Esperanto in international communication. Because of the success of the congress, it is organized each year (except years of the World Wars) to this day.
In 1912 Zamenhof resigned his leading position in the movement during the eighth (8th) World Congress of Esperanto in Kraków, Poland. The tenth (10th) World Congress of Esperanto in Paris, France, didn't take place because of the start of World War I. Nearly 4000 people signed up for this congress.
During World War I the World Esperanto Association had its main office in Switzerland, which was neutral in the war. Hector Hodler's group of volunteers with support of Romain Rolland helped send letters between the enemy countries through Switzerland. In total, they helped with 200,000 cases.
After World War I there was new hope for Esperanto because of the desire of people to live in peace and Esperanto and its community grew in those days. The first World Congress after the war took place in Hague, Netherlands, in 1920. An Esperanto Museum was opened in Vienna, Austria, in 1929. Today it is part of the Austrian National Library.
World War II stopped this progress and many Esperantists were sent into the battle and many others died in concentration camps. Nazis had prosecuted Esperantists because they saw them as a part of the global Jewish conspiracy. They also persecuted Esperantists in the Soviet Union during Stalin's times.
After World War II many people supported Esperanto. 80 million people signed an petition supporting Esperanto for use in the United Nations.
Every year they organize big Esperanto meetings such as the World Congress of Esperanto, International Youth Congress of Esperanto and SAT-Congress (meeting of "Sennacieca Asocio Tutmonda" - World Non-national Association).
In 1990 the Holy See published the document "Norme per la celebrazione della Messa in esperanto", allowing the use of Esperanto in Masses without special permission. Esperanto is the only constructed language which received such a permission from the Roman Catholic Church.
Esperanto has many webpages, blogs, podcasts, and videos. People also use Esperanto in social media and online discussions and in their private communication through e-mail and instant messaging. Several (especially open source and free software) programmes have their own language version in Esperanto. Internet radio station "Muzaiko" has been broadcasting 24 hours a day in Esperanto since 2011.
Many people use Esperanto to communicate by mail, email, blogs or chat rooms with Esperantists in other countries. Some travel to other countries to meet and talk in Esperanto with other Esperantists.
There are many annual meetings of Esperantists. The largest is the ' ("World Congress of Esperanto"), which is held in a different country each year. In recent years around 2,000 people have attended it, from 60 or more countries. For young people there is ' ("International Youth Congress of Esperanto").
A lot of different cultural activities take place during Esperanto meetings: concerts of Esperanto musicians, dramas, discos, cultural presentations of the host country and culture of the untries of the participants, lectures, language-courses, and so on. At the location of Esperanto meetings there is also a pub, a tearoom, a bookstore, etc. with Esperanto-speaking workers. The number of activities and possibilities depends on the size or on the theme of the meeting.
There are books and magazines written in Esperanto. Much literature has been translated into Esperanto from other languages, including famous works, like the Bible (first time in 1926) and plays by Shakespeare. Works that are less famous have also been translated into Esperanto, and some of these do not have English translations.
Important Esperanto writers are for example: Trevor Steele (Australia), István Nemere (Hungary) and Mao Zifu (China). William Auld was a British writer of poetry in Esperanto and honorary president of the Esperanto PEN Centre (Esperanto part of International PEN). People recommended him for the Nobel Prize in Literature.
There is music of different genres in Esperanto, including folk songs, rock music, cabaret, songs for solo singers, choirs and opera. Among active Esperanto musicians such as for example Swedish socio-critical (make people think about bad things in the society) music group La Perdita Generacio, Occitan (from the south of France) singer JoMo, the Finnish group Dolchamar, Brazilian group Supernova, Frisian group Kajto or Polish singer-songwriter Georgo Handzlik. Also some popular music writers and artists, including Elvis Costello and American singer Michael Jackson recorded songs in Esperanto, composed songs inspired by the language or used it in their promotional materials. Some songs from the album Esperanto from Warner Bros., which released - all in Esperanto - in Spain, in November 1996, reached a high position in the Spanish record charts; similarly, in 1999, in Germany, hip-hop music group Freundeskreis became famous with their single "Esperanto". Classical works for orchestra and choir with texts in Esperanto are "La Koro Sutro" by Lou Harrison and "The First Symphony" by David Gaines (both are from the USA). In Toulouse, France, there is Vinilkosmo, which produces Esperanto music. The main internet Esperanto songbook KantarViki has got 3,000 songs in May 2013, both original and translated.
They play dramas from different writers such as Carlo Goldoni, Eugène Ionesco and William Shakespeare also in Esperanto. Filmmakers sometimes use Esperanto in the background of films, for example in "The Great Dictator" by Charlie Chaplin, in the action film "Blade: Trinity" or in comedy sci-fi television series "Red Dwarf". Feature films in Esperanto are not very common, but there are about 15 feature films, which have Esperanto themes.
The 1966 film "Incubus" is notable because its dialogues are only in Esperanto. Today some people translate subtitles of different films to Esperanto. The website "Verda Filmejo" collects these Esperanto subtitles.
Radio stations in Brazil, China, Cuba and Vatican broadcast regular programmes in Esperanto. Some other radio programmes and podcasts are available on the Internet. Internet radio station "Muzaiko" broadcasts Esperanto programmes on the Internet 24 hours a day since July 2011. Between 2005 and 2006 there was also a project of international television "Internacia Televido" in Esperanto. Today "Esperanto TV" broadcasts on the Internet from Sydney, Australia, since 5th April 2014.
On the Internet there are many online discussions in Esperanto about different topics. There are many websites, blogs, podcasts, videos and television and radio stations in Esperanto (see above). Google Translate supports translations from and into Esperanto since 22th February 2012 as its 64th language.
Apart from websites and blogs of esperantists and Esperanto organizations, there is also Esperanto Wikipedia and other projects of Wikimedia Foundation has got also their Esperanto language version or they use Esperanto (Wikibooks, Wikisource, Wikinews, Wikimedia Commons and Wikidata), people can also use Esperanto version of the social network Facebook and other sites.
Several computer programmes also have an Esperanto version, such as web browser Firefox and office suite (set of programmes for use in an office) "LibreOffice".
Zamenhof wanted to make an easy language to increase international understanding. He wanted Esperanto to be a universal second language. In other words, although he did not want Esperanto to replace national languages, he wanted a majority of people around the world to speak Esperanto. Many Esperantists initially shared this goal. General Assembly of UNESCO recognized Esperanto in 1954. Since then World Esperanto Association has got official relations with UNESCO. However, Esperanto was never chosen by the United Nations or other international organizations and it has not become a widely accepted second language. 
Some Esperanto speakers like Esperanto for reasons other than its use as an universal second language. Some people like the Esperanto community and culture. Developing the Esperanto culture is a goal for that people. 
People who care more about Esperanto's current value than about its potential for universal use are sometimes called "raŭmistoj" in Esperanto. The ideas of these people can together be called "", or "Raumism". The names come from the name of the town of Rauma, in Finland. The International Youth Congress of Esperanto met there in 1980 and made a big statement. They said that making Esperanto a universal second language was not their main goal.
People who have goals for Esperanto that are more similar to Zamenhof's are sometimes called ' in Esperanto. The name comes from ', an Esperanto phrase which means "final victory." It refers to a theoretical future in which nearly everyone on Earth speaks Esperanto as a second language.
The Prague Manifesto (1996) states the ideas of the ordinary people of the Esperanto movement and of its main organization, the World Esperanto Association (UEA).
German town Herzberg am Harz uses nickname "die Esperanto-Stadt/la Esperanto-urbo" ("the Esperanto town") since 12 July 2006. They also teach the language in the elementary schools and do some other cultural and educational events using the Esperanto language together with the Polish twin town Góra.
Esperanto is the only constructed language which the Roman Catholic Church recognises as liturgical language. They allowed to do Masses in the language and Vatican Radio broadcasts in Esperanto every week.
Esperanto uses grammar and words from many natural languages, such as Latin, Russian, and French. Morphemes in Esperanto (the smallest parts of a word that can have a meaning) cannot be changed and people can combine them into many different words, so the language have got common attributes with isolating languages such as Chinese, while inner structure of Esperanto words have got common attributes with agglutinative languages, such as Turkish, Swahili and Japanese.
The Esperanto alphabet has 28 letters. These letters are:
There is no Q, W, X, or Y in the Esperanto alphabet. The letters ĉ, ĝ, ĥ, ĵ, ŝ, ŭ have diacritics, or accent marks. Since "x" is not used in Esperanto, they can write these letters as cx, gx, hx, jx, sx, ux. They call this way of writing as the "x-sistemo" ("x-system").
Zamenhof invented a way of writing letters with diacritics which uses the letter "h" as a helping letter. When people use this, they can write the letters as ch, gh, hh, jh, sh and u. They call this way of writing as the "h-sistemo" ("h-system").
There was problem with writing Esperanto diacritic letters on computers in the past. People had to use either the h-system or the x-system. Since today's programs can use Unicode, there is no such problem anymore, but people still use these systems to write in Esperanto when they do not have Esperanto diacritic letters on their keyboards.
Grammar means the rules of a language. Esperanto's grammar is intended to be simple. The rules in Esperanto never change and can always be applied in the same way.
Esperanto has only definite article "la" (the same thing as "the" in English) and no indefinite article (the same thing as "a" or "an" in English). They use definite article when they talk about things, about which they have already told something.
Nouns end in "-o". For example, "patro means "father". To make a noun plural add -j. For example: "patroj means "fathers".
Adjectives end in "-a", adverbs end in "-e", for example "granda means "big", "bona means "good", "bone" means "well".
The "-n" ending is the "mark" of the direct object (the Accusative case) in nouns and adjectives. For example:
In adjectives and adverbs is comparison made by words "pli" ("more") and "plej" ("most"). For example:
So, to say how old is somebody in Esperanto, just say:
Verbs end in "-as" when they are in present tense. English uses "I am", "you are", "he is". But in Esperanto, there is just one word for "am", "are", "is" - "estas". Similarly, "kuras" can mean "run" or "runs". Infinitives end in "-i". For example, "esti" means "to be", "povi" means "can". It is easy to make past tense - always add "-is" ending. To make future tense, add "-os". For example:
Many words can be made opposite by adding "mal" at the beginning.
Examples of sentences which show the rules:
To make a yes-or-no question, add "Ĉu" at the beginning. For example:
Unlike in English, they can answer to a yes/no question only "jes" (yes) or "ne" (no).
The numbers are:
Numbers like twenty-one (21) are made by their compounding by order of magnitude. For example: "dek tri" means thirteen (13), "dudek tri" means twenty-three (23), "sescent okdek tri" means six hundred eighty-three (683), "mil naŭcent okdek tri" means (one) thousand nine hundred and eighty-three (1983).
Esperanto has over 20 special words which can change meaning of another word. People put them before or after the root of a word.
These words combined can make very long words, such as "malmultekosta" (cheap), "vendredviandmanĝmalpermeso" (that meat cannot be eaten on Friday).
Prefixes are added before the root of the word.
Suffixes are added after the root of the word, but before the ending.
Some of the criticism of Esperanto is common for any project of constructed international language: a new language has little chance to replace today's international languages like English, French or similar.
The criticism, which is specific for Esperanto, targets various parts of the language itself (the special Esperanto letters, the "-n" ending, sound of the language, and so on).
Some people say that use of the diacritics (the letters ĉ, ĝ, ĥ, ĵ, ŝ, ŭ) make the language less neutral than it would be using only the basic letters of Latin alphabet. They don't use the letters ĉ, ĥ and ĵ in any other language in the world.
They also say that the same ending of an adjective and a noun (such as "", "", "") is unnecessary. They don't have such a thing in English for example.
They also criticise that most of the words in Esperanto come from Indo-European languages.
One of the common criticism from the both, non-Esperanto-speakers and esperantists, is that there is language sexism in Esperanto. This is because there are some words, which have their male meaning as default and they have to make their feminine counterparts by adding the "-in-" suffix. Such a words are words like ' (father) and ' (mother), ' (son) and ' (daughter), ' (uncle) and ' (aunt), and so on. The majority of all Esperanto words have no specific meaning on the basis of sex. Some people proposed the suffix "-iĉ-" with male meaning in order to make the meaning of the basic word neutral. However this proposal is not widely accepted by Esperantists.
Criticism of some parts of Esperanto language was reason for creation of some new constructed languages like Ido, Interlingua, Neoslavonic language and Lojban. However, none of these constructed languages have as many speakers as Esperanto.
Normal sample: 
Version in x-system: 
Version in h-system: 
Simple English translation: All people are free and equal in dignity and rights. They are reasonable and moral, and should act kindly to each other.
People sometimes use the word "Esperanto" in a metaphoric way (not in its literal sense) to express that something is or they plan it to be international, neutral or a mixture. They say the programming language Java is "independent on specific platform like Esperanto is independent on concrete nation" or they call the font "Noto" as "Esperanto of fonts".

</doc>
<doc id="13332" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13332" title="Barbara Bush">
Barbara Bush

Barbara Pierce Bush (born June 8, 1925) is the wife of the 41st President of the United States, George H. W. Bush, and served as the First Lady of the United States from 1989 to 1993. She is the mother of the 43rd U.S. President George W. Bush and of the 43rd Governor of Florida, Jeb Bush. Previously, she had served as the Second Lady of the United States from 1981 to 1989. 
She was born in New York City, New York. Her parents were Pauline Robinson (1896-1949) and her husband, Marvin Pierce (1893-1969). Her mother died in a car accident. Her ancestor Thomas Pierce, an early New England colonist, was also an ancestor of Franklin Pierce, the 14th President of the United States. She is a fourth cousin, four times removed of Franklin Pierce.
She spent her early childhood in Rye, New York. She began her studies in a school in Rye, New York. Then she studied in a boarding school at Ashley Hall in Charleston, South Carolina.
In a dance party she met George H. W. Bush. At that time she was a girl of 17 years, and Bush was a student at Phillips Academy in Andover, Massachusetts. They got engaged just before Bush went to fight in the Second World War. He was a torpedo bomber of the United States Navy. Bush named three of his airplanes after Barbara: "Barbara," "Barbara II", and "Barbara III". In December 1944, Bush returned to the USA on leave. Two weeks later, they married on 6th January 1945. After the Second World War, Bush graduated from the Yale University. They moved to Midland, Texas. In 1953, the Bushes' daughter Robin died of leukemia. It severely affected Barbara Bush, and it began to turn her hair from a light brown color to chalk-white. On April 13, 2013, she became a great-grandmother after her granddaughter Jenna Bush Hager gave birth to a daughter. 
Bush had six children:
Over the years, the Bush family had moved 29 times. George H. W. Bush had become a successful person and had founded Zapata Corporation. He served in a variety of government jobs. George H. W. Bush became the 41st President of the United States in 1989 and served until 1993.
Bush became the First Lady of the United States when her husband was the 41st President of the United States from 1989 to 1993. She did her role as the First Lady in a nice way. She made a paw print for her pet Millie for a holiday card in 1991.
After, her husband's presidency, they moved to Houston, Texas. There they live in a big house in Kennebunkport, Maine.
On March 18, 2003, two days before the beginning of the 2003 invasion of Iraq, when her son George W. Bush was holding the office of the presidency, ABC's "Good Morning America" asked her about her family's television viewing habits; she replied:
I watch none. He [former President George H.W. Bush] sits and listens and I read books, because I know perfectly well that, don't take offense, that 90 percent of what I hear on television is supposition, when we're talking about the news. And he's not, not as understanding of my pettiness about that. But why should we hear about body bags and deaths, and how many, what day it's gonna happen, and how many this or that or what do you suppose? Or, I mean, it's not relevant. So, why should I waste my beautiful mind on something like that, and watch him suffer.
While visiting a Houston relief center for people displaced by Hurricane Katrina, Bush told the radio program "Marketplace",
Almost everyone I've talked to says, 'We're gonna move to Houston.' What I'm hearing, which is sort of scary, is they all want to stay in Texas... Everybody is so overwhelmed by the hospitality, and so many of the people in the arenas here, you know, were underprivileged anyway, so this (as she chuckles slightly) is working very well for them.
The remarks had controversy. In 2006, it was revealed that Barbara Bush donated an undisclosed amount of money to the Bush–Clinton Katrina Fund on the condition that the charity do business with an educational software company owned by her son Neil Bush.
In November 2008 Bush was hospitalized for abdominal pains. On November 25, a dime-sized hole in her small intestine, that was caused by an ulcer, was revealed by surgeons. She was released December 2, 2008 and was reported to be doing well.
Bush underwent aortic valve replacement surgery on March 4, 2009; she was released from the hospital on March 13, 2009.
In a November 2010 interview with Larry King, Bush was asked about former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin. Bush remarked, "I sat next to her once, thought she was beautiful, and I think she's very happy in Alaska, and I hope she'll stay there." Palin responded, "I don't want to, sort of, concede that we have to get used to this kind of thing, because I think the majority of Americans don't want to put up with the blue-bloods – and I say it with all due respect, because I love the Bushes – but, the blue-bloods, who want to pick and choose their winners, instead of allowing competition to pick and choose the winners."
Barbara Bush was portrayed by Ellen Burstyn in the 2008 film "W."
On December 31, 2013, Bush was hospitalized at The Methodist Hospital, in Houston, Texas, for a "respiratory related issue". She was in stable condition and had received a visit from her family, according to the Bush family's statement to the media. As stated above and in the news release, the former U.S. First Lady had been admitted to the same hospital in 2008 for treatment of a perforated ulcer, returning in 2010 for routine testing. On January 4, 2014, Bush was released from the hospital and it was announced she had been suffering from pneumonia. She was quoted as saying, "I cannot thank the doctors and nurses at Houston Methodist enough for making sure I got the best treatment and got back to George and our dogs as quickly as possible." 
Several schools bear the name of Barbara Bush. Sometimes, Barbara Bush had given sharp comments on certain matters. 

</doc>
<doc id="13357" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13357" title="Kadis-kot">
Kadis-kot

Kadis-kot is a fictional board game in the TV show "Star Trek". It is played on a six-sided board with three sets of coloured stones. 
The characters of Naomi Wildman and Seven of Nine played the game sometimes, after the events of the episode "Infinite Regress".

</doc>
<doc id="13359" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13359" title="Kenny Rogers">
Kenny Rogers

Kenny Rogers (born August 21, 1938 in Houston, Texas) is a Grammy Award winning country music singer and songwriter. His best known songs include "The Gambler" and "Lucille". He also acted in several movies and television series and owns a franchise of roast chicken restaurants called "Kenny Rogers Roasters".

</doc>
<doc id="13360" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13360" title="Moundou">
Moundou

Moundou is the capital of the Logone Occidental in Chad. It has a population of 99,530 as of 2003. Moundou lies on one of the main roads in southern Chad. It is the main city of the Ngambai people. Moundou is a center for industry and makes cotton and oil.

</doc>
<doc id="13361" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13361" title="Andrew Aagesen">
Andrew Aagesen

Andrew Aagesen or Andreas Aagesen (1826 - 1879) was a Danish teacher of law.

</doc>
<doc id="13362" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13362" title="Heart (band)">
Heart (band)

Heart is a rock band which started in Seattle in the 1960s. It became famous with the release of "Dreamboat Annie" in 1976 when the band-members were living in Vancouver.
Heart was started by Steve Fossen and brothers Roger and Mike Fisher in Seattle. Ann Wilson joined the band in Seattle in 1970. Nancy Wilson joined the band in 1974. From then, Ann and Nancy wrote almost all of the band's songs. From 1976, the band was very successful, and sold many millions of records.
Ann Wilson was the lead singer and sometimes played the flute. Roger Fisher played the lead guitar and sang. Steve Fossen played the bass guitar. Nancy Wilson played lots of different types of guitar and sang. Mike Fisher managed the band and also looked after the sound and the lights. In 1975 some extra people joined the band. Michael DeRosier played the drums. Howard Leese played lots of different instruments and stayed with the band until 1998.
The Fisher brothers left the band in 1979. Steve Fossen and Michael DeRosier left the band in 1982. Denny Carmassi played the drums, Mark Andes played the bass guitar, and Nancy Wilson played the lead guitar. The band did not do much in the 1990s, but Ann & Nancy started doing things again in the early 2000s. Since then, the band has made lots of appearances in public and on TV.
Their best known song is called Barracuda. It was written in 1977 by Ann and Nancy Wilson, Michael DeRosier, Sue Ennis (a friend of Ann and Nancy) and Roger Fisher. Some of the places it has been and used are:
The band's first album went on sale in 1976. It was given the name "Dreamboat Annie". A lot of people liked the album and more than one million (1,000,000) copies of it were sold. The album had the ballads "How Deep It Goes" and "(Love Me Like Music) I'll Be Your song." In addition it had the songs "Magic Man" and "Crazy On You". After lots of people had bought copies of the "Dreamboat Annie" album, Heart changed to a new record company. 
Their second album in 1977 was given the name "Little Queen". It had the hard rock song "Barracuda". "Barracuda" and "Dreamboat Annie" are Heart's best known early songs.
A third album was called "Magazine". It was given to the shops by the old record company "before" "Little Queen" was made. Heart did not like this, and wanted all copies of "Magazine" to be destroyed. They took the old record company to court. The judge ordered that the old record company must stop selling the album. The judge also ordered that Heart must make a new album for the old record company. This new album was also called "Magazine". It was given to the shops "after" "Little Queen" was made.
In 1978, the band released "Dog & Butterfly". It was very different in musical style from the first three albums. Sue Ennis was a friend of Ann and Nancy Wilson. She helped write a lot of the songs on "Dog & Butterfly". Two of the songs were named "Straight On" and "Dog & Butterfly". Heart did not sell as many copies of this album. The next two or three albums were not very good. Roger Fisher and Steve Fossen left the band. 
In 1985 the band had new people in it, and had a new record company. They made an album called "Heart", and it sold lots of copies. The sort of music that Heart played was different. In the 1970s, the music was hard rock. In the 1980s the music was Top 40 pop. Some of the songs were "These Dreams", "What About Love", "Alone" and "All I Want To Do Is Make Love To You". 
In the 1990s, as well as performing and touring as Heart, the Wilson sisters started another band with Sue Ennis. They called this band "The LoveMongers". The also set up a recording studio in Seattle which they called "Bad Animals". Bad Animals is also the name of an album they made in 1987
In 1999, Nancy made a solo album called "Live at McCabes Guitar Shop". In 2007, Ann made a solo album called "Hope & Glory".
Roger Fisher also continues to perform, and has recorded and released several albums of his own.

</doc>
<doc id="13363" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13363" title="Golden Earring">
Golden Earring

Golden Earring is a Dutch rock band. They began in 1961 in The Hague; named the Golden Earrings. In 1969, they became just Golden Earring, (dropping the "s"). They gained worldwide fame with their hit song "Radar Love" in 1973. The single was number one on the Dutch charts, in the top ten in the United Kingdom and number thirteen on the American music charts.
"Twilight Zone" in 1982, and "When the Lady Smiles" in 1984 were also hit singles. During their career they had nearly 30 top-ten singles on the Dutch charts. Over the years they produced 25 studio albums. All musicians in the band have been members of the band since 1970. Other musicians, however, have come and gone during all these years.
In March 2009, Golden Earring celebrated its comeback in the United Kingdom with two concerts in Ipswich and London. Golden Earring's newest studio album was recorded live in a studio in London. It was released in May 2012. The album, named "Tits 'n Ass", went to number one in the Dutch album charts.
Golden Earring went on their first major US tour in 1969 and 1970. Between 1969 and 1984, the band completed thirteen US tours. 
Golden Earring enjoyed a brief period of international stardom but were unable to get further chart success until 1982's "Twilight Zone". This was followed by "The Lady Smiles" in 1984.
The Russian rock band Aria made a successful cover version of a single, "Going To The Run". From 1992 to 2004 the band released three acoustic live "unplugged" albums which were successful. Since 1992, the band has performed popular acoustic unplugged theater-shows. The acoustic albums feature unplugged versions of famous hits of the band.
"Radar Love", from the album "Moontan", became a hit in both Europe and the USA in 1973. The album "Moontan" itself was awarded a gold record in the States. This is the band's best known song. There have been more than 200 cover versions of this classic rock song. It was voted "best car song ever" by readers of "USA Today" in 2005 and second-best "greatest driving song" in a poll of BBC's programme "Top Gear". 
George Kooymans, the band's vocalist and guitarist, wrote "Twilight Zone". It was released in 1982 and brought Golden Earring more success. This song also had one of the first music videos. It was aired on the new music television channel, MTV, which began in 1981. This helped "Twilight Zone" become a Top Ten hit in the States. The song was inspired by the popular TV series "The Twilight Zone".
"When the Lady Smiles", from the album "News", was the next international hit in 1984. It became a top hit in Europe and Canada with the help of a music video. It was not as successful in the States. The music video was banned from MTV because it showed nudity and the rape of a nun.
The complete discography of Golden Earring is 25 studio albums, 8 live albums, 2 compilation albums, and 74 singles. 
This is a list of the studio albums:

</doc>
<doc id="13364" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13364" title="Rick Springfield">
Rick Springfield

Richard Springthorpe (born August 23, 1949), known better by his stage name Rick Springfield, is an Australian musician and actor. He was extremely popular in the 1980s thanks to a string of hit songs including "Jesse's Girl", and a recurring role on the TV show, "General Hospital".

</doc>
<doc id="13366" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13366" title="Anus">
Anus

The anus is the opening in the human body that is between the buttocks. It is at the end of the gastrointestinal system (including the organs that digest food), where feces or "stool" comes out of the body. Sometimes it is quite smelly due to flatulence or feces coming through.

</doc>
<doc id="13370" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13370" title="Orgasm">
Orgasm

An orgasm is a sexual climax (or high point). An orgasm happens because of continued sexual touching. During an orgasm, there is a strong feeling of excitement and pleasure. Sexual touching may be sexual intercourse, rubbing or squeezing by hand (called masturbation), or other actions that make the sex organs feel good. 
During an orgasm, a person's body sometimes spasms (shakes or trembles), and the person may appear to be in pain or get a strange look on his or her face.
The person's brain activity changes quickly. The parts of the brain responsible for fear, worry and self-control become less active. Many people moan, shout or say strange things during orgasm. Usually, people's minds focus almost completely on the pleasure of the orgasm, and become less aware of what is going on around them than usual.
Orgasms may happen when people are asleep. When men orgasm while sleeping, it is often called a "wet dream".
Other mammals may have orgasms when they have sex.
The penis usually becomes erect (hard) before an orgasm, and flaccid (soft) again after. When a man has an orgasm, he feels a very strong and enjoyable feeling in his penis and groin, and sometimes in all of his body. In a man, an orgasm usually happens at the same time as an ejaculation, which is a release of semen through the penis, that can't be stopped. Young boys can orgasm, but there may be no semen because semen release usually occurs only after puberty has started. After an orgasm, men usually have a deep sense of relaxation, usually felt in the groin and the thighs. Usually the stronger the orgasm, the deeper the relaxation and the longer the relaxation will last.
A woman's orgasm begins in her clitoris, which is the counterpart of the man's penis. It is preceded by an erection of the clitoris and a moistening of the opening of the vagina. When a woman goes through a full orgasm, her uterus, vagina, anus and pelvic muscles undergo a series of rhythmic contractions. Most women find these contractions very pleasurable. Rubbing or applying other consistent pressure against the clitoris is usually needed to help the woman have an orgasm.
Orgasm plays an important role in human reproduction. It is the most exciting moment of sexual intercourse, so it is an important factor that makes men and women want to have intercourse, which allows reproduction to happen. It is also the moment at which the man releases semen into the woman to begin the process of fertilization.
During sexual intercourse, a man places his penis inside a woman's vagina and moves it backwards and forwards. The woman may also move her hips back and forth, or in a circular motion. The friction caused by this movement, together with the warmth and pressure of the vagina, causes the man to have pleasurable feelings in his penis. As intercourse continues, these feelings grow stronger and stronger until the man has an orgasm and ejaculates, at which time semen then shoots out from the end of his penis into the woman's vagina. The semen can make the woman pregnant.
The woman may also have an orgasm during intercourse as well. Scientists are not sure why women have orgasms. Some believe that the orgasm helps the sperm in the man's semen to swim up the vagina into the cervix, so that it is more likely that a sperm cell will fuse with an egg cell. Others think that the woman's orgasm is designed to help make the man reach orgasm. During her orgasm, a woman may moan, cry, or scream, which usually excites her man, and her vagina may grip the penis more tightly, which also makes sex more exciting for him. These reactions may cause the man to ejaculate more quickly or to produce more semen; when a woman reaches orgasm during intercourse, it often makes her man have an orgasm at that point as well. Orgasm may also encourage a woman to have sex more often as it feels good, increasing the chances of pregnancy. 

</doc>
<doc id="13372" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13372" title="Prostate">
Prostate

The prostate is a gland of the male body that adds part of the fluid to semen. A healthy human prostate is slightly larger than a walnut. It surrounds the urethra just below the urinary bladder.
Prostate cancer is one of the most common cancers affecting elderly men in developed (also known as first world) countries and a major cause of death. Regular rectal exams are recommended for older men to detect prostate cancer early. 
The prostate is often referred to as the male G-spot, which is a spot inside the female vagina that causes intense pleasure when it is stimulated. The prostate can be massaged by using a finger or during anal sex. Some males are able to orgasm with prostate stimulation alone.

</doc>
<doc id="13374" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13374" title="Fossil">
Fossil

A fossil is the remains or trace of an ancient living thing.
Fossils of animals, plants or protists occur in sedimentary rock. 
In a typical fossil, the body form is retained, but the original molecules that made up the body have been replaced by some inorganic material, such as calcium carbonate (CaCO) or silica (SiO). The fossil feels like, and is, made of rock. It has been mineralised or "petrified" (literally, turned into rock). 
A fossil may also be an "imprint" or "impression" of a living thing remaining in the fossilised mud of a long-gone age. 
Some organisms fossilise well, others do not. The most common fossils are those left behind by organisms that produce hard materials. The hard, calcitic shells of molluscs (such as clams and snails) and of now-rare brachiopods (also known as lampshells) are examples. These sea-dwelling shellfish have produced many fossiliferous (that is, fossil-bearing) chalky layers of limestone in the earth. 
Soft-bodied organisms can fossilise in special circumstances: the Ediacaran biota is a good example. 
The best-known fossils for the general public are those of the giant, prehistoric dinosaurs. The fossilized bones and fossilized tracks of these huge, ancient reptiles can be seen in many museums of natural history and earth science. 
The study of fossils by geologists and biologists is known as paleontology. If the study puts living things in their ecological context it is called paleobiology.
There are some sites where fossils have been found with remarkable details, or in large numbers. Palaeontologists call these sites Lagerstätten, which means, in German, 'storage place'. The La Brea tar pits in Los Angeles is such a place. So are the Solnhofen limestone quarries in Bavaria.
Microscopic or "very tiny" fossils are called "microfossils"; while larger, "macroscopic" fossils — such as those of seashells and mammals — are called "macrofossils". Natural stones which look like fossilized organisms, but are not fossils at all, are called "pseudofossils". 
Although most fossils are formed from the hard parts of organisms, there are also "indirect" signs of prehistoric life. Examples such as a worm's trail or an animal's footprint are quite common. They are known as "trace fossils". Fossilized excrement, faeces or dung is known as a "coprolite". Chemical traces of prehistoric organisms is called a "chemofossil". Objects made by prehistoric people are called artifacts.
Even when the remains of soft-bodied animals are gone, there may be impressions, molds or carbon traces which remain permanently. So, in special cases, we do have fossils even of small, soft invertebrate animals. 
Sometimes a fossil is produced as a result of dryness (desiccation), freezing, or pine resin. Mummified animals, ice-covered wooly mammoths, and insect-filled amber are examples of such fossils.
Living fossils, however, are "not" fossils at all. Instead, they are modern-day organisms which very closely resemble their prehistoric ancestors of many millions of years ago. The ginkgo tree, the coelacanth and the horseshoe crab are good examples.
Many pre-scientific peoples noticed fossils, but not all thought they were the remains of living things. Perhaps the first to leave a record of his thought was the Ancient Greek philosopher Xenophanes (about 570–470). His ideas were reported by later writers:
These ideas were rediscovered in the 17th century in Europe. Nicolas Steno in the Netherlands and Robert Hooke at the Royal Society in London both wrote and gave lectures about fossils. In the 18th century fossil-collecting began, and serious thinking on geology began to make progress. In the 19th century geology became a modern science, and fossils played a part in the theory of evolution.

</doc>
<doc id="13375" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13375" title="Nine Inch Nails">
Nine Inch Nails

Nine Inch Nails, or NIN, is the name of a famous industrial metal band. Trent Reznor writes all the band's songs and plays most of the music himself. He started the band in 1988 in Cleveland, Ohio, USA. Nine Inch Nails have been nominated for twelve Grammy Awards.
"Pretty Hate Machine" was Nine Inch Nails' first album. It first came out in 1989. The songs "Down In It", "Head Like A Hole", and "Sin" became famous from the radio and MTV.
In 1992, Nine Inch Nails made a short album called "Broken". It had only eight songs. The song "Wish" won a Grammy Award. Another album, called "Fixed", has some of the same songs as "Broken", but other musicians have changed the music and added new sounds. 
Nine Inch Nails played the very first Lolapalooza tour alongside Jane's Addiction and other bands.
A new album called "The Downward Spiral" came out in 1994. It is the most popular and famous Nine Inch Nails album. Music stores have sold more than 4 million copies of "The Downward Spiral" all together. The songs "Closer", "March Of The Pigs", and "Hurt" were very popular on MTV and radio stations. Trent Reznor asked many other musicians to make remixes from the songs. The remixes were released on a new album called "Further Down The Spiral".
In 1994, Nine Inch Nails played at the Woodstock 94 concert in New York. After that, they became one of the most famous bands in the world. For five years, there were no Nine Inch Nails albums or concerts. Many fans worried that the band they liked would stop making music forever.
Finally, a new album came out in 1999. It was called "The Fragile". It was the longest album Nine Inch Nails had ever made, and the music was very different from the old albums. Many of the songs were only music with no words. Songs like that are called "instrumentals". Writers who write about music wrote good things about "The Fragile" in many magazines and newspapers. People knew the music of Nine Inch Nails had changed, but many people thought it was better than before.
Even though many people liked the album, it would still take Trent Reznor another five years to make another one. This was due to Trent Reznor drinking and becoming addicted to other drugs. He is now healthy. Trent also argued with his manager John Malm over how much money he should make. The court has agreed with Trent and John is no longer Trent's manager.
Nine Inch Nails' next album was called "With Teeth". When the song "The Hand That Feeds" was first played on the radio, fans were very happy that Nine Inch Nails had come back. The second song on the album to be played on the radio is "Only" and the third is "Every Day Is Exactly The Same".
Year Zero came out on April 17, 2007. Before it came out, there was a game that people could play. You could find clues to discover more about the story. That kind of game is called an "Alternate Reality Game". Only one "single" came out. That song is called "Survivalism". 
On March 2, 2008, the albums "Ghosts I-IV" (1 to 4) came out. It was made of 4 small albums Ghosts 1, 2, 3 and 4. All the songs on these albums were instrumentals and the first album was free to download from the website, or available cheaply to download. This was new in the way that music is sold, because usually music is sold for lots of money, and the money is given to many people, most who did not make the music, but helped give money to the people who did, or sent the music to shops to be sold, or made adverts for it.
After two months since the release of "Ghosts I-IV", a new album came out called "The Slip" on May 5, 2008. "The Slip" was released in three formats for free.
The latest Nine Inch Nails' album, "Hesitation Marks" (2013), was nominated for Best Alternative Music Album at the 2014 Grammy Awards.
Trent Reznor makes almost all of the music for Nine Inch Nails. He is the only member.
When Nine Inch Nails plays at concerts, other musicians are also part of the band. The musicians who play in Nine Inch Nails are not always the same. Now, Trent Reznor sings and plays some instruments, Robin Finck plays the guitar, Justin Meldal-Johnsen plays the bass guitar, and Ilan Rubin plays the drums. 

</doc>
<doc id="13376" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13376" title="Remixing">
Remixing

In remixing, a person (often a recording engineer or record producer) takes a familiar song, splits it into different parts called "tracks", and changes the song's music, instruments, layout, and or vocals to create a new version of the same song. It is called "remixing" due to mixing being the putting together of all the parts of a song, and "remixing" being the putting together of the parts of the song differently than the original.
Remixers, that is, people who remix, are musicians who use a variety of tools, primarily electronic, to create the new song versions. Remixing can be simply moving song parts around; it can also be creating new music for an old song lyric. There are two common kinds of remixing: production and mashups. Production remixing uses new instruments with the old song vocal, and mashups use two old songs mixed together to create a new song.
"Production remixing" requires more musical knowledge than mashups, because one must make their own music. This music generally is within the same key and has the same rhythm or melody as the old song.
Many electronic music artists (music made with computers or other electronic instruments) use computer software to make new music parts, called "tracks". The music parts contain notes which are arranged with a computer program called a sequencer. The actual notes are played by instruments, usually synthesizers, a type of electronic musical instrument that makes sounds by changing the shape of a sound wave. It is also possible for a remixer to use a drum sample kit, a set of sounds of fake or real drums recorded for use on a computer.
Rendering
When the remixer has a proper sequence in the sequencer, he or she can then render the audio part, or track. Rendering requires the sequencer to talk to the musical instrument, usually by computer software or a computer-to-computer talking language called MIDI to an actual electronic keyboard. The sequencer tells the instrument which note to play, and then the instrument plays the note. The sequencer writes this note to a music file on the computer.
A mashup is a remixing style in which a remixer takes two songs and mixes them with each other in a clever way to create a new song. Usually, it is the vocal of the song they want to remix with the other musical parts of an older song.
Instead of using a sequencer and a musical instrument, a remixer can use either record-playing turntables or a computer with an audio sequence editor, for example the program named ACID music. He or she also needs an audio editor, a computer program that allows someone to record sounds into a computer as well as cut them down to smaller bits.
Usually, a small bit of the old song is "cut" in an audio editor into a loop, a piece of music that when played on repeat does not have any skips or musical pauses. This loop is usually called a "sample" in the world of remixing. This sample is then looped (played over and over) in a sequence to create a new sound. The remixer then mixes the vocal of another song over that loop.
It is also possible that a mashup style remixer will take the entire musical part of one song without its vocal - called an instrumental - and take a vocal from another song without the non-voice part - called an acapella, and put them together to create one song.

</doc>
<doc id="13382" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13382" title="H. P. Lovecraft">
H. P. Lovecraft

Howard Phillips Lovecraft (August 20, 1890 – March 15, 1937) was an American author of fantasy, horror and science fiction. 
He wrote many scary short stories. These often were about weird creatures that Lovecraft made up by himself or with his friend, August Derleth, who wrote mysteries. The creatures did not really care about human people at all, so they were not out to hurt people, but if they did, they did not care. They looked at us like we would be ants. Their behaviour, attitude and look also tended to make people go crazy.
Lovecraft's stories were inspiration for lots of other authors.
Lovecraft was born in Providence, Rhode Island. He died of cancer there. 

</doc>
<doc id="13384" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13384" title="Hormone">
Hormone

Hormones are the chemical messengers of the endocrine system. Hormones are the signals which adjust the body's internal working, together with the nervous system. Every multicellular organism has hormones. The cells which react to a given hormone have special receptors for that hormone. When a hormone attaches to the receptor protein a mechanism for signalling is started. The cell or tissue that gets the message is called the 'target'. Hormones only act on cells which have the right receptors.
Many different kinds of cells can send a message. There are some kinds of cells whose main job is to make hormones. When many of these cells are together in one place, it is called a gland. Glands are groups of cells that make something and release it (put it outside the cell). Many glands make hormones.
"Endocrine" means secreting directly into the blood. Most internal secretions are endocrine, from endocrine glands. The opposite word is "exocrine", which means secreting through a duct or tube. Some hormones are produced by exocrine glands, and some exocrine secretions go outside the body. Sweat glands and salivary glands are examples of exocrine glands whose products are released outside the body.
Hormones do many things. They regulate metabolism. Metabolism is all of the chemical and energy reactions that happen in a living thing. Hormones cause the growth and death of cells and of whole organisms. Hormones also start and control sexual development. For example, the hormones estrogen and progesterone make girls puberty. Hormones help keep homeostasis in an organism. Homeostasis means to keep a constant state inside the body like temperature, amount of water and salts, and amount of sugar. Hormones released by one gland can also tell other glands to make different hormones.
There are four types of hormones in most vertebrates. They are grouped by the chemicals from which they are made. 
In biology regulation means to control something. So regulating hormones means controlling how much hormones are made and released from cells.
Hormone regulation is mostly done by negative feedback. In negative feedback, a hormone causes an effect. The cells that make the hormone detect this effect and its production ceases.
A good example of negative feedback is with the hormone, insulin. Insulin is produced by the pancreas. Insulin is released by the pancreas in response to consumption of glucose. The amount of glucose in the blood rises and the pancreas detects this increase. It then secretes insulin into the blood. Insulin increases glucose uptake in target cells. Some glucose is used by the cells but some is also converted to and stored in the form of glycogen. Glucose uptake by cells decreases blood glucose levels - this decrease is detected by the pancreas and in response, it stops secreting insulin in to the bloodstream. As insulin levels in the blood decrease, as does glucose uptake by cells.
This negative feedback therefore helps to maintain normal blood glucose levels and prevents extreme changes.
There are three main types of hormones: steroid hormones - these are non-polar and do not need a receptor. The other is peptide hormones. The last is Tyrosine derivative hormones, such as the T3 and T4 hormones produced by the thyroid.
Sometimes two or more hormones control the same thing. For example, blood glucose is very important to an organism. So it is not controlled by just one hormone. Other hormones also make the glucose level go up or down. If the glucose level gets too low, the body releases hormones that do the opposite of insulin. They do not tell the cells in the body to take up glucose from the blood. They tell the cells to put glucose back into the blood. These kind of hormones that work opposite of other hormones are called counter-regulatory hormones. Counter-regulatory hormones for insulin are glucagon and epinephrine.
Most important things in an organism are kept in homeostasis by negative feedback and counter-regulatory hormones. However a few things are controlled in different ways. One rare way is positive feedback. In negative feedback, the hormone's effect makes a gland stop making hormones. In positive feedback the opposite happens. The effect of the hormone tells the gland to make even more hormones.
An example of positive feedback is the hormone that causes childbirth (when babies are born.) The hormone that causes this is oxytocin. This hormone is made by the pituitary gland. When the baby starts coming out, it stretches the muscle in the cervix (the bottom of the uterus). Nerves in the cervix send a message to the pituitary. This message makes the pituitary release more oxytocin. The oxytocin then causes the muscles of the uterus to contract, or squeeze. This causes more stretching in the cervix. This stretching then tells the pituitary to make even more oxytocin. So levels of oxytocin keep rising until the squeezing or contractions of the uterus force the baby out.
There are clear distinctions between hormones and neurotransmitters:
Most hormones start a cellular response by binding to cell membranes or receptors inside the cell. A cell may have several different receptor types that recognize the same hormone but activate different signal transduction pathways, or a cell may have several different receptors that recognize different hormones and activate the same biochemical pathway.
Hormones are defined functionally, not structurally. They may have various chemical structures. Hormones occur in multicellular organisms (plants, animals, fungi, brown algae and red algae). These compounds occur also in unicellular organisms, and may act as signalling molecules,

</doc>
<doc id="13386" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13386" title="Testosterone">
Testosterone

Testosterone is an androgen sex hormone. A hormone is one that is made from cholesterol. A sex hormone is one that regulates sexual changes in the body. An androgen is the male type of sex hormone.
The testicles of men make lots of testosterone. Ovaries and adrenal glands make testosterone too. But they make much less than the testicles do. So men have much higher testosterone levels than women. 
Testosterone has two different kinds of effects. One effect is anabolic. This effect causes growth of muscle and bone. The other effect of testosterone is androgenic. These effects make the body look male. This includes the effects that boys have at puberty: growing a beard, making the penis and testicles bigger, and making the voice deeper.

</doc>
<doc id="13391" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13391" title="Patio">
Patio

A patio is a paved area in a garden often used for barbeques or relaxing outside.

</doc>
<doc id="13392" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13392" title="Cholera">
Cholera

Cholera is an infectious disease caused by the bacterium "Vibrio cholerae". It infects the small intestine. 
There are many types (strains) of the "Vibrio cholera" bacteria. Some of them cause more serious illnesses than others. Because of this, some people who get cholera have no symptoms; others have symptoms that are not very bad, and others have very bad symptoms. 
The most common symptom is large amounts of watery diarrhea. In the worst cases, diarrhea can be so bad that people can die in a few hours from dehydration.
Cholera is a very old disease. Writings about cholera (written in Sanskrit) have been found from the 5th century BC. Throughout history, there have been many outbreaks and epidemics of cholera. 
Cholera still affects many people throughout the world. Estimates from 2010 say that between 3 million and 5 million people get cholera every year, and 58,000–130,000 people die from the disease every year. Today, cholera is called a pandemic. However, it is most common in developing countries, especially in children.
People usually get cholera by eating food or drinking water that is unclean. When people have cholera, they have a lot of diarrhea, and the cholera bacteria stays alive in their feces. In developing countries, often there is not good sanitation. Cholera can spread if this diarrhea gets into water that other people use. For example, if sewage (human waste) gets into a river that many people use, people can get cholera if they:
Cholera is very rarely spread directly from person to person.
Cholera's main symptoms are very bad diarrhea and vomiting clear fluid. These symptoms usually start suddenly. They start half a day to five days after the person gets infected. (This is called cholera's "incubation period".)
If they do not get treatment, about half of people with very bad cholera die. People with very bad cholera can have so much diarrhea that they do not have enough water and electrolytes (salts) left in their bodies to survive. Cholera has been nicknamed the "blue death" because a person dying of cholera may lose so many body fluids that their skin turns bluish-gray.
Other symptoms may include:
If people with cholera get good, quick medical treatment, less than 1% die from the disease. However, if cholera is not treated, at least half of people with the disease (50% to 60%) die. 
Some strains of the "Vibrio cholera" bacteria have different genes than others, which make them more dangerous. These more dangerous strains of cholera bacteria caused the 2010 epidemic in Haiti and the 2004 outbreak in India. With these strains of cholera, a person can die within two hours of getting sick.
There is no cure for cholera. However, there are different treatments that can help. For example:
There is a cholera vaccine that can be taken by mouth. It provides some protection from cholera for about six months.
People can also do some other things to prevent cholera. For example:
It is possible for governments to stop outbreaks or epidemics from happening. For example, cholera is very uncommon in developed countries because they have good sanitation and because they add chemicals to their water to kill germs. Even after people start to get cholera, it is possible for governments to stop the disease from spreading, through:
Cholera probably started in the Indian subcontinent. As early as the 5th century BC, people in the Ganges River delta area wrote about cholera. The disease first spread to Russia in 1817 by trade routes (over both land and sea). Later, cholera spread to the rest of Europe, and from Europe to North America and the rest of the world. 
Seven cholera pandemics have happened in the past 200 years. The latest started in Indonesia in 1961. There have also been many serious outbreaks. The worst outbreak in recent history happened in Haiti after the earthquake there in 2010. Between October 2010 and August 2015, more than 700,000 Haitians got cholera, and over 9,000 died. The outbreak was caused by a United Nations base where Nepalese soldiers were living. The soldiers would dump human waste into the Artibonite River, which many Haitians used for drinking, cooking, and bathing.
Since cholera became common in the 19th century, it has killed tens of millions of people. Just in Russia, between 1847 and 1851, more than one million people died of cholera. During the second pandemic, which lasted from 1827-1835, the disease killed 150,000 Americans. Between 1900 and 1920, in India, up to eight million people died of cholera.
in 1854, an English doctor named John Snow was the first person to realize that contaminated water caused cholera. Today, countries in Europe and North America filter and add chlorine to their water supplies. This has made cholera very uncommon in these countries.

</doc>
<doc id="13394" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13394" title="Mandriva Linux">
Mandriva Linux

"For the type of plant, see Mandrake"
Mandriva (formerly Mandrake Linux) is a Linux distribution.
The last release was the 2011 version released in August that year. Most Mandriva Linux developers who were laid off went to Mageia.
In May 2015, Mandriva went into administration, as of the 27th of May the organizations website was offline.
Mandriva was first made public by a French software company MandrakeSoft. Its first release was based on Red Hat Linux 5.1 and was released in July 1998. Mandriva Linux was originated by Gaël Duval, and intended to focus on ease of use for new users.
From its first release to version 8.0, Mandrake named its flagship distribution "Linux-Mandrake". From version 8.1 to 9.2 it was called "Mandrake Linux".
In February 2004, MandrakeSoft lost a court case for infringement. And it renamed its products. Starting from version 10.0, Mandrake Linux became known as "Mandrakelinux", and its logo changed accordingly. Similarly, MandrakeMove became Mandrakemove.
In April 2005, Mandrakesoft announced the corporate acquisition of Conectiva. As a result of this acquisition and the legal dispute with Hearst Corporation, Mandrakesoft announced that the company was changing its name to Mandriva, and that their Linux distribution "Mandrake Linux" would henceforward be known as Mandriva Linux.
Since 2007, Mandriva is released on a 6-month fixed-release cycle, similar to Ubuntu and Fedora. However, while newer features are added during each release, the timing of the Spring release stays the same as the first release, so as to ensure the stability each year.
The latest stable version is Mandriva Linux 2009 (2009.0), released on 2008-10-09.
The development tree of Mandriva Linux has always been known as "Cooker". This tree is directly released as a new stable version.
The current release is named 2009.1 and was released in April 2009.

</doc>
<doc id="13395" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13395" title="Action theory">
Action theory

Action theory is an area in philosophy that talks about theories about the processes that cause intentional (willful) human body movements.
Some Philosophers ask the question 'What is an action?' or 'What makes somebody do an action?'. Here are two theories.
Some philosophers say that an action is caused by a person wanting something and thinking that by doing that action they can get it. For example, if I want an apple and think that by walking to a table with some apples on it I can get one, then I will walk to the table. It is important to have both a want (desire) and a thought about how to get it (belief).
If I think that by walking to a table with some apples on it I can get an apple, but want an orange and not an apple, then I will not walk to the table. If I want an apple, but think that the table across the room is just a picture of a table, then I will not walk to the table.
Other philosophers say that the want-think theory is not true. They say that it is my brain and my nerves that causes an action. They see the brain as working like a computer that directs small electric packages from some nerves to other nerves and stores some for a while in memory. These packages cannot be named, they are just like computer bits and bytes. These philosophers say that we talk about what we want and what we think because the brain is very complicated and we do not understand it yet.
These questions form part of the philosophy of mind.

</doc>
<doc id="13401" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13401" title="Chinese chess">
Chinese chess

Xiangqi is a form of chess that started in China. In English it is called Chinese chess. 
Though derived from the original Indian Chaturanga, Chinese chess is quite different from modern international chess. The board is different, there are different pieces, and they have different moves. The "general" and his "mandarin" may not leave the nine-pointed fortress; they have only limited movement. Clearly, this is more similar to the old Indo-Arabic game than to modern chess. 
Xiangqi is a chess game for two people to play. Each player has 16 pieces to move on the board. One player's set is red, and one is black. The way to win is to kill the other player's Jiang (Shuai). Each kind of piece has different ways to move. Xiangqi is one of the most popular chess games in China.

</doc>
<doc id="13402" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13402" title="Governor">
Governor

A governor is a leader of some kind. In some countries, the governor is the leader of a state or a province. For instance, in the United States of America, each of the 50 states has a governor elected by its own people. The governor is responsible for the state's administrative processes. In many countries such as Pakistan a provincial governor is appointed by the central government acting as the ceremonial head of the provinces.

</doc>
<doc id="13403" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13403" title="Republican Party (United States)">
Republican Party (United States)

The United States Republican Party is one of the two biggest political parties in the United States of America. The other large party is the Democratic Party. The United States also has many other small parties known as third parties.
The Republicans are often called "the right" or "conservatives". The Republican Party itself is also known as the GOP, which stands for "Grand Old Party." The symbol of the Republican party is the elephant. This symbol was first used in 1874 in a political cartoon "(pictured)", by Thomas Nast. 
The Republican National Committee is the main organization for the Republican Party in all 50 states. Reince Priebus is the current RNC Chairman. The Republican Party is not the same political party as the Democratic-Republican Party. The Republican Party is based in Washington, D.C. A mostly Republican state is sometimes called a "red state".
The Republican Party was founded in Ripon, Wisconsin in 1854. It was created by the support of Francis Preston Blair. Its formation was based around opposition to the Kansas-Nebraska Act of 1854, which would allow each territory to allow slavery if they wanted to. It was founded by previous members of the Free Soil Party and the Whig Party. They wanted to stop the expansion of slavery because they believed that it was against the ideals of the Constitution and the Declaration of Independence. Some founders wanted to abolish slavery everywhere in the United States. The first Republican candidate for president was John C. Frémont in 1856.
As the Whig Party collapsed, the Republicans became the second major party (the Democratic Party being the first). In 1860 Abraham Lincoln, the first Republican president, was elected. For the rest of the second half of the 19th century, the country had mostly Republican presidents. From 1860 until 1912 the Republicans lost the presidential election just twice (non-consecutively to Democrat Grover Cleveland in 1884 and 1892).
Republicans believed in protectionism (the belief that raising taxes on trades with foreign nations would protect the U.S. economy) during the second half of the 19th century and during the early half of the 20th century. 
After World War I, the 1920s had three Republican presidents: Warren Harding, Calvin Coolidge, and Herbert Hoover. It was called the Republican Decade for that reason. Harding and Coolidge made a plan for the economy which lowered taxes, cut government spending, and regulated the economy less.
Near the end of the decade, the stock market crashed and the Great Depression was beginning. During the Great Depression, Republicans lost popularity and Democrats came into power and remained in power until 1953, when Dwight Eisenhower began his first of two consecutive terms as president. (He was re-elected in 1956.) Richard Nixon lost the election in 1960, but was elected president on the Republican ticket in 1968 and again in 1972. 
Ronald Reagan, an actor and conservative political activist, was elected as president in 1980. He became the first Republican president who was a former member of the Democratic Party. This began a conservative era which would last until 1992. He served two terms and his successor George H.W. Bush served one term. Reagan renewed many ideas which had been left behind in the past, such as limited government in the economy and strengthening the military. 
Bill Clinton (a Democrat) was elected president in 1992, and re-elected in 1996. However, a new Congress was elected in 1994, and Republicans gained control of both the House of Representatives and the Senate. They voted against many of Clinton's ideas and proposed ideas of their own such as a line item veto and a balanced budget amendment.
The Republicans lost control of Congress during 2006. Democrat Barack Obama was elected in 2008 and re-elected in 2012. The Republican Party has also gone against candidates of other political parties, such as the Libertarian Party and Green Party. House Speaker and U.S. congressman John Boehner was elected in the new Congress in 2010 and re-elected in 2012. In 2014, Republicans gained control of the senate and the house. Boehner resigned in early October 2015 and was eventually succeeded by Paul Ryan of Wisconsin in October 29.
Currently, the Republican Party is identified as conservative and right-wing.
Not all Republicans believe in all of the same things, but generally these are the things many Republicans support:
Republican presidents during the 1800s:
Republican presidents during the 1900s:
Republican Presidents during the 2000s

</doc>
<doc id="13404" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13404" title="Democratic Party (United States)">
Democratic Party (United States)

The U.S. Democratic Party is one of the two biggest political parties in the United States. The other is the Republican Party. The U.S. also has several smaller political parties known as "third parties." Supporters of this party are known as Democrats.
Every four years the party holds a National Convention where they agree on their candidate for President. The Democratic National Committee coordinates most of the activities of the Democratic Party in all 50 United States. There have been 15 Democratic presidents, the most recent being Barack Obama, who became President in 2009.
Modern Democrats are called "the left", "liberals" or "progressives", even though not all Democrats are left-wing or liberal. In the United States, each of the political parties are large coalitions that cover many different kinds of ideology. A mostly Democratic state is sometimes called a "blue state".
Generally Democrats support:
Most support for Democrats comes from states in the Northeast, Northwest and Pacific Coast areas of the USA, but there are Democrats elected to office in all other states too.
The symbol of the Democratic Party is the Donkey. Since the election of 2000, the color blue has become a symbol for Democrats.

</doc>
<doc id="13407" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13407" title="Taste">
Taste

Taste is one of the five senses. It is the sensation that a human or animal experiences on the tongue when eating. Usually, there are the tastes of sweet, sour, bitter, spicy, and salty.
Many common foods are bitter, like coffee, bitter melon, olives and citrus peel. The taste buds on the back of your tongue are the ones that can taste bitter foods the most.
Bitterness is of interest to those who study evolution, as well as various health researchers. Many naturally bitter compounds are toxic. The ability to detect bitter-tasting, toxic compounds at low thresholds may have a protective function, but some test have not confirmed this. Plant leaves often contain toxic compounds, and among leaf-eating primates there is a tendency to prefer immature leaves. Young leaves tend to be higher in protein and lower in fiber and poisons than mature leaves. Amongst humans, various food processing techniques are used worldwide to detoxify otherwise inedible foods and make them palatable.
Animals which eat a lot of bitter plant material, as browsers do, have ways of dealing with it. They produced tannin-binding proteins, which other animals do not. Tannins are bitter compounds common in material from trees and bushes, though not grass.
Saltiness is felt when there is sodium in the food. A common spice that is salty is common salt, sodium chloride.
Savouriness (or savoriness) is the taste of savoury foods. It is also called by the Japanese word , and comes from umai, which means 'yummy'. This taste was known for a long time, but only became an official scientific term in 1985.
To taste savoriness, your tongue has special parts that detect amino acids that are in foods like meats and cheeses.
Sourness is tasted when acids are on your tongue. Many foods have acid in them and are sour, like lemons and vinegar.
Sweetness is a taste felt when sugars are in the food. Most people consider sweetness to be a pleasant taste.
This sensation is not a special sense of taste because it does not have specific taste buds. It is a complex sensation.
Substances such as ethanol and capsaicin cause a burning sensation called chemesthesis, piquance, spiciness, hotness, or prickliness. Two main sources of this sensation are capsaicin from chili peppers and piperine from black pepper.
Foods like chili peppers activate nerve fibers directly giving the sensation of "hot". Many parts of the body with exposed membranes but no taste sensors (such as the nasal cavity, under the fingernails, surface of the eye (cornea) or a wound) produce a similar sensation of heat when exposed to such chemicals.
The tongue can also feel other sensations not generally included in the basic tastes. These are largely detected by the somatosensory system.
Also, it is known that smell and sight contribute to the overall sensation of eating and drinking. The temperature of food makes a difference to its appreciation.
The strange coolness of spearmint, menthol and camphor is caused by their molecules triggering a sensory system which normally works to sense low temperatures.
There is still much to learn about the taste system. Consider, for example, the tastes of ginger and horseradish.

</doc>
<doc id="13408" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13408" title="Touch">
Touch

Touch is one of the five main senses that animals have. It can be called the sense of body or the sense of touch. The system also has internal sensory receptors, and includes sensing temperature and pain. There is a special area in the brain used to processing input of touch. It is in the parietal lobe of the cerebral cortex.
An animal knows if something is against a part of its body. This is called the sense of touch. The process of touching something may be called feeling.
Tiny touch sense organs under the skin help animals feel hardness, softness, and sharpness, for example. Animals also have sense organs which feel temperature and pain. Some parts of the body, such as fingertips have many more sense organs than others.
When animals touch things, nerve fibres attached to the sense organ sends messages to the brain through the central nervous system. The brain interprets the messages, and animals feel things.
Humans, and mammals in general, often touch each other. Touch is a kind of non-verbal communication. Behaviours based on touch are very important for keeping family and group members together ('bonding'). It is part of the 'glue' of their social life. Monkeys grooming each other's fur is a good example.

</doc>
<doc id="13409" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13409" title="Classical mechanics">
Classical mechanics

Mechanics is a part of physics. It says what happens when forces act on things. There are two parts of mechanics. The two parts are classical mechanics and quantum mechanics. Classical mechanics is used most of the time, for most of the things we can see. Some of the time, for example when the things are too small, classical mechanics is not good. Then we need to use quantum mechanics.
Newton's three laws of motion are important to classical mechanics. Isaac Newton made them.
The "first law" says that, if there is no external force (meaning there is no pushing, gravity, or any sort of power), things that are stopped will stay stopped or un-moving, and things that are moving will keep moving. Before, people thought that things stopped if there was no force present. Often, people say, "Objects that are stopped tend to stay stopped, and objects that are moving tend to stay moving, unless acted upon by an outside force, such as gravity, friction, etc..."
The "second law" says how a force moves a thing. The net force on an object equals the rate of change of its momentum.
The "third law" says that if one thing puts a force on another thing, the second thing also puts a force on the first thing. For example, if you jump forward off a boat, the boat moves backward. Often, people say, "For every action there is an equal and opposite reaction."
In physics, kinematics is the part of classical mechanics that explains the movement of objects without looking at what causes the movement or what the movement affects.
1-Dimensional (1D) Kinematics are used only when an object moves in one direction: either side to side (left to right) or up and down. There are equations with can be used to solve problems that have movement in only 1 dimension or direction. These equations come from the definitions of velocity, acceleration and distance.
2-Dimensional kinematics is used when motion happens in both the x-direction (left to right) and the y-direction (up and down). There are also equations for this type of kinematics. However, there are different equations for the x-direction and different equations for the y-direction. Galileo proved that the velocity in the x-direction does not change through the whole run. However, the y-direction is affected by the force of gravity, so the y-velocity does change during the run.

</doc>
<doc id="13411" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13411" title="Moai">
Moai

Moai are stone statues on Easter Island. Each moai is made out of one large stone but some have an extra stone on top of the head. Most were made from the volcanic rock in the Rano Raraku area of the island. Moai are sometimes called "heads" but they do have shoulders, arms, and a body but these are usually too small for the head, also some of the best known ones had been partly buried over the years and only the heads were showing. Most moai are between 2.5 and 10 metres high and, usually, weigh 14 tonnes. There are about 1000 moai placed mainly around the coast of the island plus nearly 400 more which were left not yet finished at Rano Raraku.
When, why, and how they were made is still a mystery today. It is believed that they were made almost 1000 years ago by Polynesians, who lived there at the time and were made to honour their ancestors (older family members long dead) and bring good luck. Making the statues would have needed a lot of time and effort. To move them, they may have used wooden sledges or rollers or even "walked" them by rocking the moai along. The youngest moai found was built around 1350. It is believed that, around that time, there began a time of cold weather, little food, and war between the peoples. By the 19th century, all the moai had been pushed over. Today, some have been restored.

</doc>
<doc id="13413" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13413" title="Diogenes of Sinope">
Diogenes of Sinope

Diogenes of Sinope (in short, Diogenes) was an Ancient Greek philosopher. His birthplace is Sinope (in modern-day Sinop, Turkey). He was born about 412 BC. Some people say he was born about 399 BC. He died in 323 BC at Corinth. There is a book by Diogenes Laërtius. The book tells us that Diogenes of Sinope died on the same day on which Alexander the Great died at Babylon. He was a founder of the philosophy called cynicism. He is also considered to be the first to use the word ""cosmopolitan"".

</doc>
<doc id="13421" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13421" title="Vaccination">
Vaccination

A vaccination is a treatment which makes the body stronger against a particular infection.
The body fights infection using the immune system, which is made up of millions of cells including T cells and B cells. An important feature of the immune system is that it is much stronger when fighting a disease which it has already fought against before. Vaccination involves showing the immune system something which looks very similar to a particular virus or bacteria, which helps the immune system be stronger when it is fighting against the real infection.
Another word used for using vaccines is immunization. These words mean things that are a little different. Vaccination is when a person is "given" something to make the immune system learn to fight an infectious disease.
Immunization is when a persons immune system learns to fight an infection. Immunization can happen from vaccination. But immunization can also happen from getting the "infection". For example, a person can be immune to hepatitis B if he gets sick with hepatitis B. After a person gets hepatitis B and then gets well, he is immunized from getting it again. A person can also be immunized from to hepatitis B by taking the hepatitis B vaccination.
So vaccination and immunization have meanings that are a little different. But when people say these words, they usually mean the same thing. People say immunization to mean the same thing as vaccination.
Herd immunity its an important part of how vaccines work. A herd is a group of animals. Herd immunity happens when most of the animals in a group are immune to an infection. If most animals are immune they cannot get the disease. If they do not get the disease, they cannot give it to other animals. So even one animal who is not immune is safer. If none of the other animals in a herd get the infection, they cannot give the infection to the one who is non immune.
This is important in people too. If 95% of people in a place are immune to a disease, the other 5% are safer. There will just not be as much of that disease around to get.
The people who are in the 5% are there for many reasons. Some got the vaccine but did not react to it. Their immune system did not learn how to fight it well. Some of them are too sick to get the vaccine. It can be children who are too sick with other diseases to get vaccines. It can be a pregnant woman who cannot get the vaccine because it could hurt her baby. It can be a person with cancer who does not have a strong immune system. It can be an older person who has a weak immune system.
So if everyone in a place gets vaccinated, it protects these people too. If they are not protected by "herd immunity", they can get more sick from an infection. They get the infection more easily and they get sicker from it. So it is important that people who are healthy get their vaccinations. It protects the healthy people. But it also is important to protect other people who are old, weak, or sick.
There are different types of vaccines:
Today in modern countries almost all people are vaccinated, which has caused many serious diseases to become rare. However, some people argue against vaccination, as they are worried about possible side effects from the vaccination.
Vaccinations do have some side effects. These include swelling and redness around the injection site, a sore arm, or fever. These effects are due to the immune system fighting with the fake virus/bacteria which has been injected. Very rarely, the immune system overreacts so much to the fake virus that it damages other areas in the body.
As well as these real side effects of vaccinations, some people believe that vaccines cause other serious problems like autism, brain damage, or diabetes. There is no evidence for this, and almost all doctors and scientists believe that vaccination does not cause any of these things.
Overall, the vast majority of medical professionals and scientists believe that vaccinations are a good thing, and that the benefits of avoiding diseases are far greater than the very small risk of side effects. All medical organizations around the world, including the World Health Organization(WHO), the American Medical Association, the American Academy of Pediatrics, and the United States Centers for Disease Control support vaccination.
The first use of the term "vaccine" was created by Edward Jenner. The word is derived from the Latin "vacca", meaning cow. A virus that mainly affects cows (Cowpox) was used in the first scientific demonstration that giving a person one virus could protect against a related and more deadly one.
The first vaccination ever was for smallpox. In 1796 an English doctor, Edward Jenner, noticed something. He saw that people who got cowpox did not get sick from smallpox. He gave a young boy the cowpox virus to protect him from smallpox. This was done by scratching liquid from cowpox sores into the boy's skin. This same method using liquid from sores was also used to give people smallpox. People did this so they might get smallpox on "one place" on their body. Then they could "pick" which body part got scars from smallpox. But sometimes people who did this got very sick from smallpox. Some even died. This was a dangerous thing to do. But people did it because it was less dangerous then getting smallpox.
Edward Jenner gave the boy cowpox in the same way people tried to give smallpox. Six weeks later, he scratched smallpox into the boy's skin. The boy did not get sick from smallpox. This boy was the first person ever to get a vaccination.
It was not almost 100 years after the smallpox vaccination was medicine found the next vaccination was found for cholera In 1879. After that vaccines for 28 different types of diseases have been found.

</doc>
<doc id="13422" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13422" title="Vice President of the United States">
Vice President of the United States

The Vice President of the United States of America is the second-in-command to the President. The President is the commander in chief. The Vice President's responsibilities include filling in for the President, and acting as president of the U.S. Senate. Like the President, the Vice President serves a term of four years and can be re-elected. The Vice President must meet the same requirements as the President, being born a U.S. citizen, at least 35 years old, and must have lived in the United States for 14 years. The current Vice President is Joe Biden.
Originally, the Vice President was the person who got the second most electoral votes in the presidential election. This worked well until Thomas Jefferson and Aaron Burr tied in election of 1800. After that the 12th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution said that the President and Vice President are elected separately, and if nobody clearly won, he would be chosen by the Senate.
Soon after that, political parties began running the President and Vice President on one platform. As such, the Vice Presidential candidates are usually chosen by the leadership of a political party, with a strong influence by that party's presidential candidate. The Vice President and President are usually from the same political party (for example, Barack Obama and Joe Biden are both Democrats, and George W. Bush and Dick Cheney were both Republicans).
The Vice President only has one official duty. That is to preside over the Senate and to cast a vote in the Senate if there is a tie. However, recently the duties have been seen to include being a member of the President's Cabinet, or a top advisor to the President (Dick Cheney was the Vice President to take this duty the most seriously). The Vice President is a member of the National Security Council and serves on the board of the Smithsonian. Also, the 25th Amendment says that the Vice President can act as President if the President is incapacitated (can not do the job of President). For example, Vice President George H.W. Bush acted as President when Ronald Reagan was having an operation.
Prior to 1967, if the President died, it was unclear whether the Vice President was President or merely Acting President (though John Tyler and others who took over the office said they were not merely Acting President). Also, if the Vice President died, nobody was Vice President until a new one was elected. This was changed after the assassination of John F. Kennedy with the 25th Amendment to the United States Constitution. If the President died, the Vice President was clearly the President. Also, if the Vice President dies, resigns, or becomes President, the President can appoint a Vice President if he is confirmed by a majority vote of both the House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate. This has happened twice: first, when Gerald Ford became Vice President after the resignation of Spiro Agnew, and second, when Nelson Rockefeller became Vice President after Gerald Ford became President when Richard Nixon resigned.
The following Vice Presidents either became President after the death or resignation of the President, or were elected in their own right:

</doc>
<doc id="13423" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13423" title="Dick Cheney">
Dick Cheney

Richard Bruce "Dick" Cheney (born January 30, 1941) is an American Republican politician and businessman who served as Vice President of the United States from 2001 to 2009. A Republican, he ran in the 2000 US Presidential Election with George W. Bush, and successfully won re-election in the 2004 US Presidential Election. 
Cheney is popular among the Bush family, and served in the George H. W. Bush administration from 1989-1993 as a cabinet member. He was as a Congressman, and White House Chief of Staff. 
He was also in charge of a large defense company called Halliburton when he was out of office during the Clinton presidency. 
As Vice President, Cheney was the head of the Senate and cast six tie-breaking votes and he was replaced by Joe Biden as Vice President on January 20, 2009.
Cheney lives in Wyoming. He is an active hunter. In 2006, he shot a friend by mistake while hunting. He did not run for President in 2008. He has criticized President Barack Obama. His wife Lynne Cheney is a distant cousin of President Barack Obama and he is an 8th cousin of President Barack Obama. He is a 9th cousin, once removed of George W. Bush. Cheney is distantly related to Harry S. Truman and Robert Duvall by the Duvall family. He is distantly related to American Express founder Benjamin Pierce Cheney.
On 24 March 2012, Cheney underwent a seven hour heart transplant process. Cheney has had several heart attacks.
Dick and Lynne Cheney have 2 daughters, Elizabeth and Mary. Mary is openly lesbian and Dick supports same sex marriage along with Mary.

</doc>
<doc id="13424" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13424" title="Toad the Wet Sprocket">
Toad the Wet Sprocket

Toad the Wet Sprocket is an American alternative rock band from California. They formed in 1986, while they were in high school. Their name comes from a monologue (one person doing all the talking) performed by Eric Idle, called "Rock Notes" on the 1980 album, "Monty Python's Contractual Obligation Album".

</doc>
<doc id="13425" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13425" title="Boyz II Men">
Boyz II Men

Boyz II Men is an American boy band from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. They were popular in the early 1990s. Founded in 1988 as a quintet (group of five people), Boyz II Men found fame as a quartet (group of four), with members Nathan Morris, Michael McCary, Shawn Stockman, and Wanya Morris, on Motown Records during the early 1990s.
Based on sales, Boyz II Men is the most successful R&B male vocal group of all time. It has recorded five #1 R&B hits between 1992 and 1997 and has since sold more than 90 million albums and 50 million singles. Three of its #1 hits, "End of the Road", "I'll Make Love to You", and "One Sweet Day" (with Mariah Carey), set and broke records for the longest period of time a single remained at #1 on the Billboard Hot 100.

</doc>
<doc id="13426" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13426" title="Johnny Nash">
Johnny Nash

John Lester "Johnny" Nash Jr. (born August 19, 1940), is an American reggae and soul singer. He was born in Houston, Texas USA.
His biggest hit was "I Can See Clearly Now" in 1972.
In his late teens Johnny Nash came to the attention of Arthur Godfrey and put in many appearances on his TV show. He also had a featured role in the motion picture "Take A Giant Step". Johnny began recording for the ABC Paramount label, and under the guidance of arranger producer Don Costa, he made a number of albums of standards. Including "Johnny Nash", "Let's Get Lost", "The Quiet Hour", "Studio Time" and "I Got Rhythm". Even though he possessed a superb singing voice, it seems that in the early 1960's, all young black male ballad singers were overshadowed by another Johnny. Johnny Mathis. Johnny Nash never really came into the forefront of pop music. He made a couple of obscure jazz tinged albums for the Argo label. Then after being off the scene for a couple of years, he emerged with a new music genre, the reggae, soul and caribbean type song stylings. This was the mid 70's and he found new fans and a new popularity.

</doc>
<doc id="13427" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13427" title="Linda Ronstadt">
Linda Ronstadt

Linda Ronstadt (born July 15, 1946) is an American retired singer. She was born in Tucson, Arizona. She has won ten Grammy Awards and many other awards.
Ronstadt has never married. She has an adopted daughter and adopted son. She has been diagnosed with Parkinson's disease. Her autobiography was published in 2013.

</doc>
<doc id="13432" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13432" title="Heart">
Heart

The heart is a muscle found in every animal that has a vertebral column. It is a very strong muscle that is about the size of a fist. It pumps blood throughout the body. It has regular contractions, or when the heart squeezes the blood out into other parts of the body. 
"Cardiac" and "cardio" both mean "about the heart", so if something has the prefix "cardio" or "cardiac", it has something to do with the heart.
Myocardium means the heart muscle: 'myo' is from the Greek word for muscle - 'mys', cardium is from the Greek word for heart - 'kardia'.
The human heart has four chambers or closed spaces. Some animals have only two or three chambers.
In humans, the four chambers are two "atria" and two "ventricles". Atria is talking about two chambers; atrium is talking about one chamber. There is a right atrium and right ventricle. These get blood that comes to the heart. They pump this blood to the lungs. In the lungs blood picks up oxygen and drops carbon dioxide. Blood from the lungs goes to the left atrium and ventricle. The left atrium and ventricle send the blood out to the body. The left ventricle works six times harder than the right ventricle because it carries oxygenated blood.. 
Blood is carried in blood vessels. These are arteries and veins. Blood going to the heart is carried in veins. Blood going away from the heart is carried in arteries. The main artery going out of the right ventricle is the "pulmonary artery". (Pulmonary means about lungs.) The main artery going out of the left ventricle is the "aorta".
The veins going into the right atrium are the "superior vena cava" and "inferior vena cava". These bring blood from the body to the right heart. The veins going into the left atrium are the "pulmonary veins". These bring blood from the lungs to the left heart.
When the blood goes from the atria to the ventricles it goes through heart "valves". When blood goes out of the ventricles it goes through valves. The valves make sure that blood only goes one way in or out.
The four valves of the heart are:
The heart has three layers. The outer covering is the pericardium. This is a tough sack that surrounds the heart. The middle layer is the myocardium. This is the heart muscle. The inner layer is the endocardium. This is the thin smooth lining of the chambers of the heart.
A "heart beat" is when the heart muscle "contracts". This means the heart pushes in and this makes the chambers smaller. This pushes blood out of the heart and into the blood vessels. After the heart contracts and pushes in, the muscle "relaxes" or stops pushing in. The chambers get bigger and blood coming back to the heart fills them.
When the heart muscle contracts (pushes in) it is called "systole". When the heart muscle relaxes (stops pushing in), this is called "diastole". Both atria do systole together. Both ventricles do systole together. But the atria do systole "before" the ventricles. Even though the "atrial systole" comes before "ventricular systole", all four chambers do diastole at the same time. This is called "cardiac diastole"
The order is: atrial systole → ventricular systole → cardiac diastole. When this happens one time, it is called a "cardiac cycle".
Systole (when the heart squeezes) happens because the muscle cells of the heart gets smaller in size. When they get smaller we also say they "contract". Electricity going through the heart makes the cells contract. The electricity starts in the "sino-atrial node" (acronym SA Node) The SA Node is a group of cells in the right atria. These cells start an "electrical impulse". This electrical impulse sets the rate and timing at which all cardiac muscle cells contract. This motion is called 'atrial systole'. Once electrical impulse goes through the "atrio-ventricular node" (AV Node). The AV Node makes the impulse slow down. Slowing down makes the electrical impulses get to the ventricles later. That is what makes the ventricular systole occur "after" atrial systole, and lets all the blood leave the atria before ventricle contracts ("meaning squeeze"). 
After the electrical impulse goes through the AV Node, the electrical impulse will go through the "conduction system" of the ventricle. Conduction means heat or electricity traveling through something. This brings the electrical impulse to the ventricles. The first part of the conduction system is the "bundle of His". "His" is named for the doctor (Wilhelm His, Jr) who discovered it. Bundle means strings or wires grouped together in parallel. Once the bundle ("meaning a group of strings or wires going in parallel directions") goes through the ventricle muscle, it divides into two "bundle branches", the left bundle branch and the right bundle branch. The left bundle branch travels to the left ventricle and the right bundle branch travels to the right ventricle. At the end of the bundle branches, the electrical impulse goes into the ventricular muscle through the Purkinje Fibers. This is what makes ventricle contraction take place and makes ventricular systole.
The order is:
Sino-Atrial Node → Atria (systole) → Atrio-Ventricular Node → Bundle of His → Bundle branches → Purkinje Fibers → Ventricles (systole)
ECG is an acronym for ElectroCardioGram. It is also written EKG for ElectroKardioGram in German. The ECG shows what the electricity in the heart is doing. An ECG is done by putting electrodes on a person's skin. The electrodes see the electricity going through the heart. This is written on paper by a machine. This writing on the paper is the ECG.
Doctors learn about the person's heart by looking at the ECG. The ECG shows some diseases of the heart like heart attacks or problems with the "rhythm" of the heart (how the electricity goes through the heart's conduction system.)
The ECG shows atrial systole. This is called a P-wave. Then ventricular systole happens. This is called the QRS or QRS-complex. It is called a complex because there are three different waves in it. The Q-wave, R-wave, and S-wave. Then the ECG shows ventricular diastole. This is called the T-wave. Atrial diastole happens then too. But it is not seen separate from ventricular diastole.
The PR-Interval is the space between atrial systole (P) and ventricular systole (QRS). The QT-Interval is from when the QRS starts to when the T ends. The ST-segment is the space between the QRS and T.

</doc>
<doc id="13434" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13434" title="Heart disease">
Heart disease

Heart disease is a general term that means that the heart is not working normally. Babies can be born with heart disease. This is called congenital heart disease. If people get heart disease later, it is called acquired heart disease. Most heart disease is acquired.
The three most common types of acquired heart disease are:
A person can have heart disease and not feel sick. Some people with heart disease have symptoms. This is when there are changes or pain in the body to show a disease is there. Some symptoms of heart disease are:
Heart disease is the biggest killer of both men and women in the United States, England, Wales, and Canada. For example, heart disease causes 4 out of every 10 deaths in the United States. This is more than all kinds of cancer put together. Also, one person dies of heart disease about every minute in the United States alone.
Congenital heart disease refers to a form of heart problem that starts before birth (congenital). Congenital heart disease includes a large number of conditions. The formation of the heart before birth is very complex and is sometimes abnormal. For example, if a part of the main artery that comes from the heart is narrowed, that is called coarctation of the aorta. There may be holes inside the heart which keep the blood from flowing normally inside the heart. Other congenital heart problems are caused by abnormal heart valves. In some cases, congenital heart problems are discovered at birth. Other times the problems may not be detected until the person is an adult.

</doc>
<doc id="13437" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13437" title="North Dakota">
North Dakota

North Dakota is a state in the United States. 642,200 people lived in North Dakota in the year 2000. The capital and seat of government is Bismarck.
North Dakota is south of Manitoba and Saskatchewan, east of Montana, north of South Dakota, and west of Minnesota. Manitoba and Saskatchewan are provinces - part of Canada. Montana, South Dakota, and Minnesota are other states in the United States. 
North Dakota is not close to any big bodies of water (oceans or seas). Because of this, temperatures in North Dakota are "very" hot in the summer and "very" cold in the winter. In the summer, there are sometimes "strong" thunderstorms. These storms can have tornadoes and hail.
Before European people came, Native American people lived in the area now called North Dakota. One important tribe was the Mandan.
North Dakota was one of the last US states to be "settled". (To have people go there to make homes and live.) On November 2, 1889, North Dakota (and South Dakota) became part of the United States.
Most of the economy is based on agriculture. The most important agricultural crops are durum, a type of wheat, which is grown all across the state. In the Red River Valley, there is more rain, and maize (corn) and sugar beets are grown as well. In the Badlands, there is less rain, and more cattle are raised than crops.
North Dakota has the only bank in the United States that is "owned" by the state. The Bank of North Dakota is where all of the money from all government agencies is held. Most banks in the United States are guaranteed by the FDIC (acronym for Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.) The FDIC guarantees that people will not lose money if a bank fails. But the Bank of North Dakota is insured by the "state" of North Dakota.

</doc>
<doc id="13438" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13438" title="LGBT">
LGBT

LGBT is an acronym connected with human sexuality. It means lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender, but it can refer to a community of people who are not heterosexual or cisgender. It is a word which has been used since the 1990s, and was a change from the previous acronym LGB or the group of words gay community, because many people in the LGBT community did not think that the group of words accurately described everyone it was referring to.
The acronym has become more normal to use now and has been taken up by most sexuality and gender identity-related community centres in America, the English-speaking countries and in other countries where the acronym means something in their languages, such as France and Argentina.
People who are LGBT are romantically and/or sexually attracted to people of their own gender (this is also known as their sexual orientation); or they act in a way that most people of their gender would not act (this is also known as their gender identity).
Before the "sexual revolution" of the 1960s, there was no neutral word or group of words for people who were not heterosexual. The group of words "third gender", or third sex, had existence in the 1860s. However, this did not become popular in America.
The word "homosexual" was used a great amount in America to describe sexual orientations that were not heterosexual, as it still is today. However, this word began to have bad connotations, and therefore the word "homophile" was used instead. After that, the word "gay" replaced the word "homophile" in the 1970s.
As lesbians became more public about their sexuality in the 1970s, the group of words "gay and lesbian" was often used, and a phase of lesbian feminism started. This meant that certain lesbian feminist groups separated because did not have knowledge of if they should put feminism or gay rights first.
Lesbian feminists viewed the separation between "butch" and "femme" in mainstream gay (male) culture of the time in the same way that they viewed the separation in society over gender roles between men and women. They saw these ideas as patriarchal and did not want to join the mainstream gay rights movement because of what they saw as the chauvinism of gay men, and refused to take up their cause. Many lesbians who were not lesbian feminists saw this as not giving help to the gay rights movement.
This was followed by many bisexual and transgender people wanting to be seen as respected groups in the LGBT community.
After the Stonewall riots, there was a change in points of view among the gay and lesbian community. Many gays and lesbians became less accepting of bisexual and transgender persons in general. Many gays and lesbians thought that transgender people were acting out stereotypes and that bisexuals were actually gay, but in too much fear to "come out of the closet". This separation still exists today, and it only became common to speak of all members of the LGBT community with equal respect in the trouble for LGBT rights in the late 1990s.
Some people who are LGBT will not may not "come out", as they may be a target of discrimination or prejudice, such as homophobia or transphobia. Many countries have discriminatory laws against LGBT people, some even giving out the death penalty for being gay or bisexual.
When not including transgender persons in general, the acronym is sometimes shortened to just ""LGB"".
Many other letters are added to the acronym, so much so that it has been described as an "alphabet soup" by some. A few of the other letters added are:
Not everyone is in agreement what should or should not be covered in the acronym, or which order the letters should go in.
The group of words gender and sexual diversity (GSD) has been shown as a different option to LGBT by some, as it is seen as more inclusive and less limiting.
SGL (same-gender loving) is sometimes used among gay male African Americans as a way of distinguishing themselves from what they think of as white LGBT groups of persons.
MSM (men who have sex with men) is used to describe men who have sex with other men without having relation to their sexual orientation, often in a medical context.

</doc>
<doc id="13439" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13439" title="Rainbow flag">
Rainbow flag

The rainbow flag is a multi-colored flag consisting of stripes in the colors of the rainbow that is displayed in many cultures around the world as a sign of diversity and inclusiveness. The German pastor Thomas Müntzer used a rainbow flag as a symbol of solidarity as early as the German Peasants' War of the 16th century. It is common as a symbol of the Peace movement, first used this way in a peace march in Italy in 1961.
In 1924 the Indian spiritual teacher Meher Baba designed a rainbow flag. It is flown each year near his tomb near Ahmednagar, India during the anniversary of his death on January 31, 1969. Baba explained the symbolism, saying, "The colors in the flag signify man's rise from the grossest of impressions of lust and anger – symbolized by red – to the culmination in the highest state of spirituality and oneness with God – symbolized by sky blue." 
The rainbow is also a symbol in the Christian and Jewish Bible. It shows God's promise to Noah and his family to never cover the world in water again.
A Christian movement known as Cursillo, founded in 1944, uses these traditional rainbow symbols, including flags. Their version can have 5 to 7 colors, with red at the top, blue or purple at the bottom, and the Spanish words "De Colores!" ("of colors") in large letters on the front.
This rainbow flag in Italy was first used in a peace march in 1961, inspired by similar multi-coloured flags used in demonstrations against nuclear weapons. The most common variety has seven colours, purple, blue, light blue, green, yellow, orange and red, and is emblazoned in bold with the Italian word "PACE", meaning "peace". 
It has also been the symbol of the LGBT (lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender) community since it's creation in 1978. It is also called the 'Pride Flag.' The flag was created by Gilbert Baker of San Francisco, California in 1978.

</doc>
<doc id="13441" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13441" title="Dualism">
Dualism

Dualism is the idea or theory that something (an object, an idea or the whole world) is split into two parts. These parts are separate from each other, and the thing cannot be divided up in any other way. The idea or theory that something cannot be split into any parts is called monism. The idea that something can be split into many parts is called pluralism.
In philosophy there are many kinds of dualism.
Dualism is also a common sense idea. For example it is a form of dualism to say that a thing is either hot or cold, good or bad, mine or somebody else's, with no allowance for possible states in between.
In theology, dualism may also refer to "duotheism", "bitheism" or "ditheism". This the doctrine or belief that there are two independent divine beings or eternal principles, one good and the other evil. Examples of ditheism include Zoroastrianism, Wicca and Marcionism. Although the Bible mentions Satan, this is not ditheism as he is not equal to God, but merely an angel. (See Epistle of Jude, verse 6). Ditheism is not the same as dualism, but they are similar. Ditheism implies (at least) two gods, while moral dualism does not imply any "-theism" (belief in a god) whatsoever.

</doc>
<doc id="13443" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13443" title="Vomit">
Vomit

Vomiting, also called puking, is emptying the contents of stomach through mouth. It can be either food or liquid in the stomach. It can be from infection, contaminated food or drink (food poisoning), foul smells or foul-tasting food, the brain being injured, a block in the small intestines so food and liquid cannot go through, too much alcohol or other drugs. Also, people can make themselves vomit (self-induced) which is called purging. Usually people who have eaten or drunk poison are made to vomit any residual (leftover) poison off. Excessive vomiting may lead to dehydration, which can be dangerous, if not fatal as it will shut down a person's organs and twist the intestines.

</doc>
<doc id="13444" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13444" title="Ancient Greece">
Ancient Greece

Ancient Greece was a large area in the northeast of the Mediterranean Sea, where people spoke Greek. It was much bigger than the Greece we know today. It was the civilization of Greece, from the archaic period of the 8th/6th centuries BC to 146 BC. The period ended with the Roman conquest of Greece in the Battle of Corinth.
For most of this time the Greeks did not have a single government or ruler. There were a number of city states, each with its own constitution. Athens, Sparta and Corinth are examples. Some had kings, and some, like Athens, had a form of democracy. As time went on, the most powerful cities collected other cities into confederations known as "leagues". This applied to many of the Greek colonies in Asia Minor, most of which had close ties to one or other of the big three cities.
In the middle of this period was classical Greece, which flourished during the 5th to 4th centuries BC. Athenian leadership successfully repelled the threat of Persian invasion in the Greco-Persian Wars. The Athenian golden age ends with the defeat of Athens at the hands of Sparta in the Peloponnesian War in 404 BC.
In the last, Hellenistic, period Greece was unified by the conquests of Alexander the Great. The city states continued, under the overall influence of Macedonia.
Greek culture had a powerful influence on the Roman Empire, which carried a version of it to many parts of the Mediterranean region and Europe. In this way, classical Greece was part of the foundation of Western civilization. Greek was also the language, and partly the culture, of the Byzantine Empire.
The history of Greece went through these stages:
In the 8th century B.C., the Greeks learned how to read and write a second time. They had lost literacy at the end of the Mycenaean culture, as the Mediterranean world fell into the Dark Ages. The Greek Dark Ages (~1100 BC–750 BC), or Bronze Age collapse, is a period in the history of Ancient Greece and Anatolia from which there are no records, and few archaeological remains.
The Greeks learned about the alphabet from another ancient people, the Phoenicians. They made some adjustments to it. In particular, the Greeks introduced regular letters for vowels, which was necessary for their language. Their alphabet was, in turn, copied by the Romans, and much of the world now uses the Roman alphabet.
Ancient Greece had one language and culture, but was not unified until 337 BC, when Macedonia defeated Athens and Thebes. That marked the end of the Classic period, and the start of the Hellenistic period. Even then, the conquered cities were merely joined to Philip II of Macedon's Corinthian League; they were not occupied, and ruled themselves.
Ancient Greece consisted of several hundred more-or-less independent city states. This was different from other societies, which were tribal, or kingdoms ruling over relatively large territories.
Undoubtedly the geography of Greece—divided and sub-divided by hills, mountains and rivers—contributed to the nature of ancient Greece. On the one hand, the ancient Greeks had no doubt that they were 'one people'; they had the same religion, same basic culture, and same language. Yet each city state or "polis" was independent; unification was something rarely discussed by the ancient Greeks. Even when, during the second Persian invasion of Greece, a group of city-states allied themselves to defend Greece, most "poleis" remained neutral, and after the Persian defeat, the allies quickly returned to infighting.
The major features of the Ancient Greek political system were: 
Later, in the Classical period, the leagues were fewer and larger, and dominated by one city (particularly Athens, Sparta and Thebes). Often cities would be compelled to join under threat of war (or as part of a peace treaty). After Philip II of Macedon 'conquered' the heartlands of ancient Greece, he did not attempt to annex the territory, or unify it into a new province. However, he did force most of the cities to join his own Corinthian League.
Some cities were democratic, some were aristocratic, and some were monarchies. Some had many revolutions in which one kind of government replaced another. One famous Greek kingdom is Macedon, which became briefly the largest empire the world had seen at the time by conquering the Persian empire (including ancient Egypt) and reaching into modern-day India. Other famous kingdoms are Epirus and Thessaly.
Monarchies in ancient Greece were not absolute because there was usually a council of older citizens ("the senate", or in Macedonia "the congress") who gave advice to the King. These men were not elected or chosen in a lottery like they were in the democratic city-states.
Citizens in Ancient Greece were usually men who were free-born in that city. Women, slaves and (usually) residents born elsewhere, did not have the right to vote. Details differed between cities. Athens is an example: The men of Athens were of three groups: citizens, metics (resident aliens) and slaves. Citizens were men (over 17) whose forebears had been Athenians for three generations. They had the rights of free men and could be elected any official state position. "Of the estimated 150,000 residents of the city state of Attica, only about one fifth held the privilege of citizenship". Women were not citizens in Athens, but in Sparta they were.
The number of Greeks grew and soon they could not grow enough food for all the people. When this happened, a city would send people off to start a new city, known as a colony.
Because the terrain was rough, most travel was by sea. For this reason, many new cities were established along the coastline. First new cities were started in Anatolia (Asia Minor) and later along the Black Sea, in Cyprus, in southern Italy, in Sicily, and around what today is Benghazi in Libya. They even started a city, Naucratis, on the river Nile in Egypt. The cities of today, Syracuse, Naples, Marseille and Istanbul started as the Greek cities Syracusa, Neapolis, Massilia and Byzantium.
By the 6th century BC some cities became much more important than the others. They were Corinth, Thebes, Sparta, and Athens.
The Spartans were very well disciplined soldiers. They defeated the people who lived near them and those people had to farm the land for the Spartans. These "helots" had to give the Spartans part of the food they grew and so the Spartans did not have to work. Instead, they learned how to be better soldiers. There were not many Spartans but there were many helots. Spartan military strength controlled the helots. The Spartans had two hereditary kings who led them in war. At home they were also ruled by a group of old men called the Gerousia (the senate).
Athens became a democracy in 510 BC. The men came to a place in the center of the city and decided what to do. It was the first place in the world where the people decided what their country should do. They would talk and then vote on what to do at the Boule (the parliament). But the women did not vote. Athens had slaves. These slaves were owned by their masters and could be sold to someone else. The Athenian slaves were less free than the Spartan helots. Every year, Athenian citizens elected eight generals who led them in war.
In 499 BC, the Greek cities in Anatolia rebelled. They did not want Persia to rule them anymore. Athens sent 20 ships to fight the Persians on the sea. The Greeks in Anatolia were defeated. The Persian King, Darius decided to punish Athens. He sent soldiers and ships to fight Athens.
Athens asked for help from Sparta. Sparta wanted to help but could not; they had a religious festival at that time. Athens sent her soldiers against the Persian soldiers: at the Battle of Marathon (490 BC) they defeated the Persians. Then the help from Sparta came.
At the Battle of Thermopylae The Spartans were led by Leonidas, and resisted the huge Persian army. After a couple of days, a traitor called Ephialtes led the Persians around the pass behind the Greek army. Realising that defeat was inevitable, Leonidas released many of his men. Those who stayed knew it would be a fight to the death. Leonides kept elite "hoplites" (foot soldiers) who had living sons at home. There were also allied Thespians and Thebans who volunteered to stay.
On the third day, Leonidas led his 300 Spartan hoplites and their allies against Xerxes and his mighty army. The Spartan-led forces fought this Persian force to their deaths in order to block the pass long enough to keep Xerxes and his army occupied while the rest of the Greek army escaped.
After Thermopylae many Greeks wanted to go south to the Peloponnese. Because the Isthmus of Corinth, the way into the Peloponnese, is very narrow, many wanted to fight the Persians there.
Athens was north of Corinth and she had a navy. Athens' leader Themistocles wanted to fight the Persians by the island of Salamis. Xerxes decided to send his fleet against the Greek fleet before the Greek ships could go to the Peloponnese. The Greek fleet defeated the Persians at the Battle of Salamis. Xerxes then went home with many of his soldiers but a Persian army stayed in Greece. This army was defeated at the Battle of Platea in 479 BC.
After the Persians were defeated at Platea, the Spartans did very little. However, Persia was still dangerous. Athens asked the Greek cities on the islands in the Aegean and in Anatolia to join her. These cities agreed because they were afraid of Persia. These cities formed the Delian League and Athens was their leader. Many of the cities had to pay Athens tribute money. Athens used the money to build many ships and the Parthenon. Sparta was still strong on land, but Athens was stronger on the sea. Several times there was war between Athens and Sparta. Then Athens decided to send many ships to Sicily to fight against the city Syracuse. Sparta sent help to Syracuse, and Athens was defeated. None of the Athenian ships came back.
Now Sparta decided to build ships to fight Athens. It took a long time for Sparta to defeat Athens but then at the Battle of Aegospotami the Spartans destroyed most of Athens's ships. The Athenians used a highly advanced type of ship known as triremes. These highly advanced battle craft had sophisticated combat systems, and were propelled by oarsmen. On the front of the trireme was a large bronze ram. The trireme would row itself at an enemy boat very fast, and ram a hole into its hull. This was the most effective way for the trireme to destroy other boats. Sometimes, the soldiers (called hoplites) on the trireme would board the ship and keep it for their own.
Men, if not working, fighting or discussing politics, could, at festival times, go to Ancient Greek theatre to watch dramas, comedies or tragedies. These often involved politics and the gods of Greek mythology. Women were not allowed to perform in the theatre: male actors played female roles.
Women did domestic work, such as spinning, weaving, cleaning and cooking. They were not involved in public life or politics. Women from rich families however, had slaves to carry out domestic work for them.
The famous Olympic games were held at Olympia every four years. They were for men only, and women were not allowed to attend, even as spectators. The sports included running, javelin throwing, discus throwing and wrestling. The Games were unusual, because the athletes could come from any Greek city.
Another competition, the Heraean Games, was held for women. It was also held at Olympus at a different time from the men's event.
The rules for girls in Sparta were different from other cities. They were trained in the same events as boys, because Spartans believed that strong women would produce strong future warriors. Their girl athletes were unmarried and competed nude or wearing short dresses. Boys were allowed to watch the athletes, in the hopes of creating marriages and offspring.
Later, in the Classical period, girls could compete in the same festivals as males.

</doc>
<doc id="13448" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13448" title="Malaria">
Malaria

Malaria is an infectious disease caused by a parasite: it is spread by the bite of an infected mosquito. People catch malaria when the parasite enters the blood. The parasite causes a deadly infection which kills many people each year.
The parasite that causes malaria is a protozoan called "Plasmodium". Protozoa are organisms with only one cell, but they are not bacteria. Bacteria are smaller and simpler than protozoa.
People usually get malaria from the "Anopheles" or "Culex" mosquitoes: they are the vectors of the disease. The "Plasmodium" gets into people by the bites of mosquitoes. The "Plasmodium" is in the mosquito's special saliva. The mosquito's saliva injects an anticoagulant into the person to prevent their blood from clotting. The person is then infected with "Plasmodium" as a by-product. This makes the person have the disease we call malaria.
Only the female mosquito gives people malaria, because only the female mosquito consumes blood. The male mosquito lives on the nectar of flowers. The female uses blood as a source of protein for its eggs.
Some people do not get malaria from mosquitoes. A baby can get it while inside its mother. This is called "maternal-foetal transmission". People can also get malaria from a blood transfusion. This is when someone gives blood to another person. Another way people can catch malaria is by using a needle that someone with the disease used before them.
There are several species (kinds) of "Plasmodium" that cause malaria in humans:
"P. vivax" and "P. falciparum" cause the most malaria in people. "Falciparum" malaria is the worst kind, and kills the most people.
When "Plasmodium" enters the blood, they are then called "sporozoites". Sporozoites go to the liver, where they make many more sporozoites. Then they change into a different form of "Plasmodium". This form is the "merozoite". The merozoites go into the red blood cells, then they make many more merozoites.
The merozoites break out of the red blood cells again and again. When they do this, the person gets very sick, and shows symptoms of malaria. This happens every few days, and is called a paroxysm.
"P. vivax" and "P. ovale" can live in the liver for a long time. A person can look well, but still have the "Plasmodium" in the liver. This is called a "dormant phase". Weeks or months later, the "Plasmodium" can leave the liver to the blood, and the person will get sick again. 
"P. falciparum" is the most dangerous type of malaria. It makes people sicker than those with other types of malaria, because there are more of them in the blood. Also, with "falciparum" malaria, the red blood cells are sticky. This makes the red blood cells block blood vessels. If blood vessels are blocked, this can hurt what the blood vessel brings blood to, and can hurt people's organs.
Pregnant women and children are hurt most by malaria. When they get malaria, they get sicker. 
40% of people live in a place where there is malaria. Malaria is in these places:
Every year, 300 to 700 million people get malaria. It kills 1 million to 2 million people every year. 90% of the deaths occur in Africa. Most of the people who die from malaria are children. Even if children do not die, many have brain damage.
Many of these deaths might be stopped with medicine or mosquito control. But many of the places malaria may be found are in poor countries. These countries do not have enough money to stop the mosquitoes, or to give people medicine. Money, however, is not the only problem. A country must have an organised medical system to provide services. Many countries in central Africa have been disrupted by warfare and conflict between groups, and general unrest. Also, easy solutions to kill the parasites do not exist as they did 50 years ago. This is because the insects are resistant to many insecticides, and the "Plasmodium" parasite is highly resistant to quinine and most other common drugs. This is a normal evolutionary process: the chemicals weed out the non-resistant organisms, and the offspring of the few resistant organisms multiply.
Symptoms are changes in someone's body that are signs for a disease. Most people who get malaria get symptoms 10–30 days after they get infected (the "Plasmodium" gets in their blood.) But some people can get symptoms after only a week, and some may be infected with malaria and not have symptoms for a year. 
The most common symptom of malaria is fever, when the body temperature is high. The fever from malaria usually comes very suddenly. The people who have Malaria often feel like they had influenza.
Symptoms of malaria are:
Signs of malaria:
Complications are problems that happen because of a disease.
Pregnant women and young children have more complications. People who get malaria for the first time have more complications. "Falciparum" malaria has the most complications. 
A clinical diagnosis is based on the signs and symptoms of a disease, it is a diagnosis made without medical testing. In the case of malaria one of the main symptoms which may lead to a clinical diagnosis of malaria is a fever.
Any clinical diagnosis of malaria should be confirmed by a trained professional based upon laboratory results as soon as it is possible.
A Malaria rapid diagnostic test is a blood test which can confirm a diagnosis of malaria in about twenty minutes. RDTs are not foolproof and have a number of drawbacks, and as such a negative rapid diagnostic test should not be accepted at face-value and follow-up with malaria microscopy is necessary.
To see if patients have malaria, doctors may do a blood test. This test is called a "Giemsa blood smear". Blood is put on a slide which is a thin piece of glass. The "Giemsa" stain is put on the slide. This stain helps doctors see the malaria. Then they look at the slide under a microscope. The "Plasmodium" is seen in the red blood cells.
People with different kinds of malaria need different medicines. The medicine that works for one kind of malaria may not for another kind. So it is very important to know which species of "Plasmodium" the person has. 
If the species is not known, the person should be given medicine and care like they have "falciparum" malaria the worst kind.
It is also important to know "where" the person got malaria. "Plasmodium" in some places is resistant to some medicines. So the medicines to treat malaria in Africa are different from the medicines to treat malaria from South America.
Everywhere except New Guinea, the treatment is the same. In New Guinea most "P. vivax" is resistant to "chloroquine". It can be treated with quinine, but this medicine can make people sick. Everywhere else, non-"falciparum" malaria is treated with chloroquine.
Chloroquine kills the "Plasmodium" in the blood. But the "Plasmodium" in the liver is not killed by chloroquine. "P. vivax" and "P. ovale" both stay in the liver a "long" time. This is the "dormant phase". Another medicine must be given with chloroquine for "P. vivax" and "P. ovale". This is to kill the "Plasmodium" in the liver. The medicine used to kill malaria in the liver is "primaquine". In southeast Asia, some "P. vivax" is resistant to primaquine. Most other places, "primaquine" works very well.
Some people get very sick from "primaquine". So people have to be tested to see if they have G6PD-deficiency before they take "primaquine".
Falciparum is the worst kind of malaria. People with "falciparum" malaria should be treated in a hospital if they are:
Even people who are treated with medicines at home should stay with the doctor for 8 hours. This is to make sure they do not get sicker.It also makes sure they can take the medicines by mouth. Malaria does not start to become a life-threatning disease until it has been a couple of weeks after the bite without being treated.
"Falciparum" malaria also has more resistance to medicines. This makes it much harder to treat. "Falciparum" malaria is always treated with two or more medicines. Doctors choose the medicines by where in the world the person got malaria. Different places have "P. falciparum" that is resistant to different medicines.
The most important resistance is chloroquine-resistance. In some places in the world, "P. falciparum" is killed by chloroquine. In some places it is chloroquine-resistant. This means chloroquine does not kill it. In these places quinine can be used. Quinine is taken by mouth.
There are three ways to prevent malaria:
"Vector control" is one way to stop malaria. Vector means an organism that carries an infectious disease to another organism. For malaria, the vector is the "Anopheles" mosquito.
The most used method of vector control is pesticides. These are chemicals that kill the mosquito. The first pesticide used for vector control was DDT. DDT worked very well for vector control. It killed mosquitoes. It did not make people very sick at the time it was used. It did not cost very much money. Other chemicals for vector control had not been invented yet.
In many places mosquitoes became resistant to DDT. This meant that DDT did not work anymore in these areas. Scientists worried that DDT was making people and animals sick. It killed a lot of wildlife too. DDT also stays in the environment for a long time. For these reasons, people mostly use other chemicals for vector control. "Organophosphate" or "carbonate" pesticides are used, like "malathion" or "bendiocarb". 
Vector control is not the only way to stop malaria. And DDT is not the only chemical that can be used for vector control. The best way to stop malaria is to use a combination of methods. In some places, DDT may be a useful part of a program to stop malaria. This is why DDT is still allowed to be used for controlling malaria.
The mosquito that carries malaria comes more at dawn (when the sun comes up) and dusk (when the sun goes down.) Be most careful at these times. Wear long trousers and shirts with long sleeves. Wear mosquitoes repellent (this is a chemical that mosquitoes do not like, so they do not bite.) Mosquitoes will bite through thin cloth. So repellent should be used on skin "and clothes".
Pesticides can be used in rooms to kill mosquitoes. When sleeping outside, people use a mosquito net. This is made from cloth that air can go through but keeps mosquitoes out. It is put over a bed where people sleep to keep mosquitoes out. Sometimes people also use it when they are not sleeping. It is best to use mosquito nets that have been treated with Permethrin, which repels and kills mosquitoes.
People can take medicine when they are in a place where there is malaria. This reduces the chances that they contract malaria. This is called "prophylaxis".
Some people take prophylactic medicines for years. Many people in areas where there is malaria do not have the money to buy this medicine.
People who live where there is no malaria usually have "not" had malaria. The first case malaria is usually much worse. So people from places where there is no malaria may take prophylactic medicines when they go to places where there is malaria. The kind of prophylactic medicines people take depends on where they are. This is because not all medicines work on the malaria in every place. 
To make them work best, prophylactic medicines have to be taken the right way. The medicine should start "before" going to an area with malaria. Most medicines should be taken for 4 weeks after coming home. One medicine (Malarone) only needs to be used for "one" week after coming home.
There are some children in Tanzania who are naturally immune to malaria. Researchers are using this to develop a new vaccine. U.S. researchers have found the children produce an antibody which attacks the malaria-causing parasite. Injecting a form of this antibody into mice protected the animals from the disease. The researchers plan to do tests on primates, including humans.
It was Britain's Sir Ronald Ross, working in the Presidency General Hospital in Calcutta, who finally proved in 1898 that malaria is transmitted by mosquitoes. He did this by showing that certain mosquito species transmit malaria to birds. He isolated malaria parasites from the salivary glands of mosquitoes that had fed on infected birds. For this work, Ross received the 1902 Nobel Prize in Medicine. After resigning from the Indian Medical Service, Ross worked at the newly established Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine and directed malaria-control efforts in Egypt, Panama, Greece and Mauritius. The findings of Finlay and Ross were later confirmed by a medical board headed by Walter Reed in 1900. Its recommendations were used during construction of the Panama Canal. This public-health work saved the lives of thousands of workers and helped develop the methods used in future public-health campaigns against the disease.
The first effective treatment for malaria came from the bark of cinchona tree, which contains quinine. This tree grows on the slopes of the Andes, mainly in Peru. The indigenous peoples of Peru made a tincture of cinchona to control malaria. The Jesuits noted the efficacy of the practice and introduced the treatment to Europe during the 1640s, where it was rapidly accepted. It was not until 1820 that the active ingredient, quinine, was extracted from the bark, isolated and named by French chemists.
In the early 20th century, before antibiotics became available, Julius Wagner-Jauregg discovered that patients with syphilis could be treated by intentionally infecting them with malaria. The resulting fever would kill the syphilis spirochaetes, and quinine could be administered to control the malaria. Although some patients died from malaria, this was preferable to the almost-certain death from syphilis.
Malaria was the largest hazard encountered by U.S. troops in the South Pacific during World War II, where about 500,000 men were infected. Sixty thousand American soldiers died of malaria during the North African and South Pacific campaigns.

</doc>
<doc id="13449" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13449" title="Blood vessel">
Blood vessel

A blood vessel is a tube that carries blood in the circulatory system. Blood vessels that take blood away from the heart are arteries. Blood vessels that take blood back to the heart are veins. Capillaries are between veins and arteries and they supply tissue with blood. 
The heart plus all of the blood vessels in the body together are called the circulatory system. Blood is moved by the pumping of the heart and carries oxygen to the tissues. 
The expansion of blood vessels is called vasodilation, it helps the body to get rid of heat energy ("vas-" in Latin means "container" or "vessel").
The constriction of blood vessels is called vasoconstriction, it prevents the body from losing warmth. 

</doc>
<doc id="13450" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13450" title="Jana Gana Mana">
Jana Gana Mana

Jana Gana Mana written in Sanskritised Bengali is the first of five stanzas of a Brahmo hymn composed and scored by Nobel Prize winner Rabindranath Tagore. 
It has a very interesting history. Some falsely believe that it is addressed to King George V and that it was written to welcome him during his India visit. Tagore actually wrote this song a long time before King George's visit.
It was first sung at the Calcutta Session of the Indian National Congress, on 27 December 1911. Jana Gana Mana was officially adopted by the Constituent Assembly as the Indian national anthem on January 24, 1950. Every independence day, the 1,000,000,000 people of the republic of India join together in singing this beautifully composed anthem with its amazing music. 
The Bengali lyrics are transliterated below.
<poem>
you are the ruler of the minds of all people,
Dispenser of India's destiny.
Thy name rouses the hearts of Punjab, Sindh,
Gujarat and Maratha,
Of the Dravida,Orissa and Bengal;
It echoes in the hills of the Vindhyas and Himalayas,
mingles in the music of Yamuna Ganges and is
chanted by the waves of the Indian Sea.
They pray for thy blessings and sing thy praise.
The saving of all people waits in thy hand,
Thou dispenser of India's destiny.
</poem>

</doc>
<doc id="13451" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13451" title="Circulatory system">
Circulatory system

The circulatory system is the body system that moves blood round the body. The heart and all blood vessels make up the circulatory system.
Blood vessels that take blood away from the heart are arteries. Arteries get smaller as they go away from the heart. When smaller arteries that connect to the capillaries, are called "arterioles".
Blood vessels that take blood towards the heart are veins. Veins get bigger as they go toward the heart. The smallest veins are called "venules".
Capillaries go between arteries and veins. Capillaries are quite thin, hence the name which comes from the Latin "capillus" meaning "hair." 
So blood moves: heart→artery→arteriole→capillary→venule→vein→heart. This is called circulation. There are two different "circulations" in the circulatory system. The "systemic circulation" is how blood goes to most of the body. The "pulmonary circulation" is how blood goes through the lungs. (Pulmonary means ¨about the lungs¨). This is how it works in mammals, including humans. Circulatory systems of other vertebrates differ somewhat. Invertebrates are very different.
Blood that comes from the left side of the heart is full of oxygen and nutrients. Nutrients are substances that your body needs to live, like protein, fat, carbohydrates, vitamins, and minerals. This blood brings the oxygen and nutrients to your body.
This blood in "systemic" arteries that is full of oxygen and nutrients is "systemic arterial blood". It is sometimes just called "arterial blood". 
The biggest systemic artery in the body is the aorta. This is the large blood vessel that comes out of the heart. Smaller arteries branch off from the aorta. These arteries have smaller arteries that branch off from them. The smallest arteries turn into arterioles.
The smallest blood vessels are capillaries. Systemic arterioles turn into capillaries. The blood from arterioles goes into the capillaries. There oxygen and nutrients go out of the blood into the tissue around the capillaries. The blood also picks up carbon dioxide and waste from the tissue. The network of capillaries that brings blood to an area is called a "capillary bed".
On the other end of the capillary, it turns into a venule. Venules are the smallest veins. Veins take blood back to the heart. As veins go back to the heart, they get bigger. The biggest systemic veins in the body are the vena cava. There are two vena cava. The "inferior vena cava" takes blood from the lower part of the body to the right side of the heart. (In medicine, inferior means below.) The "superior vena cava" takes blood from the upper part of the body to the heart. (In medicine, superior means above.)
This same movement of blood goes through the lungs in the "pulmonary circulation".
The blood that the vena cava vein takes to the heart is full of carbon dioxide. It has much less oxygen than (systemic) arterial blood. The right side of the heart pushes the venous blood into the pulmonary artery. The pulmonary artery takes blood to the lungs. In the lungs, the blood goes through the "pulmonary capillary bed". (The capillaries that are in the lungs). Here it gets more oxygen. It also drops off carbon dioxide. (This is the opposite of what happens in capillary beds in the rest of the body. In the systemic circulation blood drops off oxygen and picks up carbon dioxide).
After the pulmonary capillary bed, the blood goes to the pulmonary veins. This "pulmonary venous blood" now is full of oxygen. The pulmonary veins take blood to the left side of the heart. Then the blood goes to the systemic circulation again.
Veins from the gut shunt to the liver before returning to the right atrium and ventricle. The shunt is called the hepatic portal vein. 
The meaning of this is as follows. The liver is the body's main chemical factory. It takes in the flow of nutrients from the gut, and adjusts them to suit what the body needs. It can store surplus nutrients, or release extra nutrients from store. It can change the chemical make-up of many nutrients. In this way it adapts to the many different kinds of food which the body digests. 

</doc>
<doc id="13455" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13455" title="Pink triangle">
Pink triangle

The pink triangle is one of the two big symbols of the LGBT community. The other is the rainbow flag.
The pink triangle was first used in Nazi Germany to mark homosexual prisoners. There was also a "black triangle" that marked "anti-social women". Many but not all of these women were lesbians. Jews wore the famous yellow star of David. If a prisoner was both Jewish and gay, he would wear a yellow triangle overlapped by a pink triangle, creating a star of David.
Homosexuality was illegal in Nazi Germany under a law called "Paragraph 175", which made it a felony (a "very serious" crime). About 100,000 people were arrested, with about 50,000 sent to prison. Some were sent to mental hospitals. Some were castrated (had their testicles removed). Some homosexual men were also sent to concentration camps, especially Jewish homosexuals. Between 15,000 and 600,000 homosexual men were sent to concentration camps. Most of them died there. We are not sure of the real number. Prisoners who were Jewish and homosexual may not have been counted as homosexual.
Homosexual prisoners were treated worse than other prisoners. Their death rates were higher than other "anti-social" groups. One story by a gay man who lived in a concentration camp shows how it was. Pierre Seel was sent to the Schirmeck concentration camp. The Nazis said a public execution would happen. A man was brought out. Seel saw that the man was his 18 year old lover. The Nazis took all the clothes of Seel's lover and put a bucket over his head. Then Seel had to watch as the Nazis let German Shepherds (dogs) maul his lover to death.
After World War II, homosexual men were still not treated well in Germany. The law continued. It was used to hurt homosexuals and to put them in prison. Many spent years in prison.
The pink triangle observes the memory of the homosexual people who died in the Holocaust. It is important not to ignore these deaths. The killing of homosexuals and that this still happened after WWII is the "secret" story of the Holocaust. Using the pink triangle symbol puts these victims in the public view. It is in respect for those who died.

</doc>
<doc id="13456" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13456" title="Chat room">
Chat room

A chat room is a virtual place on the Internet where people can get together and type messages to each other using text. People use programs like IRC to join a chat room and type messages or send pictures to the other people within that chat. There are also other programs called instant messengers to stay in contact with friends, colleagues and other people. Websites on the Internet often have types of chat rooms built into them, and lots of chat rooms also use webcams.
Chat rooms are normally used as tools to talk with people that are far away, but many people still use them to talk to people who live near them, because it's very convenient.

</doc>
<doc id="13458" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13458" title="Alan Wake">
Alan Wake

Alan Wake is a video game made by Remedy Entertainment. It is a "thriller" game and was voted best game of E3 in 2005. It was released on Xbox 360 in May 2010 and Microsoft Windows in February 16, 2012. 

</doc>
<doc id="13459" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13459" title="Devil May Cry 4">
Devil May Cry 4

Devil May Cry 4 is the latest video game in the series of "Devil May Cry". It was released on the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 on February 5 2008. Before to this game, all "Devil May Cry" games had only been released on the PlayStation video game consoles. This one was the first game to be released on the Xbox as well as The PlayStation. In January, gamers could download a demo at the PlayStation Store and Xbox Live Marketplace .
One big difference in this game is that Dante is no longer the main character. A new character named Nero is the new hero. Lady and Trish from older games return in this game. This game has more new characters, such as Kyrie, Credo, Agnus, Gloria, and Sanctus and new demons and bosses for the player to fight.
This game is just like the first games. It follows the usual "Devil May Cry" gameplay using a variety of melee and long-range weapons

</doc>
<doc id="13460" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13460" title="50 Cent">
50 Cent

50 Cent (also known as "Fiddy", "Fitty" or "Fifty") is an American rapper, actor, entrepreneur, executive producer, and singer. He was born in Queens, New York City on July 6, 1975. "50 Cent" is his public name, but his birth name is Curtis Jackson. Growing up, he never knew his father and his mother was murdered when he was just 8 years old. He grew up mostly in a neighborhood called STP. He learned how to play basketball and football. He got shot nine times in STP. Before he was a rapper he was a drug dealer.
50 Cent first became successful in rap music in 2002. He was helped by his fellow gang boss Rijaan D. M. (the same person who helped him release track "Wanksta"). Since then, he has sold millions of records. His first album, "Get Rich Or Die Tryin'" broke music records and went multi-platinum. It was number one right away on the "Billboard" 200. It sold 872,000 copies in the first four days. 50 and the album both won an American Music Award. He won the first Sound of... award by the BBC for new artists. He also won the BET Award for Best New Artist.
In the summer of 2005, 50 Cent had a fight (or ""beef"") with The Game, a rapper in his G-Unit group. After this, The Game left G-Unit, and made some diss songs about 50 Cent. 50 Cent answered with songs like "Mr. Potato Head" and "300 shots" featuring G-Unit. 50 Cent was also the first to sign onto a joint effort between Eminem's Shady Records and Dr. Dre's Aftermath Entertainment. 50 Cent also mentions Rijaan D.M. in many of his tracks e.g. 'Candy Shop', 'Down On Me FT Jeremih' etc. As a teen 50 Cent's role model was Tupac Shakur so, from the start his ambition was to be a gangster rapper. 50 Cent rapped on "Monster" on Michael Jackson's 2010 album "Michael".
The Grammy Awards are awarded each year by the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences. 50 Cent has been nominated 14 times and won once.
The World Music Awards is a yearly international awards show. It honors recording artists based on their worldwide sales figures. The figures are provided by the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry. 50 Cent has won six awards.

</doc>
<doc id="13463" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13463" title="Talk">
Talk

Talking is communication using language and speech. See also chat and vocal chords. Talking is used to express feelings and thoughts.

</doc>
<doc id="13464" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13464" title="Subject (school)">
Subject (school)

Subjects are the parts into which learning can be divided. At school, each lesson usually covers one subject only. Some of the most common subjects at school are English, history, mathematics, physical education and science.
Primary school subjects: (ages 4–11)
Secondary school subjects: (ages 11–16)
Other subjects include: 

</doc>
<doc id="13466" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13466" title="Learning English">
Learning English

Learning English is what people do when they want to learn how to speak and understand the English language. People learning English often learn to read and write English at the same time.
A lot of people learn English at school, where English is a common subject. Many people also want to spend their own personal time to learn English. Some of these people may not know any English, where others will have learned some English in school, and will want to advance their knowledge of it.
There are two ways to learn English outside of school:
Many people join for spoken English institutes in Hyderabad or any other lessons like school lessons but at learning centres where any people can go, no matter their age. In such a centre they will join a class fitting their existing level of learning of English, so that they will be in a group for the teacher to help them learn.
An example of this type of learning is at the classes by the British Council. Here is their website.
Other people try to learn English on their own, or in a less formal setting than in a group of people with a teacher.
People might meet with others who are trying to learn English, in order to practice their standard of English when speaking.
People can also listen to radio broadcasts in English, or watch television programmes in English to help them improve their listening ability. A popular channel to listen to the radio on is broadcast by the BBC, called the BBC World Service.
People can also study English by reading books, or listening to English courses on recorded CDs or cassettes.
The BBC World Service has a free website for people who are learning English as a second or foreign language called BBC Learning English.
There are many online community forums such as Englishforums, where many people meet to learn English. Questions are answered quickly even with help from volunteer teachers from all over the whole world. You can also learn English on YouTube with free channels like English with Jennifer, Fast English or EngVid. visit our solapur website www.askenglishspeak.com

</doc>
<doc id="13467" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13467" title="Ethical tradition">
Ethical tradition

An ethical tradition is a group of things that one group of people think are right and wrong. People believe that these things are right and wrong because other people think that way and they have thought that way for a long time.
An ethical tradition can be like a set of laws because most people agree with it and only do what it says is right. However an ethical tradition is not normally written down and is not enforced by a police force.
The branch of philosophy called ethics is not the same as an ethical tradition. This is because ethics is about asking questions and not just thinking what other people think. However some ethical philosophers want to know why people follow ethical traditions. They also want to know what ethical traditions are the same for different groups of people. This type of ethics is sometimes called the science of morals.

</doc>
<doc id="13469" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13469" title="Dildo">
Dildo

A dildo is a sex toy. It is most often used in place of an actual penis for sexual reasons. Dildos come in many different shapes, sizes, and materials (most often glass, plastic, rubber, metal, or wood) for different looks and feels, different uses, and to provide the best stimulation for different people. Some dildos vibrate and pivot for extra pleasure. Many sexualities use this such as gay, lesbian or couples that want a bit of FUN.
Both men and women can use dildos. They are most often put into the vagina or anus, but are sometimes used in oral sex. Since dildos are very simple toys, they can be used in many different ways. They can produce arousal to the point of an orgasm. For this reason, dildos are commonly used for masturbation.

</doc>
<doc id="13472" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13472" title="Alien">
Alien

Alien: meaning

</doc>
<doc id="13473" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13473" title="Bioinformatics">
Bioinformatics

Bioinformatics or Computational biology is the study of large amounts of biological information. Mostly, it focuses on molecules like DNA. It is done mostly with the help of computers.
As species of living things change over time, the DNA contained in their cells change, from evolution. If we can extract the information from living things today, and compare them to each other, we can see which living things are most closely related, much like comparing two editions of a book, the most similar can be thought to be the most closely related in time. Doing this, biologists can construct family trees, or phylogenies. By stitching together all the trees, a grand tree connecting all living things can be made, this is called the "Tree of Life".
Bioinformatics is integration of mathematical, statistical and computational method to analyze biological, biochemical and biophysical data.
Anything a cell could possibly want is stored in its DNA. When a cell wants to build a protein, it finds the appropriate piece of DNA, makes a copy of it (called RNA), and uses the instructions in the copy to make the protein. 
Proteins are the 'machinery' of a cell. They can perform many functions like transportation, structural support, movement and metabolism. Proteins are made from "amino acids". There are twenty different amino acids that are used to build millions of different protein molecules. 
The principle of bioinformatics is that these molecules can be studied by using computers to analyze the DNA, RNA, and amino acid sequences from which they are created. Because there are so many different molecules, the best way we have of understanding how the entire system works is to use bioinformatics.
Chemists have developed ways to understand the shape and behavior of small molecules, using mathematical analysis. They might use computers (or even just a pencil and paper) to study these molecules. Also, the DNA contained in just one cell of an organism is far too large to be read by any person, and to compare the DNA between two (or more) organisms, be they in the brother and sister, or of a completely different species, requires comparing large amounts of information for small (or large) differences. Computers are far better suited to such comparisons, and computer programmers have worked with biologists to create very very large databases to store all the DNA information that has ever been learned.
Biochemists today are trying to answer these questions about every single cell in the body:

</doc>
<doc id="13476" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13476" title="Economy of India">
Economy of India

The Economy of India is the 7th largest in the world with a GDP (a year's goods and services) of $2.18 trillion (U.S.). If you consider PPP (purchasing power parity: how much that money can buy in India compared to other countries), the economy is third largest (worth $8.02 trillion U.S.). However due to India's huge population, the economy was still only $6,209 (considering PPP) per person per year in 2015.
India's economy includes agriculture, handicrafts, industries, and a lot of services. Services are the main source of economic growth in India today, though two-thirds of Indian people earn their living directly or indirectly through agriculture. In recent times, due to its large number of well-educated people who can speak English, India became a pioneer in information technology.
For most of India's independent history, it had strict government controls in many areas such as telecommunications (communication over long distances), banking and foreign direct investment. Since the early 1990s, India has slowly opened up its markets by reducing government control on foreign trade and investment.This was started by Manmohan Singh under the leadership of P.V.Narasimha Rao.From then, the Indian Economy grew at a rapid pace.
The social and economic problems India faces are the increasing population, poverty, lack of infrastructure (buildings, roads, etc.) and growing unemployment. Although poverty has gone down 10% since the 1980s, a quarter of India's citizens still cannot pay for enough food.

</doc>
<doc id="13479" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13479" title="Testicle">
Testicle

Testicles are parts that are found on the bodies of male creatures. Male mammals, including men, have two testicles, supported in a sac of skin below the penis called the scrotum. Along with the penis, testicles are called reproductory organs or "sex organs". Only males have testicles; females have ovaries.
Testicles are a type of organ called glands. Like other glands, testicles make "chemical substances", called hormones that keep the body working. Testicles also make sperm, which can join with ova to make new life. 
Most glands, like women's ovaries, are inside the body, but testicles are outside the main part of the body. This is because the testicles work better if they are cooler than the inside of the body. In cold weather, testicles pull up nearer to the body to keep warm.
The testicles are firm, oval-shaped glands. Most testicles match in size, but some testicles are much larger or smaller than others. Normal sized testicles are between 14 cm³ to 35 cm³. 
Nearly all men have one testicle that hangs lower than the other one. Scientists think this may be so that they do not hit against each other. It can be either the left or the right that hangs lower, but in about 85% of men, it is the right one which is lower. The right testicle usually descends first and this may affect which one hangs lower. 
The testicles hang in the scrotum by the spermatic cord. They are outside the body because they need to be cooler than the temperature inside the body, in order to make sperm. If a man's testicles get cold, they are automatically pulled closer to the body. The "spermatic" cord is tightened by the cremasteric muscle. When this muscle "contracts" (pulls tighter), the cord gets shorter, which pulls the testicles closer to the body. If the testicles are too warm, the cremasteric muscle "relaxes" (gets longer.) This lowers the testicles to keep them cooler. This is how the testicles are kept at the right temperature. This is called the "cremasteric reflex". (A reflex is something your body "automatically" does without you thinking about it.)
There are other uses for the "cremasteric reflex" apart from making the testicles the right temperature. Stress can also make the "cremasteric reflex" work. If a male human or mammal gets into a fight, then its testicles are in danger. They automatically pull up close to the body. The "cremasteric reflex" also happens during sexual intercourse.
Testicles have two important jobs in the body. They are part of two of the body's systems, the endocrine system which keeps the body working, and the reproductive system which makes new life. 
Testicles are a type of organ called glands. (This makes them part of the body's "endocrine system".) The human body has many types of glands. The job of glands within a body is to make "chemical substances", and put them out into the body's system. A body has lots of different systems that keep it in good working order all the time, and that also provide for a body's special needs. Some of the body's special needs happen when a person gets angry, frightened or sick, or if the person wants to have sexual intercourse. At these times a body uses more of some types of "chemical substance", so the glands that make them work harder. 
Testicles make several types of chemical substances. They are not simple chemicals, but are very complicated and very important to life. Making these substances is controlled by the pituitary gland which is a small gland in the brain.
One substance made by the testicles is a type of substance known as a hormone. It is the hormone testosterone. Testosterone is important in a male person's body, because it makes him grow into a man and feel like a man during puberty. (Women's bodies make some testosterone too, but they make more female hormone called estrogen.) 
As well as being chemical-producing glands, testicles are gonads. (This makes them part of the body's "reproductive system".) Apart from "hormones", the other important substances made by the testicles are spermatozoa, which are generally just called sperm. (The word "sperm" is plural, so you do not add a "s" and say "sperms".) The "sperm" are tiny living cells which can join with another cell, called an "ovum" (or egg) inside a female, to start a new human life. Scientists call making sperm "spermatogenesis". Boys begin making sperm when they start growing into men, at a time of life called puberty. 
Women do not have testicles. The glands in their bodies that do the same sort of jobs as testicles are called ovaries. Women have two ovaries, but unlike testicles, ovaries are inside the body, on either side of the uterus. They release "ova" (or eggs) and "female hormones". Ovaries and testicles are sometimes called "gonads". 
Size in animals
Studying animals can help in understanding things about people. In mammals, testicles can be very big or very small in relation to the size of the animal itself. The size has to do with the amount of sperm that the male animal needs to make. Some types of male animal generally only have one sexual partner at a time and are called monogamous. Some types of animals generally live in a herd or flock where one male will have many female sexual partners. These males are called polygamous. More sperm is needed by "polygamous" males than by "monogamous" males. "Polygamous" males generally have larger testicles than "monogamous" males. The testicles grow larger to make more sperm.
Size in men
Most men's testicles are from 14 cm³ to 35 cm³. This is a measure of volume. Sometimes Doctors need to measure a man's testicles to see if there is a problem. Doctors can measure the volume of testicles in two ways: 
Sometimes the size of a man's testicles changes.
Some reasons why testicles get smaller are: 
Some reasons why testicles get bigger are: 
The most important diseases of testicles are:
Loss and injury 
Most boys are born with two testicles in the scrotum. The testicles have formed inside the baby's body, but moved into the scrotum before the birth. Sometimes one or both the testicles are still inside when the baby is born. Sometimes an operation is needed to fix this. 
If a testicle is injured, it is extremely painful. Sometimes testicles get crushed. Sometimes it is necessary for a doctor to remove one or both the testicles. This operation is called an orchidectomy. If a man loses a testicle, a doctor can put a "testicular prosthesis" (false testicle) into the scrotum. It looks and feels like a testicle. 
If a male loses both his testicles it's called castration. Because the man cannot produce sperm or testosterone, it has a big effect on the man's life. Because he cannot make sperm, he cannot have children. And because he cannot make the male hormone testosterone, he becomes less like a male. He may lose some of his muscles, and put on weight. A man who has lost his testicles may take testosterone medicine so that he does not have these changes. 
Until the 1700s in Europe, and more recently in some countries, there was a custom to castrate young male slaves and boys. Young slaves were castrated so that they could be used as guards over the wives of rich men. It meant that the wives would not fall in love with their guards. Sometimes young boys who had beautiful singing voices were castrated before puberty. This meant that their voices would stay high all their lives. These singing men were called castrati. 
Castrating animals 
It is very common to castrate (remove the testicles from) male domestic animals. Male dogs and cats that are castrated do not fight so much, and do not stray around looking for females to mate with. 
Male horses are usually castrated so that they become more calm and safer to ride. A castrated male horse is called a gelding. A male horse that is not castrated is a stallion. 
Male animals that are used for meat are generally castrated because it makes them fatter and also makes them quieter to keep because they do not fight each other. Most male cattle are castrated.
Testicles can also be called "testes" or "gonads".
There are many slang words for testicles, like balls, nuts, bollocks, nads, crown jewels, etc. Slang words are other names that are used for fun or to be "vulgar" (rude).

</doc>
<doc id="13480" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13480" title="The Screwtape Letters">
The Screwtape Letters

The Screwtape Letters is a book written by author and Christian scholar C. S. Lewis. It appeared in installments in "The Guardian" newspaper and was later published as a book in 1942. It is a series of letters written by a devil named Screwtape to his apprentice and nephew Wormwood. The letters are filled with advice for the young demon on how to tempt men. Screwtape tells Wormwood how to undo the work of God and work against Him.
"The Screwtape Letters" were greatly popular. It was published in 1941, and after that, it has sold very well around the world. Because it is funny and easy to read and understand, many people read it easily and have been influenced by it.
The two main characters that are inside the letters are Wormwood, a demon that has the job of leading his "patient" away from Christianity (or at least making him a useless Christian). Screwtape is Wormwood's uncle and a "high" demon.
Screwtape, a devil and the uncle of Wormwood, helps Satan and everything he stands for. He calls the devil "our Father". He also fights against everything God stands for, calling God "The Enemy". Wrong to him is right and right to him is wrong.
Ironically, even though many of the things he says are Biblically wrong, some of the things he says are, according to the Bible, true. He talks about the glory of heaven when the patient is taken up there, though he does not understand why God gives them to men. He admits to Wormwood that he does not know about his Enemy well enough. Screwtape cannot understand love and says in Letter 18 that he believes that God must have another, hidden reason to save men, since everybody is selfish and cannot love.
Screwtape is always afraid that God will step in and stop Wormwood's temptations. Screwtape says that when the patient prays to God for help, God always comes, so Screwtape is fearful.
At first, Screwtape thinks the patient's soul will go to hell. However, he is angry when Wormwood makes more and more mistakes. He feels that God is "winning the battle".
The book is set during the early years of World War II. This was the time when it was actually written. Lewis was living in England during the war. He went through many of the things that the patient goes through in "The Screwtape Letters". Many of his first readers did, too. The book, however, focuses more on the spiritual battle between demons and their patient.

</doc>
<doc id="13483" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13483" title="Multiplayer video game">
Multiplayer video game

Multiplayer is a term for games, usually video games, meaning more than one person can play it. It was popularized by newer gaming systems like Nintendo 64 that allowed four joysticks to be plugged into a home console unit for head-to-head play, competitive, or cooperative play.

</doc>
<doc id="13485" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13485" title="Weird Al Yankovic">
Weird Al Yankovic

Alfred Matthew "Weird Al" Yankovic (born October 23, 1959) is an American singer-songwriter, musician, parodist, record producer, satirist, music video director, movie producer, actor, and author. He is known mainly for his parodies of popular songs. He has also starred in a movie called "UHF" (1989). Yankovic had a children's program for a short time. It was named "The Weird Al Show". He has made parodies of songs such as "American Pie" (his ever popular "The Saga Begins"), "Ridin'" ("White and Nerdy"), "Bad" ("Fat"), "Like a Virgin" ("Like a Surgeon") and "Gangster's Paradise" ("Amish Paradise").
He also has a band to help him perform his songs. His band members are: Jim West (guitar), Steve Jay (bass), Rubén Valtierra (piano), and Jon "Bermuda" Schwartz (drums).
Yankovic has also written a children's book titled "When I Grow Up".
Alfred was born in Downey, California. He was raised in the town of Lynwood, California. He is the only child of Nick Louis Yankovic (June 4, 1917 – April 9, 2004) and Mary Elizabeth Yankovic (née Vivalda; February 7, 1923 – April 9, 2004). His father was born in Kansas City, Kansas, of Yugoslavian ancestry, and began living in California after serving during World War II; he believed "the key to success" was "doing for a living whatever makes you happy" and often reminded his son of this philosophy. Nick Yankovic married Mary Elizabeth Vivalda in 1949. Mary, who was of Italian and English descent, and had come to California from Kentucky, gave birth to Alfred ten years later.

</doc>
<doc id="13486" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13486" title="Supertramp">
Supertramp

Supertramp is a British rock band. They were created and managed by a Dutch millionaire and were very popular in the 1970s. The members of Supertramp included Rick Davies and Roger Hodgson, who wrote most of the songs. The band's best-known songs include "Dreamer", "Give a Little Bit", "The Logical Song", "Take the Long Way Home", and "It's Raining Again".

</doc>
<doc id="13487" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13487" title="Tissue (disambiguation)">
Tissue (disambiguation)

Tissue can mean different things.

</doc>
<doc id="13490" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13490" title="New Mexico">
New Mexico

New Mexico is a state in the United States of America. It is considered part of the American Southwest and is bordered by Texas to the east, Oklahoma to the northeast, Colorado to the north, and Arizona to the west. The northwest corner of the state also touches Utah. This area is known as the Four Corners because four states meet there. The state is called Land of Enchantment / Tierra del Encanto
New Mexico became a state on January 6, 1912 and became the 47th state accepted into the United States. The state capital is Santa Fe. New Mexico's population is 1,819,046 and most of the people live in the biggest city, Albuquerque.

</doc>
<doc id="13491" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13491" title="1471">
1471


</doc>
<doc id="13492" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13492" title="Sting">
Sting

Gordon Matthew Thomas Sumner (born October 2, 1951), better known as Sting, is an English singer and musician. He first became famous as a member of the band, The Police.

</doc>
<doc id="13493" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13493" title="Starbucks">
Starbucks

Starbucks is a chain of stores that sell coffee. A chain is many stores owned by the same company. Many of the stores look the same, and all stores sell the same items, often at the same prices. As well as coffee, Starbucks sells beverages and baked goods.
Starbucks started in Seattle in the United States in the early 1970s. The number of stores has grown quickly. There are over 9,000 Starbucks stores all over the world. Most of these stores are in the United States. Some large cities in the U.S. have many Starbucks stores. Sometimes they open so many stores in one city that there are two Starbucks within a few blocks of each other.
Starbucks sells many kinds of drinks. There are 5 sizes: short, tall, grande, venti and trenta. There are many ways to customize each drink. A "frappuccino", for example, is a cold drink. Flavored syrup and cream is added to coffee or juice and stirred with ice.
Some stores sell special items, such as mugs related to the city they are located in. 
The first Starbucks in Japan opened in Ginza in 1996. There were 985 stores in Japan in 2012. 

</doc>
<doc id="13494" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13494" title="Frasier">
Frasier

Frasier is an American sitcom starring Kelsey Grammer. The series aired from 1993-2004. It was a spin-off from "Cheers". Story based upon the intellectual, mild mannered psychiatrist and his life. Revolving around his personal life and hilarious interpersonal interactions with his father (Martin Crane, an ex-cop with a walking impediment), his eccentric brother Niles, who is also a shrink, his father's attractive English health care worker Daphne Moon & a host of folks he regularly runs into / works with at the radio station (including his producer Roz Doyle) where he hosts a community psychiatric call-in show. 
Cast :

</doc>
<doc id="13495" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13495" title="Spin-off">
Spin-off

A spin-off is something new that comes from something already present. It is often used for video games, movies, and television programmes, but it can also be used when talking about companies or organisations. A spin-off may have the same people, places, themes or ideas as the original.

</doc>
<doc id="13497" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13497" title="Pedophilia">
Pedophilia

Pedophilia (paedophilia in British English) is when a person sixteen years of age or older is primarily or exclusively sexually attracted to children who have not begun puberty (generally eleven years old or less). A person with pedophilia is called a "pedophile". The child must be at least five years younger than the person in the case of adolescent pedophiles before the attraction can be called pedophilia.
Not all pedophiles feel or act in the same way. Since the 1880s, psychologists have studied and shown that different pedophiles might act in different ways:
For pedophiles who commit child sexual abuse, some studies have shown that pedophiles who are only attracted to children may abuse more children than pedophiles who also have adult sexual partners.
The people who abuse children are often known to them—such as parents, other relatives, and friends—and are not strangers. One research study found that half the adults convicted of child sexual abuse of children outside of their family were also sexually abusing their own children.
Medically, this condition is classified by the American Psychiatric Association as a mental disorder. Some pedophiles have sex with children or use children in a sexual way. This is called "child sexual abuse" because by law, children are unable to truly agree to sexual acts with an adult. Some adults have pedophilic feelings but do not act by sexually abusing children. Some adults who are not pedophiles commit sexual abuse against children.
Adults whose primary sexual attraction is for early adolescents are properly called hebephiles, not pedophiles. Adults whose primary sexual attraction is for mid-to-late teens are properly called ephebophiles, but ephebophilia is not considered abnormal by mental health professionals. A lesbian pedophile is sometimes called a "korephile".
Medical researchers do not know how many people in the population are pedophiles. This is because it is hard to study people's feelings and desires unless they actually show that they have those feelings. Generally, the only pedophiles who can be studied are those who have both broken the law and been caught and convicted of child sexual abuse. A second reason is that when an adult or teenager sexually abuses a child, people often call the abuser a "pedophile", but it is possible that the abuse happened for a different reason, such as the unavailability of an adult partner. Experts generally define a person as a pedophile only if they are primarily or exclusively sexually attracted to prepubescent children. If a person sexually abuses a prepubescent child to frighten or punish them, for example, then it may not be true pedophile behavior. 
Some sources, such as the Mayo Clinic, report that most child sexual abuse of prepubescent children is committed by pedophiles, while other studies report that most people who sexually abuse children are not pedophiles. According to some studies, about 1% of all adult males may be pedophiles. However, other studies indicate that the percentage of pedophiles in the adult male population may vary between 12% to 22% percent.
As of 2008, most doctors believe that pedophilia cannot be cured. The current approach to deal with pedophiles who have been convicted of sexual abuse is to try to change their behavior. It does not change their sexual attraction. Using this treatment, it is believed that some sex offenders can be prevented from offending again. Medications such as Depo-Provera can be used to treat pedophilia.

</doc>
<doc id="13500" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13500" title="Igneous rock">
Igneous rock

Igneous rock is one of the three main rock types, the others being sedimentary and metamorphic rock. 
Igneous rocks are rocks formed from molten magma. The material is made liquid by the heat inside the Earth's mantle.
When magma comes out onto the surface of the Earth, it is called lava. Lava cools down to form rocks such as tuff and basalt. Also, the magma may slowly cool down to form rocks under the surface. An example is granite.
The upper 16 km (10 miles) of the Earth's crust is composed of about 95% igneous rocks with only a thin, widespread covering of sedimentary and metamorphic rocks.
Igneous rocks are geologically important because:
Igneous rock occurs in two ways. 
Magma is a complex high-temperature fluid substance. Temperatures of most magmas are in the range 700 °C to 1300 °C. Magma can get forced into adjacent rocks (intrusion or "plutonic"), or forced out to the surface (extrusion or volcanic) as lava, or blown out in exposions which include rock pieces ("tephra").
Magma is made up of atoms and molecules of melted minerals. When magma cools the atoms and molecules rearrange to form mineral grains. Rock forms when mineral grains (often crystals) grow together. Granite, diorite, gabbro and basalt are a few types of igneous rock. Quartz is one of the chief minerals produced by igneous action; it is made of silica (SiO), the most common molecule in igneous minerals. Some examples of igneous volcanic rock are pumice, obsidian (volcanic glass), and scoria and much more. 
Most of the minerals that make up igneous rock are of these types:
Igneous rocks can be classified according to their chemistry. The main types are:
The first six are silicates. Oxides are mostly of iron.

</doc>
<doc id="13501" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13501" title="Bauxite">
Bauxite

Bauxite is the main ore of aluminium. It is mostly aluminium oxide.
Bauxite is the most important aluminium ore. It is largely made up of the minerals Gibbsite Al(OH), Boehmite γ-AlO(OH), and Diaspore α-AlO(OH), together with the iron oxides Goethite and Hematite, the clay mineral Kaolinite and small amounts of Anatase TiO. It was named after the village Les Baux-de-Provence in southern France, where it was first discovered in 1821 by geologist Pierre Berthier.
There are two main kinds of bauxite ores: carbonate bauxites (karst bauxites), and silicate bauxites (lateritic bauxites). Carbonate bauxites were discovered earlier, and occur mainly in Europe and Jamaica above carbonate rocks such as limestone and dolomite.
The lateritic bauxites occur in many countries of the tropical belt. They were formed from various silicate rocks such as granite, gneiss, basalt, syenite, and shale.
For bauxite to be created there must be intense weathering conditions and very good drainage. Bauxite deposits with highest aluminium content are frequently located below an iron-bearing surface layer. In lateritic bauxite, the aluminum hydroxide contained in lateritic bauxite deposits is almost entirely a form called gibbsite.

</doc>
<doc id="13502" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13502" title="Chalcopyrite">
Chalcopyrite

Chalcopyrite is the main ore of copper. It is mostly copper iron sulphide. It is also known as peacock ore or peacock copper. It is often mistaken for bornite.

</doc>
<doc id="13503" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13503" title="Hematite">
Hematite

Hematite or haematite is the main ore of iron. It is mostly iron(III) oxide. Millions of tons are dug up every year to feed to blast furnaces to make steel.
It has a metallic luster. It has no cleavage (the way a mineral breaks) but does have a fracture. The fracture is irregular and uneven. Hematite on the hardness scale is 5 to 6. It has a bright red to dark red streak. To find the streak, you take the mineral and run it across a plate of unglazed porcelain. The colors vary from metallic gray to a dark, rough and earthy red color. Hematite has a chemical formula of FeO.

</doc>
<doc id="13504" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13504" title="Galena">
Galena

Galena is the main ore of lead. It is mostly lead(II) sulphide.
Galena is one of the most common and widely used sulfide minerals. It crystallizes in the cubic crystal system often showing octahedral forms. It is often found with the minerals sphalerite, calcite and fluorite.

</doc>
<doc id="13505" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13505" title="Bob Dole">
Bob Dole

Robert Joseph Dole (born July 22, 1923) is a former United States Senator from Kansas. He was the Republican leader of the Senate from 1985 until 1996. In 1996, he ran against Bill Clinton for President, and lost. After that, he retired from politics at age 72.
In 1976, President Gerald Ford chose him to be his Vice Presidential choice for the November, 1976 election. They lost the election so Bob Dole never became Vice President.
Shortly after the 1996 election, he famously appeared in a Pepsi commercial, saying, "I just cannot win". He has also done commercials for Viagra.
Bob Dole has a habit of talking in the third person, or using his own name instead of "I" when he talks about himself. This habit is the basis for many jokes about Dole.

</doc>
<doc id="13507" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13507" title="Lionel Richie">
Lionel Richie

Lionel Richie (born June 20, 1949) is an American R&B singer-songwriter. He is best known for his 1980s songs. 
Richie was born in Tuskegee, Alabama. He spent his childhood there. He spent his teenage years in Joliet, Illinois. 
He started his career with The Commodores; between him and the band, "Three Times a Lady" is their best remembered song. His self-titled debut album was one of the biggest music successes of 1982. More successful was its follow-up, "Can't Slow Down".
In 1984, as a surprise guest, he sang "All Night Long" to a worldwide audience of over two billion at the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles.
After a few years break, Richie returned to the music industry in 1996 with "Louder than Words". Another album of his, "Renaissance", came out four years later.
Richie made a dramatic comeback to the top of the charts in 2012 with "Tuskegee", a country album made up of new versions of many of his biggest hit songs, each featuring a different guest artist. It became his first Number 1 album on the Billboard 200 chart since 1986, and also reached Number 1 on the "Billboard" country album chart. "Tuskegee" also became his first album since 1986 to be certified as platinum (more than 1 million copies sold) by the Recording Industry Association of America.
In 1990, Richie adopted Nicole Escovedo. Her name is now Nicole Richie. She co-starred on Fox's "The Simple Life" with Paris Hilton.

</doc>
<doc id="13509" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13509" title="Walt Disney Pictures">
Walt Disney Pictures

Walt Disney Pictures is a movie studio from the United States that makes family-friendly movies with a G and PG rating from the MPAA, like "The Fox and the Hound". The only non-G/PG rated Disney movies are 2003's "Pirates of the Caribbean", which was given a PG-13 rating, its sequels, and "John Carter", which were also rated PG-13.
Walt Disney Pictures started as a Disney division in 1983. Before that, Disney movies were released under the Walt Disney Productions name.
Part of the Buena Vista Motion Pictures Group, the studio also has Walt Disney Feature Animation and DisneyToon Studios.

</doc>
<doc id="13510" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13510" title="Scrotum">
Scrotum

The scrotum is the bag that holds the testicles in male mammals. It is made of skin and muscle and is found between the penis and anus. It is often covered in pubic hair and becomes tight when the male is aroused.
The function of the scrotum is to keep the testicles less warm than the rest of the body. Human testicles work best at 36.8 degrees Celsius (98 degrees Fahrenheit) when normal body temperature is 37 degrees Celsius (98.6 degrees Fahrenheit). Higher temperatures than 36.8 degrees will damage the sperm inside the testicles.
The temperature is controlled by moving the testicles closer to the abdomen when they are too cold, and away when too hot. This is done by muscles contracting or relaxing. This lifts and lowers the testicles inside the scrotum. They can also be lifted by tightening the anus and pelvic muscles.
The best temperature for the testes varies between species, but usually it is a bit cooler than body temperature. This means that the testicles always have to be held outside of the body.
The scrotum may move the testes closer to the abdomen when it is in danger. Testes are known to be extremely sensitive, and when a male is hit, it causes them to fall down in pain. The male's body avoids this by moving the testes closer because it is in trouble if it is hanging.
Another explanation is to protect the testes from jolts and being crushed inside the body. Animals that have slow movements - such as elephants, whales, and moles - have internal testes and no scrotum.

</doc>
<doc id="13511" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13511" title="Ministry (band)">
Ministry (band)

Ministry is an American industrial metal band from Chicago, Illinois. It was started in 1981 by musician Al Jourgensen. After 27 years and 11 albums, Al disbanded the group in 2008. However, the band reformed in 2011 for a new album and tour.

</doc>
<doc id="13512" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13512" title="Indo-European">
Indo-European

Indo-European may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="13513" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13513" title="Ingot">
Ingot

Ingots are bars of metal, formed by pouring the molten metal into a mould. This is done after it has been purified from the ore. Gold ingots are often seen in movies. 

</doc>
<doc id="13514" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13514" title="Westlife">
Westlife

Westlife is an Irish boy band who formed in 1998. Its members once were Shane Filan, Kian Egan, Nicky Bryne, and Mark Feehily. Then Bryan McFadden left the band on March 9, 2004 to give more of his time to his family life with the British TV personality and former Atomic Kitten member Kerry Katona, although he has subsequently separated from her and changed the spelling of his first name back to 'Brian'.
Westlife did not manage success in America, although their debut single, "Swear It Again" was a minor hit on mainstream radio and MTV. Its video made MTV's Total Request Live briefly, and it managed to chart on the Billboard Hot 100 in the summer of 2000, going up to No. 20 on the chart. Their debut American album was also released in 2000, but flopped. Beyond Europe and the USA, Westlife's fan base is truly global, including Canada, Latin America, Southeast Asia, and Australia.
Like most other boy bands, Westlife was primarily marketed to teenagers, besides girls there were approximately 20% of Westlife fans are male. They also had a large following among gay men, and performed numerous times at gay venues in the UK.
It was announced in October 2011 that Westlife would split in 2012. They had their last concert in Dublin, Ireland in 2012. Tickets for it sold out in 5 minutes. 
The band has been very successful since it was started and is popular in both Ireland and United Kingdom, with hits like:
Not every single of theirs has gone to No. 1 in the UK:
The band have also won ITV's Record of the Year competition on a record four occasions, with "Flying Without Wings", "My Love", "Mandy" and "You Raise Me Up".

</doc>
<doc id="13516" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13516" title="Ulcer">
Ulcer

An ulcer is a kind of open wound. Ulcers can be on surfaces of the body. They can be on skin. They can be mucous membranes like the surface of the stomach or inside the mouth.
Ulcers start when the top layer (surface) of skin or mucous membrane is hurt. This top layer dies. When it dies, the skin or mucous membrane and opens. This leaves an open sore called an ulcer.
Ulcers can be from infection with germs. Ulcers can be from pressure on a part of the skin. Ulcers can be from substances that will burn skin or mucous membranes. When acid makes some stomach ulcers this is from burning by the acid. Ulcers can be from cancer. Ulcers can be from diseases of blood vessels. If not enough blood goes to a body part, it can get an ulcer. Stress can also sometimes cause ulcers. They are also noted to hurt a lot. 

</doc>
<doc id="13518" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13518" title="Peptic ulcer">
Peptic ulcer

A peptic ulcer is an ulcer of the stomach or duodenum. The duodenum is the first part of the small intestines. It is the tube that food goes through when it leaves the stomach. "Peptic" means talking about the stomach.
Gastric ulcers are peptic ulcers in the stomach.
Duodenal ulcers are peptic ulcers in the duodenum.
Most ulcers are caused by an infection from bacteria. This bacteria is called "Helicobacter pylori". 90% of gastric ulcers and 75% of duodenal ulcers are from "Helicobacter pylori" infection.
Other things can make ulcers worse. But these things are less important than "Helicobacter pylori". These other things are:
A symptom is a change in the body that tells someone that they have a disease. The biggest symptom is pain in the stomach. Pain is usually in the top of the abdomen below the ribs. Some people also feel pain go up to the chest.
Other symptoms are:
Diagnosing is how doctors see if someone has a disease. They do this by running tests. Peptic ulcers are diagnosed by three ways:
The best way is "endoscopy". But this costs more money. Endoscopy is done by a medical specialist called a "gastroenterologist" (a doctor who knows much about the digestive system.)
A good thing about endoscopy is finding other diseases if there is no peptic ulcer. The symptoms of peptic ulcer can be from other diseases. Endoscopy can diagnose these other diseases.
The most important treatment is to stop the "Helicobacter pylori" infection. This is usually done with antibiotics and can now also be done through the use of natural products. 
Antibiotics are medicines that kill germs like bacteria. Usually three different antibiotics are used, and because the "Helicobacter pylori" bacteria is so resistant, successful treatment is not guaranteed. The number of people turning to natural remedies is increasing. Natural remedies have none of the side effects common to antibiotic treatment.
It is also important to make less acid in the stomach. There are two types of medicines that Doctors normally prescribe to stop the acid. These are called "antacids":
Both of these medicines make the cells in the stomach stop making acid. There is a problem in unnaturally stopping the production of acid, because acid is vital to ensure proper digestion of foods. When a patient stops taking antacids, the stomach naturally starts producing acid again and usually more than normal because the antacids had unnaturally stopped this process. The result is that there is now too much acid, the whole problem starts again. It is considered better and safer to control acid levels by consuming water and by eliminating foods that may cause excessive acid. 
To stop peptic ulcers people must use antacids "and" antibiotics, or a natural product. The strategy is to kill off the "Helicobacter pylori". Controlling the acid levels let the open ulcers in the stomach lining heal quicker.
Once the "Helicobacter pylori" infection is removed, the ulcer should heal. It can come back if the person is reinfected with "Helicobacter pylori" again.

</doc>
<doc id="13519" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13519" title="Symptom">
Symptom

Symptoms are used in diagnosis. The term is used in medicine, and in other fields such as fault-finding in engineering. 
In medicine, it refers to things the patient feels or notices. It contrasts with signs, which are changes which a doctor sees in a patient. What a patient feels is subjective, whereas what a doctor sees is objective.
In diagnosis, all symptoms and signs are brought together to make a hypothesis as to what is going wrong. This might suggest further investigation or treatment. A complete investigation ends with a diagnosis that summarizes all this.

</doc>
<doc id="13520" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13520" title="Medical diagnosis">
Medical diagnosis

A medical diagnosis is when a doctor finds out what is making someone sick. Sometimes doctors can diagnose a sickness by asking the person questions and looking at the person's body. Sometimes doctors do "tests". Tests can mean taking a small bit of blood, urine, or tissue which is sent to a hospital laboratory where it is tested. X-rays are another form of test. Tests are ways to see how the body is working.
When a diagnosis has been made, the doctor may recommend treatment.

</doc>
<doc id="13521" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13521" title="True Jesus Church">
True Jesus Church

The True Jesus Church is a Christian church. It was started during the early 20th century. It is an independent Church. It split from the Pentecostal movement in China. The Pentecostal movement is an evangelical movement within Christianity.
This group practices faith healing, speaking in tongues, baptism by putting a person completely under water, feet washing and the Saturday Sabbath. By 1949 they claimed 120,000 members; those members met in 700 churches.
The True Jesus Church was banned in the People's Republic of China in 1958 along with all the other Christian churches, but they were allowed to reopen in 1985. Since then, they have grown quickly and have spread across the whole country. They are strongest in Jiangsu, Hunan and Fujian provinces.
They say that daily prayer is very important, both private and public. They engage in vigorous evangelism.
Currently their churches are found in forty eight countries and six continents. Followers of the Church believe that God has only a divine nature, so they therefore reject the idea of the Trinity.
Christian holidays were often near the dates of pagan ones. This is also true for Easter, Christmas and Good Friday. The feast of Sol invictus was on the 25th of December. It was a very important holiday in Ancient Rome. Because of the pagan origins of the holidays, the True Jesus Church does not celebrate Easter and Christmas. The movement has between 1.5 and 2.5 million followers.

</doc>
<doc id="13525" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13525" title="Pokémon (video game series)">
Pokémon (video game series)

Pokémon is a Japanese video game franchise created by Satoshi Tajiri for Nintendo in the 1990s. It is known as "Pocket Monsters" in Japan. It is now made up of animated television programs (anime), Japanese comic books (manga), trading cards, and toys but, most importantly, the video games. There are currently 721 monsters, with "Pokémon X and Y". Pikachu is the most well-known. When the idea was invented, there were only 150, which was upgraded to 151 (including Mew) when the Blue version in Japan was released. In the United States and Europe, the number of Pokémon was 151 from the beginning. There are now over 700 altogether.
The Pokémon games involve making decisions about what to do and when to do it. They allow the player to catch the monsters, train them to make them better and attack other monsters so that they get better abilities and possibly evolve into different Pokémon. It is also possible to trade Pokémon with a friend. The Pokémon in the battles never bleed or die; they only faint. All Pokémon love human beings, except for Shadow Pokémon - the doors to their hearts have been artificially closed. The game's slogan in the U.S. was "Gotta catch 'em all!", although now it is not used officially any more. The Japanese slogan is "Let's get Pokémon" Over one hundred million (100,000,000) of the games have been sold so far, not counting the ones released for the Nintendo 64 and the Nintendo GameCube. This makes it the second best-selling video game series of all time (after Nintendo's Mario series).
Fifteen versions of the animated television series exist, from 1998 until now on Kids WB and Cartoon Network. Additionally, sixteen full-length movies have been made since 1999.
The first games, released in 1998, were "Pokémon Red and Blue", which became big hits and are still among the best-selling video games of all time. They followed the adventures of the player, a Pokémon trainer who catches, raises, and battles with Pokémon, collects badges from the 8 Gym Leaders, explores all over Kanto (the region), and trades Pokémon with other people who have the game by using the Game Boy's Game Link Cable. Later, a sequel to "Red" and "Blue" was released: "Pokémon Yellow". In this game, the player's character design is similar to Ash Ketchum (from the anime.) Also, instead of the Pokémon given to the player at the start of "Red" and "Blue" (the player can choose Bulbasaur, Charmander, or Squirtle) in "Yellow" the only possible choice is Pikachu, which represents the Pokémon Ash started with in the anime.
When Nintendo realized how popular "Red", "Blue", and "Yellow" had become, they decided to support the production and release of more games. After "Yellow" came "Pokémon Gold and Silver", released in 2000, which had a total of 251 catchable Pokémon, as opposed to only 151 previously. A sequel to the two games was released, "Pokémon Crystal", which had several new features that were not on "Gold" and "Silver": Pokémon had animated sprites when they came into battle, there was a subplot within the games relating to the different letter shapes of the Pokémon Unown, and there was a new building called the Battle Tower, where players could battle very strong Pokémon to win items and set records. Once the player has beaten the Elite Four, they can go to Kanto, the region in "Red", "Blue", and "Yellow".
In 2003, "Pokémon Ruby and Sapphire" were released. They were the first "Pokémon" games on the Game Boy Advance, and this upset many players because they could not trade Pokémon with "Red", "Blue", "Yellow", "Gold", "Silver", or "Crystal". However, there were 135 new Pokémon, bringing the total to 386. There were many new features, like a PokéNav (a new item used for many ingame tasks), many more kinds of Poké Balls, a far bigger region (Hoenn) than in previous games (Kanto and Johto), and a Battle Tower different from the one in "Crystal". Players could also create Secret Bases, small hideouts hidden in trees and rock walls.
Later in 2004, "Pokémon Fire Red & Leaf Green" were released. They did not take place in a new region, and they did not have any new Pokémon. They were simply remakes of "Pokémon Red & Blue", adding a new "extra region" called the Sevii Islands, and a few new features. However, they made it possible for players of "Ruby" and "Sapphire" to get earlier Pokémon in their games. If a person had "Ruby", "Sapphire", "Colosseum", "FireRed", and "LeafGreen" (which many fans of the games did), they could have all 386 Pokémon, which made many players happy.
In 2005, "Pokémon Emerald" was released. It is a sequel to "Ruby" and "Sapphire". It was the first "main" "Pokémon" game since "Crystal" where Pokémon had battle animations instead of static images. There was also a new place called the Battle Frontier where players could go after they beat the Elite Four. It was similar to the Battle Tower in "Crystal", "Ruby", and "Sapphire", except it was eight different facilities, all with different rules. Players earned Battle Points which could be used to buy items for Secret Bases, items for Pokémon, and other things.
In 2007, "Pokémon Diamond and Pearl" were released. They take place in a new region called Sinnoh. They had 107 new Pokémon, which brought the total to 493. Another noticeable difference from the previous games was that "Diamond" and "Pearl" did not capitalize all the letters in names of Pokémon, people, towns, items, and other things that were important to the games. For example, Lugia would appear as "LUGIA" in previous games, but in "Diamond" and "Pearl" it would just say "Lugia." This cleared up a lot of players' confusion, because many thought that a sentence like "LUGIA is found in the WHIRL ISLANDS" looked unusual. A sequel to "Diamond" and "Pearl", "Pokémon Platinum" was released in the United States in March 2009. In May 2009 it was released in the UK.
In 2010, "Pokémon HeartGold & SoulSilver" were released. They did not take place in a new region, or have any new Pokémon. They were simply remakes of "Pokémon Gold and Silver". Like "Pokémon Yellow", the player's Pokémon can follow them. The games come with a pedometer like device, called the Poké Walker, that can let players walk with their Pokémon, and gain Watts, which can be used to fight Pokémon, or dowse for items.
Later in 2010, "Pokémon Black and White" were released. They take place in a new region called Unova. They had 156 new Pokémon, bringing the total to 649. They introduced seasons, where areas appear differently depending on the season, and some areas can only be reached during certain seasons.
In 2012, "Pokémon Black 2 & White 2" were released. They are sequels to "Pokémon Black and White". They had a number of new areas and characters, as well as characters from "Black and White".
In 2013, "Pokémon X & Y" were released. They are the first ever 3D games in the main "Pokémon" series. They take place in a new region called Kalos. There are many new features, including the Mega Evolution, where some Pokémon like Mewtwo, Blaziken, and Lucario are be able to evolve into stronger forms during a battle if they are holding a Mega Stone. There is also a new type called Fairy, which is strong against Dragon-type Pokémon.

</doc>
<doc id="13526" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13526" title="Homer Simpson">
Homer Simpson

Homer Simpson is a cartoon character in the animated television series "The Simpsons". He is voiced by Dan Castellaneta. He first appeared, along with the other members of the Simpson family on The Tracey Ullman Show in the Simpson Short "Good Night".
He is the father of Bart Simpson, Lisa Simpson, and Maggie Simpson; he is also the husband of Marge Simpson. He lives in the fictional town known as "Springfield".
Homer is clumsy, fat and very lazy. He is also an alcoholic, and is not very intelligent. He works as a Safety Inspector at the Springfield Nuclear Power Plant. Homer is one of the most popular and famous fictional characters and is thought of as one of the greatest comedic animated characters of modern times. Although Homer seems selfish, he does actually care for his family. In one episode he entered Lisa in a beauty contest so she could feel better about herself. He is often heard saying "D'oh!" which has become an often used word when things go wrong. He likes to drink beer and is often seen hanging out at Moe's Tavern with his best friends Carl Carlson, Lenny Leonard, and Barney Gumble.
Matt Groening first drew the Simpson family in the lobby of James L. Brooks' office. After he had decided not to do his "Life in Hell" cartoon series, he quickly sketched out his version of a dysfunctional family and named the characters after members of his own family, with Homer being named after his father. Homer's middle initial "J," which was discovered to stand for "Jay", was a "tribute" to Bullwinkle J. Moose from "Rocky and Bullwinkle", a show Matt Groening loved as a child. In a TV Guide poll, Homer was named as the second greatest cartoon character, behind Bugs Bunny.
A five-year study of more than 2,500 middle-aged people in France found a possible connection between weight and brain function, named as the "Homer Simpson syndrome". Results from a word memory test showed that people with a BMI of 20 (considered to be a healthy level) remembered an average of 9 out of 16 words. Meanwhile, people with a BMI of 30 (inside the obese range) remembered an average of 7 out of 16 words.

</doc>
<doc id="13527" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13527" title="Calcium">
Calcium

Calcium is a chemical element. Its symbol on the periodic table (a list of all the elements) is Ca. Its atomic number is 20. (The atomic number says where Calcium sits in the periodic table.) It has 20 protons and 20 electrons (if is an atom, see ion). The most common isotopes are Ca-40 and Ca-44. Its mass number is about 40.08.
Calcium is very important in the human body, for making bones and for other purposes. 
Calcium is a soft white-gray metal. it is a solid and is opaque. It is an alkaline earth metal. It melts at a quite high temperature for a reactive metal. It is a little harder than lead. It has two allotropes. It does not conduct electricity as well as copper, but is much lighter in weight.
It reacts with water to produce hydrogen and calcium hydroxide. It reacts with water very fast when it is powdered. When it is in a chunk, it starts reacting slowly because calcium hydroxide makes a coating that does not dissolve on the calcium. If a little acid is added to calcium hydroxide, it dissolves it, making the calcium react very fast. It burns when powdered to make a reddish flame. This makes calcium oxide. It also makes calcium nitride when heated. It can react with halogens to make calcium halides like calcium chloride with chlorine. 
Calcium forms chemical compounds in the +2 oxidation state. Calcium compounds are colorless. Most calcium compounds are not toxic. They are needed in the human body, actually. They are unreactive as far as calcium ions go. Calcium oxide was used to make limelights, which have a flame heating calcium oxide and makes it glow very bright.
Calcium is not found as a metal in the ground; it is too reactive. Calcium carbonate, also known as calcite, is the most common calcium mineral.
It is important to know how cells work. Many cells have "calcium channels" on their surface. These are openings where calcium ions can enter the cell. The cell is told to act and it opens the channels. Once in the cell calcium ions activates many proteins to do specific things. For example, when it goes into muscle cells, it makes them "contract" (shorten so the muscle pulls.) When it goes into nerve cells, it triggers electrical impulses that send a messages. When it goes into white blood cells it makes them fight germs.
Calcium ions are important to cells, but too many calcium ions can be bad. If a cell gets more calcium ion than it needs it can die. This is why the amount of calcium ion in cells is highly regulated. Conversely, not enough calcium ion is bad. Cells must have the right amount to function properly.
Sometimes cells are unhealthy and need to die in for the body to replace them with new, healthy cells. This keeps the whole organism healthy. Cells know when they should die and can trigger reactions to end their life cycles in many ways. When this happens it is called apoptosis, also known as a 'programmed cell death' ("planned" cell death.) One way cells accomplish "apoptosis" by taking in toxic levels of calcium ions.
Calcium is very important for the human body.
Bones contain most of the calcium ion in the human body. If we need more calcium for our blood, muscles, or other tissue, it comes from the bones. If we have extra calcium it goes into bones.
Calcium as an element is not found in the human body, just calcium ions in the form of chemical compounds.
Organisms need to keep calcium ion levels very well controlled. High calcium levels are bad, and low calcium levels are bad.
The body controls this by changing
The control of calcium in the body is called "calcium metabolism". Too little calcium can cause osteoporosis.
The body controls calcium levels with many hormones. Calcitonin, Parathyroid hormone (acronym PTH), and Vitamin D are the most important hormones in "calcium metabolism". (Vitamin D works as a hormone but it is called a vitamin.)
Calcium metal is made by electrolysis of melted calcium chloride. It has to be very hot to melt it. The calcium metal is liquid.
Calcium is used in the reduction of other metals. It can also be used to make alloys with other metals. 
Calcium compounds are also important in chemistry. It is important for making things. It is a part of cement which is needed to make concrete (a hard substance that many buildings are made from.)
Calcium is part of calcium oxide. Calcium oxide is used to make paper, pottery, food, and to purify water (make it good to drink.) Calcium carbonate is used as a calcium supplement. Calcium permanganate can be used as a rocket propellant.
Calcium is toxic as an element. It reacts with water and makes a strong base, calcium hydroxide. Calcium compounds are not toxic unless the anion is toxic. Calcium permanganate is only toxic because of the permanganate, not the calcium. Like other alkaline earth metals calcium burns easily and brightly.

</doc>
<doc id="13528" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13528" title="A Series of Unfortunate Events">
A Series of Unfortunate Events

A Series of Unfortunate Events is a series of 13 books written for children by Lemony Snicket. They tell the story of three unlucky orphans (Violet Baudelaire, Klaus Baudelaire, and Sunny Baudelaire) and their lives after the death of their parents. The main villain of the books is Count Olaf who wants to steal Baudelaires' inheritance (the money their parents left behind). Count Olaf uses many disguises to get their fortune.
In 2004, there was a movie version from Paramount Pictures and Nickelodeon movies, starring Jim Carrey as Count Olaf.
In 2012, a new series from Lemony Snicket named All the Wrong Questions was written. The series tells the story of Lemony Snicket, a member of a group named V.F.D which is an important part of the series, when he was a child.

</doc>
<doc id="13529" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13529" title="Membrane">
Membrane

A membrane is a thin soft layer of material. A membrane separates two things.
In biology a membrane can mean two things: a tissue membrane or the membranes of a cell. The membranes of cells are very small. Tissue membranes are bigger.
A membrane can mean a thin layer of cells or tissue. This layer covers the body or an organ, or separates, or lines a body cavity. An example is the mucous membrane that is the "skin" that lines the inside of your nose and mouth. An epithelial membrane has two parts, one part is epithelial tissue and the other is connective tissue.
There are many different types of membranes in a cell. The cell membrane, also called the plasma membrane, covers one cell. Membranes also divide the cell into different spaces called organelles. Organelles are special areas of the cell that do different work. For example, the nucleus holds the DNA in a cell. The mitochondria make energy for the cell.
Membranes in cells are made of lipids (fats) and protein. The lipids keep the inside of the cell or the organelle separate from the outside. The proteins do many things. Plasma membranes give the cell messages from outside. They let some things (like glucose, calcium, and potassium) go into and out of the cell.

</doc>
<doc id="13531" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13531" title="Voltaire">
Voltaire

François-Marie Arouet (also known as Voltaire) was a French philosopher. He was born in 1694 and grew up in Poitou. He died in Paris in 1778.
Voltaire did not like France at the time because he thought that it was old fashioned. He also did not like the Church and thought that people should be allowed to believe what they want. However he did not like democracy either and thought that a country needed to be led by a wise and strong king. Voltaire had to live in exile in England for three years from 1726 to 1729 where these ideas were more common. He liked the philosophy of John Locke.
Voltaire was also a writer. He wrote many books, poems and plays, some of which are still liked today. A lot of his work was against France and the Church. This meant that he was unpopular at first but became more popular towards the time of the French Revolution. When he died, aged 83, Voltaire was a hero of French people. He also studied science and wrote a lot about people and places he knew.
Voltaire believed in God but did not believe in a god personally involved in people's lives, like the Christian god. This is called Deism. When he died in Paris, Voltaire was not allowed to be buried in a church because he did not believe in the Christian god.

</doc>
<doc id="13536" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13536" title="Missouri">
Missouri

Missouri is one of the 50 states in the United States. Its capital is Jefferson City. Its largest cities are Kansas City and Saint Louis. Some other cities are Columbia (which is where the University of Missouri is), and Springfield.
Missouri officially became a state on August 10, 1821.
Missouri's edges touch a total of eight states. It is touched on the north by Iowa; on the east, across the Mississippi River, by Illinois, Kentucky, and Tennessee; on the south by Arkansas; and on the west by Oklahoma, Kansas, and Nebraska (Kansas and Nebraska are across the Missouri River).

</doc>
<doc id="13538" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13538" title="South Dakota">
South Dakota

South Dakota is a state in the United States. South Dakota became a state on November 2, 1889. Its capital is Pierre and largest city is Sioux Falls. Other important cities are Rapid City and Aberdeen. Famous attractions include Mount Rushmore, the Black Hills, and the Wall Drug Store. The Corn Palace is also famous, and it is in Mitchell.
South Dakota is bordered to the north by North Dakota, to the south by Nebraska, to the east by Iowa and Minnesota, and to the west by Wyoming and Montana.

</doc>
<doc id="13539" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13539" title="Wimbledon, London">
Wimbledon, London

Wimbledon is a suburb in the London Borough of Merton, in the south west of London, England. The Wimbledon Championships, a tennis competition, is held there every summer. Also in Wimbledon are New Wimbledon Theatre, and Wimbledon Common, one of the largest areas of common land in London. Wimbledon F.C., a famous football club, started in Wimbledon, then moved to Milton Keynes and changed their name to Milton Keynes Dons F.C. however after this move AFC Wimbledon was created and now plays at Kings medow in Kingston. People live in two different areas. The High Street area is called the "village", and the area near the railway station is called the "town". The High Street area is part of the original Middle Ages village, and the "town" area is modern - houses were first built there in 1838.
People are known to have lived in Wimbledon since the Iron Age when the hill fort on Wimbledon Common was built. At the time the Domesday Book was written (about 1087), Wimbledon belonged to the lord of the manor of Mortlake. The ownership of the manor of Wimbledon changed between various rich families many times during its history, and the area also attracted other wealthy families who built large houses such as Eagle House, Wimbledon House and Warren House. The people in the village were either poor people who worked on the land or they were rich and important people. The rich and poor people lived together happily. In the 18th century the Dog and Fox public house became a stop on the stagecoach run from London to Portsmouth, then in 1838 the London and South Western Railway (L&SWR) opened a station to the south east of the village at the bottom of Wimbledon hill. After the station was built, new houses were built near to it, and many people began living near the station. In the second half of the 19th century the amount of people living in Wimbledon grew quickly. At the start of the 19th century there were about 1,000 people living in Wimbledon; then in 1911 there were about 55,000 people. During this time large numbers of villas and terraced houses were built out along the roads from the centre towards neighbouring Putney, Merton Park and Raynes Park.
Wimbledon lies in the south west area of London, south of Wandsworth, and east of Kingston upon Thames on the outskirts of Greater London. It is south-west of the centre of London at Charing Cross. It is considered an rich suburb with a mix of grand Victorian houses, modern housing and low rise apartments. The residential area is split into two sections known as the village and the town, with the village around the High Street being part of the original medieval village, and now a prime residential area of London commanding high prices, and the "town" being part of the modern development since the building of the railway station in 1838.
The area is identified in the London Plan as one of 35 major centres in Greater London.
The population consists around 57,000 adults, the majority in the ABC1 social group. The population grew from around 1,000 at the start of the 19th century to around 55,000 in 1911, a figure which has remained reasonably stable since.
Originally Wimbledon had its own borough of Wimbledon and was within the county of Surrey; it was absorbed into the London Borough of Merton as part of the creation of Greater London in 1965. It is in the Parliamentary constituency of Wimbledon, and since 2005 it has been represented by Conservative MP Stephen Hammond.
Wimbledon Football Club was began in Wimbledon in 1889. In 2002 it moved to Milton Keynes and it 2004 it changed its name to Milton Keynes Dons F.C. Many football fans in Wimbledon did not agree with the move. They decided to start a new club there, which is called AFC Wimbledon.
The club played in the English Football League and won the FA Cup in 1988. It was a professional football club, which means that the players get paid to play.

</doc>
<doc id="13540" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13540" title="Mersey Beat">
Mersey Beat

The Mersey Beat or Mersey Sound or Liverpool Sound is the name for a type of music that came out in the city of Liverpool, England in the early 1960s. 
Maybe the first group to be thought of as a part of genre were Kingsize Taylor and the Dominoes. The most famous group of this genre were The Beatles. Other important groups include Gerry and the Pacemakers, The Searchers and the female singer Cilla Black. 

</doc>
<doc id="13541" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13541" title="1078">
1078


</doc>
<doc id="13584" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13584" title="1766">
1766


</doc>
<doc id="13585" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13585" title="The Adventures of Pete and Pete">
The Adventures of Pete and Pete

The Adventures of Pete and Pete was an American television show on the Nickelodeon network in the early 1990s. It was about two brothers with the same first name who grow up together.

</doc>
<doc id="13586" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13586" title="427 BC">
427 BC

Year 427 BC was a year of the pre-Julian Roman calendar. 

</doc>
<doc id="13587" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13587" title="Motorcycle">
Motorcycle

A motorcycle (or motorbike) is a vehicle used to transport people from one place to another. It does not have 4 wheels like a car. It has 2 wheels like a bicycle. But it has a motor like a car. A motorcycle is normally driven by one person. A passenger can also ride on the back of the motorcycle. Some motorcycles have a sidecar that can carry another passenger.
In 1901, the first successful motorcycle was made by "Indian" motorcycles in Springfield, Massachusetts. Since then, many other companies have made them. Major manufacturers include Honda, Suzuki, Yamaha. A well known American manufacturer of motorcycles is Harley-Davidson.
Since motorcycles can be lighter than cars, they can accelerate more quickly. But it also makes them not as safe as cars, because they do not have a protecting chassis around them like cars. Very often motorcycle riders are injured heavily in accidents. A motorcycle rider can wear a helmet and clothing that has armor. This special clothing may reduce the rider's injuries in an accident. Motorcycles also do not protect riders against wind and rain. That makes it difficult to drive in winter or during bad weather.
In poor countries, motorcycles are used by many as a cheap method of transportation. Many people who do not have the money to buy a car can afford a small motorcycle. In rich countries, large powerful motorcycles are used more as a hobby or sport. 
On-road bikes (ones that are allowed on public roads) require the rider to have a special type of driver's license to be ridden legally. Off-road bikes are not allowed to be driven on public roads.
Speed and stunts are the main goals for off-road bike sports. Many on-road bikes are much faster than off-road bikes and can be used in sports such as motorbike racing.
Motocross is a form of motorcycle racing. It is on an off-road circuit. The sport came from motorcycle trials competitions held in the United Kingdom.

</doc>
<doc id="13588" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13588" title="1585">
1585


</doc>
<doc id="13589" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13589" title="Guinea pig">
Guinea pig

Guinea pigs are "Cavia porcellus", a kind of rodent. They are not pigs and are not from Guinea. They are domesticated animals which originated in the Andes. 
Studies on biochemistry and hybridization suggest they are descendants of a closely related species of cavy. They do not occur naturally in the wild.
In many parts of the world, people keep them as pets. In Peru, Bolivia, and several other countries, they are raised for food. The first people who domesticated the animals, did it for food. Besides being a pet and a source of food, in some places people think guinea pigs keep bad spirits away. In Quechua, the language of some the native tribes of Peru, they are called "". The Spanish-speaking people of the region call them "cuy" (plural: "cuyes").
This perception of pigginess occurred in many languages other than English; the German word for them is "Meerschweinchen", literally "little sea pigs" (sailing ships stopping to reprovision in the New World would pick up stores of guinea pigs, which provided an easily transportable source of fresh meat), the Russian and Polish word for them is similar, "morskaya svinka" (Морская свинка) and "świnka morska" respectively, meaning also "little sea pig" (it comes from archaic use of the word to mean "overseas"). However, this perception of pigginess is not universal to all languages or cultures. For example, the common Spanish term is 'conejillo de Indias' (Indian bunny rabbit).
Guinea pigs need large open air cages in which to romp and frolic. They should have a diet of 1/8 cup of high quality grass-based guinea-pig pellets daily, as per manufacturer’s instructions. They should also have unlimited grass hay, and at least one cup of a variety of veggies. Guinea pigs like to be held in hand.
Guinea pigs should be kept in cages larger than 7.5 square feet or 10.5 square feet for 2 pigs. They should always have a friend as guinea pigs are social animals.
Breeding guinea pigs are not recommended as the rate of pregnancy complications is high.
For their diet guinea pigs generally prefer fresh fruits and vegetables.
Guinea pig is also slang for a person who is the first to try something. It can also mean the subject of an experiment. This is because guinea pigs are used by scientists to do biology experiments.

</doc>
<doc id="13592" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13592" title="1531">
1531


</doc>
<doc id="13593" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13593" title="Philip Glass">
Philip Glass

Philip Morris Glass (born January 31, 1937) is an American composer of modern music. He is one of the most influential music makers of the late 20th century. 
Glass has created operas, music for quartets, dance, and much more. He is known for writing minimalist music.
Glass has described himself instead as a composer of "music with repetitive structures". Though his early music shares much with what is called "minimalist", he has since evolved stylistically.

</doc>
<doc id="13635" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13635" title="Audioslave">
Audioslave

Audioslave is an American rock band. The band is made up of Chris Cornell (vocals), who was with Soundgarden until 1997, and Tom Morello (guitar), Tim Commerford (electric bass) and Brad Wilk (drums), who were with Rage Against The Machine until 2000.
Their first album "Audioslave" was released in 2002 and the next one, named "Out of Exile", followed in 2005. On May 6, 2005 Audioslave became the first American rock group to play in Cuba. Because of American laws against trade with Cuba, this concert had to be allowed by US authorities.

</doc>
<doc id="13637" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13637" title="Environment">
Environment

Environment is living things and what is around them.It can be living or non-living things. It includes physical, chemical and other natural forces. Living things do not simply exist in their environment. They constantly interact with it. Organisms change in response to conditions in their environment. In the environment there are interactions between plants, animals, soil, water, temperature, light, and other living and non-living things.
The word 'environment' is used to talk about many things. People in different fields of knowledge (like history, geography or biology) use the word differently. An electromagnetic environment is the radio waves and other radiation and magnetic fields. The galactic environment refers to conditions between the stars.
In psychology and medicine a person's environment is the people, physical things, places, and events that the person lives with. The environment affects the growth and development of the person. It affects the person's behavior. It affects the person's body, mind and heart.
Discussions on nature versus nurture are sometimes framed as heredity vs environment.
In biology and ecology, the environment is all of the natural materials and living things, including sunlight. This is also called the natural environment. Some people call themselves environmentalists. They think we must protect the environment, to keep it safe.  Things in the natural environment that we value are called natural resources. For example; fish, sunlight, and forests. These are renewable resources because they come back naturally when we use them. Non-renewable resources are important things in the environment that are limited  for example, ores and fossil fuels. Some things in the natural environment can kill people, such as lightning.
Environment is the events and culture that a person lived in. A person's beliefs and actions are dependent on his environment. For example, Thomas Jefferson and Julius Caesar owned slaves. Modern people mostly think it's wrong to own slaves. But in Jefferson's and Caesar's "environments" slavery was normal. So, their actions did not look as wrong in their societies.

</doc>
<doc id="13638" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13638" title="Tooth">
Tooth

A tooth is one of the hard, white things in your mouth. Teeth (plural) are used to help the mastication process by chewing food. "Chew" means to break up and crush food so it can be swallowed (pushed down into your stomach). 
Most vertebrates and many other animals have teeth. Different animals have different kinds because they eat different foods. Some animals use teeth as a weapon. Human adults usually have 32 teeth. Human children usually have 20 teeth.
Some human babies are born with teeth. Natal teeth are teeth that are present at birth. These are different from Neonatal teeth which are teeth that emerge during the first month of life. Natal teeth are not common. They occur in about 1 out of every 2–3 thousand births. They are usually found on the lower gum. Natal teeth are usually not well attached and may easily wobble.
Deciduous teeth or milk teeth or temporary teeth are the first set of teeth for most mammals. Humans have 20 of them. The first teeth (called "primary teeth") start to "erupt" (come through the skin of the jaw) when a baby is about 6 months old. When these teeth erupt it can hurt. Babies chew on things to make the pain better. This is called "teething" (verb: "to teethe"). Most children have all 20 teeth by two or three years of age. 
At age 6–7 the permanent teeth start to erupt. By the age of 11–12 most children have 28 adult teeth. The last four teeth, called 'wisdom teeth' or third molars come in by age 17–21 in most people. Some people never grow wisdom teeth. Or they may have only two instead of four.
The outside white part of teeth is called the "enamel". The enamel is made of calcium phosphate and is very hard. Under the enamel is the dentine. The dentine is softer than the hard enamel. So it is hurt more by tooth decay (cavities.) Under the dentine is the "pulp" which has the nerves and blood vessels that go to the tooth. This is the part that causes the pain of a toothache. "Cementum" is outside the dentine where there is no enamel. Cementum holds the tooth to the bone of the jaw.
If they are protected and kept clean, teeth should stay for a person's whole life. Many people lose their teeth early because they do not do the right things to keep teeth healthy. 
Some things people can do to keep teeth healthy:
Plaque is the soft white substance that forms on teeth when they are not cleaned. It has bacteria in it that hurt enamel. If plaque is not cleaned off, after 2 days it can become tartar. Tartar is a hard substance that forms on teeth (mostly near the gums). Tartar makes gums unhealthy and makes more bacteria grow on the teeth.
Plaque is cleaned off with a toothbrush. If tartar forms on teeth, a dentist must clean it off. 
The bacteria that are on teeth eat into the enamel. Cleaning teeth, flossing teeth, eating good foods, and having a dentist take off plaque make less bacteria on teeth. If there is too much bacteria, they eat enamel faster than teeth make enamel. This makes holes in enamel called cavities. When a person gets cavities, he has the disease dental caries. Making cavities in enamel happens slowly. But once cavities go through enamel, the soft dentin is hurt much faster. If the cavity is not fixed by a dentist, it can go into the root. This permanently hurts the tooth. Once this happens the tooth must be taken out or the dentist must do a root canal (a surgery to replace the root with a chemical substance to keep the tooth in place, at times dangerous.) If the tooth is not fixed with a root canal or is not taken out, a tooth infection can happen. This infection can spread onto the face. It can even kill the person if not helped by a dentist or doctor. 

</doc>
<doc id="13646" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13646" title="Petula Clark">
Petula Clark

Petula Clark, CBE (born 15 November 1932) is a British singer, actress and composer. She was born in Epsom, Surrey. She began her career as a child and was popular in Britain during World War II. In the 1950s, she became a successful pop singer, first in the UK, then in continental Europe, and finally in the United States in the mid-1960s. Her most famous song is "Downtown," which was recorded in four languages and sold nearly five million copies worldwide. Her films include "The Card" (1952), "The Runaway Bus" (1956), "Finian's Rainbow" (1968), and "Goodbye, Mr. Chips". She continues to record and perform in concert.

</doc>
<doc id="13647" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13647" title="Tom Jones (singer)">
Tom Jones (singer)

Sir Thomas John Woodward, OBE (born 7 June 1940), known by his stage name Tom Jones, is a Welsh singer. He has won Grammy Awards. Jones is particularly noted for his powerful voice. He released his first album "Along Came Jones" in 1965. He has released thirty-nine studio albums since then. He released his most recent album "Spirit in the Room" in 2012.
He was born at 57, Kingsland Terrace, Treforest, Pontypridd, South Wales. 
Jones was married to Linda from 1957 until she died of cancer in 2016. He has a son (born 1957) by Linda. He has a son (born 1988) by another woman.
<br>

</doc>
<doc id="13648" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13648" title="Slade">
Slade

Slade is a English Hard rock /Glam rock band. The band started in 1966 and were popular in the 1970s and 1980s. The band released fifteen studio albums and four live albums. With worldwide success, particularly in the UK and Europe, the band scored six number one singles on the UK chart, and a total of 24 top forty singles in the country. The original line-up split in 1992 which led guitarist Dave Hill and drummer Don Powell to form Slade II, with new members. The new line-up continues to tour today.
In 1975, the band made a film titled "Slade in Flame".

</doc>
<doc id="13649" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13649" title="1776">
1776


</doc>
<doc id="13650" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13650" title="Deep Purple">
Deep Purple

Deep Purple are a rock band started in Hertford, England, in 1968. Their best known song is ""Smoke on the Water"" from the album "Machine Head". Their album ""Deep Purple in Rock"" was a great hit and was rated #1 in Germany.
In 1967, a drummer called Chris Curtis was putting a new band together, where members would only be part of it when it suited them (or would "get on and off"). Because of this format, the band was called Roundabout. The first musicians to be hired were guitar player Ritchie Blackmore and keyboard player Jon Lord. Curtis behaved in a disorderly way, and so was fired from his own project. Blackmore and Lord wanted to continue, and so finished putting the band together themselves, with singer Rod Evans, bass player Nick Simper, and drummer Ian Paice. They renamed the band "Deep Purple" after a song Blackmore's mother liked, disliking the name "Roundabout".
This band lineup, known as "Mark I", released three albums, called "Shades of Deep Purple" (1968), "The Book of Taliesyn" (1968) and a self titled (1969). They released a fairy popular single called "Hush", thought to be radio friendly in America, but, apart from that, did not have any success. Eventually, Blackmore and Lord decided to change the style of music the band would play from soft progressive rock to hard rock. While Ian Paice agreed to the change, they decided Evans and Simper would not fit this new style, and were let go from the band.
The band found a new singer called Ian Gillan and a new bass player called Roger Glover, forming Mark II. Jon Lord used to play in orchestras, and at this time, wanted to go back to them and base the Deep Purple sound around that. Whilst the band did perform as an orchestra (with new singer Ian Gillan writing lyrics) gaining the band some publicity, Gillan and Blackmore were not happy about the band being associated with orchestras, and were firm about Deep Purple being a hard rock band, though Jon Lord would write another orchestral piece for the band.
The band eventually got back to their plans of playing hard rock, and released "Deep Purple in Rock" in 1970, which became a big success. The famous album cover shows the band members' faces engraved into Mount Rushmore. The album itself had popular songs such as "Speed King" "Child in Time" and "Bloodsucker" (which was later re-recorded by the band in 1998). Critics and fans were pleased with new singer Ian Gillan's high pitched singing and screaming, and the album has since been considered a classic of the time, along with Black Sabbath's "Paranoid" and Led Zeppelin's "Led Zeppelin II".
The band followed "In Rock" up with "Fireball" in 1971, which did show hints of creative progressive rock but was still as heavy as the last album. Just weeks later, the band started working on the next album, which would become "Machine Head". An incident at a Frank Zappa & the Mothers of Invention concert would inspire the band to write their most popular song, "Smoke on the Water" which ended up on the album. "Machine Head", released in 1972, was another success and featured several other popular songs like "Highway Star" and "Space Truckin'". 
Mark II's last album was "Who Do We Think We Are" in 1973, and it featured another hit song for the band, "Woman from Tokyo". Ian Gillan left the band that year as he did not like the band's touring and recording schedule, because at the time he wanted a break. He was also arguing with Ritchie Blackmore. Roger Glover left shortly after, also because of arguing with Blackmore.
David Coverdale and Glenn Hughes were hired to replace Ian Gillan and Roger Glover. Glenn Hughes also had singing talent so it was decided he would act as lead singer on some of the band's songs too. In fact, since Hughes was hired first, the band considered performing as a 4-piece from then on, with Hughes singing full time as well as playing bass. 
Mark III's first album, "Burn", released in 1974, was successful and seemed to point a positive picture for the band's future without Gillan or Glover. The singing harmonies from Coverdale and Hughes had something of a blues and funk style to them. These styles were explored more on the band's next album, "Stormbringer", released later the same year. Ritchie Blackmore left after he became more unhappy with this style of music, feeling it was just "shoeshine music". 
Although many fans were wondering if Deep Purple could carry on without Blackmore, who had been their highly regarded guitar player from their formation up until this point, they chose to continue, and hired American guitar player Tommy Bolin (forming mark IV). The next album, "Come Taste The Band", showed Bolin bringing a further funk influence into the band's music, having a more creative output than Blackmore did when he left the band.
Ian Paice and Jon Lord, the last remaining founding members, agreed to end Deep Purple in 1976 after touring was over, but did not inform any other members. Shortly after, Coverdale informed them he was leaving the band, and only then did Jon Lord tell him: "David, there's no band to leave!" Glenn Hughes and Tommy Bolin were excited about the next Deep Purple album before they too were told that Paice and Lord had ended the band.
David Coverdale started a band of his own called Whitesnake, and Ian Paice and Jon Lord were members for a period of time. Ian Gillan had been performing in a solo band since he left in 1973. Ritchie Blackmore had started a band called Rainbow after leaving in 1975, releasing some successful albums with Ronnie James Dio as lead singer, who would carry on his fame in Black Sabbath and Dio (his own solo band). However, Tommy Bolin would only release one more solo album before he died in 1976, due to drug use.
Rod Evans put together a band and tried to perform as "Deep Purple", advertising it as a reunion although he was the only member who had ever been part of the band during its initial time together. Legal action was taken against him by the real representatives of Deep Purple, who sued him for using the band name without permission.
A real Deep Purple reunion happened in 1984 when the Mark II lineup got back together, and released the album "Perfect Strangers" that same year. It sold very well and was well received from fans who were excited about the return of the band's iconic lineup. The songs "Knockin' At Your Back Door" and "Perfect Strangers" were popular. The band also enjoyed success on tour.
"The House of Blue Light" was the next album to come from the band, in 1987. Some fans noticed that the band sounded more "modern" on this album than before, which led to mixed opinions. A new version of the band's 1968 minor hit "Hush" was re-recorded in 1988 by the Mark II lineup to mark the 20th anniversary of Deep Purple. However, Ian and Ritchie started arguing again over the future of the band, and their differences had torn their working relationship too far apart, meaning Gillan was fired in 1989. Blackmore seemed to want to make the band sound more commercial (something he had tried to do with his band Rainbow back in the early 1980s). He hired Joe Lynn Turner (also a former Rainbow singer) to replace Gillan, and the Mark V band released "Slaves and Masters" in 1990. 
However, the band's popularity was declining, and Turner was forced out in 1992 by the record company, who wanted the iconic lineup with Gillan back for the band's 25th anniversary. And so, the Mark II lineup released one more album together in 1993 called "The Battle Rages On...". However, during the tour, audience attendances were getting lower, and problems between band members arose, with Ritchie Blackmore walking out on the band for good. Joe Satriani filled in for the rest of the tour, but did not become a full time member afterwards, due to his label commitments. The band decided to hire American Steve Morse in 1994.
With Steve Morse in the band, Deep Purple enjoyed renewed success on tour. Ian Gillan was especially pleased that Ritchie Blackmore was no longer in the band, as he felt his departure saved them from a breakup. Since 1994, Deep Purple have enjoyed more success touring than with their studio albums, although their material written with Morse has received good reviews, with fans and critics feeling the band has more creativity again. Mark VII released two albums, "Purpendicular" (1996) and "Abandon" (1998), before Jon Lord retired in 2002, feeling the need to step down from the band's hard touring schedule. He was replaced by Don Airey.
Over the next few years, Deep Purple released two more albums, "Bananas" (2003) and "Rapture of the Deep" (2005). Their next tour, the "Rapture of the Deep tour" started in 2006, and finished in 2011, making it their longest tour to date. In 2012, Jon Lord died after battling cancer at the age of 71. The band continue to record as well as tour, and released their nineteenth and latest album, "Now What?!", in 2013.
Ian Paice is the only member to be in all of the band's lineups.
Mark I (1) (1968 - 1969):
The first complete lineup of the band. They released a single that was fairly successful in America called "Hush". Rod Evans and Nick Simper were fired as the other members wanted to play heavier rock music and did not think they would play this style of music well.
Mark II (2) (1969 - 1973, 1984 - 1989, 1992 - 1993):
This is the band's most famous lineup, releasing albums such as "Deep Purple in Rock" and songs such as "Smoke on the Water". In 1973, Ian Gillan left the band as he did not like the band's touring and recording schedule, because at the time he wanted a break. He was also arguing with Ritchie Blackmore. Roger Glover left shortly after, also because of arguing with Blackmore.
In 1984, this lineup of the band got back together. However, Ian and Ritchie started arguing again over the future of the band, meaning Gillan was fired in 1989. He rejoined in 1992, bringing this band lineup together for the third time, although Blackmore left a year later, this time, for good.
Mark III (3) (1973 - 1975): 
David Coverdale and Glenn Hughes were hired to replace Ian Gillan and Roger Glover. Glenn Hughes also had singing talent so it was decided he would act as lead singer on some of the band's songs too. Ritchie Blackmore left after he became more unhappy with the style of music of the band, which was more funk rock at this time.
Mark IV (4) (1975 - 1976):
After making the hard decision to carry the band on without Blackmore, the band hired American guitar player Tommy Bolin and carried on the funk-rock music style Blackmore was unhappy about.
Mark V (5) (1989 - 1992)
Ritchie Blackmore had before played with Joe Lynn Turner in Blackmore's solo band called Rainbow, and suggested he join the band to replace Ian Gillan, who was brought back 3 years later because of record label pressures, as the band's 25th anniversary was coming up and they wanted the iconic Mark II lineup together again.
Mark VI (6) (1993 - 1994):
The band still needed to play concerts after Ritchie Blackmore, so they hired American guitar player Joe Satriani, although he did not stay with the band after the tour.
Mark VII (7) (1994 - 2002):
Joe Satriani turned down the chance to be a member of Deep Purple, so the band found another American guitar player called Steve Morse. In 2002, Jon Lord retired from the band after 26 years with them (not counting the 8 years the band was split up) leaving Ian Paice as the only founding member left. He was replaced with Don Airey.
Mark VIII (8) (2002 - present)
This has remained the lineup since Jon Lord's departure from Deep Purple and the hiring of Don Airey to replace him.

</doc>
<doc id="13670" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13670" title="Yogurt">
Yogurt

Yogurt, or yoghurt is a milk product made by bacterial fermentation of milk. The lactose in the milk becomes lactic acid when it is fermented. Lactic acid acts on the protein in the milk to make yoghurt thick and sour. The milk is heated to about 80 °C to kill any bacteria present, and to change the milk proteins so that they set together instead of becoming curd. After it is cooled to about 45 °C, the bacteria culture is added, and the milk is kept at that temperature for 4 to 7 hours to ferment. Soy yoghurt is made from soy milk.
Yogurt is one of the oldest produced foods in human history. No one knows for sure how long yogurt has been around. Today, it is eaten all over the world. It is rich in protein, calcium, riboflavin, vitamin B and vitamin B.
In English, the word can be spelled either 'yogurt' or 'yoghurt'. It can be spoken with either a short or a long 'o'.
The earliest yogurts were probably made by wild bacteria (yeast infections) and happened by chance.
The oldest writings mentioning yogurt were by Pliny the Elder, who said that some people knew how to thicken the milk into something which was sour but tasty. 
Stamen Grigorov (1878–1945), a Bulgarian student of medicine in Geneva, first examined the bacteria in Bulgarian yogurt. In 1905 he said that it contained a round and a rod-like lactic acid-producing bacteria. In 1907 the rod-like bacteria was called "Lactobacillus bulgaricus" (now "Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp. bulgaricus"). The Russian Nobel laureate biologist Ilya Ilyich Mechnikov, from the Institut Pasteur in Paris, was influenced by Grigorov's work and made a hypothesis that eating yoghurt regularly was the reason why Bulgarian peasants lived for so long. Mechnikov believed that "Lactobacillus" was needed for good health, and worked to make yoghurt popular through Europe.
Yoghurt has a lot of protein, calcium, riboflavin, vitamin B6 and vitamin B12 in it. It is healthier than milk is. Many people who are lactose-intolerant can enjoy yoghurt, because much of the lactose in the milk has become lactic acid.
Yoghurt also has medical uses. and in preventing antibiotic-associated diarrhea.

</doc>
<doc id="13678" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13678" title="Marlon Brando">
Marlon Brando

Marlon Brando (April 3, 1924 – July 1, 2004) was an American actor and movie director. He is best known for his roles in the movies "A Streetcar Named Desire" (1951), "The Wild One" (1953), "On the Waterfront" (1954), "The Godfather" (1972), "Superman" (1978), "Apocalypse Now" (1979), and "The Island of Dr. Moreau" (1996). Brando died of pulmonary fibrosis in Los Angeles, California.

</doc>
<doc id="13700" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13700" title="Galician language">
Galician language

Galician (Galician: ) is a language that is spoken in Galicia, just north of Portugal. It is very similar to Portuguese. Some even say it is the same language but with a different accent. Galician is very close to Leonese language.
Galician is a Romance language that started on the west part of the Roman Empire called Gallaecia. Today, this same place is the north of Portugal and Galicia itself.
Galician took words from many languages, like Latin, Germanic, Spanish, and Celtic.
The Galician of today comes from the Galician-Portuguese language spoken during the Middle Ages.
Today, Galician is spoken only in Galicia and by some people in North America, South America and Western Europe. In Jalisco, Mexico used to be Nueva Galicia and still carrying Galician accent and words in Jalisco.
Some people say Galician and Portuguese are the same language, because there are not a lot differences between them, but they are officially two separate languages.
People that speak Portuguese and people who speak Galician can understand each other very well.

</doc>
<doc id="13702" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13702" title="Ibn Khaldun">
Ibn Khaldun

Abdul Rahman Ibn Khaldun was an influential North African Muslim thinker of the 14th century. Born in Tunis in 1332, Khaldun served the government of the day in many ways. He lived in Marrakesh in Morocco for a time. Then he moved to Cairo and died there as a judge in 1406.
Two of the books Khaldun wrote are Muqaddimah (Proglemena) and Autobiography.
Khaldun is the founder of sociology. Ibn Khaldun was one of the greatest writers of Islam in the Middle Ages.
Ibn Khaldun is the most important figure in the field of History and Sociology in Muslim History. He is one of those shining stars that contributed so richly to the understanding of Civilization. In order for one to understand and appreciate his work, one must understand his life. He lived a life in search of stability and influence. He came from a family of scholars and politicians and he intended to live up to both expectations. He would succeed in the field of Scholarship much more so than in any other field.

</doc>
<doc id="13703" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13703" title="Swabian Alb">
Swabian Alb

The Swabian Alb (German: "Schwäbische Alb") is a plateau in Baden-Württemberg, Germany. The Swabian Alb is situated between the Black Forest (West), Stuttgart (North), Bavaria (East) and Lake Constance (South). A lot of fossils are found here. The highest mountain is the Lemberg (1015 m).

</doc>
<doc id="13704" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13704" title="Nerve">
Nerve

A nerve is a group of special nerve cells grouped together in parallel. Another word for nerve cell is neuron. The special neurons grouped together in nerves take information (messages) to and from the human body to the central nervous system. The central nervous system (acronym) CNS is the brain and spinal cord. The spinal cord is the big cord that goes from the brain into the back. It carries all the information that goes from the brain to the nerves in the body.
All the nerves in the body make the peripheral nervous system (acronym PNS). The brain and spinal cord are the CNS. All the nerves that come from the spinal cord are the PNS. Together the CNS and PNS are the nervous system.
Nervous system contains neurons and cells called glia. Glia cells keep the neurons safe and healthy. Neurons take messages to and from the CNS to the rest. The dendrite and axon are fibers that go out from the cell body. Axons take information "away from" the cell body. Dendrites take information to the cell body.
"Afferent" nerves take messages to the CNS (brain) from the body. They take messages about sensation from the skin. They take messages about the position of the body from the muscles. They take messages about the function of organs like the heart and stomach.
"Efferent" nerves take messages from the CNS to the body. They take messages that tell muscles to move. They take messages to glands. They tell glands like "sweat glands" to make sweat (the water that comes out of your skin when you are hot.)
There are many diseases of nerves. A disease of nerves is also called a "neuropathy".

</doc>
<doc id="13707" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13707" title="Vaccine">
Vaccine

A vaccine gives immunity to an infectious disease caused by a particular bacterium or virus. This means the vaccine makes a person less likely to get that disease. For example, the flu vaccine makes it less likely that a person will get the flu.
Vaccines are usually made from something that is alive, or was alive.
The word "vaccine" comes from the Latin words "vaccīn-us" (from the word "vacca", meaning "cow"). In 1796, Edward Jenner used cows infected with cowpox ("variolae vaccinae") to protect people against smallpox. The use of vaccines is called vaccination.
Edward Jenner created the first vaccine in the 1770s. At this time, smallpox was a deadly disease. Jenner noticed that people who had already had cowpox (a disease that is related to smallpox) usually did not get smallpox. He thought that getting cowpox protected people against smallpox. 
To test this idea, Jenner gave a boy cowpox. Then he infected the boy with smallpox. The boy did not get sick because he had already had cowpox. Jenner was right: having cowpox protected people against smallpox. 
Because cowpox inoculation made fewer people sick than smallpox inoculation, England made smallpox inoculation illegal in 1840. In 1853, they made another law that said every child had to be vaccinated against smallpox using Jenner's vaccine. 
In the 19th century, Louis Pasteur made a rabies vaccine.
In the 20th century, scientists created vaccines to protect people against diphtheria, measles, mumps, and rubella. In the 1950s, Jonas Salk created the polio vaccine. 
However, vaccines still do not exist for many important diseases, like malaria and HIV. 
Many countries have passed "compulsory vaccination laws" - laws that require certain people to get vaccinated. For example, in many countries, children have to be vaccinated against certain diseases in order to go to public school.
There are many different types of vaccines.
One common type of vaccine is a "live vaccine." This type of vaccine contains a small amount of a live virus or bacteria. Before the vaccine is given, scientists weaken the virus or bacteria so it cannot make a person sick. When a person gets a live vaccine, their immune system learns to recognize and fight off that virus or bacteria. Then, if the person is exposed to the virus or bacteria in the future, their immune system will already "know" how to fight it off. Examples of live vaccines include vaccines for measles, mumps, and chickenpox.
Another common type of vaccine is an "inactivated vaccine." These vaccines contain dead viruses or bacteria. These do not cause the immune system to react as strongly as live vaccines. Because of this, people may need "booster shots" - extra doses of the vaccine, given at certain times, so their immune system can "learn" how to fight off the infection. Examples of inactivated vaccines include vaccines for pertussis (whooping cough), rabies, and hepatitis B.
Scientists can make some types of vaccines in a laboratory.
Vaccines do not guarantee complete protection from a disease. In other words, a person can get a disease that they were vaccinated against.
Sometimes, this happens because the person's immune system did not respond to the vaccine (it did not "learn" how to fight off the disease after the person got the vaccine). This may happen because the person's immune system is already weak (for example, because of diabetes, HIV infection, old age, or steroid use). It may also happen because the person's immune system cannot make the particular B cells which make the antibodies that stick to the pathogen.
Some vaccines work better than others at protecting people from diseases. There are many reasons for this:
Since vaccines first existed, there have been people who did not agree with the idea of using vaccines. Around the world, most scientists and doctors agree that the benefits of using vaccines are much greater than the risks. They say that adverse effects from vaccines are rare. They argue that not vaccinating people is a much greater risk, because vaccines prevent suffering and death from infectious diseases. 
However, there have been many controversies over using vaccines. These controversies have included arguments over:
Some religious groups do not allow uses of vaccines. 
Some political groups argue that people should be able to choose whether or not to get vaccinated. They argue that laws requiring people to get vaccinated violate individual rights. In response, one study says: "Vaccine refusal not only increases the individual risk of disease but also increases the risk for the whole community". 
Some parents choose not to follow the regular vaccine schedule for their children. One study looked at parents of children ages six months to six years old. It found that 13% of these parents reported following an alternative vaccination schedule. However, of these parents, less than 1 out of every 5 reported refusing all vaccines. Most refused only certain vaccines, and/or delayed some vaccines until the child was older. 
Parents who delay vaccines until their children are older are often concerned about their child's immune system being too young and weak to handle getting many vaccines at once.
One challenge in developing vaccines is economic. The diseases that most need vaccines today - HIV, malaria, and tuberculosis - exist mostly in poor countries. Companies that make vaccines would not profit much from developing vaccines for these diseases, because many of the people who need them are too poor to pay for them. There would also be financial and other risks to these companies if they tried making new vaccines for these diseases.
Throughout history, most vaccines have been developed by governments, universities, and non-profit organizations. Many vaccines have been highly cost-effective and good for public health. In recent decades, the number of vaccines given throughout the world has increased dramatically. This increase, particularly in the number of different vaccines given to children before they start school, may be due to laws and support from governments.
Another obstacle to making new vaccines is that when a new vaccine is made, the maker often files a patent on their vaccine. These patents can keep the process used to make the vaccine secret. That can make it harder to make other vaccines using the same process.
Vaccines often contain other things besides the active vaccine (the weakened or dead virus or bacteria). For example, vaccines may contain:
Preservatives in vaccines, such as thiomersal, phenoxyethanol, and formaldehyde, prevent serious adverse effects. Thiomersal is more effective against bacteria, lasts longer in storage, and makes the vaccine stronger, safer, and more stable (less likely to be changed by things like heat). However, in the United States, the European Union, and a few other developed countries, it is no longer used as a preservative in childhood vaccines because it contains mercury. Some people have argued that thimerosal contributes to autism. However, no convincing scientific evidence says this is true.
If no preservative is added to a vaccine, harmful bacteria may grow in the vaccine. For example, in 1928, "Staphylococcus" bacteria grew in a diphtheria vaccine that had no preservative in it. Of 21 children who got that vaccine, 12 died.
Animals are vaccinated to keep them from getting diseases, and to keep them from infecting humans with diseases. Pets as well as livestock are routinely vaccinated. 
In some instances, populations of wild animals may be vaccinated. Sometimes, wild animals are vaccinated by spreading vaccine-laced food in a disease-prone area. This method has been used to try to control rabies in raccoons. Where rabies occurs, laws may require dogs to get rabies vaccinations. 
Dogs can also be vaccinated against many other diseases, including canine distemper, canine parvovirus, infectious canine hepatitis, adenovirus-2, leptospirosis, bordatella, canine parainfluenza virus, and Lyme disease.
Scientists are also working on vaccines against many noninfectious human diseases, such as cancers and autoimmune disorders. For example, the experimental vaccine CYT006-AngQb has been investigated as a possible treatment for high blood pressure.

</doc>
<doc id="13712" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13712" title="Injury">
Injury

Injury means a "harm" or "hurt".
Usually an injury is when the body or a part of the body is damaged by something outside of the body. Another word for injury to a body is "trauma".
Injury can be by:
Injury can be "accidental" or "intentional". Intentional injury is when someone "tries" to hurt another person. (Intentional injury is also called "non-accidental" injury) Accidental injury is when no one means to hurt someone else. An example of accidental injury is a car wreck.

</doc>
<doc id="13722" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13722" title="Mercedes-Benz">
Mercedes-Benz

Mercedes-Benz () is a brand of cars and trucks from the Daimler AG company of Germany. The company was once known as Daimler-Benz and is still sometimes called just "Mercedes." Mercedes-Benz is the world's oldest car maker and the cars they make cost a lot of money. The symbol of Mercedes-Benz is very famous. It is a three-pointed star inside of a circle and was designed by one of the men who started the company, Gottlieb Daimler. The three points of the star stand for land, air and sea because Daimler's engines were used not only in cars and trucks but in airplanes and boats. The symbol was first used in 1909. 
Mercedes-Benz cars are an important part of the history of the car with many "firsts." They were the first to build a diesel-powered car in the 1930s, the first to build a car with fuel injection in the 1950s and the first to offer antilock brakes in the 1970s. Mercedes-Benz cars have also been important in auto racing history. 

</doc>
<doc id="13733" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13733" title="Record label">
Record label

A record label or record company makes and sells audio and video recordings, on various formats including compact discs, LPs, DVD-Audio, SACDs, and cassettes. The name "record label" is from the paper label at the center of a gramophone record (what is also known as a "phonograph record" in American English). 
Most major record labels are owned by a few large multinational companies (Big Four record labels) that make up the almost all of the global recording industry, although there is a recent resurgence in independent record labels.
Recording companies often spend a lot of time and money in discovering new musicians or developing the talent of artists they already have signed up with a contract. The association of the brand with the artists helps define the image of both the brand and the artist.
In spite of the fact that both parties need each other to survive, the relationship between record labels and artists can, at times, be a difficult one. Many artists have had albums changed or censored in some way by the labels before they are released—songs being edited, artwork or titles being changed, etc. Record labels generally do this because they believe that the album will sell better if the changes are made. Often the record label's decisions are correct ones from a commercial perspective, but this typically frustrates the artist who feels that their artwork is being destroyed. 
In the early days of the recording industry, record labels were absolutely necessary for the success of any artist. The first goal of any new artist or band was to get signed to a contract as soon as possible. In the 1940s, 1950s and 1960s, many artists were so desperate to sign a contract with a record company that they usually ended up signing a bad contract, sometimes giving away the rights to their music in the process. Entertainment lawyers are used by some to look over any contract before it is signed.
In the 1970s and 1980s, there was a phase of consolidation in the record industry that led to almost all major labels being owned by a very few multinational companies, who in turn were members of the RIAA.
In the 1990s, due to the widespread use of home studios, consumer CD recorders, and the Internet, independent labels began to become more commonplace. Independent labels are typically artist-owned (although not always), with a focus usually on making good music and not necessarily on the business aspects of the industry or making lots of money. Because of this, independent artists usually receive less radio play and sell fewer CDs than artists signed to major labels. However, they usually have more control over the music and packaging of the released product.
On occasion established artists, once their record contract has finished, move to an independent label. This often gives the combined advantage of name recognition and more control over one's music. Singers Dolly Parton, Aimee Mann and Prince, among others, have achieved this. 
While there are many independent labels, folk singer Ani DiFranco's Righteous Babe Records is often cited as an ideal example. The singer turned down lucrative contracts from several top-name labels in order to establish her own New-York-based company. Constant touring resulted in noteworthy success for an act without significant major funding. Ani and others from the company have spoken on several occasions about their business model in hopes of encouraging others. 
Some independent labels become successful enough that major record companies negotiate contracts to either distribute music for the label or in some cases, purchase the label completely. 
On the punk rock scene, the DIY punk ethic encourages bands to self-publish and self-distribute. This approach has been around since the early 1980s, in an attempt to stay true to the punk ideals of doing it yourself and not selling out to corporate profits and control. Such labels have a reputation for being fiercely uncompromising and especially unwilling to cooperate with the Big Five record labels at all.
"Main Article:" net label
With the Internet now being a viable source for music, net labels emerge. Depending on the ideals of the net label, music files from the artists may be downloaded free of charge or for a fee that is paid via paypal or an online payment system. Some of these labels also offer hard copy CDs in addition to direct download (for example, Baltimore's Schismatik record label ships CDs for a nominal charge). Most net labels acknowledge the Creative Commons licensing system thus reserving certain rights for the artist.
"Main Article:" Open source record label
The new century brings the phenomenon of "open-source" or "open-content" record label. These are inspired by the free software and open-source movement and the success of GNU/Linux. 
Examples are

</doc>
<doc id="13735" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13735" title="Pipette">
Pipette

A pipette is a glass tube used for moving a specific volume of a solution. 
A smaller, less accurate version, known as a teat pipette is made of plastic and is filled by squeezing a plastic bubble at the top.
A pipette used for the delivery of small fractions of a milliliter of a liquid is called a micropipette. 
Piston-driven air displacement pipettes, or 'micropipettes', are the most accurate and precise pipettes. They handle liquid in the microliter scale, and are used in biology and biochemistry,

</doc>
<doc id="13745" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13745" title="Game Boy">
Game Boy

The , is an 8-bit handheld video game console. It is Nintendo's first handheld. The Game Boy is also the first portable console to use game cartridges, meaning the games are interchangeable. The Game Boy family eventually did not only include the original, but the Game Boy Color, Game Boy Advance, Game Boy Advance SP and Game Boy Micro.
The Game Boy has a green screen that displays four shades of dark green (gray for the Game Boy Pocket). Like the NES, the Game Boy has four buttons and a cross-shaped direction pad. The console has a single speaker, and it can be used with stereo headphones. As many as four Game Boys can be connected together with the Game Boy Link Cable.
The Game Boy was invented by Gunpei Yokoi, who also was responsible for creating the failed Virtual Boy and the Game & Watch games.

</doc>
<doc id="13746" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13746" title="Stomach">
Stomach

The stomach is part of the digestive system. It is an internal organ between the oesophagus and the small intestines. The stomach is the third stage in the digestive process. It holds food after ingestion. Food in the stomach then passes through to the small intestine where most of the food's nutrition is absorbed.
The stomach contains hydrochloric acid made by stomach cells. As a useful side-effect, the acid kills bacteria in the food. However, its main function is to help the protein-digesting enzymes called proteases work. In general, the food is churned, squeezed and mixed. This prepares it for digestion. The partially digested food is called chyme.
The stomach acid may cause problems. It can make peptic ulcers worse. It can also cause heartburn—pain in the chest when acid from the stomach "refluxes" (backs up into) the oesophagus. These can usually be treated by neutralizing the acid. Vomiting occurs when food goes back up the oesophagus and out the mouth. Vomiting can be a symptom of disease.
Stomachs of other mammals work differently to human stomachs. Ruminants, for example, have a stomach with multiple compartments.
In that system, food goes through the first part of the digestive system twice, and the work of digesting the grass is done by bacteria.
Other words for "stomach" include "belly" and "tummy". 

</doc>
<doc id="13750" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13750" title="Pain">
Pain

Pain is a symptom of being hurt or sick. It is a bad sensation that is physical "and" emotional.
Most pain starts when part of the body is hurt. Nerves in that part send messages to the brain. Those messages tell the brain that the body is being damaged. Pain is not just the message the nerve sends to the brain. It is the bad emotion felt because of that damage.
The message that the nerve sends to the brain is called "nociception". What is experienced "because of" the nociception is pain.
Pain can be "acute" or "chronic". Acute means it only happens a short time. Chronic means the pain lasts a long time.
Pain can be from different types of injury:
Pain can also happen when there is no underlying injury or cause. Pain can happen just because the nerves do not work right. This is called "neuropathic" pain.
For most pain, the best treatment is to stop the damage that makes the pain. If the ankle is sprained, doctors tell the person not to walk on it. They tell them to put ice on it. This helps the injury stop. For an ulcer in the stomach, doctors stop the acid made in the stomach. This helps the ulcer to heal.
But many kinds of pain also need medicines to feel better. There are many different kinds of medicines for pain:
There are doctors who specialize in pain management. These are usually anesthesiologists but may also have any one of a number of underlying areas of specialization, such as neurology, physiatry, or internal medicine.
A new genetic method of treating chronic pain is in the research stage. The idea is to inactivate (turn off) gene HCN2, which plays a key role in chronic pain. Experiments on mice suggest this will work.

</doc>
<doc id="13755" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13755" title="Drain">
Drain

A drain is found in the ground and lets water go through (usually rainwater) to avoid the street or farmland getting flooded.

</doc>
<doc id="13756" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13756" title="Super Mario 64">
Super Mario 64

Super Mario 64 is a video game created by Nintendo for the Nintendo 64. It's the first Mario game that uses 3D graphics. Many fans and critics think that "Super Mario" 64 is one of the best video games ever made. 
Mario, an Italian plumber, has to save Princess Peach from the reptile monster Bowser. To do so, he has to win stars by completing courses inside different paintings of the Mushroom Kingdom.
The story begins when Peach invites Mario to her castle to give him a special cake that she has made for him. By the time Mario arrives, however, Bowser has taken control of the castle and has kidnapped Peach and stolen the power of the castle. Mario must save a princess and the kingdom before it's too late.
The main hub of the game is Princess Peach's castle. There are many locked doors inside that the player must open with the stars that they have collected. There are six stars within each level, and a 100 coin star. To unlock another world, players must have the stars required. One world requires two stars, for instance. Each locked door leads to more levels, and to more difficult challenges. Mario can also leave the castle and explore the small courtyard.
"Super Mario 64" was made in less than two years, but it was reported that Shigeru Miyamoto had thought about a 3D "Mario" game, called "Super Mario FX", five years before, while working on "Star Fox". Miyamoto developed most of the concepts during the era of the Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES) and considered using the Super FX chip to make it a SNES game, but decided to develop it for the Nintendo 64 due to the former system's technical limitations. On his Twitter Dylan Cuthbert stated that there was never a "Super Mario FX" game ever made, and that "Super Mario FX" was the internal code name of the FX chip.
Nintendo started making the game with the creation of the characters and camera system. Miyamoto and the other designers were initially unsure of which direction the game should take; months were spent selecting a camera view and layout that would be appropriate. The original concept involved the game having fixed path much like an isometric type game (similar to ""), before the choice was made to settle on a free-roaming 3D design. Although the majority of "Super Mario 64" would end up featuring the free-roaming design, elements of the original fixed path concept would remain in certain parts of the game, particularly in the three Bowser encounters. One of the programmers of "Super Mario 64", Giles Goddard, explained that these few linear elements survived as a means to force players into Bowser's lair rather than to encourage exploration. The development team placed high priority on getting Mario's movements right, and before levels were created, the team was testing and refining Mario's animations on a simple grid. The first test scenario used to try out controls and physics involved Mario and a golden rabbit named "MIPS" by the developers (named for the MIPS-type CPU used by the Nintendo 64), the latter of which was included in the final release of the game as a means to obtain two of the Power Stars. The developers initially tried to make the game split screen co-op using both Mario and Luigi. Initially, the two characters would start at separate points in the castle and work their way through the game together. However, developers were unable to make the gameplay work.
Shigeru Miyamoto's guiding design philosophy behind "Super Mario 64" was to "include more details" than found in games prior to the Nintendo 64. Some details were inspired by real life. For example, the Boos are based on assistant director Takashi Tezuka's wife, who, as Miyamoto explained, "is very quiet normally, but one day she exploded, maddened by all the time Tezuka spent at work. In the game, there is now a character which shrinks when Mario looks at it, but when Mario turns away, it will grow large and menacing." "Super Mario 64" is also characterized by featuring more puzzles than earlier "Mario" games. It was developed simultaneously with "", but as "Ocarina of Time" was released more than two years later, some puzzles were taken from that game for "Super Mario 64".
Information about "Super Mario 64" first leaked out in November 1995, and a playable version of the game was presented days later as part of the world premiere for the Nintendo 64 (then known as the "Nintendo 64 Ultra") at Nintendo Space World. The basic controls had at this point been implemented, and the game was reportedly 50% finished, although most of the course design remained. Thirty-two courses were created for the game. Miyamoto thought he would create more, up to 40 courses, not including bonus levels. The actual number turned out much lower in the final game, though, as only 15 courses could fit.
In the original Super Smash Bros. for the Nintendo 64 console, Princess Toadstool's castle is a playable stage in which the fighters fight on top of the roof, Mario can be the owner of the area.
In Mario Party, Peach's stage is a large birthday cake which the player can travel through.
Main Article: Sequel and remake
In 1999, it was planned to make a sequel Super Mario 64 2, but was cancelled, due to the commercial failure of the Nintendo 64DD and Luigi was assumed to be playable. Super Mario 64 DS is a 2004 remake made for the Nintendo DS console. In this game Mario, Luigi, and Wario all get a letter saying Peach baked a cake for them. Bowser has kidnapped Princess Peach, Mario , Luigi and Wario and has jailed them in Princess Peach's castle, by Gomboss, King Boo, and Cheif Chilly. Yoshi is told that he must save them. Yoshi finds a rabbit and unlocks the door to the castle. When the player finds keys, they save a character, and can play as them. "Super Mario 64 DS" also has a multiplayer wireless versus mode where up to four players can play and minigames which are unlocked by getting keys from rabbits. Here, there's 150 stars, 30 more than the original game.

</doc>
<doc id="13757" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13757" title="MP3">
MP3

MPEG-1 Audio Layer 3 (MP3) is a lossy data compression format for audio. Using it makes smaller computer files containing digitized music and other sounds.
The format is a lossy compression format. This means that each time something is compressed with it, some information is lost. This information can not be recovered. When encoding to MP3 (converting some audio data to it), the encoder is smart. The human ear can not hear certain sounds if they are masked by other sounds. This means that when encoding certain sound samples, some sounds can be left out (as they will not be heard). This makes it possible to compress audio by a factor of about 5, without noticeable change to the sound of the music.
Many people like to use MP3 files to copy music so they can listen to it on their computer. Record companies do not like it when people use the Internet to share these MP3 files with each other. They think it is a violation of their copyright. The record industries have a trade group called the RIAA that has taken people to court for sharing music. An Internet website called Napster was shut down because of this. Napster has since re-opened, but does not let people share MP3 files anymore.
Other formats for audio compression are Ogg Vorbis, and FLAC. Ogg Vorbis is very similar to MP3, although it has many improvements. FLAC is a lossless compression (meaning no information is lost), and gets compression rates of 2-3.
In 1980s, Dieter Seitzer started the development of a code for audio format of high-quality. Together with his team at the "German Fraunhofer Institut" situated in Erlangen, the professor had the idea to create code with a low bit-rate. The German institute received the patent for MP3 in 1989. MP3 was then passed to the International Organisation for Standardisation. In the same year the MP3 was included into MPEG-1 specification. (MPEG means "Moving Picture Experts Group").
The first player to be able to read the MP3 format was designed by the same Fraunhofer Institute in 1990's. A Croatian student named "Tomislav Uzelac" developed "AMP MP3 Playback Engine" in 1997. It represented the first device that could be called MP3 player. After the player appeared on the Internet, two students named "Justin Frankel" and "Dmitry Boldyrev" transformed it into Winamp. They took the engine of the original player and added the interface of the famous Windows. 
When Winamp was launched into the net for free use it became successful at once. This way began the era of free music download. Soon various programmers started creating additional features for the MP3 player. Very often they created new encoders, rippers (software for transforming audio tracks into MP3 files) and players.
Because there is no need to pay licensing fees in order to build the player, today many software MP3 players are free. Some companies claim to have patents covering the MP3 format, but the validity of these patents is questionable because the format specification was published more than 20 years ago, meaning that any relevant patents would have expired. The most famous MP3 players are "Winamp", "Sonique", "iTunes" and "MusicMatch". The main feature of an MP3 player is to turn the MP3 files into standard audio form and then send them to the soundcard of the computer. The soundcard then outputs the files into speaker so the user can hear them. Every MP3 player interprets music differently, though each one of them uses the same code for playing the MP3 files. There are also stand-alone (without a computer) MP3 players. These may be portable, or they may be built-into a stereo system or car stereo.
When compressing, for each frame (a small section of audio), the encoder first splits the audio into 32 different parts using a filter bank, similar to MP2. The audio is then split further into either 192 or 576 different parts (depending on the complexity of the audio being compressed - more complex audio is split into "fewer" parts) using the modified discrete cosine transform. The MP3 encoder then removes parts that it thinks the human ear can't hear. The remaining parts are then compressed using Huffman coding. Decompression does these same steps (except removal of parts of the audio) in reverse.

</doc>
<doc id="13759" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13759" title="King Crimson">
King Crimson

King Crimson is a progressive rock band. They formed in England in 1969. Their music is usually called progressive rock, but they also have jazz, Gamelan Music, Classical music, heavy metal and experimental music in their sound. They are not very popular, but they have a loyal group of fans. Their music has influenced a lot of bands and styles of music. King Crimson is most well known for their first album, In the Court of the Crimson King, which helped create Progressive Rock. Only one person has been in the band since they started, guitarist Robert Fripp. Right now, the people in the band are Robert Fripp on guitar, Adrian Belew on guitar, Tony Levin on Bass, and Pat Mastelotto on drums.
In 1967, drummer Michael Giles and his brother, Peter, a bass guitar player, started a band with Robert Fripp. They recorded one album called The Cheerful Insanity of Giles, Giles and Fripp. This album did not do very well, and a lot of critics wrote bad reviews of it. After this, Ian Mcdonald joined playing keyboards, reeds, and woodwind instruments. Ian McDonald's friend, Peter Sinfield, joined to write lyrics, and Greg Lake replaced Peter Giles on bass guitar. Then they bought a mellotron, which helped them sound more like classical music. They changed their name to King Crimson, and did their first show in Hyde Park, London in 1969. Their first CD, In the Court of the Crimson King, was a huge success. Their original style impressed fans and critics.
Micheal Giles and Ian Mcdonald left the band to do solo work. The three of them still in the band, Robert fripp, Peter sinfield, and Greg Lake, released the single "Catfood/Groon". On the next album, woodwind player Mel Collins, singer Gordon Haskell, and Peter Giles all helped record a few songs with the band. King Crimson released their second album, In the Wake of Poseidon, in 1970. It was not very popular because it sounded too much like the first album.

</doc>
<doc id="13761" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13761" title="Fleetwood Mac">
Fleetwood Mac

Fleetwood Mac are a British-American rock band that formed in London, England in 1967. The group was started by Peter Green. The original group included Mick Fleetwood, John McVie, Jeremy Spencer and Bob Brunning. In 1968 Danny Kirwan joined the band. He was then an 18-year-old guitarist and singer. Peter Green left and, in 1971 was was replaced by Christine and John McVie plus Bob Welch. When Welch left he was replaced by Americans Lindsey Buckingham and Stevie Nicks. The band became famous with the release of the album "Fleetwood Mac".

</doc>
<doc id="13762" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13762" title="The Yardbirds">
The Yardbirds

The Yardbirds are a English blues band. They formed in the 1960s. They are famous for having the guitarists, Eric Clapton, Jeff Beck, and Jimmy Page. Eric Clapton left the band after they turned from a blues band to a pop band, in keeping with the moving trend of music in the 1960s. He suggested Jimmy Page, who had been a studio musician at the time (performing on records for many stars but not being a member of a specific band). Unwilling to give up his career as a studio musician, Page suggested Jeff Beck. Shortly thereafter, Page joined the band, playing bass and lead guitar. 
Towards the end of the '60s, the Yardbirds broke up while in the middle of a tour. Page wanted to keep the band going, and eventually put together a band called "The New Yardbirds" consisting of vocalist Robert Plant, bassist John Paul Jones, and drummer John "Bonzo" Bonham. This group would soon gain a new name, allegedly taken from a quote by Who drummer Keith Moon. Moon had said previously said that their band would go over "like a lead zeppelin," and the name "Led Zeppelin" stuck.

</doc>
<doc id="13763" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13763" title="Grateful Dead">
Grateful Dead

The Grateful Dead was a rock band that formed in San Francisco, California, United States in the 1960s. They are known for their concerts, and devoted followers called "Deadheads". The band and their music are sometimes associated with the hippie and drug cultures. Their music style is psychedelic rock combined with other kinds of music like blues, country, folk, and bluegrass. They are also known for their artwork and logos, which include skeletons and dancing bears.
They were named number 57 on Rolling Stone's "100 Greatest Artists of All Time "and added to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1994. Their albums have sold 35 million copies around the world and they have played for 25 million people, more than any other band.
The group were together from 1965 to 1995, when Jerry Garcia, the group's lead guitarist and singer, who was seen by many people as the group's leader, died. The other members were Bob Weir (guitar and singing), Phil Lesh (bass guitar), Ron "Pigpen" McKernan (keyboards, harmonica, and singing) and Bill Kreutzmann (drums). All of these members were in the group the entire time, they were together, except for McKernan who died in 1973. Other main members of the band were Mickey Hart (drums 1967 to 1971 and 1974 to 1995), Keith Godchaux (keyboards 1971 to 1979), his wife Donna Godchaux (singing 1972 to 1979), Brent Mydland (keyboards 1979 to 1990), and Vince Welnick (keyboards 1990 to 1995).
The group was known for their stage shows, which included improvising or "jamming" with their song and instruments, some Deadheads have recorded and collected many of these shows on tape.

</doc>
<doc id="13764" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13764" title="Johnny Winter">
Johnny Winter

John Dawson Winter III (February 23, 1944 – July 16, 2014) was an American albino blues musician from Beaumont, Texas. His brother, Edgar Winter, is also a famous musician. He also worked as producer and produced two Grammy winning albums of Muddy Waters (Hard again, I´m ready).
He died in his hotel room in Zurich, Switzerland, aged 70. It happened two days after his last performance there. The cause of his death is currently unknown.

</doc>
<doc id="13765" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13765" title="Edgar Winter">
Edgar Winter

Edgar Winter (born December 28, 1946) is an albino musician from Beaumont, Texas. He is the brother of Johnny Winter who is also a famous musician. He mostly plays keyboards and the saxophone.

</doc>
<doc id="13767" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13767" title="Albinism">
Albinism

Albinism is a condition some people and animals are born with. This condition is caused by a lack of pigment (colour) in their hair, eyes, and skin. A person or animal with albinism is called an albino. Many albino people prefer to be called a "person with albinism". There are ten different types of albinism.
People with albinism can have white or light blonde hair. They can have very pale skin. Their eyes are blue, or rarely pink-ish. People with albinism can have problems such as bad vision and getting sunburnt easily. This is because people with albinism have less pigments in their eyes, skin and hair.
Albinism is rare in the United States. One out of every 20,000 people in the United States has albinism. There are about 15,945 people in the United States who have albinism.
Vision problems in albinism include nystagmus (irregular fast movements of the eyes), strabismus (where the eyes fail to balance) and refractory errors (like being "near-sighted" or "far-sighted").
In most environments, Albino animals are more easily seen and so may be attacked by predators. They lack the camouflage that the non-albino members of their species have. Also, where colour is a factor in mate selection, they may be at a disadvantage there, too.
Albinism is a hereditary condition. It is usually inherited in a recessive pattern; it means, both parents have to give the albinism gene to a child to cause albinism. Parents pass on pairs of genes to their children. One of the pairs of genes is in charge of making melanin. If both of these genes are flawed, then little or no pigment is made. If only one gene if flawed then pigment can still be made.

</doc>
<doc id="13768" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13768" title="Paco de Lucía">
Paco de Lucía

Paco de Lucia (real name: Francisco Sanchez Gomez, (21 December 1947 25 February 2014) was a Spanish Flamenco guitar player. He was born in Algeciras, Andalusia. He died in Cancún, Mexico from a heart attack. 

</doc>
<doc id="13772" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13772" title="Hearing">
Hearing

Hearing is one of the five senses. The ears are used for hearing (listening to) sounds.
In mammals, sound travels through three main parts of the ear to be heard. These are the outer, middle and inner ear.

</doc>
<doc id="13773" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13773" title="Bhutan">
Bhutan

Bhutan (officially called Kingdom of Bhutan) is a small country in the Himalaya mountains of South Asia. It is ruled by King Jigme Khesar Namgyel Wangchuck, who has been king since 2006. Bhutan was founded in 1644 by Shabdrung Ngawang Namgyel. The Bhutanese people are proud they have always been an independent country. Bhutan's capital city is Thimphu. The official language is Dzongkha.
About 600,000 people live in Bhutan. The people and government of Bhutan are proud of their culture which is based on Tibetan Buddhism. 97% of Bhutan's people are Buddhist.
Until 1974 Bhutan was closed to the outside world. Now people can visit the country, but only in small numbers. The only airport is in Paro district. The country is bordered on the south by the Republic of India and on the north by Tibet, which is part of China since 1949. The Indian state of Sikkim separates Bhutan and Nepal. The main export of Bhutan is hydroelectricity which is sold to India. The economy of Bhutan is very small but is growing quickly. The currency is the Ngultrum, which is pegged at par with the Indian rupee.
The Royal Bhutan Army is Bhutan's military service. It includes the Royal Bodyguard and the Royal Bhutan Police. Membership is voluntary, and the minimum age for recruitment is 18. The standing army numbers about 16,000 and is trained by the Indian Army. Being a landlocked country, Bhutan has no navy. It also has no air force or army aviation corps. The Army relies on Eastern Air Command of the Indian Air Force for air assistance.
More than 770 species of bird and 5,400 species of plants are known to occur throughout the kingdom. Bhutan has a rich primate life with rare species such as the golden langur.
The major cities of Bhutan are:
Bhutan's national sport is archery. Competitions are held regularly in most villages. Cricket has gained popularity in Bhutan, particularly since the introduction of television channels from India. The Bhutan national cricket team is one of the more successful affiliate nations in the region. Football is also an increasingly popular sport.

</doc>
<doc id="13784" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13784" title="Caucasian">
Caucasian

Caucasian is a term used for a person belonging to a racial group that includes people from Europe, North Africa, the Horn of Africa, Western Asia (the Middle East), parts of Central Asia and South Asia. These people first came from the Caucasian Mountains which are located in eastern Europe and western Asia. Caucasian was first a geographical term. It referring to the Caucasus region (Caucasia) of central Eurasia. Over time, the term has gotten other meanings:

</doc>
<doc id="13785" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13785" title="Voice">
Voice

A voice is used when someone speaks or sings. The sound of their voice can be heard when they are speaking. The musical part of a song that is sung by a person using their voice is called vocals.

</doc>
<doc id="13788" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13788" title="James Madison">
James Madison

James Madison (March 16, 1751 – June 28, 1836) was the fourth President of the United States. He was also the most important author of the United States Constitution. Madison was the shortest President, with a height of .
Madison was the oldest of twelve children. His father and mother were James Madison Sr. and Nellie Conway.
Madison married Dolley Todd (née Payne) on April 18, 1794.
Madison started his career in the Virginia state legislature. Madison learned many things from Thomas Jefferson. Madison wanted a stronger federal government of the United States than the Articles of Confederation provided. He was a member of the meeting that formed the current United States Constitution. Madison is called the "Father of the Constitution" because he helped write a large part of it and persuaded people that it was a good one.
Madison was elected to the United States House of Representatives. Madison helped write the first laws for the United States. Madison also was the main writer of the Bill of Rights, the first 10 amendments to the Constitution.
Madison and Jefferson were good friends and helped create the Democratic-Republican Party who wanted a weak federal government.
Madison was selected by Jefferson to be his Secretary of State.
Madison was selected by his political party to be the Democratic-Republican candidate for president in 1808. He won that election and the next election in 1812.
The War of 1812 started while Madison was president. Madison still hoped for peace, but Congress wanted war so he gave in and approved a declaration of war against Britain on June 18, 1812. Madison and his family were forced to flee in 1814 when British forces seized control of Washington D.C and burned the White House, and many other buildings, to the ground. The war caused Madison to want a stronger government than he had before.
While he originally was against a national bank, Madison realized that it was necessary and it was impossible to fund a war without it. When the government's national bank expired, Madison renewed it.
Best known during the War of 1812, James Madison's wife - Dolly Madison - saved a potrait of George Washington.
Madison retired to Virginia after his second term. Madison died on June 28, 1836.

</doc>
<doc id="13789" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13789" title="James Monroe">
James Monroe

James Monroe (April 28, 1758 – July 4, 1831) was the fifth President of the United States.
Monroe was born in Virginia. His father died at age 16. At age 18, he joined the Continental Army. He later studied law with Thomas Jefferson. Created the Monroe Doctrine and was included in the Louisiana Purchase. Many cities have been named Monroe. 
He married Elizabeth Kotright in 1789.
Monroe did not want the United States Constitution to pass. He was elected to the United States Senate in 1790. He helped form the Democratic-Republican Party with Jefferson and James Madison.
Monroe was Governor of Virginia from 1799 - 1802.
Monroe negotiated the Louisiana Purchase. 
Monroe was Madison's Secretary of State and Secretary of War.
Monroe was president from 1817 to 1825. With his Secretary of State John Quincy Adams, Monroe got Spain to give the United States Florida. Monroe and Adams also created the Monroe Doctrine, which was a policy that said that the United States did not want Europe to be involved in the Western Hemisphere anymore. 
Monroe signed the Missouri Compromise. The compromise was to delay the slavery issue in the United States. Monroe was the last president to have fought in the American Revolutionary War. Monroe was the last President of the United States to be a founding father of the United States.
Monroe retired to Virginia. After his wife's death he moved to New York where he died on July 4, 1831.

</doc>
<doc id="13790" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13790" title="Martin Van Buren">
Martin Van Buren

Martin Van Buren (December 5, 1782 – July 24, 1862) was the eighth President of the United States. He was the first president born after the United States Declaration of Independence, making him the first president who was born as a U.S. citizen.
Van Buren was born in Kinderhook, New York, in 1782. Van Buren studied law by working for Francis Sylvester and later became a lawyer in 1803. In 1821 he was elected as a member of the United States Senate, representing New York. President Andrew Jackson selected him as the Secretary of State in 1827. In 1832, he became Vice-President for Jackson, and in 1836, he became the 8th President of the United States. During most of the time he was president, the economy was in very bad shape, and he was blamed for it. He was the first president to have been born a United States citizen, since all of his predecessors were born British subjects before the American Revolution.
Van Buren lost the next presidential election in 1840 to William Henry Harrison. In 1848, he ran again to be president as a part of the Free Soil Party, but he did not win. Van Buren died on July 24, 1862, of heart failure after suffering from an asthma attack, on his Lindenwald estate.
Martin Van Buren was born on December 5, 1782 in Kinderhook, New York, south of Albany. Van Buren was the third born of five children. His father, Abraham Van Buren, was a farmer and a tavern owner. His mother was Maria Hoes Van Buren, the granddaughter of a Dutch immigrant. Martin Van Buren went to school at the Kinderhook Academy in the village where he lived. At Kinderhook Academy, he excelled in English and Latin. Van Buren left the school when he was 14 years old.
In 1796, Van Buren started working in the law office of Francis Sylvester, an attorney that worked in Kinderhook. He kept the office clean, copied documents and did other jobs. While he was working there, he learned about law. After six years under Sylvester, he spent a final year of apprenticeship in the New York City office of William P. Van Ness. Van Buren passed the New York State Bar Exam in 1803, and became a lawyer.
After becoming a lawyer, Van Buren moved back to Kinderhook to work as an attorney with his half-brother, James J. Van Alen, in 1803.
Five years later, Van Buren became the surrogate (legal officer) of Columbia County. There was no fixed term of office. That is, Van Buren would be there until the opposition party was able to elect someone else in his place. Van Buren held the office about five years until he was removed on March 19, 1813.
Van Buren represented New York in the United States Senate from 1821 to 1828. He left the Senate to become the governor of New York in 1829. On March 5, 1829 after he became the governor, President Andrew Jackson made Van Buren the Secretary of State, so Van Buren was only the governor for two months.
From 1833 to 1837, he was the Vice President. (Jackson was still President at this time.) Also was leading member of and gained much voting support by Free Soil Party.
Just a few months after Van Buren became president, there was a financial crisis called the Panic of 1837. Van Buren believed in limited government, and did not respond in a way that many people wanted. Many people blamed him for the economy becoming worse, and this made him less popular.
Van Buren married Hannah Hoes, a cousin, on February 21, 1807. They had five children together: Abraham, John, Martin Jr., Smith, and Winfield Scott.
Martin Van Buren developed pneumonia in the fall of 1861. After developing pneumonia, he could not move out of his bed. In July, 1862, Van Buren had a serious asthma attack and began to weaken. Van Buren died on July 24, 1862, at his home in Kinderhook, New York, of heart failure. He was 79 years old.

</doc>
<doc id="13794" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13794" title="South Holland">
South Holland

South Holland is a province in the west of the Netherlands. It is called "Zuid-Holland" in Dutch. It is surrounded by the North Sea and the provinces North Holland, Utrecht, Guelders, North Brabant, and Zeeland.
3.45 million people live there. The biggest cities are Rotterdam and The Hague. The Hague is the capital of the province. The Hague is also the administrative capital of the Netherlands. That means that the parliament is there.
Rotterdam has the largest port of Europe. Leiden, Gouda, and Delft have town centers with many old buildings. Zoetermeer is a quite new city. Most of it was built in the 1970s. Another important city is Dordrecht.
In South Holland there are some typical Dutch landscapes. Near Leiden there is a region that is known as the "Bollenstreek" ("bulb district"). In springtime many large fields with flowers can be found here. These fields are called "bulb fields". Near Rotterdam there is a small village called Kinderdijk with 19 windmills near each other.
The area south of The Hague is called Westland. Here are many greenhouses.
The south of the province has many islands. The largest of them are Voorne-Putten, Goeree-Overflakkee, IJsselmonde, the Hoeksche Waard and the island of Dordrecht. These big islands are connected by bridges and/or tunnels.
The most important rivers and other bodies of waters are Nieuwe Maas, Nieuwe Waterweg, Oude Maas, Haringvliet, and Hollands Diep.

</doc>
<doc id="13795" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13795" title="Grand Theft Auto">
Grand Theft Auto

Grand Theft Auto is a series of video games created by a company called Rockstar. The first was released in the late 90s. This game was played from a bird's-eye view, meaning that it was like seeing the main character from a helicopter. The second was called "GTA 2" and also an add-on pack was added for the first game called "GTA: London" which was set in the 60s.
Then came the next games which were made in 3D which changed the way Grand Theft Auto was played. The first in the 3D series was called "Grand Theft Auto III" which was set in Liberty City which is like New York. Then there was "" which was set in the middle 80s. It was very much like Miami in Florida. The next game in the 3D series is called "" which is based on Los Angeles, San Francisco and Las Vegas. This game was a very big improvement from the older game because the map was so much bigger.
"Grand Theft Auto IV" ("GTA IV") was officially announced at the Microsoft 2006 E3 Press Conference on May 10, 2006. Grand Theft Auto IV is now being sold inside stores. Grand Theft Auto IV now has 2 episodes, and a complete collection.
The latest game released in the "Grand Theft Auto" is Grand Theft Auto V. It was released for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 on September 17, 2013.
Grand Theft Auto V broke the industry sales records by earning US $800 million in the first 24 hours of its release. The game became extremely popular in the gamers community attracting programmers to create many mods to it.With New Additional Features and Quality Graphics it became popular multiplayer game. It also earned $1 billion within its first three days which made it the fastest selling entertainment product in history and broke 7 records by Guinness World Records.
There has been a lot of arguing, or "controversy," about these games. Many people do not like how the player can murder random people, and sleep with prostitutes. Because of this, all 3-D GTA games have been rated Mature so far.

</doc>
<doc id="13796" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13796" title="The Black Eyed Peas">
The Black Eyed Peas

The Black Eyed Peas are an American hip hop group from Los Angeles, California. The group has four members: Will.i.am, Apl.de.ap, Taboo and Fergie. 
Before they became popular, the group's members were will.i.am, apl.de.ap, Taboo and backing vocalist Kim Hill. She left the group in 2000 and was replaced in 2003 by Fergie. They first became popular with the single "Where Is the Love" and the album "Elephunk" and their next album, "Monkey Business" was also successful. They have more recently released "The E.N.D.", an album that has had the successful singles "Boom Boom Pow", "I Gotta Feeling" and "Meet Me Halfway".

</doc>
<doc id="13800" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13800" title="PlayStation Portable">
PlayStation Portable

The PlayStation Portable, or PSP, is Sony's first video game console to be a handheld. It was made in Japan and came out there first on December 12, 2004. After that, it came out in North America on March 24, 2005 and came out in Europe on September 1, 2005.
It was first announced in 2003 at E3 and then next year its first design was shown off. It can play PSP video games, as well as music, video, and pictures. To transfer music, videos, or pictures to a PSP, you must use a USB cable to send the files from a computer to it. The games and movies come on a disc called the "Universal Media Disc" which holds 1.8 GB (this is a lot more than a normal CD but less than a DVD). A Memory Stick Pro Duo can also be used for memory storage. The PlayStation Portable is the first handheld game console to use a disc as its media storage instead of a cartridge.
In January 2014, shipments of the PlayStation Portable ended in North America. They also ended in June 2014 in Japan and will end shipments to Europe by the end of 2014.
There are over 700 games for the PSP. The movies look like the DVD. The reason the PSP can have movies is because the disc (Universal Media Disc) has a lot of memory space. In many countries, "Spider-Man 2" (the movie) was included for free with the console.
The PSP is wireless, meaning it can connect to the Internet (and other PlayStation Portables) without any cables. This is called Wi-Fi. This allows players who are traveling to download items, surf the web and play online. The PlayStation Portable can also connect with the PlayStation 3 as a sort of remote control for movie playback and for downloading content.
There are five versions of the PlayStation Portable, the PSP-1000 (also known as "PSP fat"), PSP-2000 ("slim and light" edition, a lighter version of the original PSP), PSP-3000 ("bright and light" edition, that includes a built in microphone and improved LCD), PSP-N1000 (or PSP Go, with a sliding screen design, bluetooth and internal storage of 16GB replacing the UMD drive.) and PSP-E1000 (similar to PSP-3000, but without stereo sound, Wi-Fi and microphone).
Sony recently released the succesor of the PSP, which is called PlayStation Vita. It was released on February 22, 2012.
The PlayStation Portable is similar to the Nintendo DS, because they are both for games you can take with you. However, Nintendo and Sony said they were made for different people. The DS has sold more units than the PSP.

</doc>
<doc id="13804" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13804" title="Abortion">
Abortion

An abortion is when a pregnancy ends early without the birth of any live children. 
A developing human takes about thirty-eight weeks to grow and be born. Normally, this occurs about forty weeks after the mother's last menstrual period. This developing human is called an "embryo" for the first eight weeks of the pregnancy, and "fetus" for the rest of the pregnancy.
An abortion takes place when the embryo/fetus is too young and small to survive without its mother. When an abortion occurs naturally, it is often called a miscarriage. Humans can also end chose to end the pregnancy before birth takes place. This is called an "induced abortion". Often, the term "abortion" often refers only to an induced abortion. 
In both types of abortion, the embryo or fetus usually comes out of the womb. This is called a "complete" abortion. In some cases, the embryo or fetus remains inside the womb. This is called a "missed" abortion. Surgery is needed to remove the embryo or fetus from the womb so the woman does not get an infection.
Different countries have different laws regarding induced abortion. While abortion is illegal in many countries, there are often exceptions that permit it in cases such as family incest, rape, the fetus having severe disabilities or the mother's health being at risk.
People speak of "spontaneous abortion" or "miscarriage" when the embryo or fetus is lost due to natural causes before the 20th week of pregnancy. A pregnancy that ends this way, but that is between 20 and 37 weeks old is known as "premature birth" if the baby is born alive. If the fetus dies in the womb after 20 weeks, or while it is born, this is known as "stillbirth". Premature births and stillbirths are generally not considered to be miscarriages.
Spontaneous abortions (miscarriages) are common. About fifteen percent of pregnancies end in spontaneous abortion. In many cases, the woman is not even aware she was pregnant. The pregnancy is only a few days or weeks old and the woman believes the miscarriage is just her menses. About twenty-five percent of all women will have a spontaneous abortion during their lives.
Most miscarriages occur very early. Between ten and fifty percent of pregnancies end with a miscarriage,
where the mother or the doctors are aware of it. These figures depend on the age and health of the pregnant woman. Most spontaneous abortions occur so early in the pregnancy that the woman is not even aware that she was pregnant. One particular study showed that 61.9% of pregnancies end in miscarriage before 12 weeks. In 91.7% of these miscarriages, the woman did not know she was pregnant.
The risk of spontaneous abortion decreases sharply after the 10th week of pregnancy, with a loss rate between 8.5 weeks LMP and birth of about two percent; pregnancy loss is “virtually complete by the end of the embryonic period."
Those people who have already had several spontaneous or induced abortions run a greater risk of having a spontaneous one. Those with certain diseases, and those over the age 35 also run a greater risk. Other causes for abortions can be the infection of either the woman or embryo/fetus, or their immune response. Certain diseases or an accidental trauma can also cause a spontaneous abortion. Putting the woman under trauma or stress to cause miscarriage is considered induced abortion. Some countries call this feticide.
Most miscarriages are due to problems with the copying of chromosomes, but some are caused by environmental factors. When a human is conceived, it gets 23 chromosomes from its mother and 23 from its father. If it does not get the right number its development happens wrong (it does not grow right.) It may have many bad birth defects.
Most embryos and fetuses with chromosome problems will not live for a long time. They die very early. There are a few chromosome problems that babies can sometimes be born with. For example, Down syndrome happens when there are three copies of chromosome #21. (Usually people have 2 of every chromosome.) This is called "trisomy 21" (tri- means 3.)
The most common symptom is bleeding from the vagina. This can be very little blood (less blood than a normal menses.) It can be very much blood (much more than a normal menses.)
Some women have bad pains in their low abdomen when they have a miscarriage. This is sometimes like the pain of menses. It can be much worse. Or a woman may have no pain at all. If the pregnancy is many weeks old, the woman may see the embryo or fetus when it comes out. But if it is less than 12 weeks old a woman may not see anything but blood.
Usually, no treatment is needed for a miscarriage. However, sometimes some pregnancy tissue remains in the womb after the miscarriage and must be removed. Sometimes doctors do a surgical abortion. This is the same kind of surgery that is done for induced abortions. Doctors can also prescribe women medicines that can help the miscarriage finish without needing surgery.
An induced abortion is when things are done to end the pregnancy on purpose. These things are normally done by doctors. In countries where abortion can be done legally, it is often done by specialists who know a lot about women's bodies (gynecologists). Abortions done illegally are often performed by people without this special knowledge. This makes them more dangerous. Such abortions are usually called unsafe abortions, back-alley abortions or DIY abortions, mainly because the risk to the health of the mother is much higher than with abortions carried out by skilled doctors.
There can be medical reasons, why an abortion is performed. These include:
There are two different kinds of induced abortions. The type of abortion that is done depends on a few different things, like what the woman wants, what her doctor thinks is best, and how far along a woman is in her pregnancy (how long she has been pregnant).
One type of induced abortion is called a "medical abortion" or a "medication abortion". In this type of abortion, a doctor gives the woman one or two medications that will end her pregnancy. A medication abortion can only be done early on in the pregnancy. This is because the medications that are used work best when they are started as early as possible, and after a woman has been pregnant for about two months, the medications usually do not work very well. Because of this, medication abortion usually is not used after a woman has been pregnant for 9 weeks. Some of the benefits (or reasons why some women choose this type of abortion) are that it can be started as soon as a woman realizes she is pregnant; it does not require anesthesia; and the woman does not have to have a procedure in a hospital or clinic to have the fetus removed, like with the other kind of abortion that is done. After a woman is given the medication or medications that end her pregnancy, the abortion happens like a "spontaneous" abortion or a miscarriage. (The woman passes the fetus, along with the blood and tissue that have built up in the uterus, from her vagina.)
The most common medications that are used for medication abortions are mifepristone and misoprostol. First, a doctor gives the woman mifepristone, which is sometimes also called "RU-468" or "the abortion pill". This drug blocks the hormone progesterone in the body. Without progesterone, the embryo cannot survive. The lining of the uterus becomes thinner, and the embryo cannot grow or stay attached to the lining of the uterus. After a few days, a doctor gives the woman misoprostol. This makes the uterus contract (or get smaller) and the embryo is expelled from (or pushed out of) the uterus through the woman's vagina. Sometimes, another medication, called methotrexate, is used along with misoprostol in medication abortions. A woman is given methotrexate, usually as a shot in a doctor's office, and the drug stops the embryo from staying attached to the lining of the uterus. Then misoprostol is given a few days later.
With the second type of abortion - called "surgical abortion" or "in-office abortion" - a doctor does a procedure that removes an embryo or fetus from the woman's uterus. This kind of abortion can be done in different ways, depending on how long the woman has been pregnant. Surgical abortion is simpler, and there are fewer problems that can happen, if it is done earlier on in the pregnancy. The most common form is called an "aspiration abortion" or a "suction curettage." This can be done in a doctor's office or clinic. First the woman's cervix (the top part of the uterus) is dilated (or made bigger). A medical tool is used to suction out everything inside the woman's uterus, including the fetus. If the woman has been pregnant for more than 12 weeks, the doctor first has to dilate the cervix (or make the cervix bigger), usually by putting small sticks into the cervix to help it open up. If another tool, called a curette, has to be used to scrape out tissue that is still inside the uterus, then this form of abortion is sometimes called a "dilation and curettage" (or "D&C").
A pregnancy that ends without a child being born also may cause some problems to the woman this happens to. There are two broad groups of things that can happen:
Abortion is safer than childbirth if it is done before the 16th week of pregnancy and it is done by a professional. Certain methods of abortion are pretty safe, and complications are rare. Generally, stopping a pregnancy that has gone on longer is riskier.
Women usually feel a small amount of pain during first-trimester abortion. In a 1979 study of 2,299 patients, 97% reported having some amount of pain. Patients rated the pain as being less than earache or toothache, but more than headache or backache.
Local and general anesthesias are used during the abortion.
Few studies have been done to see if an abortion affects the woman psychologically, or mentally. Those that have been done give contradictory results. One study looked at 13.000 women who had become pregnant even though they did not want to. The study found that having an induced abortion does not increase the risk of getting mental health problems; the group that was compared were women who also did not want to have a baby, but who did not have an abortion. Other studies showed similar results: women who had an abortion did better in school or at work after the abortion. Another study showed that women who had an abortion had a higher self-esteem and felt better than those who did not.
Many women who had an abortion felt better afterwards, they also felt relieved. They would do it again in a similar situation.
A study done in New Zealand in 2006 showed that many women who had an abortion developed severe depressions up to 4 years after they had the abortion. They were also more likely to have problems with alcohol and illegal drugs than those women who did not have an abortion. The person who oversaw the study later told media that given these results it would be very hard to say that having an abortion has no psychological effects on the woman who has it. He called the abortion "a traumatic experience".
Both spontaneous and induced abortions have some risk for the woman.
If a bad thing happens because of a surgery or medicine that a doctor gives, or because of a miscarriage, it is called a "complication". Complications of abortions can be infection, bleeding, pain. There may or may not be problems getting pregnant again; this is still being researched. In places where induced abortions are legal less than 1% of induced abortions have a bad complication. If doctors do induced abortions, the risk to the woman is less than the risk of complications of childbirth (giving birth to a baby). In places where induced abortions are legal, less women have complications of induced abortion than in places where induced abortion is illegal. This is because induced abortions that are not done by doctors have much more risks. For example, after induced abortions became legal in the United States in 1973, less women died from having abortions. In the United States in 2000, 11 women died from the complications of legal abortion. The risk of death from a legal abortion is 1/100 of the risk of an appendectomy. The risk of death from an injection (shot) of penicillin (an antibiotic) is bigger than the risk of death from a legal abortion.
There can be emotional problems for the woman after a spontaneous or induced abortion. She may feel sad, angry, or guilty that she had a miscarriage or asked for an abortion. She may think she has done something that made the miscarriage happen, or that having an abortion was the wrong thing to do, and because of this she may feel intense grief. There are many places where women can get help dealing with these feelings.
Some women who have induced abortions may get criticism from friends or family who have different beliefs. When scientists look at this in research studies, however, they do not usually see that women have emotional problems after induced abortions. In 1987, President Ronald Reagan told the Surgeon General of the US to look at this question. Both president Reagan and the Surgeon General C. Everett Koop did not think abortion was right. Dr Koop looked at 250 papers that scientists wrote in scientific journals. Dr Koop said that the science we know does not show that induced abortions cause emotional problems for women who have them.
The number of induced abortions done are different for different parts of the world. This is also true for the reasons why women decide to have an abortion. Estimates are that about 46 million induced abortions are done worldwide, every year. 26 million of them occur in places where abortion is legal, 20 million happen in countries where it is illegal to have an abortion. Some countries, like Belgium (11.2 per 100 known pregnancies) and the Netherlands (10.6 per 100) have a low rate of induced abortion. Others, like Russia (62.6 per 100) and Vietnam (43.7 per 100) have a comparatively high rate. Overall, there are 26 induced abortions per 100 known pregnancies.
The WHO estimated in 2001 that every year about 210 million women get pregnant, and that there are about 135 mililon live births. The remaining 75 million cases are miscarriages or induced abortions. About forty percent of pregnancies are unplanned, and about a fifth of the pregnant women decide to end the pregnancy early. This results in about 42 million abortions per year. About 20 million of these are legal, the rest are agains the law. Most of the illegal abortions is performed by medically unqualified people, often with poor hygiene, which often threaten the lives of the women. The WHO estimated that about 47.000 women died in 2008 because of illegal abortions. This number was lower than the estimate of 1990, mainly because in South America, women opted to take drugs to end the pregnancy.
Abortion rates vary. The length the pregnancy has gone on, and the method used to do the abortion influence these rates. According to data collected in the United States, 88.2% of abortions were done in the first twelve weeks of pregnancy, 10.4% between week 13 and week 20 of the pregnancy. The remaining 1.4% were done in week 21 or later.
90.9% were done by curettage, 7.7% were medical abortions (using drugs, mifepristone in most cases), 0.4% by "intrauterine instillation" (saline or prostaglandin), and 1.0% by "other" (including hysterotomy and hysterectomy). The Guttmacher Institute estimated there were 2,200 intact dilation and extraction procedures in the U.S. during 2000 - 0.17% of the total number of abortions performed that year. Similarly, in England and Wales in 2006, 89% of terminations occurred at or under 12 weeks, 9% between 13 and 19 weeks, and 1.5% at or over 20 weeks. 64% of those reported were by vacuum aspiration, 6% by D&E, and 30% were medical. Later abortions are more common in China, India, and other developing countries than in developed countries.
In 1998, a study was done in 27 countries. This study wanted to find the reasons, why women wanted to end their pregnancy. It found that women often gave one of the following reasons:
A different study, done in the United States in 2004 came to similar conclusions.
Women who had an abortion in Finland and the United States usually did not state that the pregnancy posed a risk to their health. In Bangladesh, India and Kenya, however, more such women thought the pregnancy was a risk to their health. 1% of women in the 2004 survey-based U.S. study became pregnant as a result of rape and 0.5% as a result of incest. Another American study in 2002 concluded that 54% of women who had an abortion were using a form of contraception at the time of becoming pregnant. Inconsistent use was reported by 49% of those using condoms and 76% of those using the combined oral contraceptive pill; 42% of those using condoms reported failure through slipping or breakage. The Guttmacher Institute estimated that "most abortions in the United States are obtained by minority women" because minority women "have much higher rates of unintended pregnancy."
Some women have an abortion because the society they live in pressures them to. 
Any of these factors might force a pregnant woman to have an abortion.
Induced abortion is not legal in every place. In some countries, a doctor who does an induced abortion is committing a "crime". In the United States, Canada, and many countries in Europe abortion is legal (not a crime). In some countries like Ireland and Somalia it is legal only to save the life of the woman. If a woman is raped in Ireland and becomes pregnant, she cannot get an induced abortion. In some countries like Chile and El Salvador, abortion is never legal, including in cases where the woman risks dying from continuing the pregnancy.
In countries where induced abortion is not legal many more women die from abortion. Women still get induced abortions, but they cannot get them in safe hospitals and clinics. These induced abortions have more complications than abortions done by doctors.
Women who live in places where abortion is illegal, or heavily frowned upon sometimes travel to other places where an abortion can be done legally, so they can have an abortion. This is a form of medical tourism.
Spontaneous abortions occur in various mammals. In sheep, it may be caused by crowding through doors, or by being chased by dogs. In cows, abortion may be caused by contagious diseases, such as Brucellosis or Campylobacter. This can often be controlled by vaccination, though.
Abortion may also be induced in animals, in the context of animal husbandry. For example, abortion may be induced in mares that have been mated improperly, or that have been purchased by owners who did not realize the mares were pregnant, or that are pregnant with twin foals.
Feticide can occur in horses and zebras. Usually this is done because males harass pregnant mares or force copulation. Scientists have raised the question, how often this occurs in the wild, though. Male Gray langur monkeys may attack females following male takeover, causing miscarriage.
Induced abortion is a subject that is controversial. Each person has a system of moral values. Based on their system of morals, people have different opinions about it. Religion can also influence this opinion. 
A number of opinion polls have been carried out around the world. They have tried to find out what people think about abortion. Results were different for different countries, but also varied with the questions that were asked.
In May 2005, a survey was done in ten European countries. The people were asked, if they could agree with the statement: "If a woman does not want children, she should be allowed to have an abortion". The highest level of approval was 81% in the Czech Republic; the lowest was 47% in Poland.
A poll was done in November 2001. The poll asked people in Canada in what circumstances they believed an abortion should be permitted. 32% responded that they believe abortion should be legal in all circumstances, 52% that it should be legal in certain circumstances, and 14% that it should never be legal. A similar poll in April 2009 surveyed people in the United States about abortion; 18% said that abortion should be "legal in all cases", 28% said that abortion should be "legal in most cases", 28% said abortion should be "illegal in most cases" and 16% said abortion should be "illegal in all cases". In a Gallup poll taken in July of 2011, however, 47% of Americans identified themselves as pro-life and the same percentage of Americans identified themselves as pro-choice. A November 2005 poll in Mexico found that 73.4% think abortion should not be legalized while 11.2% think it should.
Of attitudes in South America, a December 2003 survey found that 30% of Argentines thought that abortion should be allowed in Argentina "regardless of situation", 47% that it should be allowed "under some circumstances", and 23% that it should not be allowed "regardless of situation". A March 2007 poll about abortion in Brazil found that 65% of Brazilians believe that it "should not be modified", 16% that it should be expanded "to allow abortion in other cases", 10% that abortion should be "decriminalized", and 5% were "not sure". A July 2005 poll in Colombia found that 65.6% said they thought that abortion should remain illegal, 26.9% that it should be made legal, and 7.5% that they were unsure.
Some people feel very strongly about abortion. People who think think the law should let women choose to have abortions are called "pro-choice". People who think that abortion is wrong and that the law should not allow it are called "pro-life".
People who are pro-choice believe that women should be allowed to have control over their own bodies when it comes to ending or continuing a pregnancy. They believe that, because the embryo or fetus is inside the woman's body and does not have developed enough organs to survive on its own until later in the pregnancy, it is not yet a person with rights. Pro-choice people also make the argument that abortion needs to be legal in order to protect women, because when abortion is illegal, it does not completely stop abortions from happening, but makes it so that women try to do abortions on themselves or get them done by people who are not trained doctors, which puts those women in danger of death or injury. Pro-choice people believe the way to prevent abortion is to make sure women only get pregnant when they want to. In addition to advocating the legality of abortion, pro-choice groups like Planned Parenthood often try to improve people's access to things used to prevent pregnancy (called "contraception"), and try to teach young people about sex to reduce the number of teen pregnancies.
People who are pro-life believe that all humans, including the unborn, have a right to life. For this reason, they believe abortion is wrong and that it is murder. They think the law should make abortion a crime in order to protect innocent life within the womb. However, though pro-life people think abortion is wrong, there are special cases in which "some" pro-life people will sometimes support allowing an abortion to happen, like if the pregnancy puts the woman's life at risk or if she got pregnant from rape. Pro-life people think women who are pregnant and do not want to raise a child should look for alternatives to abortion such as giving the baby up for adoption. There are many crisis pregnancy centers pro-lifers have started to help women in these situations. They have also started advocacy groups, like the American Life League, Feminists for Life and Live Action, to try to convince more people to think abortion is wrong and to try to get governments to make laws to restrict abortion. Sometimes, people who are against abortion have used violence to try to stop abortions from happening, like bombing the "clinics" that do abortions or shooting the people who work inside them. However, most people who are against abortion do not do such things and believe that they are wrong, and so they try to stop abortions from happening through peaceful activism.
Many religions have a view on abortion. These views span a broad spectrum from acceptance to rejection. Most religions generally oppose abortion.
Generally, when there is a debate about whether abortion laws should be changed in a country, there are advocacy groups. Some of the arguments these groups often have are outlined below.
There is a hypothesis that induced abortion raises the risk of getting breast cancer. People who support this, call it a "link", rather than a "hypothesis".
The subject has been controversial, but currently, scientists agree that there is no link between abortion in the first trimester, and increasing the risk to get breast cancer.
In early pregnancy, levels of estrogen increase. This causes the breast to grow, and to prepare for lactation. In the 1890s, studies were done on rats, before this hypothesis was put forward.
It is currently unclear from what moment the embryo or fetus can feel pain. This is also used in the debate about abortion. Many researchers think that a fetus is unlikely to feel pain until after the seventh month of pregnancy. Others disagree. At about twenty-six weeks of pregnancy, certain connections are made in the thalamus of the growing fetus. Developmental neurobiologists suspect that these connections may be critical to perception of pain by the fetus. However, legislation has been proposed by pro-life advocates requiring abortion providers to tell a woman that the embryo or fetus may feel pain during an abortion procedure.
Researchers from the University of California, San Francisco published a study in the Journal of the American Medical Association. The study analyzed data from dozens of medical reports and other studies. The researchers concluded that fetuses are unlikely to feel pain until the third trimester of pregnancy. However a number of medical critics have since disputed these conclusions. There are certain connections in the thalamus of the fetuse. These connections develop at about twenty-six weeks of pregnancy. At the end of the 20th century there was an emerging consensus among developmental neurobiologists that these connections are very important when it comes to the perception of pain in the fetus. Other researchers such as Anand and Fisk have challenged this late date, positing that pain can be felt around twenty weeks. 
Pain can have many different aspects: It might be purely relying on sensory input, but it might also involve emotions and thought. For this reason, it is perhaps impossible to know exactly when the embryo or fetus feels pain, even if it has developed the links in the thalamus.

</doc>
<doc id="13805" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13805" title="Clock">
Clock

a clock is round in shape and has two hands. one is called a minute hand and the other is called an hour hand and there is a third hand called a second hand. You will find clocks every where. There is a clock that you normally find it in the middle of the city you live in known as a city clock.
A clock is a device that tells the time. Some clocks can give the date as well as the time and a few give other information. There are different types of clocks. A watch is a type of clock that is small and can be carried. Watches are usually worn on a person's wrist. At one time, watches were commonly kept in the person's pocket. 
Clocks use different ways to measure time. Clocks need some sort of steady beat or motion to track the change in time. Ancient water clocks worked by the steady movement of water from a container with a hole in the bottom to another container without a hole. Other clocks use pendulums, springs and gears to track the change in time correctly.
Digital clocks work by measuring the vibrations of quartz crystals when charged with electricity. The vibration frequency of the crystal does not change. 
Atomic clocks use the electromagnetic waves absorbed and emitted by atoms such as caesium to measure time. They are the most precise clocks in the world.
There are many types of clocks and watches. The two most common types of displays on clocks are "analog" and "digital" . 
Analog clocks use angles to tell time. They have "hands" that rotate around the clock's "face". The position of the hands shows the time. The face of the clock is a flat disk. It will often have the numbers one through twelve on the face to make it easier to read. Analog clocks commonly have two or three hands. If it has two, there is a large hand or "minute hand" and a smaller hand, the "hour hand". Clocks with three hands also have a "second hand". This hand is usually about as long as the minute hand, but much thinner. 
Each hand shows the time it is named for and moves around the face of the clock one complete rotation for each movement to the next larger hand. For example, the second hand moves around the face of the clock in 60 seconds. It moves once each second. When it moves all the way around the clock, the minute hand moves forward one space. When the minute hand moves all the way around the face of the clock (which takes 60 minutes), the hour hand moves forward one section. The second and minute hands take 60 movements to move all around the face of the clock, the hour hand only needs 12 movements to do the same. 
Digital clocks use numbers to show the time. LCDs and LEDs are common for digital clocks. Unlike analog clocks which are based on 12 hours, digital clocks can use either a 12-hour clock (often with "am" for morning and "pm" for afternoon/night) or a 24-hour clock. Digital clocks are usually smaller and easier to both use and read than analog clocks but they can also be made much larger. New digital clocks can even correct themselves using the internet or radio signals. 
There are also clocks that use sound, usually along with a dial or some other means, to show the time. The sound could be as simple as a bell or so complex that it sounds the same as a person. Many clocks that do this are old and are driven by springs or weights rather than batteries or other forms of electric power. Some special clocks are often used by people who are blind or cannot see well enough to read an analog or digital clock. They can also be used by people with mental problems that cause them to be unable to read other clocks.
There are many different types of clocks and watches. They are different in what they are used for, what they can do or how they are made. Examples include:

</doc>
<doc id="13809" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13809" title="Sexual orientation">
Sexual orientation

Sexual orientation is a term that means what kinds of people a person loves or has sexual or romantic feelings about. A person can love somebody of the same gender (sex), somebody of the other gender, both, or neither. The concepts most commonly regarded as sexual orientation are:
Words that are sometimes also used to talk about a person's sexual orientation are:
The latter words are not sexual orientations. For example, a person can have a fetish and still be either heterosexual, homosexual, or bisexual. A person can also be transgender or transsexual and still be either heterosexual, homosexual, or bisexual.
Many people have been discriminated against because of their sexual orientation. In many cultures, people who are homosexual or bisexual have been teased (made fun of), fired from their job, or made to suffer violence because of who they are. In many countries and states, there are laws against having sex with somebody of the same gender, and people can be put in jail because of who they have sex with. In the United States, these laws were struck down (repealed) by the United States Supreme Court in the last few years. The Yogyakarta Principles are made to combat such discrimination and United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights also made a document "Born Free and Equal" to counter them by international human rights law.

</doc>
<doc id="13810" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13810" title="Smiley">
Smiley

A smiley (also called a "smiley face" and an "emoticon") is a picture of a smiling face that is used to show emotion. The first smileys to be widely used were made as yellow buttons, but now the most common smileys are made using computer keyboard symbols. Smileys are used by many people in emails and other types of computer messages. A "smiley" is also sometimes spelt wrongly as "smily" or "smilie".
There were a number of early uses of simple graphics representing a smiling face. Some of these used a large circle containing two dots for eyes and a curve for the mouth. The most well-known smiley face was created in 1963 by Harvey Ball for an insurance company in Massachusetts. This design was a bright yellow circle representing a face, with black oval eyes and a big curved mouth with smile creases at the ends.
The design was made popular in the early 1970s by a pair of brothers, Murray and Bernard Spain, who though of a great plan to sell novelty items. The two used the "smiley face" on buttons as well to decorate coffee mugs, t-shirts, bumper stickers and many other things. They also used the phrase "Have a happy day" (which was the idea of Gyula Bogar). "Smiley" buttons were very popular from the 1970s onwards.
Smiley is a brand developed by Franklin Loufrani since 1971. He controls Smileyworld Ltd, a company whose mission is to make the world a happier place to live. Its brand Smiley is sold all over the world in several lifestyle industries, and its designers are constantly developing very creative and edgy products. The company donates ten percent of its royalties to a charity called the Smiley World Association, active with social actions in several countries. Its baseline is "Share your smile with those in need".
In 1997 Franklin's son Nicolas Loufrani has started to create a new world with icons based on the original Smiley logo. Today over 1200 icons are used as part of a brand called Smileyworld. This brand is based on a communication concept aimed at helping people to communicate better through various social expression products (greeting cards, gifts, etc.). It is also an educative project with books, toys, interactive products as well as a lifestyle brand for children.
Smiley has been a registered trademark since 1971. The Smiley name and logo now registered and used in over 100 countries for 25 classes of goods and services. More than 1200 Smiley emoticons are registered with the Washington Library of Congress and protected by the Universal Copyrights Convention. In the past 10 years, Smileyworld Ltd has signed more than 800 licensing contracts worldwide and has been using its rights in most classes of goods and services in all important countries on the 5 continents. Smileyworld Ltd works with over 60 law firms to protect its IP.
In the 1990s people started using the internet and emails as a regular way of communicating. So that they could show happiness or fun in an easy way, people started making little smiling faces using some of the symbols on the keyboard. A keyboard smiley has a colon ":" for the eyes, a hyphen "-" for the nose, and a parenthesis ")" for the mouth. Some people make the smiley without the hyphen for a nose. The "smileys" that are made in this way are sideways.
Here is a smiley:
When you tilt your head to the left, it looks like a smiling face.
Smileys are usually used as part of a written message, but sometimes a smiley is just sent on its own to say "I am happy with your last message." Smileys are a useful way to show feelings to someone who cannot see the face of person sending the message.
From the smiley came other ideas for showing emotions using keyboard symbols:
Some people use different symbols, or do not use a nose, etc.

</doc>
<doc id="13812" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13812" title="Flamenco">
Flamenco

Flamenco is a style of entertainment with song, music and dance. it is very popular in Spain and is known worldwide. Its foundation is in Andalusia in Spain. In its evolution Andalusian Gypsies played an important part. The term 'flamenco' was first recorded in the late 18th century but many believe the art form is much older.
Flamenco has acoustic guitar music, singing, hand claps, heel stamps, castanets. It is danced by a man and a woman in traditional Spanish costumes. The dance has no set tempo. It may have both fast and slow passages, rising to a climax near the end. 
Flamenco performance has evolved during the history of this musical genre. In the beginning (the 18th century at the latest), songs were sung without any guitar accompaniment. During the 19th century, the guitar was used to accompany songs. Since the second half of the 19th century, the solo guitar is played in flamenco concerts.
On November 16, 2010, UNESCO declared Flamenco one of the Masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity.
Examples of flamenco:

</doc>
<doc id="13814" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13814" title="Cream (band)">
Cream (band)

Cream was a British rock band in the late 1960s. They played and recorded together from 1966 to 1968. The members of the group were Eric Clapton, Jack Bruce, and Ginger Baker. They were called a power trio, as there were three musicians, who all played essential roles in the band. Their sound of heavy blues-rock was a great influence on many other bands.
Cream's hit records included the songs "Strange Brew", "Sunshine Of Your Love" and "White Room". Their last album, titled "Goodbye", included a song called "Badge", co-written by Eric Clapton and George Harrison of The Beatles.

</doc>
<doc id="13815" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13815" title="Blind Faith">
Blind Faith

Blind Faith was an English rock-blues band. The band was only together for about one year (1969). It was formed by Eric Clapton who had been in the band Cream. Also in the band were Ginger Baker (who was Cream's drummer) and Rick Grech (who was in the band "Family"). Clapton, Winwood, and many other people had high expectations for the new band, but many people did not like the new stuff they were doing. Many people wanted to hear music like Cream made. The name of the band came about as a result of the "blind faith" shown by many people. These people had thought that the band would go on to greatness. Many people did not like the band and they broke up. Before they broke up, they released a self-titled album. It caused controversy because it only had six songs and featured a naked teenage girl holding a toy airplane on the cover. This image upset some people.

</doc>
<doc id="13818" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13818" title="The Guess Who">
The Guess Who

The Guess Who is a Canadian rock band. They formed in Winnipeg in 1963 and broke up in 1975. Their best known songs include, "American Woman", "Share The Land", "No Time", and "These Eyes".
The band was inducted into The Canadian Music Hall of Fame in 1987.

</doc>
<doc id="13822" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13822" title="Bruce Springsteen">
Bruce Springsteen

Bruce Frederick Joseph Springsteen (born September 23, 1949) is an American rock musician from New Jersey. His songs include "Born to Run" and "Born in the USA". For more than 30 years he has been a singer along with his "E-Street Band." Also, he is now a member in the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. Jon Landau, a music writer for "Rolling Stone" magazine, once said: "I have seen the future of rock and roll, and its name is Bruce Springsteen." Springsteen won an Oscar for his song "Streets Of Philadelphia", written for the Tom Hanks' movie "Philadelphia".
Springsteen was born in Long Branch, New Jersey, and spent his childhood and high school years in Freehold Borough. His father, Douglas Frederick Springsteen, was a bus driver.His mother, Adele Ann (née Zirilli), was a legal secretary. He has two younger sisters, Virginia and Pamela. Pamela was an actor but left this profession and became a photographer. She took photos for the Human Touch and Lucky Town albums.
Springsteen attended the St. Rose of Lima Catholic school in Freehold Borough.Old teachers have said he was a "loner, who wanted nothing more than to play his guitar." He completed high school, but felt so uncomfortable that he skipped his own graduation ceremony. He briefly went to Ocean County College but had no degree.
Till the early 1970s he played with different bands in the Atlantic area. In 1972 he signed a record contract with Columbia Records. His first album "Greetings from Asbury Park, N.J.", released in January 1973, was commercely not a success but was highly favoured by music critics. Also his second album "The Wild, the Innocent & the E Street Shuffle" was more acclaimed than sold.
In the May 22, 1974, issue of Boston's The Real Paper, music critic Jon Landau wrote after seeing a performance at the Harvard Square Theater, "I saw rock and roll future, and its name is Bruce Springsteen. And on a night when I needed to feel young, he made me feel like I was hearing music for the very first time." Landau became Springsteens manager and producer.
The commercial breakthrough was his third album "Born to Run", which was released on August 25, 1975. Due to this Springsteen was on the covers of Time magazine and Newsweek. After a legal battle with his old manager Mike Appel he could release his third album "Darkness on the Edge of Town" not earlier than 1978. In 1978, he worked together with Patti Smith, who had a hit with Springsteens song "Because the Night". Also Manfred Mann (Blinded by the light) and the Pointer Sisters (Fire) had success with songs of Bruce Springsteen. The next album was "The River". The single from this album "Hungry Heart" was his first Top 10 hit. "The River" brought Bruce Springsteen in a wide range of styles from ballads (f.e. The River) to rock songs.
His next album was "Nebraska" (1982) which he recorded in a studio at his home. The only instruments in this records were guitar and harmonica. The songs are about outsiders of the US-society. Despite its commercial flop it is regarded by critics as one of Springsteens best albums.
He is probably best known for his next album "Born in the USA" which sold 15 million copies in the USA. It contains 7 single hits which all reach the Top 10. The following tour was also a huge success. The title track of the album was widely misunderstood as patriotic hymn. In fact it was a comment on the treatment of Vietnam veterans. In later years Springsteen performed the song only with acoustic guitar to make the meaning of the song more clearly. An acoustic version also appeared on "Tracks", a later album. Videos for the album were made by famous movie directors Brian De Palma and John Sayles.
The next album was "Live/1975–85", which sums up the powerful live performances of Bruce Springsteen. It was a five records box-set and was the first set which reached #1 in the charts.
After "Born in the USA", Springsteen recorded again more sedate and contemplative albums like "Tunnel of Love" (1987). In late 1989 he dissolved the E-Street Band and married Patti Scialfa. The couple relocated to California. In 1992 he released two albums at once, "Human Touch" and "Lucky Town". After he had received man Grammy Awards he also was winner of the Academy Award in 1994 for his song "Streets of Philadelphia", which appeared on the soundtrack to the movie Philadelphia.
In 1995, he released his second solo guitar album, "The Ghost of Tom Joad", inspired by John Steinbeck's The Grapes of Wrath .Following the album he made a solo acoustic where he played the new songs but also many of his older songs in acoustic form. After the tour he and his family went back to New Jersey.
In 1999, the E Street Band and Springsteen officially played together again. They made a reunion tour which lasted over one year. The last two concerts of the tour were recorded for an HBO Concert also a DVD and album was released under the title "Bruce Springsteen & the E Street Band: Live in New York City". The same year Springsteen was inducted to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.
About the 1990s Springsteen said: "I didn't do a lot of work. Some people would say I didn't do my best work."
2002 the artist released "The Rising" the first studio album with the E Street Band for 19 years. The 2005 album Devils & Dust was again mostly acoustic and recorded without the band. In November 2005, Sirius Satellite Radio started a 24-hour, seven-day-a-week radio station on Channel 10 called E Street Radio. This channel brings commercial-free Bruce Springsteen music, including rare tracks, interviews, and daily concerts of Bruce Springsteen & the E Street Band recorded throughout their career.In April 2006, Springsteen released "We Shall Overcome: The Seeger Sessions", an project with folk songs which were made popular by Pete Seeger. It was recorded with a large ensemble of musicians including only Patti Scialfa, Soozie Tyrell, and The Miami Horns from past efforts. The end of the decade brought three albums. (Magic (#1), Working on a Dream (#1) and The Promise (#16), which featured again outtakes of different songs). On January 11, 2009, Springsteen won the Golden Globe Award for Best Song for "The Wrestler", from the Mickey Rourke movie by the same name.
In September 1979, Springsteen and the E Street Band joined the Musicians United for Safe Energy (MUSE) anti-nuclear power collective at Madison Square Garden for two nights, playing an short set and two songs from his next album. 1988 Springsteen headlined the worldwide Human Rights Now! tour for Amnesty International. 2008 he supported Barack Obama's presidential campaign
and he was the musical opener for the Obama Inaugural Celebration on January 18, 2009 . He performed "The Rising" with an female choir. Later he performed Woody Guthrie's "This Land Is Your Land" with Pete Seeger.
Springsteen's lyrics often explore highly personal themes such as and unhappiness with life in everyday situations.
He did most of his records with the E Street Band. The band was formed in October 1972. Although Springsteen played with other bands the E Street Band was his band for 40 years. The band took the name from a street in Belmar, New Jersey where the mother of a founding member lived. The band members do also solo works and play as session musicians. (for example:Bittan and Van Zandt for Bob Dylan on Empire Burlesque). Clemons and Lofgren also went on tour with Ringo Starr and his All-Starr Band in 1989.
Although Springsteen informed the band in 1989 that he would not play with them they stayed friends and from 1999 onwards they again played and recorded together. 
Major studio albums (along with their chart positions in the U.S. Billboard 200 at the time of release):
Live albums

</doc>
<doc id="13825" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13825" title="Intersexuality">
Intersexuality

Intersex is a condition which occurs (though rarely) in species which use sexual reproduction. It refers to those individuals which have sexual characteristics midway between normal males and normal females. A term used increasingly is 'disorders of sex development' (DSD)s.
An individual's genitalia may be abnormal in some way. They may also have male and/or female secondary sex characteristics (such as body shape). Such a person may be called intersexual. A child born with genitalia atypical enough to call in an expert occurs in about 1 of 1,500 births. But there are many more subtle forms of sex anatomy, sex chromosome abnormalities for example. These don't even show physically. Some won't show up until later in life. On average about 1 in 100 babies are born whose bodies differ from standard male or female. About 1 or 2 in 1,000 babies have an intersex condition that requires some form of surgery. It can be difficult to determine if an intersex baby is genetically male or female (with XY chromosomes or XX chromosomes). Sometimes, the condition may appear when the baby reaches puberty or becomes an adult. More information on the frequency of different causes is available. 
Intersexual people are not hermaphrodites. That term is only used for animals which have both natural male and female organs. Society prefer to think of sex categories in simple terms of male, female and only occasionally intersex. However, there is a wide range of variation in sexual anatomy. It is difficult to determine where normal sexuality leaves off and intersexuality begins.
Most causes of intersexuality are congenital. That means people are born with it, usually because of a genetic condition. All development is governed by genes which regulate the process of growth.
The most common condition that causes intersexuality is a hormone condition. This causes genetically female fetuses to have a male body appearance, for example having a penis instead of a clitoris, and a scrotum instead of labia. This is because the babies' adrenal gland produces higher levels of androgen hormones (hormones that act like testosterone). This may cause the female baby to appear male even to doctors and parents.
Surgery may be used on intersexed babies to give function to the genitals or a more usual appearance. The surgery usually makes the baby look female, as this is less complicated. When they become adults, some people agree with this surgery as it made their life easier when they were a child. However, there is also currently a movement against such surgery, as others have said that these surgeries take their identities away from them without their consent.
The Intersex Society of America has a discussion about the uses of terms which some find helpful.

</doc>
<doc id="13832" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13832" title="Human gastrointestinal tract">
Human gastrointestinal tract

The gastrointestinal system is the body system that eats and digests food; it is also called a digestive system. By breaking down food into simple chemicals that can be absorbed by other parts of the body so the chemicals can be used for energy and building the body, it also gets rid of waste after digestion. The gastrointestinal system starts at the lips and ends at the anus. Animals like worms, insects, mammals, birds, fish, and people all have digestive systems.
The gastrointestinal tract is the "gut" and other organs that help us digest food.
The gut is the round tubes that food goes through and is digested.
The parts of the human, and some other animals, gut system are:
Other organs that are part of the gastrointestinal system but are "not" part of the gut are:
Food does not go through these organs. But they help the gut digest the food. They also have other work. For example, the pancreas, thyroid, liver, and parathyroids are also endocrine glands that make hormones like insulin.
There are many diseases that affect the gastrointestinal system. Doctors who study the gastrointestinal tract are called gastroenterologists. 

</doc>
<doc id="13833" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13833" title="Mouth">
Mouth

The mouth is an opening in the face is the first part of the alimentary canal (digestive system). It is the place where the chewing of food occurs. The mouth has teeth to help chew the food.
In addition to its primary role as the beginning of the digestive system, in humans the mouth also plays a significant role in communication. The tongue, lips, and jaw, which are parts of the mouth, are needed to produce the range of sounds included in human language. People also kiss and show their emotions with the mouth.

</doc>
<doc id="13852" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13852" title="Deacon">
Deacon

A deacon is a role in the Christian church. The job of a deacon is different depending on the church he or she is a part of. A deacon usually helps to run the church and teaches people about Christianity. A deacon can also witness marriages.
Men who intend to become priests are usually named deacons for some time before advancing onto the rank of priest.
In the Eastern Orthodox and Roman Catholic churches men are not allowed to marry after they have become deacons. Deacons in Protestant churches are allowed to marry. 
A protodeacon is an honorary rank given to certain married deacons in Eastern Christian churches. In the Russian Orthodox Church it is an honorary title given to married deacons, as a mark of which, the clergyman is entitled to wear a burgundy-colored skufia.

</doc>
<doc id="13859" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13859" title="Friedrich Engels">
Friedrich Engels

Friedrich Engels (28 November 1820 – 5 August 1895) was a German political thinker. With his friend Karl Marx, Engels wrote about Communism. They wrote the famous book "The Communist Manifesto" together.
Friedrich Engels was born in Germany in 1820. His father was a very rich factory owner, and sent Friedrich to England to run one of the factories. The way the workers were living at his father's factories made Engels upset with the class system. At about this time, he began to write about politics and workers' struggles.
In 1844 he met Karl Marx in France and the two became friends and began to write together. The two men worked together until Marx's death in 1883.
After Marx died, Engels spent the rest of his life editing and translating Marx' writings. He also wrote about women and marriage. He died of throat cancer in London in 1895.

</doc>
<doc id="13863" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13863" title="Dinner">
Dinner

Dinner is a word with a few different meanings.
In North America dinner usually means large meal that is eaten in early evening. Sometimes dinner can mean a meal eaten in the middle of the day. This meaning is more common in the Southern United States and the United Kingdom . 
A more formal definition of "dinner", especially outside North America, is any meal that has several courses. The minimum number of course is often regarded as two but there can be as many as seven. If there is only one course and it is the main meal of the day, then it is called dinner.
Dinner is very important to some cultures.

</doc>
<doc id="13865" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13865" title="Rosa Luxemburg">
Rosa Luxemburg

Rosa Luxemburg (March 5, 1870 or 1871 - January 15, 1919) was a Polish-born German Marxist. Her birth name was Rosalia "Luxenburg". She was born into a Jewish family. She was the fifth child of her parents. Her father was a wood trader/timber trader. His name was Eliasz Luxemburg III. Her mother's name was Line (maiden name: Löwenstein). She organised a socialist uprising in Germany but was killed by a right-wing group called the Freikorps. Rosa Luxemburg made many new communist ideas that continue to influence communism today. Rosa Luxemburg supported the Russian Revolution led by Lenin and Trotsky, but she saw them both as making undemocratic mistakes in organizing what was supposed to be a more democratic nation. She also insisted the freedom of assembly, freedom of the press, freedom of speech and abolition of death penalty. In 1913 she published a essay "The Accumulation of Capital" that urges that capital accumulation causes the imperialism. 

</doc>
