<doc id="30128" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30128" title="Knee">
Knee

The knee is the joint that links 4 of the upper and lower bones of the leg, which are called the femur, tibia, fibula and the patella. The knee joint is the largest joint in the body and is an extensive network of ligaments and muscles. Basically, it is a hinge which allows movement of the lower leg in only one direction. The lower leg (tibia+fibula+foot) can swing back from the knee, and that is all.
The knee is held together by ligaments which connect the bones and produces fluid which lubricates the movement at the joint. The meniscus is a cartilage 
that lies on the inner and outer edges of the upper surface of the tibia. These are the shock
absorbers of the knee and supply proper weight distribution.

</doc>
<doc id="30129" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30129" title="Atomic theory">
Atomic theory

In chemistry and physics, the atomic theory explains how our understanding of the atom has changed over time. Atoms were once thought to be the smallest pieces of matter. The first idea of the atom came from the Greek philosopher Democritus. A lot of the ideas in the modern theory came from John Dalton, a British chemist and physicist. 
The theory applies to solids, liquids and gases, but it does not apply in quite the same way to plasmas or neutron stars.
Democritus thought that if you cut something in half again and again, you would at last have to stop. He said that this last piece of matter could not be cut any smaller. Democritus called these small pieces of matter atoms, which means "indivisible". He thought that atoms would last forever, never change and could not be destroyed. Democritus thought that there was nothing between the atoms and that everything around us could be explained if we could understand how atoms worked.
In 1803, the English scientist John Dalton, born in Cumberland, reworked Democritus' theory, as follows:
Dalton defined the atom as the "basic unit of an element that can take part in a chemical combination".
In 1850, Sir William Crookes constructed a 'discharge tube', that is a glass tube with the air removed and metallic electrodes at its ends, connected to a high voltage source. When creating a vacuum in the tube, a light discharge can be seen that goes from the cathode (negatively-charged electrode) to the anode (positively-charged electrode). Crookes named the emission 'cathode rays'.
After the cathode ray experiments, Sir Joseph John Thomson established that the emitted ray was formed by negative charges, because they were attracted by the positive pole. Thomson knew that the atoms were electrically neutral, but he established that, for this to occur, an atom should have the same quantity of negative and positive charges. The negative charges were named "electrons" ("e"-).
According to the assumptions established about the atoms neutral charge, Thomson proposed the first atomic model, that was described as "a positively-charged sphere in which the electrons were inlaid (with negative charges)". It is known as the "plum pudding model".
In 1906, Robert Millikan determined that the electrons had a Coulomb (C) charge of -1.6 * 10, something that allowed calculation of its mass as tiny, equal to 9.109 * 10 kg.
In the same time, experiments by Eugene Goldstein in 1886 with cathode discharge tubes allowed him to establish that the positive charges had a mass of 1,6726 * 10 kg and an electrical charge of +1,6 * 10 C. Lord Ernest Rutherford later named these positively charged particles "protons"
In 1910, the New Zealand physicist Ernest Rutherford suggested that the positive charges of the atom were found mostly in its center, in the nucleus, and the electrons ("e"-) around it.
Rutherford showed this when he used an alpha radiation source (from helium) to hit the very thin gold sheets, surrounded by a Zinc sulphide lampshade that produced visible light when hit by alpha emissions. This experiment was called the Geiger–Marsden experiment or the Gold Foil Experiment
By this stage the main elements of the atom were clear, plus the discovery that atoms of an element may occur in isotopes. Isotopes vary in the number of neutrons present in the nucleus. Although this model was well understood, modern physics has developed further, and present-day ideas cannot be made easy to understand. Some idea of present-day atomic physics can be got from the links in the table below.
Atoms are "not</u/l>" elementary particles, because they are made of subatomic particles like protons and neutrons. Protons and neutrons are also not elementary particles because they are made up of even smaller particles called quarks joined together by other particles called gluons (because they "glue" the quarks together in the atom). Quarks "are" elementary because quarks cannot be broken down any further.

</doc>
<doc id="30130" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30130" title="Particle physics">
Particle physics

Particle physics is a category of physics that studies really tiny pieces of things, known as particles. These particles are the really small pieces that build up the world around us. 
Particles can carry fundamental forces. For example, the electromagnetic force is carried by photons. The four fundamental forces are responsible for almost everything in all of physics, including gravity, radioactive decay, and magnetism. These four forces are: electromagnetism, strong and weak nuclear, and gravity.
One of the important concepts of particle physics is called the Standard Model. The Standard Model is a theory which tries to explain the fundamental forces. The Standard Model combined with General Relativity is currently the most accepted explanation of how the Universe works. 
The Standard Model is known to have problems. For example, there is not much in it that explains gravity. This is why General Relativity, a different theory to explain how things have gravity, needs to be included in order for physicists to explain the universe. There is a lot of work to improve the theory and/or find a better theory that is being done. This work is often called theoretical particle physics, because none of it has been actually proven. Theoretical particle physicists make theories to try to improve the Standard Model. One example of this is how there are many theories that predict undiscovered particles.
Physicists find out about particles by studying collisions between different particles. A good analogy of how physicists study particles through colliding is the car crash example. Imagine a person wanted to look inside cars. By crashing two cars together at very high speeds, we can break the cars apart and see inside. In the same way, physicists crash two particles together in order to break them and study the inside.
If particles are moving at very high speeds, some of them will break apart when they collide. When they break, they create new smaller particles. These particles are very hard to find and detect because they decay (change into lighter particles) very quickly. Modern particle physics involves colliding particles together very energetically to create new particles inside a particle accelerator. This is called high-energy physics, due to the large amount of energy needed.
However, many particles do not simply break apart, such as electrons. Because it does not break apart, the electron is called a fundamental particle. If you were to smash two super-fast electrons against each other, they would not break, but instead they might create more particles around them without breaking (this is another form of decay, known as a hadron jet). The Standard Model says that there are 16 types of fundamental particles, but there are actually twice as many because they can all be created out of antimatter.
Particle physics can help us learn about the early universe, because conditions that are similar to the early universe (which was a much more energetic place than it is now) can be made in a small volume of space using the collisions of these particles. The biggest particle accelerator in the world is the Large Hadron Collider at CERN in Europe.

</doc>
<doc id="30131" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30131" title="X Japan">
X Japan

X Japan is a Japanese rock band. They were formed in 1982 by Yoshiki. They have sold over 30 million albums and singles and over 2 million videos to date. X Japan stopped making music in 1997, but reunited in 2007. They performed their first world tour live in Hong Kong in 2009. They played to 20,000 people in two days.
Some visual kei bands are influenced by X Japan. 
The band was first called "X" but because the letter X was already the name of another band they changed their name to "X Japan" to avoid confusion.

</doc>
<doc id="30132" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30132" title="State Anthem of the Soviet Union">
State Anthem of the Soviet Union

The State Anthem of the Soviet Union was the national anthem of the Soviet Union; it was first written in 1944, and was changed in 1977. This song replaced the old anthem, "The Internationale".
Below is the Russian and the English versions of the lyrics; both can be sung to the music. For the official versions in other languages of the Soviet Union, see other language versions.
1.
2.
3.
The official version of lyrics endorsed by CPSU:
1.
2.
3.
1.
2.
3.
The 1944 text had three different refrains following three different stanzas; in each refrain, the second line was consequently modified with references to friendship, then happiness and finally the glory. In 1977, these refrains were replaced by a uniform refrain following all stanzas.
Translated by Paul Robeson:
Another version:
"Note: These versions of the Anthem are a poetic interpretation of the Russian lyrics rather than a word-by-word translation.'
1.
2.
3.
Гимн партии большевиков
It is a non-Communist variant of the 1944 Soviet anthem.
It was not related to any of the above songs, except in the fact that it was a Russian anthem.

</doc>
<doc id="30136" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30136" title="Minimalism">
Minimalism

Minimalism is a way of making modern art or music that uses simple ideas, sounds or shapes. It was most popular in America in the 1960s and 1970s. There are many different kinds of minimalism. Sometimes a simple thing is repeated many times until it seems very complicated. Today minimalism can be used to talk about many things such as design, architecture, poetry, and movies.
In music, minimalism is a way of composing classical music which became popular during the second half of the 20th century. It is a way of composing by using a simple idea which is repeated many times. A minimalist piece of music usually takes a short idea which may be a melodic or a rhythmic pattern. This idea is then repeated many times, but each time it changes slightly. Sometimes this may be done by two or more instruments which start off by playing their notes or chords together but, as one is going slightly faster than the other, they gradually become “out of sync” (not synchronized, i.e. not together), then eventually they catch up with one another again. Usually this music is tonal so that it is firmly in one key. "A steady pulse is kept throughout the whole piece." 
Composers who wrote minimalist music include Steve Reich (b.1936), Philip Glass (b.1937) and Terry Riley (b.1935). Other composers like John Adams (b.1947) have also used minimalist ways of composing, but they combined these with other techniques, so that their music is not just minimalist.
Minimalist music became popular in the 1960s and 1970s. Minimalist composers started writing like this, also because a lot of new music at that time was very complicated and hard to understand. It was often serial music which was atonal with no obvious melodies or ideas that were easy to remember.
Minimalist music is not necessarily simple. It can have a kind of hypnotic effect, but this is part of what the composer wants. Reich’s "Clapping Music" just consists of hand : there is no melody. He was thinking of African drum music when he wrote it. Two performers begin by clapping a rhythm together. After 13 seconds the second performer leaves out the first quaver (eighth note) and puts it at the end of the second bar (measure). After another 13 seconds this happens again so that in the end the two performers are together again. This music has to be listened to in a different way from other kinds of music.
Minimalism in visual art, sometimes referred to as "literalist art" and "ABC Art" emerged in New York in the 1960s. As a product it had much in common with earlier geometric abstraction and suprematism.
The term "minimalism" was not generally embraced by the artists associated with it, and many practitioners of art called minimalist by critics did not identify it as a movement as such.
One of the first artists specifically associated with Minimalism was the painter, Frank Stella, whose early "stripe" paintings were highlighted in the 1959 show, "16 Americans", organized by Dorothy Miller at the Museum of Modern Art in New York. The width of the stripes in Frank Stellas's stripe paintings were determined by the dimensions of the lumber, visible as the depth of the painting when viewed from the side, used to construct the supportive chassis upon which the canvas was stretched. The decisions about structures on the front surface of the canvas were therefore not entirely subjective, but pre-conditioned by a "given" feature of the physical construction of the support. In the show catalog, Carl André noted, "Art excludes the unnecessary. Frank Stella has found it necessary to paint stripes. There is nothing else in his painting". 
These reductive works were in sharp contrast to the energy-filled and emotionally-charged expressionist paintings of Willem de Kooning or Franz Kline. 
They leaned more towards the controlled, somber "color field" paintings of Barnett Newman and Mark Rothko. Although Stella received immediate attention from the MOMA show, artists like Kenneth Noland, Ralph Humphrey, Robert Motherwell and Robert Ryman had begun to explore stripes, monochromatic and hard-edge formats from the late 50s through the 1960s.

</doc>
<doc id="30137" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30137" title="Igor Stravinsky">
Igor Stravinsky

Igor Stravinsky was born in Lomonosov (then Oranienbaum), 17 June 1882 and died in New York, 6 April 1971. He was one of the most important composers of the 20th century, and a leader in modernism in music. He was brought up in Russia. When the Russian Revolution started he moved to Switzerland and then to Paris, and finally, when World War II started in 1939, he moved to the United States.
Stravinsky wrote music in different styles. At first he wrote music similar to his teacher Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov. He loved his native Russian music. He wrote music which had very complicated chords and rhythms. It is lively music, and some of his best known works of this kind were written for the "Ballets Russes" of Sergei Diaghilev: "The Firebird", "Petrushka", "The Rite of Spring", "Les noces", "Pulcinella" and "Apollo musagète". They were written from 1910 to 1928.
Then he changed his style and wrote in what is called a “neo-classical” way. He based it on music from the Classical music period but changed it. His only full-length opera "The Rake's Progress" was written in this way. In his later years he wrote serial music.
Igor was the third of four children, all boys. As a child he spent the winter months in St Petersburg and the summers in the country where several of his relatives on his mother’s side had large estates.
Igor was not particularly good at school, but he often went to see the operas in which his father Fyodor was performing. Fyodor was an opera singer with a fine bass voice. He sang at the opera house in Kiev and later at the Mariinsky Theatre in St Petersburg. Igor also went to ballets and even heard Tchaikovsky conduct in 1893, at the end of his life. 
For a time Stravinsky studied law at the university of St Petersburg, but gave up in 1906. Then he married one of his cousins. They soon had a son and a daughter.
Meanwhile, since his school days, Igor played the piano, and had lessons in harmony and counterpoint. He enjoyed improvising and he started to be interested in composing. He wrote some short piano pieces and showed them to the composer Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov, the father of a friend. Rimsky-Korsakov told him he ought to continue to have private music lessons instead of going to the conservatoire. Shortly after this, Stravinsky’s father died. Igor went to stay with Rimsky-Korsakov. He met many musical people there, and Rimsky-Korsakov taught him how to write for the different instruments. In 1905, he began to take twice-weekly private lessons from Rimsky-Korsakov, whom he came to regard as a second father. These lessons continued until Rimsky-Korsakov's death in 1908.
In 1908 Rimsky-Korsakov died. Stravinsky met Sergei Diaghilev, the ballet impresario. Diaghilev wanted to put on performances of new operas and ballets. He needed a composer to write the music and saw that Stravinsky might be the ideal person. He asked him to write music for a ballet called "The Firebird", which was a Russian fairytale. Stravinsky wrote it at Rimsky-Korsakov’s country house and finished it in St Petersburg. The ballet was first performed at the Paris Opéra on 25 June 1910 by the Ballets Russes who were very famous in Europe. Mikhail Fokin was the choreographer. It has remained one of Stravinsky’s most famous pieces of music. Some of the music is often performed in a concert hall without the dancing. This version is called a “suite” (literally “a collection of dances”). It shows his love of Russian folk melody.
The success of "The Firebird" made Stravinsky world famous. His music was especially well known in Europe, and in Paris where the Ballets Russes were based. The next work Stravinsky wrote for them was "Petrouchka". It was the story of a puppet which comes to life. It was performed in Paris on 13 June 1911 and became just as famous as "The Firebird". This music, too, is often performed as a concert piece. Stravinsky also made an arrangement of three of the dances for piano solo. It is very hard to play and needs a virtuoso pianist.
Stravinsky was becoming well known among musicians. His friends included Debussy and Ravel. He met Schoenberg in Berlin and was very impressed by his piece called "Pierrot Lunaire". He spent a lot of his time with his family in Switzerland where he had peace and quiet to compose.
On 29 May 1913 a new ballet by Stravinsky called "The Rite of Spring" was performed at the Théâtre des Champs-Elysées in Paris. It was an absolute sensation. Some people loved it and others hated it. There was a big fight in the theatre and the police were called in. People were shouting so much that no one could hear the music. Stravinsky became ill afterwards and spent some weeks to recover. When the ballet was performed again people were quieter and listened to the music. There were lots of new ideas in the music: harsh chords and very complicated rhythms. The music of "The Rite of Spring" had an great influence on the development of music in the 20th century.
Stravinsky’s next idea for a ballet was "Les noces", French for 'The Wedding'. Stravinsky went back to Russia to collect some things that would help him to compose it. When he returned to Switzerland World War I started.
Stravinsky’s family spent most of their time in Switzerland during the war. He was short of money because there was no more income from the Russian estates. The Ballets Russes could not perform any more in Paris. Stravinsky spent a lot of time working at "Les Noces". He finished it in 1917 and played it to Diaghilev. It was another six years before it was performed. Stravinsky eventually chose to arrange it for four pianos, percussion, chorus and vocal soloists. It was performed at the Théâtre de la Gaîté Lyrique on 13 June 1923.
Because Switzerland was neutral in the war, Stravinsky was able to travel. He went to Italy where he met Gerald Tyrwhitt (who later became Lord Berners) and Prokofiev. He wrote "Reynard" and "Rag-Time". He performed in America with Ballets Russes.
When the Russian Revolution broke out in February 1917 Stravinsky thought this would be good, but when the Bolshevik Revolution followed it became obvious that he would never be able to go back to Russia. He wrote "L’histoire du soldat" ("The Soldier’s Tale"). It was performed in Lausanne with Ernest Ansermet conducting. There would have been more performances but many people had influenza. When the war ended Stravinsky decided to move to France. He wrote a ballet called "Pulcinella" which was based on music by the 18th century composer Pergolesi. It was performed at the Paris Opéra on 15 May 1920. For some years Igor became interested in the music of the late 18th century, and the style of his work after 1920 is often described as neoclassical.
In 1920 Stravinsky’s family moved from Stravinsky to Brittany, then the following year they moved to Biarritz. Stravinsky composed a piece called "Symphonies for Wind Instruments". It was soon performed in London at a concert which also included "The Rite of Spring", conducted by Eugene Goossens in the Queen's Hall. He met a theatre designer called Serge Soudeikine and fell madly in love with Vera, who would later become his second wife. Meanwhile, his first wife, Katerina, was in a sanitorium suffering from tuberculosis. Vera and Stravinsky saw one another as much as possible for the next 18 years. Meanwhile Stravinsky’s mother managed to get out of Russia and she joined Stravinsky’s family in Biarritz. Stravinsky had to support a large family, and he decided he needed to work more as a conductor and pianist instead of composing large works. He composed smaller pieces, including the piano version of three dances from "Petrouchka". Later, when his son was grown up, he composed a Concerto for two solo pianos for himself to play with his son. He did not compose any more for the Ballets Russes, but he did compose "Oedipus rex" as a special tribute to them. This work was a mixture of opera and oratorio. The words were in Latin and were written by Jean Cocteau. It was performed as a concert performance. Although he did not write for Diaghilev any more, he accepted an invitation from Ida Rubinstein to write a ballet called "Le baiser de la fée" ("The fairy’s kiss") which was based on music by Tchaikovsky. Diaghilev was annoyed, but then he died in 1929 and the Ballets Russes company no longer carried on.
In 1926 Stravinsky, who belonged to the Russian Orthodox Church, had a deep religious experience which effected his music. The best of these religious pieces is the "Symphony of Psalms", written for the Boston Symphony Orchestra’s 50th birthday celebrations.
Stravinsky met the violinist Dushkin and composed a "Violin Concerto" as well as the "Duo concertante" for violin and piano which the two musicians played together at many concerts. He became more and more in demand in the United States and wrote several works for American people. He was offered a job as professor at Harvard University. At this time a lot of his family were ill. Then his daughter died, his wife died and his mother died. He was ill himself. Then, by September 1939, just as World War II started, he was well enough to travel to North America.
Stravinsky was immediately invited to conduct many concerts in America. Vera arrived in America four months later and she and Stravinsky were married in Bedford, Massachusetts. They applied for American citizenship and settled in Hollywood. He was quite short of money and he accepted any invitation to compose music. He even accepted a private pupil.
Stravinsky composed a mass. It was not commissioned, he just wanted to compose it. It was performed in La Scala, Milan, in 1948 conducted by Ansermet. He then decided to compose a full-length opera in English. This was "The Rake’s Progress". It was first performed in Venice in 1951. It is the best of his works in the neo-classical style. Another work from this period is his "Symphony in C". It shows a different way of composing tonal music to the tonal works of classical composers.
He met a musician called Robert Craft who came to live with the family and helped Stravinsky sort out his compositions and papers. He was surprised to find that Stravinsky never visited Schoenberg, who only lived a few streets away. After Schoenberg died in 1951 Craft encouraged Stravinsky to listen to Schoenberg’s serial music. Soon Stravinsky started to use serialism in his own compositions. Craft travelled with Stravinsky and helped him a great deal, for example, by conducting some of the concerts, or rehearsing the orchestras before Stravinsky came.
In 1962 he was invited to the White House by President Kennedy. In the same year he returned to Russia for a visit. He had not been there for nearly half a century. It was a great success, and people in the USSR became more interested in Stravinsky’s music. It made Stravinsky very happy to know that Russians were interested in him again.
During his last years he became rather ill. "Threni" is one of his last compositions. It is a setting of the parts of the Lamentations of Jeremiah for voices and orchestra. He composed other religious works including "Requiem Canticles". In 1969 he moved with his family to New York where he died two years later.
Stravinsky was buried in Venice, near Diaghilev’s grave.

</doc>
<doc id="30147" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30147" title="Emilio de Villota">
Emilio de Villota

Emilio de Villota Ruíz (born in Madrid, July 26, 1946) is a former racing driver from Spain. He participated in 15 Formula One World Championship Grands Prix, debuting on May 2, 1976. He scored no championship points.
In 2005, he participated in Formula Palmer Audi driving a Mapfre's car (nº7)

</doc>
<doc id="30148" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30148" title="TAE connector">
TAE connector

TAE (Telekommunikations-Anschluss-Einheit) is the German standard for telephone plugs and sockets.
The standard covers two TAE types: "F" ("Fernsprechgerät": for telephones) and "N" ("Nebengerät": for other devices such as answering machines and modems).

</doc>
<doc id="30150" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30150" title="Technological singularity">
Technological singularity

The technological singularity is the idea that a machine or computer, or a group of machines and computers, will one day be smarter than humans.
Because it has not happened yet, nobody really knows what the technological singularity will do, or if it will even happen. Nonetheless, the technological singularity has been a subject in many science fiction works, such as "The Terminator", "The Matrix", and the Borg in "Star Trek". In most depictions of the singularity, machines have consciousness and humans are considered to be useless. The futurist and inventor Ray Kurzweil believes the "Singularity" will happen about the year 2045. The major impetus driving toward the singularity, according to Kurzweil, is that according to Moore's Law, computers are doubling in memory capacity every 18 months. According to Kurzweil, by 2025, computers will be as intelligent as human beings (see artificial intelligence).

</doc>
<doc id="30152" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30152" title="Mew (Pokémon)">
Mew (Pokémon)

Mew (ミュウ, Myuu) is a fictional character from the "Pokémon" franchise. In the "Pokémon" video games, it is a Psychic-type secret Pokémon that was discovered in the first group of Pokémon games: "Pokémon Red and Blue", "Green", and "Yellow". Mew is the "Red/Blue/Green/Yellow" counterpart to the "Gold/Silver/Crystal" Celebi and the "Ruby/Sapphire/Emerald" Jirachi.
The name "Mew" refers to the sound made by a cat. Mew was secretly put in the game by one of the lead programmers, Shigeki Morimoto. When the Game Freak president, Satoshi Tajiri, found out about it, he told about it being in the game.
Mew is #151 in the Pokédex and could only be obtained through special events or by using a cheating device like Gameshark, or a game-enhancing device.
Mewtwo is a "Genetic" species of Pokémon that is number 150 in the Pokédex. Mewtwo was cloned from Mew by scientists. It is a Psychic type Pokémon. Mewtwo appeared in two movies: "" and "".
In "Pokémon Red and Blue" the player first learns of Mewtwo by research papers left in a ruined laboratory on Cinnabar Island. Mewtwo is told to be a mutant child of Mew made after years of work by one scientist. Mewtwo is obtainable in the Cerulean Cave, which opens after defeating the Elite Four. In the remakes "Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen" the player now has to get 60 Pokédex entries before they can go in the cave. 
In Pokémon X and Y, Mewtwo can be found in the Unknown Dungeon after entering the Hall of Fame. It can Mega Evolve into two different forms: Mega Mewtwo X using Mewtwonite X and Mega Mewtwo Y using Mewtwonite Y.
Mewtwo is a character in "Super Smash Bros. Melee", and is one of eleven playable characters that can be unlocked in the game. It uses the moves Shadow Ball, Confusion, Teleport, and Disable 

</doc>
<doc id="30153" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30153" title="Avignon">
Avignon

Avignon is a city on the Rhône River in the south of France. The city is the administrative capital of the Vaucluse. 
The first foundations of the city were around 539 before the birth of Christ.
During the Middle Ages, the city was the seat of the popes. 
Today, a very well preserved old city remains, also the Palais of the Popes, and the Bridge ("Pont d'Avignon") are worth a visit.

</doc>
<doc id="30154" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30154" title="Marseille">
Marseille

Marseille is a city in the south of France in the Bouches-du-Rhône department. About 1.7 million people live in the metropolitan area, and about 850,000 in the city itself. This makes it the second largest city in France by number of people. It is the third largest by size. Marseille is all in the south, just at the Mediterranean sea. It has the biggest commercial port in France. The port is one of the most important ones in the Mediterranean. 
Although part of the region of Provence, Marseilles has a soul of its own. Founded in 600 B.C. by the Greek sailors of Phocaea, this city is the oldest in France and probably the most complex. 
The city was started around 600 BC by Greek sailors from (modern day) Foça. This was a Greek colony in Asia Minor. It is in what is now Turkey.
Marseille has a hot-summer Mediterranean climate ("Csa" in the Koeppen climate classification).

</doc>
<doc id="30155" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30155" title="Halo 2">
Halo 2

Halo 2 is an award winning first-person shooter video game made by Bungie Studios and published by Microsoft for its own Xbox console. It was released all over the world on November 9, 2004. It is the second game in the Halo series the first being and the third being Halo 3. A Windows Vista version of the game was released in 2007. 
The game's story is based around a future war between a fictional alien race known as "the covenant" and the human race. The player takes the role of Master Chief, a genetically enhanced "super soldier" who fights for mankind. The player is helped in their fight against the Covenant by human marines. The game had many features that weren't in the original Halo such as extra vehicles, weapons and a greatly improved multiplayer mode, including the ability to play over Xbox Live. 
"Halo 2" was the most popular Xbox Live game on its release. It held that title until the release of Gears of War nearly two years later. By June 20, 2006 over 500 million games of Halo 2 had been played over Xbox Live. It was, and still is, the best selling Xbox game of all time with over 8 million copies sold worldwide. It broke sales records in the US, many of which were only broken by its sequel Halo 3 in 2007. The Windows Vista version in 2007 was less successful as the fact it was released 3 years after the Xbox version gained many negative reviews.
"Halo 2" is a science fiction first-person shooter based mostly on foot but with vehicle combat sections. "Halo 2" has many features that were not in the original Halo. In Halo 2 players have the option to use two weapons at once, called dual wielding. This allowes the player much more firepower but does not allow the throwing of grenades. The player can hold up to two weapons at once or three when dual wielding. Weapons range from normal human weapons such as pistols and shotguns up to heavy weapons like rocket launchers and sniper rifles. The player can also carry alien weapons like "plasma rifles" and "needlers".
The story mode continues the story started in . There are nine levels in the story, split between controlling Master Chief and the alien Arbiter. There are four difficulties to the campaign "easy", "standard", "heroic" and "legendary" Completing them unlocks extras such as different dialogue in certain sections of the game, and extra weapons in split-screen multiplayer. There are various 'skulls' at hidden parts of the levels, as in Halo 3. These skulls unlock helpful and or strange differences in the levels such as confetti and balloons appearing when the player scores a headshot. The story can be played two player on the same console but not over Xbox Live. 
Halo 2 allows up to four players to play on the same console or up to sixteen over Xbox Live. The game was influential in changing the way games played over the internet. Before in most online multiplayer games, one player was the "host" who used their own connection for the game and chose the settings, gametype etc. In Halo 2, and most games since, players choose a type of game they want to play and the game matches them with players of their own ability on a randomly chosen map.
Some weapons and vehicles available in the story mode were not available in multiplayer as they would be too powerful and 'unbalance' the game.
The game is set in the same fictional world as the rest of the Halo series. Much of the game takes place in the future year 2552, over 500 years from now. In the storyline humans have developed faster than light travel, and now live on many planets and moons of the Solar System. On humanity's first try to build a settlement on a planet around another star they met the alien "Covenant". The Covenant declared religious war on humanity. At the start of Halo 2 humans are losing the war and the Covenant have just discovered Earth. 
The Halo of the game's title is the name of a series of planets 'built' by a mysterious race called the "Forerunners" a long time before the game. The Halo's are the last defence against another alien race known as "the Flood". The Flood want to use every living thing in the galaxy for food. The Halo's are actually giant super weapons, that when activated kill all life in the galaxy. This is the only way to stop the Flood, to starve them by killing all their food. The Covenant are not aware of this and are attempting to fire Halos as part of a false religious prophecy. In the first Halo game, , the humans and Master Chief manage to stop the Covenant from firing one of the Halos. They also destroy one of them in the process. Just before "Halo 2" begins the covenant discover another Halo that can only be got through a found near Earth. 
The game opens with the torture of an alien, the leader of the Elites. He is being tortured by the covenant because he failed to stop Master Chief destroying the first Halo in the original game. The Elite commander is branded by the leader of the Brutes, another part of the Covenant. The player then takes control of Master Chief, on board a spacecraft orbiting the Earth when the massive Covenant fleet arrives. The Covenant have come to take the portal that will allow them to get to the new Halo so they can fire it. The Covenant board the ship the player is aboard, and attempt to plant bombs to disable it and the other ships in the human fleet. The player must fight through Covenant forces to disable the bombs. Once this is complete the human ship heads off, following the Covenant flagship that just flew past. Meanwhile, in the cutscene we see the former elite commander being made into a religious warrior known as "the Arbiter" to make up for his failure to stop Master Chief in the original Halo. 
In another cutscene a human ship with Master Chief,Johnson and Cortana aboard follows the covenant ship through the portal to the new Halo. The player must now take control of Chief as he battles to stop the Covenant from firing the ring. Eventually the player kills the Prophet of Regret, a Covenant leader, and stops the Halo from being fired. Unfortunately before the player can recover the Index, the control for firing the Halo, they are captured by the leader of the Flood, known as "the Gravemind". In a cutscene we see the new Arbiter sent down to the Halo to recover the Index before Chief can destroy it. When he arrives though, he and his followers are betrayed and their former allies begin to attack. Here the player must control Arbiter and his followers as they attempt to escape the betrayal and ambush. The arbiter is eventually also captured by the Gravemind and meets up with Master Chief. The two of them break free of Gravemind, whose Flood followers have now taken over a huge Covenant ship called "High Charity". Arbiter and Chief, now controlled by the player again, race to the Halo control to stop the Covenant from firing the ring one last time. They are successful in stopping the Covenant, but the Prophet of Truth, the last of their leaders escapes on a spacecraft unharmed. Chiefs AI companion Cortana stays behind on the Halo, promising to destroy it if any Covenant ever return. Chief and the Arbiter part ways with Chief hiding out on a fleeing Covenant ship and the Arbiter and his followers returning to "High Charity" in an attempt to save it from the Flood.
"Halo 2" was officially announced in 2002. A gameplay video was shown at E3 2003. The video showed new features in the game such as dual wielding and the improved graphics. According to Bungie, the cliffhanger ending of the games story was not originally intended but was a result of the rush to get the game out on time.
Halo 2 was first released in North America and Australia on November 9, 2004. It was launched in Europe a day later on November 10. Demand was high for the game and over 1.5 million copies were sold on pre-orders alone. It was the highest earning entertainment product launch of all time in the US, earning $125 million in its first 24 hours. It held this record until the release of its sequel Halo 3. Halo 2 has sold over 8 million copies in the US making it the best selling original Xbox game of all time.
From the day of its release until 2006, 2 years later, Halo 2 was the most played game on Xbox Live. It was eventually beaten by the Xbox 360 game Gears of War. 
The game was reviewed as excellent by most of the media. The sound work such as the dialogue and soundtrack was often praised.
The game received an average score of 95% on Metacritic, a website that puts together many reviews from different sources. The games multiplayer was often seen as a good point, making full use of the then new Xbox Live service. Bad aspects pointed out included the short length of the story mode and the cliffhanger ending.

</doc>
<doc id="30161" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30161" title="Actuary">
Actuary

Actuaries are people who are experts in mathematics, probability, economics, and finance who figure out how much money businesses should charge for making promises to pay for something that may or may not happen.
Hundreds of years ago, when people got sick or died, it cost a lot of money to take care of them or bury them. People had the idea of joining their money together to help each other out. This was called pooling. Eventually, people started to make a business out of collecting enough money to help people who had big problems.
Figuring out how much money needed to be collected from people to be used if problems happened was not easy. Over hundreds of years, the math needed for this was developed by many people from all over the world.
Today, actuaries use computers to figure out problems that were too difficult before.
Actuaries now work in many places. Most work for insurance companies, but others work in all kinds of finance companies. Actuaries still figure out how much money needs to be paid for life insurance, as well as other kinds of money promises, like pensions, car insurance, house insurance, and similar.
Actuaries also work with companies to figure out if making certain business deals are a good idea, since actuaries work with figuring out what the probabilities are of different business situations happening.
People who want to be actuaries need to take many tests. The tests are not the same in different parts of the world.

</doc>
<doc id="30164" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30164" title="Thesaurus">
Thesaurus

A thesaurus is a dictionary of synonyms (words that have the same or similar meaning). Thesauruses (or thesauri) often include related words that mean almost the same thing. Some thesauruses also include antonyms (words that have the opposite meaning).
For example, by looking up the word "big" in a thesaurus, someone would find a list of other similar words such as "huge" and "massive". If the thesaurus also has a list of antonyms, the person could also find words which mean the opposite, like "small" and "tiny". 
Many students and writers use a thesaurus to help them find words when they are writing. Using a thesaurus can help a person to improve their vocabulary (the number of words that they know).

</doc>
<doc id="30170" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30170" title="Boom">
Boom

A boom can mean different things:

</doc>
<doc id="30171" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30171" title="Rumble">
Rumble

Rumble can mean different things:

</doc>
<doc id="30184" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30184" title="Bass (fish)">
Bass (fish)

Bass is the name of some species (types) of fish that are often caught for food or sport. There are freshwater bass (that live in rivers and lakes) and saltwater bass (that live in the ocean). Many bass live in or near North America. Bass are from the order of Perciformes or "perch-like fish". Their name comes from the word for perch.
Some well-known bass species are:
Many other species are also called basses, such as:

</doc>
<doc id="30193" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30193" title="Roxette">
Roxette

Roxette is a Swedish pop music group formed in 1986. The band has 2 members, Per Gessle and Marie Fredriksson. Their song "It Must Have Been Love" was one of the most sold singles by the duo. It was released first as a Christmas song in 1987 and then as an "ordinary song" in 1990. In 1991, Roxette release the very popular album "Joyride". For this album, they went on tour worldwide, playing 107 concerts. "The Look" and "Listen To Your Heart", are other popular songs by Roxette. They are very popular in South America and Europe.
They have released 8 studio albums and 9 compilation albums. One album, "Baladas En Español", was sung in Spanish.
 

</doc>
<doc id="30200" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30200" title="Hindu scripture">
Hindu scripture

The Hindu scriptures are a number of books and other texts which tell about Hinduism and Hindu mythology. They are sacred literature for Hindus. Important Hindu scriptures include the following:
Two epics (very important pieces), the Ramayana and the Mahabharata, are also important Hindu scriptures. 
All above sacred literature or scriptures are written in Sanskrit language. 
Besides the above, there are several other works that are sacred literature of Hindus. Many of them are written in other languages of India such as Tamil and Hindi.

</doc>
<doc id="30204" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30204" title="Aum">
Aum

Om (also spelled Aum), is the most sacred symbol in Hinduism. Hindu scriptures tell many things about this symbol. In Hinduism, Om is like calling god's name towards you. This name is generally said three times, before chanting any prayers. Om is usually related to the Hindu God Shiva, who is the destroyer god.

</doc>
<doc id="30213" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30213" title="Norfolk Island">
Norfolk Island

Norfolk Island (Norfuk: Norfuk Ailen) is a territory of Australia. It is in the South Pacific Ocean between Australia, New Zealand, and New Caledonia. It was one of the first British settlements in the Pacific. Twice it was used as a penal colony. People from Pitcairn Island were moved to Norfolk Island. It is now a popular place for holidays.
Norfolk Island is a small volcanic island. Its size is about by . It is about northeast of Sydney, and north of Auckland. Most of the island is above the level of the sea. There are two high points on the island about above sea level. South of Norfolk are two smaller islands, Nepean Island and Phillip Island.
The first people to visit Norfolk Island were probably from New Zealand. The first European settlers found parts of a canoe and stone axes. Later work by archaeologists in 1995, found the remains of a house in the sand dunes at Emily Bay. It was lived in from about 1200 AD to about 1600 AD. Scientists do not know why the people left the island.
Norfolk Island was first discovered by Captain James Cook on October 10, 1774. He was on his second trip around the world in his ship, the "Resolution". He landed on the island which was uninhabited (there was no one living there). He found a flax plant (Phormium tenax) and large trees, now called Norfolk Island Pines (Araucaria heterophylla). He thought the flax could be used to make cloth for ship sails and the pine trees would make good masts for ships. He used one of the trees to make a new top mast for the "Resolution". Cook wrote about the island in his book, "A Voyage towards the South Pole", printed in London in 1777.
The British government sent Captain Arthur Phillip with the First Fleet to start a penal colony in Australia in 1788. He was told start a small settlement on Norfolk Island as soon as possible to stop other European countries from claiming the island. The French ships, "L'Astrolabe" and "La Boussole", commanded by La Pérouse, visited the island in early 1778. They could not land because the waves were too big and rough. La Pérouse thought the island was only suitable for "angels and eagles".
The first European settlers on Norfolk Island arrived on March 3, 1788. After two days looking around the island, the settlers landed at Emily Bay, part of Sydney Bay, on March 6. This day is now celebrated as "Foundation Day". They had come on the "HMS Supply", from the new settlement at Sydney, New South Wales. Philip Gidley King was in charge of a small group of 21 people, including 15 convicts, (9 men and 6 women). The convicts were to be people of the best character and included Richard Widdicombe aged 72, and Charles McLennan aged 16. The settlers were:
During the first year of the settlement, which was also called Sydney, more convicts and soldiers were sent from New South Wales. A second village was started at Ball Bay, named after the captain of "HMS Supply", Lieutenant Henry Lidgbird Ball. On January 8, 1789, the first child was born, Norfolk King, the son of Philip Gidley King and a convict, Ann Inett.
In March 1790, Governor Arthur Phillip decided to send King to England with important messages about the settlements in Australia. Phillip sent Major Robert Ross, in charge of the soldiers at Sydney, to Norfolk Island to take over from King. Food was running out in Sydney, so Phillip also sent two companies of soldiers, five free women and children, 183 convicts and 27 children of convicts. Phillip hoped there would be more food on Norfolk Island. They were sent on two ships, "HMS Sirius" and "HMS Supply".
On March 19, "HMS Sirius", smashed into one of the reefs in Sydney Bay, Norfolk Island. No one was hurt, and Captain John Hunter was able to get all the people and most of the supplies safely to land.
"HMS Supply" went back to Sydney, and Major Ross was left with over 500 people on the island. He quickly did things to make sure there would be enough food. Anyone taking food, or killing animals for food, without his permission, would be hanged. They were saved from starvation by the annual arrival of a sea bird, a petrel (Pterodroma melanopus), which nested in holes in the ground. Between 2000-3000 birds were killed for food every night. They were also able to eat their eggs. They called the petrel the "Bird of Providence", because they thought God must have sent the bird to save them. People also ate the tops of the palm trees. In August, two ships arrived, the "Justinian" and the "Surprize", which brought more food and 200 more convicts.
King got back to Norfolk Island in November 1791, and Ross went back to Sydney. More convicts were sent to the island, and by September 1792 there were 1,115 people living there. King started building another landing place at Cascade Bay, which meant ships had a choice, depending on which way the wind was blowing. The convicts had difficulty in making things from the flax plants. Two Maori men were captured in New Zealand and taken to Norfolk to teach the convicts how to use the flax. The two men, Hoodoo and Toogee, did not know much about flax; in New Zealand this was a task done by the women. King had the men taken back to New Zealand six months later.
By 1796, had been cleared of trees and crops planted. These crops included maize, wheat, potatoes, sugar cane, bananas, guavas, lemons, apples and coffee. Farms animals included 12 cattle, 6 horses, 12 donkeys, 374 sheep, 772 goats and 14,624 pigs. There were two schools and an orphanage for little girls. King had been in poor health and went back to Sydney, and Captain Townson, from the New South Wales Corps, became the new Lieutenant-Governor.
When Joseph Foveaux arrived as Lieutenant Governor in 1800, he found the settlement quite run down. Not much had been done to keep it in good condition for four years. He began fixing buildings and other public works and tried to improve education.
In 1794, King suggested closing Norfolk Island as a penal colony. It was too far away from New South Wales, it was hard for ships to land there, and it cost too much to keep it going. In 1803, the Secretary of State, Lord Hobart, called for the moving everyone to Van Diemen's Land, because of the cost and the difficulties of travel between Norfolk Island and Sydney. The settlers did not want to move, they had worked hard to clear the land and set up their farms. They wanted the government to pay them for having to move. King, now Governor of New South Wales, did not want everyone moved, he thought it would make a good prison for bad convicts from New South Wales. It could also be a place to supply whaling ships, or grow coffee.
The British government decided to close down the island. The first group of 159 people left for Van Diemen's Land in February 1805, mainly convicts and their families, and the soldiers. Between November 1807 and September 1808, most of the people were moved. By March 1810 there were only 117 left. In 1813 the last settlers were taken to Van Diemens's Land, the soldiers were taken to Sydney. The British government did not want another country to be able to settle on the island so a small group stayed behind to kill all the animals that were left and destroy all buildings. In February 1814, the last people left on the ship, "Kangaroo". Only a few wild pigs and goats were left.
In 1825 the British government decided to set up a new convict prison on Norfolk Island. This was to be a prison for convicts from New South Wales who continued to break the law. The Governor of New South Wales, Sir Thomas Brisbane wanted it to be place from which there would be no return. It was to be the worst punishment short of death. Many of the convicts were lashed with a nine tailed whip. This could be as many as 300 lashes at one time, and many had been lashed over 1000 times. Because it was to be a prison, there were no free settlers allowed on the island, and there were no women prisoners. Only government ships, or ships in distress, were allowed to land at the island.
After the prison was closed, the British government gave the island to the people from Pitcairn Island. Pitcairn, with only 30 hectares of land suitable for farming, could no longer cope with a large population. All 194 people were moved to Norfolk in 1856. These people were descendants of the mutineers from HMS Bounty. They arrived on the island on 8 June 1856, and the anniversary is celebrated every year as Bounty Day.
Norfolk Island has a humid subtropical climate ("Cfa" in the Köppen climate classification).

</doc>
<doc id="30216" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30216" title="Atlas (mythology)">
Atlas (mythology)

Atlas is a Titan in Greek mythology. He is the son of Iapetos. He has seven daughters with the Oceanid Pleione. They are called the Pleiades.
After the war between the Titans and the Olympians, Atlas was punished. Zeus forced him to hold the heaven on the western edge of the world. Later, the story about him changed and it was said that he held the whole world on his shoulders. Mostly in modern times, he is shown holding a globe of the world. 
Heracles came to Atlas and asked him to for help with one of his Labours. He wanted Atlas to get the "Golden Apples" for him. Atlas agreed, but only if Heracles would hold up the sky. Atlas was pleased to be free from its weight but Heracles tricked him into holding it again. 
Perseus also came to Atlas for help after killing Medusa. He asked for food, and Atlas said he could not help. Perseus was angry and showed him the Medusa's head (which was able to turn people to stone). Atlas then became the Atlas Mountains. 
The name Atlas means "Hard and Enduring."

</doc>
<doc id="30224" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30224" title="El Paso, Texas">
El Paso, Texas

El Paso is a city in the U.S. state of Texas (near Ciudad Juarez, Chihuahua, Mexico). It is in El Paso County and is the county seat (the city where the county is governed). It is at the western end of Texas, and is along Interstate 10. The name comes from El Paso de Norte, meaning The Passageway to the North, which was shortened to El Paso.

</doc>
<doc id="30260" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30260" title="Ecosystem">
Ecosystem

An ecosystem is a large community of living organisms (plants, animals and microbes) in a particular area. The living and physical components are linked together through nutrient cycles and energy flows. Ecosystems can be of any size, but usually they are in particular places.
Each ecosystem has its own community. A terrarium community, for example, can have small animals. A desert community may have cacti, small snakes, and scorpions. A pond community can have frogs, insects, snakes, and plants, and a forest community may have rabbits, foxes and pine trees. The species in a community are divided into populations according to the particular habitats in the ecosystem.
Ecosystems are stable, but not rigid. They react to major changes in the environment, especially climate changes. For example, the major rainforests have lasted for a long time (perhaps 50 million years or more in some cases). As the rainfall and temperature changes, they change. We know that the Amazon rainforest shrank in size during ice ages, and expanded in the warmer periods.
What drives all ecosystems is the primary production. Primary production is the production of organic matter from inorganic carbon sources. This happens through photosynthesis. It drives the carbon cycle, which influences global climate via the greenhouse effect.
Through the process of photosynthesis, plants capture energy from light and use it to combine carbon dioxide and water to produce carbohydrates and oxygen. The photosynthesis carried out by all the plants in an ecosystem is called the gross primary production (GPP). About 48–60% of the GPP is consumed in plant respiration. The rest is known as the net primary production (NPP). Total photosynthesis is limited by a range of environmental factors. These include the amount of light available, the amount of leaf area a plant has to capture light (shading by other plants limits photosynthesis), the supply of carbon dioxide and water, and suitable temperatures for carrying out photosynthesis.
Some of the many types of ecosystem:

</doc>
<doc id="30262" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30262" title="House of Stuart">
House of Stuart

The House of Stewart, or Stuart, is a royal house of Scotland and England.
The Tudor dynasty ended when Queen Elizabeth I died in 1603. She named her cousin James I as heir. He became James I of England, and started the Stuart dynasty.
Here are the rulers of the Stuart dynasty:

</doc>
<doc id="30270" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30270" title="Parasitism">
Parasitism

Parasitism is a form of symbiosis. It means that a parasite is any organism or living thing that benefits from another creature's harm. In other words, the parasites harm the host organism while the parasite benefits. A parasitic relationship is the opposite of a mutualistic relationship. Examples of parasites in humans include tapeworms and leeches. World-wide, the most serious cause of human death by a parasite is malaria. A definition:
"Humans are hosts to nearly 300 species of parasitic worms and over 70 species of protozoa, some derived from our primate ancestors and some acquired from the animals we have domesticated or come in contact with during our relatively short history on Earth. Our knowledge of parasitic infections extends into antiquity".
When the above definition is applied, many organisms which eat plants can be seen as parasites, because they feed largely or wholly on one individual plant. Examples would include many herbivorous insects: the Hemiptera or true bugs (leafhoppers, froghoppers, aphids, scale insects and whiteflies). The larvae of Lepidoptera usually feed and mature on a single individual of the host plant species, and what they eat accounts for most of the food for their complete life span. Moreover, caterpillars can and often do serious damage to the host's foliage. Other orders also have many parasitic herbivores: Thysanoptera (thrips), Coleoptera (beetles), Diptera (flies).
Parasites of larger animals account for much research done for veterinarian and medical purposes. These parasites include viruses, bacteria, protozoa, flatworms (flukes and tapeworms), nematodes (roundworms), arthropods (crustacea, insects, mites). Parasitic wasps and flies are of great interest to the entomologist, and may be used in biological control.
On the other hand, many blood-sucking insects (such as mosquitoes) have only brief contact with a host, and so perhaps should not be regarded as parasites.
A huge number of species are parasitic. A survey of the feeding habits of British insects showed that about 35% were parasites on plants, and slightly more were parasites on animals. That means that nearly 71% of insects in Britain are parasitic. Since British insects are better known than those elsewhere (because of the length of time they have been studied), this means that the majority of insect species throughout the world are parasitic. Also, there are several other invertebrate phyla which are wholly or largely parasitic. Flatworms and roundworms are found in virtually every wild species of vertebrate. Protozoan parasites are also ubiquitous. Hence parasitism is almost certainly the most common feeding method on Earth.
Parasites are adapted to small, "separated" habitats. For a parasite, each host is an island surrounded by a hostile environment. For a small organism, the distances between hosts, or groups of hosts, is a hazard. Adaptations to bridge this hazard are:
So parasites exist in small, genetically similar groups with little flow of genes between them. In consequence, they have adaptations to solve their problems of dispersal and reproduction.
Parasites face an environment which varies in time and space. Consequently, both local (geographic) races and polymorphism occur. Both may occur in the same species. Parasites are very specialised feeders: many species have only one host at any stage of their life cycle. A few use more than two host species.
Many parasites have complex life-cycles. Tremadodes, the flukes, are a parasitic class of flatworms (Platyhelminths), with over 20,000 species. Most of them infect molluscs in the first part of the life-cycle, and vertebrates in the second part. The biology of scrub typhus is even more complex. It involves these factors:
The occurrence of all these factors together would be limited in space, and brief in time. This is typical of the ecology of parasitic infections.
Both evolutionary rates and speciation rates can be high. Sibling species are very common in the bug "Erythroneura", in which about 150 transfers from one host to another has resulted in about 500 species in the genus.
The clearest evidence comes from the large size of many parasitic families. 
Sometimes there is good evidence of the speed of speciation. For example, five or more species of the moth "Hedylepta" must have evolved within 1000 years in Hawaii, because they are specific to banana, which was only introduced then.
Adaptive radiation in parasites is extensive. Its development in each taxon (group) depends on:
Diversity of hosts is a big factor. If many related species of host are available, then many related species of parasite will evolve. Mites on Lepidoptera families or fleas on mammals and birds are good examples. Eichler's rule goes as follows:
The two British oaks support some 439 species of parasite directly, and indirectly many hundred more which parasitise these parasites. "It would certainly be an underestimate to say that the two British species of oak are the primary products for a thousand species of parasite". Obviously, the large size of these trees is a factor in the number of parasite species. In general, this holds whether the host is a plant or an animal. A larger bird will harbour more species of ectoparasite than a small bird.
One of the reasons large trees have so many parasites is that they may have lived a long time in a particular area compared with other types of plant. They have had longer to accumulate parasites. 
Parasites can be most useful in sorting out the phylogenetic relationships of their hosts. Sibling host species have been discovered when their parasites diverged. Common ancestors of present-day parasites were themselves parasites of the common ancestors of present-day hosts.
As the host evolves defences, so the parasite evolves to cope with this. This is co-evolution. 
Consider two families of host plants, the Umbellifers (fennel, cumin, parsley, hemlock) and the Gramineae (grasses). The umbellifers have many aromatic species, and are chemically diverse and pharmaceutically interesting. Their resins and oils are defences against herbivory and parasitism. On the other hand, grasses have one big defence to herbivores: their stony inclusions in their cells wear down the teeth of herbivorous mammals, but they have few chemical defences. Both families are attacked by leaf-miner flies. There are four times as many grass species as there are umbellifers, but there are twice as many leaf-miner species on the umbellifers. 
This is speciation which does not require geographical isolation. Ernst Mayr, the chief exponent of geographical speciation, admitted that host races of phytophagous animals "constitute the only known case indicating the possible occurrence of incipient sympatric speciation".

</doc>
<doc id="30281" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30281" title="Moment of silence">
Moment of silence

A moment of silence is a short time when people do not make noise. A moment of silence shows respect for people who have died. Many countries observe a minute of silence after a tragic event. Moments of silence often last one minute, but other amounts of time may be chosen.
On November 11th, many countries observe a two minute silence to remember those who have died in World Wars. The tradition was started in 1919 exactly one year after the end of World War I. It became an official part of the annual service on Armistice Day. 
During the moment of silence, people often bow their heads, remove their hats, and do not speak or move. A person in charge of a group will tell everyone when the moment begins and ends. A moment of silence may come before or after other events with symbolic meaning. Examples of these events are the ringing of bells, the release of doves or balloons, or a bugle playing the "Last Post".
In the United States, some people say that allowing prayer as part of a moment of silence means that moments of silence can make it hard to keep the separation of church and state (the idea that religion and government should not affect each other).
Moments of silence do not have to be time for prayers. They can be used for other thoughts that are not religious. Many people who want time for prayers in public schools and government meetings use moments of silence so that some people can pray and other people do not have to pray. Because they represent the government, and because the Constitution of the United States says that government cannot force people to do religious things, these people cannot tell other people to pray. 
When public schools have a moment of silence, Buddhist students could meditate (relax and think calm thoughts), students with other religions such as Christianity, Islam, and Judaism could pray, and atheist students could think about the day ahead. 
Colin Powell, a famous government leader, likes having moments of silence in schools. He has said that a simple moment of silence at the start of each school day is a good idea. He also has said that students could use this time to pray, meditate, think, or study.
Many people believe that prayer is not allowed in United States public schools, but this is not true. The Supreme Court ruled in 1962 that students can pray in school, but teachers and other school leaders cannot lead the prayers. Students can form clubs where they can pray, and they can pray alone, but they cannot lead prayers at school events. The reason prayer is not allowed at those times is because of the First Amendment. The First Amendment says that government cannot force people to do religious things, and public schools are part of the government.
In 1976, the state of Virginia allowed schools to have a moment of silence at the start of the school day. This moment would last one minute. In 1985, the Supreme Court said that a "moment of silence" law in Alabama would not work with the United States Constitution and could not be used. In 2005, the state of Indiana made a law that said all public schools had to give students time to say the Pledge of Allegiance and a moment of silence every day.
In April 2000, Virginia changed its law to say that all public schools in Virginia had to have a moment of silence (before this change, schools could choose not to have a moment of silence). In October 2000, a judge named Claude M. Hilton said that the "moment of silence" law was allowed by the United States Constitution. Judge Hilton said that the law has a secular (not religious) purpose, that the law does not make religion more important or less important, and that the law does not make government and religion be too close to each other. Judge Hilton also said, "Students may think as they wish," and that this thinking could be religious or not religious. He said that the only thing students had to do because of the law was sit and be quiet.
In March 2008, Illinois followed Virginia and made a compulsory 30 seconds moment of silence, but was lifted in August.
The American Civil Liberties Union thinks that these laws that say public schools should have moments of silence are a bad idea. They think they are a bad idea because the laws are made to give students time to pray, and that makes religion more important than non-religion.

</doc>
<doc id="30292" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30292" title="Muhammad Ali Jinnah">
Muhammad Ali Jinnah

Muhammad Ali Jinnah, (also spelled Mohammad) (25 December 1876 – 11 September 1948 in Karachi, Present day Pakistan) is the founder of Pakistan. After the partition of India, he became the Governor General of Pakistan. As a mark of respect, Pakistanis call him as "Quaid-e-Azam". ' is a phrase which, in the Urdu language, means "the great leader". People also called him ', another phrase in the Urdu language which means "the father of the nation". The day of his birth is a national holiday in Pakistan.
Muhammad Ali Jinnah was born on 25th December 1876 in Gujarat in Kathiawar into Kasana family of Ismaili Shia Islam.At home, his family talked in Gujarati language. But, the family members also knew Kutchi language, Sindhi language, and English language, but widely understood although did not speak in Urdu.In an interview, of that time Jinnah said, <nowiki>"</nowiki>My mother tongue is Gujarati,my most of family members just understood Gujarati.
Jinnah’s birth name was Mahomedali Jinnahbhai. He later changed it to the much simpler 'Muhammad Ali Jinnah' or M.A. Jinnah. He was born in Karachi, Sindh (Province of Pakistan). The earliest record of his school register gives his date of birth as 20 October 1875, the author of Jinnah’s first biography gives another date of his birth, namely, the 25 December 1876.
His father’s name was Jinnah Poonja (born 1857-died 1901) and his mother’s name was Mithibai. Jinnah was the eldest of the seven children of Jinnah Poonja and Mithibai. His family had migrated to Sindh from the Kathiawar area of Gujarat, India.
In 1891(when he was fifteen), Jinnah went to London and worked for few years for a company. Before going to London, he was married to Emibai. She was his distant relative. At the time of her marriage, Emibai was around 14 or 16 years old. But, Emibai died shortly after Jinnah had gone to London. At around the same time, his mother also died.
In 1894, Jinnah quit his job to study law. He joined the course at Lincoln's Inn and graduated in 1896. While still in London, he also started to participate in politics. He greatly admired Indian political leaders Dadabhai Naoroji and Sir Pherozeshah Mehta. Gradually Jinnah was developing his own political outlook. He was thinking on the line that India should have a constitutional self-government.
Around this time, his father lost his business. This put Jinnah under great difficulty. In the meantime, he had started to practice as a lawyer in Mumbai. He also built a house in Mumbai’s Malabar Hill area. The house is now known as Jinnah House.
He became a successful lawyer. Bal Gangadhar Tilak, a famous leader of India, once used Jinnah to work as a lawyer. Tilak was facing charges of sedition against the British Raj. Although, Jinnah pleaded the case well, Tilak was sent to prison.
Jinnah had already joined the Indian National Congress in 1906 The Congress was the largest political organization in India. Many members and leaders of the Indian National Congress favoured a limited self-government for India. Jinnah also held the same view. At that time, his role model was Gopal Krishna Gokhale.
On 25 January 1910, Jinnah became a member on the sixty-member Imperial Legislative Council. He was an active member of the Council. Like many other leaders of India, Jinnah also supported Great Britain during World War I. The leaders had supported the Great Britain thinking that after the war, Great Britain would grant India political freedom.
At the beginning Jinnah had avoided joining the All India Muslim League, another political organization of India. Muslims had formed the League in 1906. In 1913, Jinnah became a member of the Muslim League. In 1916, he became the president of the Muslim League. He helped in making an agreement between the Congress and the Muslim League. The agreement tried to present a united front to the British for giving India self-government dominion status in the British Empire. This was similar to the dominion status which Canada, New Zealand and Australia had at that time.
In 1918, Jinnah married again. His second wife was Rattanbai Petit. She was twenty-four years younger than him. She was the daughter of Jinnah’s personal friend sir Dinshaw Petit. Petit belonged to Parsi Zoroastrian community. Many Parsis and Muslims did not like the marriage between persons of two religions. The Jinnah couple resided in Bombay (now Mumbai) and frequently traveled to Europe. In 1919, his wife bore a daughter. The daughter was named Dina.
By 1918, Mohandas Gandhi had become one of the main leaders of the Congress Party. Gandhi took a line of non-violent protest for gaining self-government for India. Jinnah took a different line. He wanted constitutional struggle to gain the self-government for India. Jinnah also opposed Gandhi’s support for the Khilafat movement. Gradually, many differences between them had arisen. In 1920, Jinnah left the Congress party. He became the president of the Muslim League. At this time, Jinnah brought out a program to reduce the differences between the Congress Party and the Muslim League. The program had fourteen points of action. Therefore, it became popular as Jinnah’s fourteen points. But the Congress party did not accept these.
All these years Jinnah’s personal life had suffered. This was the result of his political work. Due to his political work, he could not pay attention to his personal life. Due to this reason, his marriage also suffered. Finally, the couple separated in 1927. After a serious illness, Rattanbai died.
Around that time, there was a conference of Indian leaders with the government of Great Britain. It is known as the Round Table Conference. It was held in London. Jinnah criticized the policy of Gandhi. The conference failed. Jinnah was also not happy with the Muslim League. He decided to quit politics. He again started to work as a lawyer in England. During all these years, his sister Fatima Jinnah took care of Jinnah’s affairs, both at home and outside. She also became a close advisor to him. She helped him in raising Jinnah’s daughter, Dina Wadia. The daughter married Neville Wadia, a Parasi who had converted to Christianity. Jinnah did not like this marriage, but continued to correspond with his daughter.
Many Muslim leaders of India like Aga Khan III, Coudhary Rahmat Ali and Sir Muhammad Iqbal requested Jinnah to come back to India.
The leaders of the Muslim League wanted to take charge of the Muslim League. Jinnah agreed to come back to India. In 1934, he left London and returned to India to reorganize Muslim league again. But he could not revive the stature of the party until after the elections of 1937 as Muslim League could not win many seats in it. However, at this time, the League was helped by the powerful Premier of the Punjab, Sir Sikandar Hayat Khan. On October 1937, he agreed with Jinnah's to join his strong government with the League. This was called the Jinnah-Sikandar Pact. 
His differences with the Congress Party continued to become bigger. In 1930, some Muslim leaders like Allama Iqbal had argued for a separate country for Muslim of India. At last he came to the conclusion that Hindus and Muslims cannot live in a single country. Jinnah also started to have the idea of a separate country for Muslims of India. Jinnah and the Muslim League started work to get such a separate country. They made a plan for this in 1940 called the Pakistan Resolution. This new country was to be named Pakistan.
In 1941, Jinnah founded a newspaper, named the "Dawn". This newspaper published the views and political thinking of the Muslim League. During World War II, Jinnah supported the British, and opposed the Quit India movement of the Congress party. In 1944, Gandhi held 14 rounds of talks with Jinnah, but they could not come to any conclusion. By this time, the Muslim League had formed governments in some provinces, and had also entered the central government.
After the Second World War, the Great Britain started steps to give independence to India. On 16 May 1946, the British announced plan for a united India. One month after, on 16 June 1946, the British announced another plan to partition the British Raj into two countries, one for the Hindus and one for the Muslims.
The Congress Party accepted the plan of the 16 May 1946. The Muslim League under Jinnah’s leadership accepted both the plans. But, on 16 August 1946, Jinnah also announced the Direct Action to achieve independence for Pakistan, a separate country of Muslims of the former British Raj. After several rounds of discussion, the British Raj was partitioned (in August 1947) into two countries, India and Pakistan. In 1971, Bangladesh gained independence from Pakistan.
The British Raj of India was partitioned into two countries, namely, India and Pakistan. Jinnah became the first Governor-General of Pakistan, his sister Fatimah Jinnah became the "Mother of the Nation". He also became the president of Pakistan’s constituent assembly. In an address to the constituent assembly on 11 August 1947, Jinnah told about the future of Pakistan as a secular state. He told this in the following words:
"You may belong to any religion caste or creed - that has nothing to do with the business of the state. In due course of time, Hindus will cease to be Hindus and Muslims will cease to be Muslims, not in the religious sense, because that is the personal faith of each individual, but in the political sense as citizens of the state."
Jinnah also took the direct charge of the government. After the partition, large scale violence between Muslims and the Hindus took place. Such violence was very serious in Punjab and Bengal. Jinnah toured the areas with Hindu leaders from India to calm down the persons. Several persons died in the violence. The estimates of death vary from two hundred thousand deaths to over a million deaths. Jinnah was personally very sad at all these happenings.
Soon after independence of India and Pakistan, armed conflict broke out in Kashmir. Kashmir’s king had agreed to become a part of India. but mostly Muslims of Kashmir did not like this. They started fighting in Kashmir. India had to send his troops to Kashmir, which had become a part of India. India raised the issue to the United Nations. The United Nations ordered the conflict to end and a Plebiscite. This problem still continues to have a bad effect on the India-Pakistan relationship.
Jinnah’s role in creation of Pakistan as a new nation was very important. This made him very popular among the people of Pakistan. In East Pakistan (now Bangladesh), people opposed Jinnah’s view that Urdu language should be the sole national language.
Jinnah had been suffering from tuberculosis since the early 1940s. Only his sister, and very few other persons close to the family knew this. After partition of India and creation of Pakistan, he had become the governor general of Pakistan. His work was increased, but his health was deteriorating. To regain his health, he spent many months at his official rest house. The rest house was located at a place named in Ziarat. Jinnah could not regain his health. He died on 11 September 1948 from tuberculosis and lung cancer.
At the place of his funeral, the government of Pakistan has constructed a big mausoleum. His house named Jinnah House is under the possession of the government of India. The government of India wants to give the house to the government of Pakistan. But, the position is not clear till now.
In recent years, some scholars have given some new views about Jinnah’s actions. Jinnah showed interest that some of the Hindu majority princely states should join Pakistan. These scholars argue that this view was against Jinnah’s declared view that Hindus and Muslims could not live together.
Some historians like H M Seervai and Ayesha Jalal say that Jinnah wanted a united South Asia. He demanded a separate state for Muslims as the Congress leaders were not willing to share power with the Muslim League.
Recently, Indian leaders belonging to the Bhartiya Janta Party, like Lal Krishna Advani and Jaswant Singh praised Jinnah. Jaswant Singh was expelled from the party because he had praised Jinnah in his book 'Jinnah- India, Partition and Independence'.
In memory of Jinnah, nations and people have done many things. In Pakistan he is called Quaid-e-Azam. His pictures appear on many Pakistani banknotes and coins. Karachi’s international airport is named after him. In 1998 a new university in Karachi was named the Mohammad Ali Jinnah University.
There are many other places and institutions bearing his name. In many other countries also, some places are named after Jinnah. For example, in Turkey, a very large street is named after him. In Iran, one of the highways of its capital city Tehran bears his name, in Mumbai Jinnah Hall, a public hall is named after him.
Many books, movies and TV programs also tell about the life and work of Jinnah, including Jinnah (movie).

</doc>
<doc id="30303" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30303" title="Gregor Mendel">
Gregor Mendel

Gregor Johann Mendel (Heinzendorf, Austria, 20 July 1822 – Brünn, Austro-Hungary, 6 January 1884) was an Austrian monk and botanist. 
He founded genetics by his work cross-breeding pea plants. He discovered dominant and recessive characters (genes) from the crosses he performed on the plants in his greenhouse. What he learnt is known today as Mendelian inheritance.
His work was not appreciated at first, but was 'rediscovered' in 1900 by Carl Correns and Hugo de Vries. Erich von Tschermak's status as a third rediscoverer is now less convincing.
Mendel used the edible pea ("Pisum sativum") for his crosses. He selected seven characters which were distinctive, and never blended; they occurred as either-or alternatives. Examples: plant height (short or tall); colour of peas (green or yellow); position of flowers (restricted to the top or distributed along the stem). 
When he crossed varieties which differed in a trait (e.g. tall crossed with short), the first generation of hybrids (F1) showed only one of the two alternatives. One character was "dominant", and the other "recessive". But when he crossed these hybrids with each other, the recessive character reappeared in the second (F2) generation. The proportion of plants showing the dominant as opposed to the recessive character was close to 3 to 1. Further analysis of the descendants (F3) of the dominant group showed that one-third of them were true-breeding and two-thirds were of hybrid constitution. The 3:1 ratio could therefore be rewritten as 1:2:1, meaning that 50 percent of the F2 generation were true-breeding and 50 percent were still hybrid. This was Mendel’s major discovery. 
It could all be summed up by saying that inheritance was not blending, as Darwin had thought, it was particulate. The factors (genes) were not merged or mixed, they stayed separate and were passed on to the next generation unchanged.
He published his work in 1866, but at the time no-one saw how significant it was. 35 years later, the papers were rediscovered and, immediately, modern genetics began.

</doc>
<doc id="30304" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30304" title="Marschall der DDR">
Marschall der DDR

Marschall der DDR (Marshal of the German Democratic Republic), was the highest rank in the NVA, the army of the DDR. It was founded on 25th March 1982. The reason was a strategy change in the armies of Warsaw Pact. After the change the DDR needed a new rank to be sure there was only one high command. The rank was never used and abolished in 1989.

</doc>
<doc id="30305" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30305" title="Farscape">
Farscape

Farscape is a science fiction television show. The series was filmed in Australia. It was first shown from 1999 to 2004. The show was cancelled after four seasons and ended with a cliffhanger. The cliffhanger was resolved in a miniseries, "The Peacekeeper Wars", in 2004.
Rockne S. O'Bannon came up the idea for the series. It was produced by Jim Henson Productions and Hallmark Entertainment. 
The show's main character is an astronaut named John Crichton. He travels through a wormhole by accident. He exits the wormhole at a distant part of the universe. The astronaut joins an alien crew on board a living ship. The members of the crew are escaped prisoners.

</doc>
<doc id="30306" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30306" title="Interplanetary Internet">
Interplanetary Internet

An interplanetary internet does not exist yet. When people talk about an interplanetary internet, they are talking about a problem they are still trying to solve - the problem of making the internet to work between different planets.
The way the internet works here on Earth is simple. Computers need to connect to each and can share a network. One computer sends another computer a message (called a packet) and then the other sends back a message saying it got it. This works fine because the messages only take a second to get back and forth. But if you were sending that message to Mars, it would take about ten minutes for the message to get there, and another ten for it to get back. That means we need to completely change the way computers talk to each other if we are going to communicate between different planets. That is the problem people are trying to solve when they talk about the interplanetary internet. It's a new and a very interesting concept.

</doc>
<doc id="30337" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30337" title="History of China">
History of China

The History of China covers thousands of years. It covers many periods and dynasties. It may be divided into the following parts:
About a million years ago, living beings that were earlier forms of human beings had lived in China. These beings were called Homo erectus. Long after, about 65,000 years before, human beings (Homo sapiens) reached China from Africa. For food, they hunted wild animals. They also began to pick and gather fruits, eventually resulting in the Chinese learning to farm.
Prehistory means history of a time before any written record. In such cases, it is very difficult to tell anything definite about the prehistory of China or any other country. Even then, historians believe some facts about the China of that period. By 5000 BC, people had learnt farming. They had started cultivating millet, a type of grain, and possibly other types of grains. By 2500 BC, Bronze Age had come to China. A ruling class with kings and queens had come into society.
Some scholars think that about 4000 years ago, the Xia dynasty ruled China. Xia was the first ruler of this dynasty. No one can say anything very definite about Xia, his time, and other rulers of his dynasty.
From the time of the Shang Dynasty (1700 BC), some written history is available. Writings were done on Oracle Bones. Several such bones and shells have been found. Scholars believe that present day Henan was the last capital of kings of the Shang Dynasty. Henan was the last and the ninth capital. 
Most of the Chinese historians of that time think that one dynasty came after another. But, it is possible that two dynasties were ruling in different parts of China at the same time. Therefore, some scholars think that Xia dynasty and Shang Dynasty may be ruling at the same time, but in different areas of China.
About 3000 years before, Zhou Dynasty defeated Shang dynasty, and came to power. They changed the capital from Henan to a place near present day Xi'an, near the Yellow River. The Zhou Dynasty also brought a new theory. This theory told the people that kings had the order of the gods to rule the country. Almost all dynasties of Chinese rulers continued to repeat this theory. The kings of this dynasty won many new areas. For the first time in the history of China, a large number of people also moved from one area to other area for settlement.
The Spring and Autumn Period was around the 8th century BC. The Zhou dynasty continued, but it lost its power. Many kings ruled different parts of China. China became like several small countries, each ruled by a different king. In some cases, a king ruled just a village with a small fort. 
During this period of China, many new lines of thinking arose. Some of them still continue to be important. They are Confucianism, Taoism, Legalism and Mohism.
Spring and Autumn Period continued for about 300 years. By the 5th century BC, only seven main Chinese rulers and states remained. They had taken over all the smaller areas. These states continued to fight each other. Historians call this period as Warring States Period due to wars and fights among these states. At last, a king named Ying Zheng united all the seven states. He made himself the Emperor of China and founded the Qin Dynasty.
Qin Dynasty was a very important dynasty in the history of China. They followed the philosophy of Legalism. Their capital was at Xianyang (in modern Xi'an). Under the king of this dynasty, China became a powerful country. Many new things were done for the first time. A tight legal system was followed. Written language was developed. Common currency was used. The building of the Great Wall of China was started.
The Han Dynasty came to power in 202 BC. They followed the philosophy of Confucianism. Under this dynasty, China made much progress in arts and science. The empire also became larger and larger. China started trading with a number of other countries. Merchants used the Silk Road to reach China. The Han dynasty is important.
(220-280 AD), the Three Kingdoms period (traditional Chinese: 三國; simplified Chinese: 三国; pinyin: Sānguó) is a period in the history of China, part of an era of disunity called the Six Dynasties following immediately the loss of real power of the Han Dynasty emperors.
Kingdom Wu (222-280 AD) was a country built by Sunquan in the third century. Jianye (Nanjing today) was the capital city. In 222 AD, Sun became the king of 
Kingdom Wu and in April 229 AD, he became the emperor. The three kingdoms period also terminated. 
The kingdom's economy was boosted quickly while Sunquan was the ruler of Kingdom Wu. At that time, many people escaped from other country because of war and famine. This increased the population of the kingdom and also improved the agriculture. Furthermore, Sun let people build a new canal across the kingdom. At that time, Kingdom Wu had shipbuilding, foundry industry and porcelain manufacturing. The textile industry of Kingdom Wu also began. 
The economic improvements boosted the culture of Kingdom Wu. Many scholars appeared, such as Yufan, Luji, and Weizhao. Buddhism began to spread in some areas of Kingdom Wu, and the influence of Daoism continued expanding. 
In 230 AD, General Weiwen brought a big fleet to Yizhou (Taiwan today) and started to garrison there. 
In 280 AD, the Kingdom was destroyed by the Jin Dynasty.
The Sui Dynasty ( Suí cháo; 581-618) was founded by Emperor Wen, or "Yang Jian". Its capital was Chang'an (present-day Xi'an). The dynasty is important because it reunited Southern and Northern China and the Grand Canal was built in that time.
The Tang Dynasty was founded by the Li (李) family, who came to power during the fall of the Sui Empire. The dynasty was interrupted for a short time by the Second Zhou Dynasty (16 October 690–3 March 705) when Empress Wu Zetian managed to claim the throne, becoming the first and only Chinese Empress.
The capital of the Tang, Chang'an (today Xi'an), was the biggest city in the world at the time. Many historians see the Tang dynasty as a high point in Chinese civilization and as a golden age of culture.
The Yuan Dynasty was first ruled by Genghis Khan, a Mongolian leader who took control from the Song Dynasty. He was considered a barbarian and not civilized. His grandson, Kublai Khan, was one of the most famous and liked rulers of the Yuan dynasty. He opened up China to many other cultures and improved life for the Chinese very much.
In 1368, a rebellion led by Zhu Yuanzhang broke out in southern China, and eventually overthrew the Yuan Dynasty. Then Zhu Yuanzhang founded the Ming Dynasty at Nanjing, its capital until Emperor Yongle changed the capital to Beijing. In the 15th century, a man named Zheng He took the majority of the Ming navy and explored the Indian Ocean, and brought wealth and power to the Ming Dynasty. The empire experienced a prosperous period until 1449, when the Battle of Tumu Fortress broke out. In the battle the Mongol descendants of Yuan captured the emperor and surrounded the capital. After the war with the Mongols, the Ming started to decline. During this time, the empire had two wars with the Japanese (the first against the Japanese pirates took place at southeastern China; the second against the armies of Toyotomi Hideyoshi that invaded Korea), and one war with the Portuguese of Macao. These wars eventually weakened the declining empire. In 1616, rebellions broke out at Manchuria and Shanxi. Twenty-eight years later, the Manchus crossed the Great Wall, invaded the capital, and destroyed the Shanxi rebels.
In the 21st century China became the richest country in the world in terms of GDP.

</doc>
<doc id="30339" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30339" title="Briefs">
Briefs

Briefs are a type of short underwear for males or females. They provide a close fit, and come in either white, or in other colors like blue, pink, or red.
For male briefs, before 2000s, briefs often came with hard elastic waistband. This would cause stretch marks, and this was eventually replaced by the soft elastic waistband. However, hard elastic waistbands are still found on generic store brand underwear (that save consumer and manufacturing costs by not being fashion forward).
Female briefs are also called knickers or panties.

</doc>
<doc id="30341" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30341" title="Kayastha">
Kayastha

Kayastha is one of the social groups of India. They have a long history. They number around 5–7 million people and most of them live in India.
Hindus believe that Lord Brahma created the world. He then created 16 sons from different parts of his body. His 17th son, Shree Chitraguptjee, was created from his mind and soul. He is the only son to be made from the whole body, not just parts. In human form he is called "kayastha", "kaya" meaning whole. Kayastha's have two roles in the caste system, as Kshatriya (a warrior) and Brahmin (a learned person or scribe). The Kayastha caste is divided into 12 sub-castes.

</doc>
<doc id="30345" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30345" title="Rainbow Brite and the Star Stealer">
Rainbow Brite and the Star Stealer

Rainbow Brite and the Star Stealer is an animated movie from 1985. It was produced by DiC Entertainment and Hallmark Cards, and released by Warner Bros.
This is the only movie in which the title character, Rainbow Brite, appears.

</doc>
<doc id="30354" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30354" title="Arctic Monkeys">
Arctic Monkeys

Arctic Monkeys are a British indie music band from Sheffield, England. Arctic Monkeys' first album was "Whatever People Say I am, That's What I'm Not". It reached #1 in the United Kingdom album charts. Over 300 thousand copies of the album were sold in the first week. This makes it the fasting selling first album by a band in British music history. It was nominated for Best Alternative Album at the 2006 Grammy Awards. Their second album, "Favourite Worst Nightmare" was first released in Japan on April 18, 2007. Their third album, "Humbug" was released in England on 24 August 2009. In 2011 their fourth album "Suck It and See" was released. "AM", the Monkeys' fifth album, was released 6 September 2013. 
The members are:

</doc>
<doc id="30361" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30361" title="Swarm">
Swarm

A swarm is a big group of animals. The term is usually used for insects, but other animals such fish and birds can make a swarm also. A good example of animals that swarm are locusts. Mammals do not build swarms, but herds.

</doc>
<doc id="30365" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30365" title="Queen's University">
Queen's University

Queen's University is a public university in Kingston, Ontario, Canada. Queen's University was started on October 16, 1841. 

</doc>
<doc id="30374" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30374" title="String quartet">
String quartet

A string quartet is a piece of music for four string instruments.
A string quartet can also mean the four people who play a piece for four string instruments.
The four instruments in a string quartet are almost always 2 violins, 1 viola and 1 cello. The reason that a double bass is not used is that it would sound too loud and heavy. The balance between 2 violins, viola and cello is perfect.
String quartets are the most popular form of chamber music. Many composers have written string quartets.
String quartet writing started in the 18th century. Italian composers like Sammartini (1698-1775) wrote music for two violins, viola and continuo. The continuo was either just a harpsichord or harpsichord with cello. Gradually composers started to leave the harpsichord out. The cello often played the same as the viola but one octave lower. 
Composers of the Classical music period started writing cello parts which had a life of their own. Joseph Haydn (1732-1809) wrote many string quartets, making it a very popular form. His quartets from op.33 were, he said, “written in a new and special way”. All four parts were very clear and individual. There were always four movements: a fast movement, a slow one, a Minuet and Trio and a fast Finale. Haydn often played in a quartet with Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart (1756-1791) and two other players. Mozart also wrote lots of string quartets and dedicated some of them to Haydn. Three of Mozart’s later ones were written for the King of Prussia who played the cello well, so Mozart gave the cello lots of difficult music to play.
By the time Ludwig van Beethoven (1770-1827) was growing up string quartets treated each of the four instruments as important. Beethoven wrote 16 string quartets. The middle ones became particularly famous and later composers took ideas from them, for example the slow introductions, and the idea of having a fast scherzo instead of a minuet and trio for one of the middle movements. Beethoven’s last quartets are very beautiful, but also very complicated and sometimes quite aggressive. Beethoven was becoming very frustrated because he was deaf and could not hear his own music, but he could imagine it all in his head. Franz Schubert (1797-1827) admired them and wrote several string quartets himself.
In the Romantic period many composers wrote string quartets: Felix Mendelssohn (1809-1847), Robert Schumann (1810-1856), Johannes Brahms (1833-1897), Pyotr Tchaikovsky (1840-1893), Antonín Dvořák (1841-1904) and many others. Some of them, like Dvořák, included folk song from their own country in their quartets.
In the 20th century composers have continued to write string quartets. Claude Debussy (1862-1918) and Maurice Ravel (1875-1934) each wrote one. Arnold Schoenberg even added a voice to his first String Quartet. Béla Bartók (1881-1945) wrote six string quartets which are very hard to play. They have very exciting rhythms which often come from his native Hungarian folk music, as well as complicated harmonies. Dmitri Shostakovich (1906-1975) wrote fifteen and Benjamin Britten (1913-1976) wrote three.
Playing in a string quartet is great fun. There are lots of great works by famous composers, as well as some music which has been written for young players who are learning.
There are professional players who form string quartets and who play together for many years. In the early part of the 20th century the Rosé Quartet was thought to be the best in Europe. Later the Amadeus Quartet became very famous.

</doc>
<doc id="30382" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30382" title="Opus number">
Opus number

Opus or the shortened form op. after the title of a piece of music means “work”. It is followed by a number. When a composer writes his or her first piece of music it could be called “opus 1”. The next composition would then be called “opus 2”, etc.
Giving pieces of music opus numbers helps us to know which piece of music it is. For example: Beethoven wrote lots of piano sonatas. His Piano sonata in A flat major op.26 is a sonata he wrote when he was a young man. Many years later he wrote another piano sonata which is also in A flat major, and that one has the opus number 110.
You cannot always tell from a composer’s opus numbers the order in which the works were composed. Until around the end of the 18th century opus numbers were only given to pieces of music which were published.
Some musicologists (people who study and write about music) have studied all the works by a famous composer and have given them a catalogue number. For example: Mozart’s music does not have opus numbers. Some of them are long operas, others are tiny little pieces for the piano he might have written in a hurry one day. A man called Köchel made a list of every single work by Mozart and gave them K numbers (K for Köchel). His numbering goes up to 622. This is useful, for example, to tell the difference between his Symphony in G minor K183 and his Symphony in G minor K550.
The plural of “opus” is “opuses” in English. This is because the Latin plural is “opera” which is rather confusing. 
The word "opus" can also refer to the "work" of an artist.
An artist's "magnum opus" means: his or her greatest work.

</doc>
<doc id="30387" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30387" title="Amino acid">
Amino acid

Amino acids are the building blocks of proteins.
In eukaryotes, there are 20 standard amino acids out of which almost all proteins are made.
In biochemistry, an amino acid is any molecule that has both amine (NH+R) and carboxyl (C=O) functional groups. In biochemistry, this term refers to alpha-amino acids with the general formula HNCHRCOOH, where R is one of many side groups (see diagram). 
About 500 amino acids are known. For animals, the most important thing that amino acids do is to make proteins, which are very long chains of amino acids. Every protein has its own sequence of amino acids, and that sequence makes the protein take different shapes, and have different functions. Amino acids are like the alphabet for proteins; even though you only have a few letters, if you connect them, you can make many different sentences.
Nine of the 20 standard amino acids are "essential" amino acids for humans. They cannot be built (synthesised) from other compounds by the human body, and so must be taken in as food. Others may be essential for some ages or medical conditions. Essential amino acids may also differ between species. Herbivores have to get their essential amino acids from their diet, which for some is almost entirely grass. Ruminants such as cows get some amino acids via microbes in the first two stomach chambers.
An amino acid consists of an α-carbon atom that is covalently bonded to four groups.
Every amino acid has at least one amino group (-NH) and one carboxyl group (-COOH), except proline.
These are the proteinogenic amino acids, which are the building blocks for proteins. They are produced by cellular machinery coded for in the genetic code of any organism.
† The stop codon is not an amino acid, but is included for completeness.
†† UAG and UGA do not always act as stop codons (see above).
‡ An essential amino acid cannot be synthesized in humans. It must be supplied in the diet. Conditionally essential amino acids are not normally required in the diet, but must be supplied to populations which do not make enough of it.

</doc>
<doc id="30393" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30393" title="Enlightenment">
Enlightenment

Enlightenment has several meanings. Some of them are given below:

</doc>
<doc id="30395" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30395" title="Miscarriage">
Miscarriage

A miscarriage is the natural death of an embryo or fetus in the womb, before it is old enough to live on its own, outside the mother. The medical words for a miscarriage are spontaneous abortion. ("Spontaneous" means something that a person did not expect to happen. An "abortion" is when a pregnancy ends early, before birth.)
Among women who know they are pregnant, about 15-20% have miscarriages. (This means that up to 1 in every 5 women who know they are pregnant miscarries.) It is the most common complication (serious problem) that happens in early pregnancy in humans.
In the United States, if a fetus dies after it is 20 weeks old, its death is no longer called a miscarriage. Its death is called a "stillbirth", a "fetal demise", or a "fetal death". ("Demise" means "death." 
But different countries have different ways of defining the difference between a miscarriage and a fetal death. For example:
Nobody knows all of the reasons why a woman may miscarry. However, some common causes include:
The most common causes of miscarriage change depending on what trimester the mother is in. (Each trimester lasts about three months.)
Most miscarriages happen during the first trimester. Some studies say that two-thirds (two out of three) to three-quarters (three out of four) of all miscarriages happen during this trimester. About 30% to 40% (3 to 4 in every 10) of all fertilized eggs miscarry, often before a woman knows she is pregnant.
In more than half of embryos miscarried in the first 13 weeks of pregnancy, the embryo has chromosomes that are not normal. These chromosomal problems may happen because of problems as the embryo grows and its cells make copies of themselves. It is also possible for chromosomal problems to happen because of a problem with a parent's genes. However, this is more likely to happen in women who has had other miscarriages, or if one of the parents has a child or other relatives with birth defects. Genetic problems are more likely to happen with older parents; this may be why miscarriages are more common in older women.
Another cause may be the mother not having enough progesterone. If a woman is diagnosed with low progesterone levels in the second half of her menstrual cycle (the luteal phase), she may be prescribed progesterone, to take during the first trimester of her pregnancy. However, when a woman might already be miscarrying, there is no evidence that first-trimester progesterone pills decrease the risk of having a miscarriage. Scientists have even questioned whether problems with the luteal phase really can cause miscarriages.
Common causes of miscarriage during the second trimester are:
These problems can also cause premature birth (when a baby is born earlier than expected).
One study found that 19% of second trimester miscarriages were caused by problems with the umbilical cord. The fetus gets blood and oxygen through the umbilical cord. Every part of the body needs blood and oxygen to survive. If the baby cannot get enough oxygen because of a problem with the cord, it can die.
Problems with the placenta may also cause second-trimester miscarriages. Nutrients and blood pass through the placenta in order to get from the mother to the umbilical cord. The placenta also helps filter out some things that could hurt the fetus. If there is a problem with the placenta, the fetus could die because it did not get enough nutrients and oxygen, or because the placenta did not filter out harmful things.
Miscarriage is usually diagnosed when a pregnant woman notices that she is having certain symptoms and goes to see a doctor. The most common symptom of a coming miscarriage is bleeding during early pregnancy. The woman may not have any pain.
Usually, if a pregnant woman is bleeding or having pain, an ultrasound should be done. The ultrasound can show that the fetus's heart is not beating, which means that the fetus has miscarried. If this happens, special tests should be done to make sure the woman does not have an ectopic pregnancy, which can kill a woman.
Not all light bleeding during early pregnancy means a woman is having a miscarriage. But any woman having light bleeding during pregnancy should see her doctor. If the bleeding is heavy, the woman is having a lot of pain, or she has a fever, she should go to an Emergency Room or call an ambulance to take her to the hospital.
If a woman has bleeding during her pregnancy, she may be diagnosed with a "threatened miscarriage." In the past, if a doctor thought a pregnancy might miscarry in the future, they would suggest bed rest for the mother (lying in bed for most of the time). Today, most doctors and scientists think that bed rest does not help.
There are a few different types of miscarriage:
The treatment is different for each kind of miscarriage.
If a woman has a complete miscarriage, she usually does not need any medical treatment.
If a woman has an incomplete miscarriage or a missed miscarriage, there are three different choices for treatment:
With no treatment (watchful waiting), most of these cases (65–80%) will pass naturally within two to six weeks. This path avoids the side effects and complications possible from medications and surgery, but increases the risk of mild bleeding, need for unplanned surgical treatment, and incomplete miscarriage.
The choice of which treatment to use depends on many things, including what the mother wants. However, there are guidelines that doctors use to suggest what treatment to use.
"Missed Miscarriage"
The most important things that help doctors decide what to do are the age and size of the embryo, and the size of the gestational sac (the fluid around the embryo]]. 
"Incomplete Miscarriages"
A risk factor for miscarriage is something that makes a woman more likely to miscarry. There are many risk factors for miscarriage. For example:

</doc>
<doc id="30397" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30397" title="Yuan Dynasty">
Yuan Dynasty

The Yuan Dynasty was a Mongol dynasty that ruled Mongolia and China from 1271 to 1368. Before this dynasty, China was ruled by the Song Dynasty. After the Yuan Dynasty, the Ming Dynasty ruled China. Genghis Khan and his army of Mongols conquered many parts of China. His grandson Kublai Khan added more parts of China to his kingdom. He founded the Yuan dynasty in 1271.
Yuan was a Mongol Yuan dynasty. In the year of 1206, Genghis Khan ruled the Mobi tribes(a part of a country) to establish the Mongol country at the Onon River . Jin was the main race in Mongolia, but Jin and Xia were in decline, Mongolia had attacked the Western Xia and Jin in August 1227, and Jin lost, so Mongolia occupied the whole north of China in March 1234. 
In 1259, Mengge died after the Song Yuan Dynasty War. His brothers all wanted to be king. His fourth brother, Kublai, and his seventh brother, Ali Khan, fought to rule the Mobi tribes. And finally in 1264, Kublai won. Kublai used the book " Great is Diana of Qianyuan " to make the name "DaYuan" in 1271. And Khan built the yuan dynasty in 1271. In 1276, Yuan ruled southern of Song, so yuan ruled the whole China in this year. In 1279, the king Kublai subdued southern Song dynasty. And the Yuan Dynasty ruled China and brought different parts of China together at once. This unified the state tha had been split since the late Tang Dynasty. The Yuan dynasty ended in 1368.

</doc>
<doc id="30398" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30398" title="History of India">
History of India

The history of India covers thousands of years. It covers many periods and dynasties. It may be divided in the following parts:
Remains (stone tools and a skull) in central India show presence of an early species of man, "Homo erectus". Archeologists think they lived in India between 200,000 to 500,000 years ago. This period is known as the paleolithic era. Evolution of its crust shows four stages and the fourth stage is known as Quaternary which is further divided into Pleistocene and Holocene
The earliest archaeological site in the subcontinent is the paleolithic hominid site in the Soan River valley. Soanian sites are found in the Sivalik region across India, Pakistan, and Nepal. 
Modern humans ("Homo sapiens") settled in the Indian subcontinent at least 12,000 years ago. At that time the last Ice Age had just ended and climate became warm and dry. First settlements of human beings in India are found in Bhimbetka, a place near Bhopal (Madhya Pradesh, India).Mesolithic people lived on hunting , fishing and food gathering
Neolithic agriculture sprang up in the Indus Valley region around 7000 years ago, in the lower Gangetic valley around 5000 years ago. Later, in South India, agriculture spread southwards and also into Malwa around 3800 years ago.
It covered the regions of modern Maharastra except the part of vidarbha and the coastal region of konkan
The Bronze Age in the Indian subcontinent began around 5300 years ago with the early Indus Valley Civilisation( include cities like Harappa , Mohenjodaro, Lothal , Kalibanga ). It was centred on the Indus River and its tributaries which extended into the Ghaggar-Hakra River valley, the Ganges-Yamuna Doab, Gujarat, and southeastern Afghanistan. The civilisation is mainly in modern-day India (Gujarat, Haryana, Punjab and Rajasthan provinces) and Pakistan (Sindh, Punjab, and Balochistan provinces). 
The first cities in the subcontinent were in the Indus Valley Civilisation. It is one of the world's earliest urban civilisations, with Mesopotamia and Ancient Egypt. Inhabitants of the ancient Indus river valley, the Harappans, developed new techniques in metallurgy and handicraft (carneol products, seal carving), and produced copper, bronze, lead, and tin.
The mature Indus civilisation flourished from about 4600 to 3900 years ago. It was the start of urban civilisation on the subcontinent. The civilisation included urban centres such as Dholavira, Kalibanga, Ropar, Rakhigarhi, and Lothal in modern-day India, and Harappa, Ganeriwala, and Mohenjo-daro in modern-day Pakistan. The civilisation is noted for its cities built of brick, roadside drainage system, and multistoried houses.
During the later period of this civilisation, signs of a gradual decline began to emerge. By about 3700 years ago, most of the cities were abandoned. However, the Indus Valley Civilisation did not disappear suddenly. Some parts of the Indus Civilization may have survived in the smaller villages and isolated farms. 
The Vedas are the oldest teachings of India, though the transmission of these teachings was mainly oral until around the 5th century. There are four Vedas, and the first one is the Rigveda. As per Rigved the whole regions in which the Aryans were first settled in India which was called as the Land of 7 Rivers or SaptaSindhawa .The other three are Samveda, Yajurveda and Atharvaveda. The Vedas have verses in praise of gods and others. They also have other information. At that time, the society was pastoral. 
After the Rigveda, society became more agricultural. People became divided into four classes depending on the type of the work. Brahmins were priests and teachers. Kshatriyas were the warriors. Vaishyas did agriculture, trading and commerce. The shudras were the general working class. A common misconception is that the Vaishyas and Shudras were generally looked down upon, and treated badly by Brahmins and Kshatriyas, which was true for the later part of the Vedic age. But was untrue for the earlier part. This type of social division is called the Varna system in Hinduism. 
During the period of the Vedic civilization, there were many Aryan clans and tribes. Some of them combined and became bigger like the kingdom of the Kurus.
Around the 5th century BC, north-western parts of India faced invasion by the Achaemenid Empire and by the Greeks of Alexander the Great. A Persian way of thinking, administration and lifestyle came to India. This influence became bigger during the Mauryan dynasty.
From around 520 BC, the Achaemenid Empire’s Darius I ruled large part of northwestern parts of the Indian subcontinent. 
Then Alexander conquered these areas. Herodotus, a historian of that time, has written that these areas were the richest areas of Alexander’s Empire. Achaemenid rule lasted about 186 years. In modern times, there are still traces of this Greek heritage to be found in parts of northwestern India.
Greco-Buddhism (also spelt as Græco-Buddhism) is a combination of the cultures of Greece and Buddhism. This mixture of cultures continued to develop for 800 years, from the 4th century BC until the 5th century AD. The area where it happened is modern day’s Afghanistan and Pakistan. This mixture of cultures influenced Mahayana Buddhism and spread of Buddhism to China, Korea, Japan and ibet.
The Magadha formed one of the sixteen kingdoms in ancient India. The core of the kingdom was the area of Bihar south of the Ganges. Its first capital was Rajagriha (modern Rajgir) then Pataliputra (modern Patna).
Magadha expanded to include most of Bihar and Bengal, followed by much of eastern Uttar Pradesh and Orissa. The ancient kingdom of Magadha is mentioned in Jain and Buddhist texts. It is also mentioned in the Ramayana, Mahabharata, Puranas. A state of Magadha, possibly a tribal kingdom, is recorded in Vedic texts much earlier than 600 BC. 
Magadha played an important role in the development of Jainism and Buddhism, and two of India's greatest empires, the Maurya Empire and Gupta Empire, originated from Magadha. These empires saw advances in ancient India's science, mathematics, astronomy, religion, and philosophy. This was the Indian "Golden Age". 
The Satavahanas came to power from around 230 BC. They are also called Andhras. For about 450 years, many Satavahanas kings ruled most parts of the southern and central India. 
For about 350 years, from the years 35-405, Saka kings ruled India. They ruled the western and central parts of India. These areas are in today's states of Gujarat, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, and Madhya Pradesh. There were 27 independent rulers, collectively known as the Kshatrapas. 
Saka kings ruled India along aside the Kushan kings and the Satvahana kings. Kushan kings ruled the northern parts of India. Satvahana kings ruled the central and some of the southern parts of India.
Indo-Scythians came to India from Siberia passing through several places like Bactria, Sogdiana, Kashmir and Arachosia. Their coming to India continued from the 2nd century BC to the 1st century BC. They defeated the Indo-Greek rulers of India, and ruled India from Gandhara to Mathura. 
The Gupta dynasty reigned from around 320 to 550 AD. The Gupta Empire covered most of North-central India, the region Gupta Empire (never included Pakistan); and what is now western India and Bangladesh. Gupta society was ordered in accordance with Hindu beliefs. The time of the Gupta Empire is seen as the Golden Age of India. Historians place the Gupta dynasty alongside the Han Dynasty, Tang Dynasty and Roman Empire as a model of a classical civilization.
By the first half of the fifth century, a group of people known as Huns had settled in Afghanistan. They became powerful. They made Bamiyan as their capital city. They started attacking northwestern parts of India. Skandagupta, an emperor of the Gupta dynasty fought back and kept them away for some years. At last the Huns won and could enter most parts of northern India. With this the Gupta dynasty came to an end. Most of north India became badly affected by this invasion. However, Huns could not go up to the Deccan Plateau and the southern parts of India. These parts remained peaceful. No one knows definitely about the fate of Huns after the end of the sixth century. Some historians believe that they mixed up fully with the Indian people of that time.
In the history of India, Middle kingdoms of India covers a period beginning from around the 6th-7th century. In South India, Chola kings ruled Tamil Nadu, and Chera kings ruled Kerala. They also had trading relationships with the Roman Empire to the west and Southeast Asia to the east. In north India, Rajputs ruled in many kingdoms. Some of those kingdoms continued for hundreds of years.
After the collapse of the Gupta Empire, it was Harsha of Kanauj (a place now in Uttar Pradesh state of India) who united the northern parts of India in one kingdom. After his death several dynasties tried to control north India and ruled from time to time from 7th century till the 9th century as described in some of the sections below. Some of these dynasties were the Pratiharas of Malwa and later Kannauj; the Palas of Bengal, and the Rashtrakutas of the Deccan.
The Pratihara kings ruled kingdoms in Rajasthan and some other parts of northern India from the 6th century to the 11th century. The Palas ruled the eastern part of India. They ruled over areas which are now parts of the Indian states of Bihar, Jharkhand, and the west Bengal, and of Bangladesh. The Palas ruled from 8th century to the 12th century. In the southern parts of India, Rashtrakutas of Malakheda (Karnataka) ruled the Deccan during the 8th-10th centuries after the end of Chalukya rule. All these three dynasties always tried to control the entire north India. During all this time lasting for three to four hundred years, the Chola kings were growing in power and influence.
In the 6th century several Rajput kingdoms came into being in Rajasthan. Many other Rajput kings ruled in different parts of north India. Some of these kingdoms continue to survive for hundreds of years during different periods of the history of India.
In 1336, two brothers named Harihara and Bukka founded the Vijayanagara Empire in an area which is now in Karnataka state of India. The most famous king of this empire was Krishnadevaraya. In 1565, rulers of this empire were defeated in a battle. But, the empire continued for about next one hundred years. 
A number of kingdoms of south India had trading relations with the Arabs in the west, and with Indonesia and other countries of the east.
Islam spread across the Indian subcontinent over a period of 500 years. In the 10th and 11th centuries, Turks and Afghans invaded India and established sultanates in Delhi. In the early 16th century, descendants of Genghis Khan swept across the Khyber Pass and established the Mughal Empire, which lasted for 200 years. From the 11th to the 15th centuries, southern India was dominated by Hindu Chola and Vijayanagar Dynasties. During this time, the two systems—the prevailing Hindu and Muslim—mingled, left lasting cultural influences on each other.
Slave dynasty was started by Qutub ud din Aibak. He was the one who started the first architectural monument of the slave dynasty or rather the first architectural work of Muslims in India which was Qutub Minar. Qutub ud din Aibak died while playing chaugan(modern day polo)as he fell from his horse. He was succeeded by Iltumish who completed the Qutub Minar. He was succeeded by his daughter Razia Sultan who became the first woman ruler. Though she reigned for only three years, she introduced various reforms in her tenure.
The Kingdom of Mysore was a kingdom of southern India. People known as Wodeyars founded this kingdom in the year 1400. Later on, Hyder Ali and his son, Tipu Sultan, fought with the Wodeyar rulers. They also fought with the forces of the British Raj, but were defeated. Under the British Raj, Wodeyar kings continued to rule a large part of Karnataka. When India became independent on 15th August 1947, Wodeyars’ kingdom chose to become a part of India.
Guru Nanak founded Sikhism and his followers were called Sikhs. The power of Sikhs continued to increase in the northwestern part of India. The Sikhs became rulers of large part of the northwestern India. This is called the Sikh Kingdom or Empire. Ranjit Singh was the most famous ruler of the Sikh Empire. He expanded the borders of the Sikh Empire and at the time of his death, this empire covered areas of Punjab, and present day Kashmir and parts of Pakistan. The Sikhs and forces of the British Raj fought many wars. Till Maharaja Ranjit Singh was alive, Britishers were not able to cross the Sutlej river. After his death, the they took over the entire Punjab after battles with disorganised sikh troops.
For a short period, a person named Ahmed Shah Durrani ruled some parts of northwestern India. Historians have named his rule as the Durrani Empire. In 1748, he crossed the Indus River and attacked Lahore, now a part of Pakistan. He also attacked many parts of Punjab. Then, he attacked Delhi. At that time, Delhi was the capital of the Mughal Empire. He took many valuable things from India. This included the famous diamond named Kohinoor.
Colonial period means the period during which Western countries ruled India. These countries also ruled many other countries of Asia, Africa, and South America.
Starting in the 1600's the British East India Company began a very profitable trading empire in India, centered in Bengal. In the mid-1700's Robert Clive (1725-1774) lead the Company to an expanded influence in India with victories over the French, the Bengalis, and the Mughals. With a victory at the Battle of Plassey in 1757 Clive became the first British Governor of Bengal.
In the hundred years after the battle, the East India Company conquered the entire subcontinent of India. They did this by trade, political intrigue, and direct military action. The British were very efficient administrators of their domains. But in 1857 the Indian Mutiny almost destroyed the Company's rule of India. Afterward the British government took control away from the Company. In 1858, India became a part of the British Empire and Queen Victoria became the empress of India.
The British Raj
For ninety years the British ruled India and Burma as a unified territory under the British king or queen. It was divided into eight provinces each with a governor. These provinces were Burma, Bengal, Madras, Bombay, UP, Central Provinces, Punjab, and Assam. A Governor-General (Viceroy) in Calcutta was head of the government.
The British did some very harmful things to the culture and society. They took valuables, tortured and raped many Indians. The way they conquered India was often divide and rule. In the end, many kingdoms were defeated by the British and the riches taken. For example, many of the Royal Crown Jewels were taken from previous kingdoms in India- including the Koh-I-Noor diamond (one of the worlds largest diamonds) and also stole many other large diamonds and gold. 
During famines and floods many people died because the government did not help enough. Any Indian not able to pay the British taxes, could be forced into prison and/or publicly beaten. Political opponents were jailed and sometimes killed for speaking out against colonial rule. After taking much of the India's natural resources for hundreds of years, England was criticized for not protecting Indians during the partition of India and Pakistan. During the partition of India and Pakistan, millions of Indians and Pakistanis died. 
The British also did good things. They built railroads, telegraphs and telephones, improved trade, standardized laws, and water supplies. Many of these things were done to help improve commerce in India and taxes provided to England. They created the Indian Civil Service for administering rules and regulations. They also tried to eliminate practices like burning widows.
The British ruled India primarily for the economic benefit of Britain. India produced cheap raw materials for British industry. Indians had to buy British manufactured goods and profits went back to Britain.
Many people in India wanted to be free from British rule. The struggle for independence was long and difficult. The most important leader of the struggle for Indian independence was Mahatma Gandhi. Gandhi believed in a non-violent opposition towards the British.
India won its independence, along with Muslim Pakistan, and became a free country on August 15, 1947.
On 15 August 1947, British Indian Empire was partitioned into two countries, India (Hindustan) and Pakistan. With this the British Raj in the Indian subcontinent ended. On 26 January 1950, Hindustan adopted a constitution. From that day, Hindustanis became the Republic of India or Indians.
During last 60 years, Republic of India has seen different stages in its national life. Some of them are as follows:
Presently (), India is currently the tenth largest economy in terms of gross GDP. It is the 4th largest economy of the world when accounting for purchasing power parity. Some economists think that in coming decades, India’s economy will become still larger. 

</doc>
<doc id="30399" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30399" title="1250s">
1250s


</doc>
<doc id="30400" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30400" title="The Life and Times of Michael K">
The Life and Times of Michael K

Life and Times of Michael K is a novel written by J. M. Coetzee in 1983. It won a Booker Prize.
The story is about a simple gardener called Michael K, trying to run away from South Africa in the Apartheid Era.
Some people think there is a link between Michael K and Josef K. in "The Trial" by Franz Kafka.

</doc>
<doc id="30407" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30407" title="Tort">
Tort

Tort law is the part of law for most harms that are not either criminal or based on a contract. Tort law helps people to make claims for compensation (repayment) when someone hurts them or hurts their property. For example, a car accident where one driver hurts another driver because he or she was not paying attention might be a tort. If a person is hurt by someone else, he or she can sue in court.
Many torts are accidents, like car accidents or slippery floors that make people fall down and get hurt. But some torts are done on purpose. These are called "intentional" torts. For example, if one person punches another person in the nose, it might be an intentional tort called "battery".
Many torts cause physical harm to people. Some torts cause damage to property, like a broken window. Some torts can harm other things, like someone's reputation or a business.
The kinds of torts this article talks about are a part of the common law. The common law is found in England and former British colonies, such as the United States of America. Different laws are found in civil law countries such as France or Germany. In those countries people usually use the word delict instead of tort, but they mean very similar things.
Torts are what happens when one person (or organization) injures another. The person or organization that causes the injury is known as a "tortfeasor". The person who is injured is often called the "victim".
The victim may sue the tortfeasor. The people or organizations on each side of a lawsuit are called the "parties". In a lawsuit, the victim is called the plaintiff. The tortfeasor is called the defendant.
Usually, the plaintiff in a lawsuit is asking the court to make the defendant pay money to make up for the harm that the defendant caused. For example, the money that the plaintiff asks for might pay for the plaintiff's medical bills if he or she was hurt in an accident. For some torts, especially ones done on purpose (intentional torts), the plaintiff might also ask the court to punish the defendant by making him or her pay extra money. Money that the court orders the defendant to pay is called damages. Sometimes a plaintiff also asks the court to order the defendant to stop doing something, like polluting the air or water. An order to stop doing something is called an (in the United States it is sometimes called a "restraining order").
Sometimes the same act can be both a tort and a crime. For instance, stealing someone else's property might be a criminal offense, but it is also a tort against the person who owns the property.
When a defendant causes an injury on purpose, that injury is an intentional tort. Sometimes, an injury can be an intentional tort if the defendant knows it will happen, even if the defendant does not want it to happen. Intentional torts include hitting people and saying things about them that are not true.
Unintentional torts are accidents. They usually happen because someone was not being careful. When someone is not careful, it is called negligence. An example of negligence is driving a car while not paying attention to the road.
In a case of negligence, the court figures out what happened and decides whether the defendant was careful enough. It orders the defendant to pay money only if the defendant was not careful enough.
In some kinds of cases, it does not matter whether the defendant was careful or not. This is called strict liability or absolute liability. For example, in the United States, if someone buys a soda can and it explodes because it was manufactured badly, the manufacturer will probably have to pay the victim money even if the court finds that the defendant was as careful as it could be.
Physical torts are injuries to a person's body, such as hitting them or making them sick.
Abstract torts are injuries to a person's mind, reputation, or property. A person's mind or reputation can be injured by saying things about them that are not true. A person's property can be injured by taking it from them without permission or saying that it belongs to someone else.
Torts that involve people include hitting them, saying things about them that are not true, and making them stay in one place when they want to leave. Hitting someone is called battery. Saying things about someone that are not true is called , and writing things about someone that are not true is called libel. When a police officer takes a person to prison when he or she is not supposed to, that is called false imprisonment or false arrest.
Torts involving property include walking on someone else's property without permission, taking someone else's property without permission, or damaging someone else's property. Walking on someone else's property without permission is called trespassing. Taking someone else's property without permission is called stealing or .

</doc>
<doc id="30411" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30411" title="Lawsuit">
Lawsuit

A lawsuit occurs when two people or organizations ask a court or judge to solve a disagreement or argument. The two sides of a lawsuit are called the parties. Each party is usually represented by a lawyer. That means that the lawyer will talk to the judge for the party. The party that starts the lawsuit is called the because they are complaining about something the other side has done. This is also called "suing", or to "sue". The other party is called the because it must defend what it has done. Both sides or parties will show evidence or proof that they are right and the other side or party is wrong. The parties may also ask witnesses questions about what the argument or disagreement is about.
After both parties have shown evidence and asked witnesses questions, the judge or jury will decide which party is right. Then the court will do something to make the winning party happy again. The court might make the losing party pay the winner money, or it might make the losing party stop doing something that made the winner unhappy.
The conduct of a lawsuit is called litigation. The plaintiffs and defendants are called "litigants" and the attorneys representing them are called "litigators". The term "litigation" may also refer to criminal trial.

</doc>
<doc id="30415" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30415" title="Chamber music">
Chamber music

Chamber music means music written for small groups of instruments. A “chamber” is a “room” (from the French word “chambre”). Usually the word “chamber” in English means a room in a large house or castle. In the days when people with big houses or castles kept their own musicians, they might have their own private orchestra which played in the large hall. Sometimes there would be a concert in a small chamber. This was called “chamber music”.
Chamber music can be any group of instruments from two up to about eight or nine. Each player will be playing something different from the others (“one to a part”). Compare that to an orchestra where there may be, for example, several violins all playing the same notes.
The word “chamber” is also used for a “chamber orchestra” meaning: a small orchestra. By contrast: a large orchestra is often called a “symphony orchestra”. A small choir may be called a “chamber choir”. But these examples are not usually thought of as “chamber music”.
These words are used to show how many people are playing. They can also be used for groups of singers (vocal solo, duet etc.):
Chamber music for instruments became popular as something different from big orchestras. The orchestra developed in the 17th century and so did chamber music. Composers wrote trio sonatas which were for two high instruments (e.g. two violins) and a continuo accompaniment (usually harpsichord and cello). Arcangelo Corelli and Johann Sebastian Bach wrote many trio sonatas.
Joseph Haydn wrote lots of string quartets. He made this combination popular. Mozart and Beethoven also wrote some very great string quartets. The last ones that Beethoven wrote were very difficult to play and to understand, but composers of the 19th century like Schubert, Schumann, Mendelssohn and Brahms were inspired by them. In the twentieth century some of the best string quartets were written by Bartók and Shostakovich. 
It is great fun to play chamber music because each player is an individual. It is like having a conversation in music. There is no conductor, so each musician has to listen carefully to the others and learn to play together as a small team. The musicians can also hear their own playing better than they can in an orchestra. Some living composers have written a lot of music for young players who are not very advanced. Some of Mozart’s earlier string quartets are not too difficult and make an excellent introduction to chamber music playing.

</doc>
<doc id="30419" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30419" title="Stefano Mei">
Stefano Mei

Stefano Mei (born 3 February 1963 in La Spezia) was an Italian long distance runner in several international athletics (also called "track and field") events.
Mei won the silver medal in the 5,000 metre race, and the gold medal in the 10,000 metre race during the 1986 European Championships in Athletics in Stuttgart, Germany. Mei also won a bronze medal in the 10,000 metre race during the 1990 European Championships in Athletics, in Split, Yugoslavia (now Croatia). He competed in the 1984 and 1988 Summer Olympics.

</doc>
<doc id="30423" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30423" title="Museum in Bielsko-Biała">
Museum in Bielsko-Biała

The Bielsko-Biała Museum has its main location in the historical Bielsko Castle, Poland. Since the 1970s there are three local branches: the Julian Fałat Museum, the Museum of Technology and Textile Industry and the Weaver's House Museum.
The castle was built in the 14th century by the Piast family, the rulers of the Cieszyn Duchy in Poland, the castle was used as one of their residences for over two centuries. In 1752 the Bielsko state became a duchy owned by the Sulkowski family. The castle was their property until 1945. After World War II the castle was taken over by the Polish State. Since 1983 its only owner has been the Bielsko-Biała Museum.
In the west wing of the building the hunting room and armoury are located. The next two rooms display three centuries of art history from the 15th to the 17th century. Neighbouring with these rooms are a rococo concert hall and a Biedermeier room. The castle's east wing contains a gallery of the 19th and 20th century painting and graphic art. Next rooms located in the north wing display an exhibition of the history of the city and castle, as well as craftsman traditions of old Bielsko and Biała. The east wing of the castle is occupied by art gallery (the 19th century paintings displayed here include works of art representing realism and academism, Młoda Polska (Young Poland) paintings, works of artists connected with Bielsko-Biała during the twenty years of independence after World War I and during the modern times)
The museum shows traditions of wool industry in Bielsko-Biała, by means of collecting machines, equipment and documents. The exhibits are stored in four rooms and show the look of old textile factory A separate room displays machines for making hats and the history of Bielsko-Biała fire brigade. There is also a little printing office and a room where all the historical household equipments, radio sets, typewriters etc., are being stored. 
Reconstruction of the weaver’s house and workshop owned by a guild master. It shows live and work in 19th and 20th centuries. There are two main rooms – workshop on the left and living room on the right, with a kitchen and a bedroom. 
The weaver’s house is an original example of the old wooden house. It tries to show craftsman’s work.
The museum of Julian Fałat in Bystra Śląska is housed in a historical villa of the artist, called “Fałatówka” and its visitors can see the art and some biographical documents of the artist. This is the house where the artists lived after he stoped being a headmaster of the Cracow Academy of Fine Arts. The exhibition presents oil paintings and watercolours: self-portraits, portraits of his family and friends, landscapes from his travels and hunting scenes. 

</doc>
<doc id="30427" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30427" title="Circumcision">
Circumcision

Circumcision cuts off the foreskin on the penis of a boy or man. Circumcision can be a religious ritual, or a custom in certain tribes, or a medical practice. There are five kinds of reasons for doing a circumcision:
People disagree about whether circumcision is a good for health and sexual pleasure. Those who believe that the foreskin is important for sexual pleasure are against circumcision. Others do not like circumcision because they believe it has no medical advantage, or that it is easy to clean under the foreskin, or that circumcision harms the penis or the mind, and/or that the penis belongs to its owner to do as with as he wishes when he is older enough to decide for himself. It should not be the choice of the doctors or parents.
Those who prefer circumcision believe that circumcision reduces sexually transmitted diseases like HIV (even though there is no proof of this one way or another), prevents certain kinds of cancer, and gets rid of infections and unpleasant smells under the foreskin. Those who prefer circumcision often believe that the foreskin does not matter for sexual pleasure.
There are 5 large groups of circumcised men:
In Islam and Judaism, male circumcision is commonly done for religious reasons.
In Judaism, religious law orders that male infants be circumcised on the 8th day after their birth. This is required even if the 8th day after birth is a Shabbat. In the Jewish faith, circumcision is an important tradition because it represents the newly born baby being included in the covenant (or agreement) which God made with the prophet Abraham.
A "mohel" is someone who circumcises Jewish baby boys eight days after they are born in accordance with Jewish law. A knife is traditionally used for this, but a clamp is now sometimes used instead. Mohels are traditionally male, but most types of non-orthodox (not fully traditional) types of Judaism allow women to be mohels without restriction.
In the Quran, no sura or ayat mention male or female circumcision. However, there are some injunctions of the prophet Muhammad that explain and command "only" male circumcision, as a "continuation" of Abrahamic/Hebraic tradition. For example, the prophet Muhammad said in a hadith that "Five are the acts which are part of "fitrah": Circumcision, clipping or shaving the pubic hair, cutting the nails, plucking or shaving the hair under the armpits and clipping (or shaving) the moustache".
Also, according to the Qur'an, Allah ordered Muhammad to follow the religion of Ibrahim (the Hebrew Abraham): "Then We inspired you: 'Follow the religion of Ibrahim, the upright in Faith'." —(Qur'an 16:123)
Many Islamic scholars say that is an important ritual and a symbolic step of purification along the lines of Abrahamic tradition. Most Shafi Islamic Jurists (judges) say that circumcision is required for men. It is an accepted tradition in almost all Islamic sects and among most Islamic scholars and theologians. Circumcision is also important within Islam because Islam claims to be the 'truth' and the 'continuation' of the old and true message of Ibrahim/Abraham. According to Islam, God's covenant with Abraham was passed on to Muhammad, whose mission was to continue the covenant. The covenant is continued, according to Islam, through several steps, including male circumcision. The Quran discusses this covenant in detail in several places, including sura 14 (Ibrahim – "Abraham").
There are two hadiths which are linked to the acceptance of male circumcision in Islam. They also show how circumcision may have been used to keep track of dates in tribal Arabia:
Ibn Jubayr Sa'id reported: "Ibn `Abbas was asked the following question: 'How was it with you, [when] the Prophet, peace be upon him, died?,' he said, 'I was circumcised at that particular time because the men were usually only circumcised when they became sexually mature.'"
[Sahih al-Bukhari No. 6299]
And further, Ibn `Abbas reported: "When the Prophet, peace be upon him died, I was circumcised at that particular time."
[Sahih al-Bukhari No. 6300]
Along with being an important rite of passage, circumcision may have helped people keep track of dates and place events into the correct time and place.

</doc>
<doc id="30433" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30433" title="Moirai">
Moirai

The Moirai(The Fates) were the three goddesses of destiny in Greek mythology. They were Clotho, Lachesis and Atropos(Greek: Άτροπος).
They controlled the life and destiny of everyone. Clotho spins the thread of life (begins a person's or creature's life), Lachesis measures it (looks at the how long it currently is), and Atropos cuts the thread. When the thread is cut the person dies. The Moirai are capable of destroying an immortal.
The decisions of the Moriae about a person's life cannot be changed. Even Zeus is powerless to change their will.
The parents of the Moirai are not surely known. Some said they were the daughters of Zeus and the Titaness Themis, or more likely of primordial beings like Nyx, Chaos or Ananke. 
Their Roman equivalent were the Parcae.
Sources: D'Aulaire's book of Greek Myths

</doc>
<doc id="30439" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30439" title="Wikisource">
Wikisource

Wikisource – "The Free Library" – is a project by Wikimedia. Its goal is to make a free wiki library of source texts. It has translations into many languages.
It began on November 24, 2003. Its name was "Project Sourceberg" (a play on words for Project Gutenberg), and its URL was http://sources.wikipedia.org. On December 6, 2003, members wanted to change the name to "Wikisource", but the URL was not moved to http://wikisource.org until July 23, 2004.

</doc>
<doc id="30442" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30442" title="Whaling">
Whaling

Whaling is the practice of hunting whales. This is done to get meat and oil, called blubber. Hunters of whales are called whalers. Whaling has been done at least since 3000 BC. 
Many communities on the coast have done whaling for food for a long time. They have also killed stranded whales.
Industrialisation started in the 17th century and also affected whaling. Special ships were built for whaling, and whales were hunted until they were almost extinct. 
As technology improved and demand for the seemingly vast resources remained high, far more whales were killed than were born. In the late 1930s more than 50,000 whales were killed each year. By the middle of the 20th century, there were not enough whales and they were at risk of becoming extinct. In 1986, the International Whaling Commission introduced a moratorium on commercial whaling so that whales might recover.
This moratorium was successful, and whale stocks recovered. There is a debate about whaling in general. Countries which are in favor of whaling want to do away with the moratorium, so they can again hunt whales as they did before. Countries and environmental groups say that whaling is immoral and should be banned, and that stocks have not yet recovered sufficiently.
Whales have a thick layer of fat under their skin called blubber. For many years, the Eskimos of Alaska depended on these whales to live. Every part of a whale was used: the bones, the blubber, and the skin - every bit of it. In this way, one whale could feed an Eskimo community for a long time. They were important to the Eskimos. However, sometimes a good thing can get out of control and become a bad thing. This was what happened in whale hunting.
Whale blubber was not used only by Eskimos. Soon it became a product everybody wanted. This was because before electricity was invented, blubber was used as oil for lamps. They also used whale blubber to oil machines and make expensive makeup. Because of this, people hunted and killed whales to make money.
The whalers found out the paths whales liked to take in the ocean, and killed them mercilessly. It was a dangerous and frightening job. Whalers would jump into a small boat and follow the whale. Once they were close to it, they would throw a that was attached to a very long rope into the whale. The end of this harpoon was not at all like a spear. It had a switch blade on the end that would stay in the whale's skin. Once the harpoon was in the whale, the whale would start swimming as fast as it could. The whale might swim day and night with no stop for several days. Eventually, the tired and hurt whale would stop. The whalers would then kill the whale with one last harpoon. When the animal died, the whalers would haul the whale onto the ship (big or small), skin it, then boil the blubber for the oil.
Soon, boats began getting bigger. Whalers began using a harpoon like before, but the harpoon has a grenade inside. This was very cruel way of killing whales as it hurt them a lot. The whale would then have blood coming out of its blowhole. This meant the whale would die soon.
Sometimes entire whale families were found, and as many were killed as possible. Because of whaling, several kinds of whales became almost extinct.
More happily, whales are protected by conservation laws that stop people from killing too many of them. Also, chemists invented many products that take the place of whale blubber, and kerosene replaced whale oil in lamps. Now, many countries have agreed not to hunt whales, because otherwise all the whales might die. They signed a treaty agreeing on this though Norway and Japan still hunt whales. Russia and the United States also practising whaling, on a much smaller scale. (Japan still does hunt often, however).
Whaling -Citizendium 

</doc>
<doc id="30449" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30449" title="Opinion">
Opinion

An opinion is something a person or a group of people think. "What is your opinion?" is like saying: "What do you think about it?"
The person's answer might start with: "In my opinion..."
Sometimes companies try to find out what people think about something by asking a lot of people their opinion. This is called an "opinion poll". They might be trying to find out whether they think the government is good or bad or whether enough is being done about global warming.

</doc>
<doc id="30450" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30450" title="School year">
School year

A school year is the time of year when students go to school. In some countries, it starts after summer, and goes to the next summer. The typical school year in the United States ranges from 170 days to 190 days. In the south, a school year is 180 days for students and 190 days for teachers.

</doc>
<doc id="30451" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30451" title="Audience">
Audience

An audience is a group of people that see, hear or otherwise experience the same thing. It may be many different kinds of thing, such as a play, a movie, a book, or a broadcast. Audience members participate in different ways in different kinds of art; some events invite the audience to be part of the performance, while others allow only applause and criticism. An audience at a sporting event are called "spectators".

</doc>
<doc id="30452" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30452" title="Group">
Group

A group is a set of things or a number of individuals who have regular contact and frequent interaction.

</doc>
<doc id="30453" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30453" title="Side-scrolling video game">
Side-scrolling video game

A side-scrolling video game or side-scroller is a video game where the player goes toward one side of the screen, either to the left or the right, although this is different for each video game. A famous side-scroller is Super Mario Bros.

</doc>
<doc id="30454" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30454" title="Eating">
Eating

Eating is taking in food to get energy, nutrients or for enjoyment. People and animals need to eat because they cannot make their own food inside their bodies like plants. All plants' energy comes from the sun. Plants take the sun's energy, and they are eaten by other animals as food. The animals then eat each other for the energy.
However, many people can not stop themselves from eating, and they end up becoming fat or obese. You can become fat by eating the wrong, unhealthy types of food and by eating too much. When a plant collects energy from the sun through its leaves, it is called photosynthesis. If a plant gets too much food, it can just store it until later. They use this storred food during the winter. When you are proven to be fat or obese through your body mass index (BMI), it means you are heavier than the average for your height. The taller you are, the heavier you should be, in theory. If someone is too heavy to be called fat, then they are called obese. When someone eats too much of one thing, they become fat. Someone can eat junk food, but they can also balance themselves by also eating fruits and vegetables. 

</doc>
<doc id="30455" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30455" title="Bathroom">
Bathroom

A bathroom is where people can use the toilet, wash their hands, take a bath, or take a shower. The room may also contain a sink, often called a "wash basin" or "hand basin" (in parts of the United States) and often a "lavatory." In the United States, "bathroom" mostly means "a room containing a lavatory." In other countries this is mostly called the "toilet" or "water closet." The word "bathroom" is also used in the United States for a public toilet or "restroom."
Baths go back to 3,000 B.C. Usually, a town would have a special building for people to take baths, which sometimes were part of a religious ceremony. Starting in the 16th century, public baths started declining. People at this time started building baths inside their homes.
Usually, a full bath will have a toilet, a sink, a bathtub, and/or a shower. If a bathroom has only a toilet and a sink, then it is called a half bath or a powder room. A master bath is connected to a master bedroom for the use of whoever lives in that bedroom and no one else.

</doc>
<doc id="30456" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30456" title="Shower">
Shower

A shower is where a person cleans himself by using water. They stand up when they use a shower and usually do not wear clothes in a shower. Showers have a shower head that squirts out water usually from above.
There are different kinds of showers. One is a "power shower" where there are many jets of water from all around. Another is the one in the picture. Some are in baths, and others are on their own.

</doc>
<doc id="30460" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30460" title="Gangtok">
Gangtok

Gangtok is the capital of the Indian state of Sikkim, It has a population of 50,000. It is located at a height of 1,780 metres in the Himalayan Mountains . It is small town, filled with different cultures and religions living together. 
The city has wide roads, flyovers, markets, a modern hospital, schools, colleges and universities, fast food shops, discothèques, and all other modern amenities. One imposing man-made landmark of the town is the 200 ft-high TV tower which overlooks the town and is near the Enchey Monastery below Ganesh Tok. 

</doc>
<doc id="30461" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30461" title="Transposing instrument">
Transposing instrument

A transposing instrument is a musical instrument that does not play the notes you might think it will play. But all the notes differ from the real notes by the same musical interval. So a song played on the transposing instrument will sound familiar, but played in a different key. That is because the transposing instrument is tuned above or below what the usual notes would be, and always above or below by the same number of notes on a scale. The usual notes are called "concert pitch". Most non-transposing instruments, like pianos, are tuned to play in the key of C.
When writing music for a transposing instrument, or teaching how to play the notes, the entire series of notes is written and described as notes moved up or down a number of semitones. For example: playing the note that is called "C" on a B flat clarinet, produces the note that is called "B♭" when played on a piano. All transposing instruments such as "horn in F" or "alto saxophone in E♭" mean F and E♭ in normal notes ("concert pitch"). The note "C" as written and played on the horn in F will sound like an "F" , and the same "C" written for the alto saxophone in E♭ will sound like "E♭".
Woodwinds, especially the recorder and clarinets, are transposing instruments. Saxophones and most brass instruments are transposing instruments.
The use of transposed notation (writing notes higher or lower than they really are) probably started with the slow changes in how to make instruments. There was a "clarinet in C" when Mozart was alive, but was later replaced by the larger, richer sounding "clarinet in B♭". There was no change to how clarinet players had to move their fingers. That helped players change from the older instrument to the newer instrument. Maybe learners of the modern day instrument in B♭ could re-learn how to use their fingers, so they could play with normal notes. But all written music would have to be transposed back to "concert pitch".
Instruments such as horns and woodwinds have a natural harmonic series, so it is easier and louder to play in certain keys. So that needs to be remembered when writing music for these instruments. Also, these instruments can only be played in tune in certain keys, because of a problem with something called "equal temperament". Which keys will work depends on which key the instrument was tuned for.
Having transposing instruments makes it possible for pipes to play in several different keys. The fingering can remain the same. Only the key the music is written in, the notes that harmonize with that key, and timbre (what the note sounds like, not just which key it is) change as the different sizes of instrument are used. A cor anglais is like an oboe but a fifth lower (Five notes of a scale. A written C sounds like an F). Any oboe player can play the cor anglais, reading the music and playing with normal oboe fingering. It will automatically sound a fifth lower. Compare this to recorders which are not transposing instruments. On a descant recorder, the note played with three fingers of the left hand (1-2-3-0-0-0) is a G. To play a G on a treble (alto) recorder the fingering is 1-2-3-1-2-3. This can be confusing at first, but with practice players can get used to changing between the different sizes of recorder.
Professional clarinet players will need two clarinets: a B flat and an A clarinet. Some clarinet cases are made to hold both instruments. Some clarinet players also play the bass clarinet. This is also in B flat, but sounds an octave lower than the ordinary B flat clarinet. There is also an E flat clarinet which sounds a minor third higher than written.
Saxophones transpose into different keys according to their sizes. Brass instruments come in several different keys. It is always important for a player to come to a rehearsal or concert with the correct instrument. Often brass players become skilled at transposing. That means, if their music is written in the wrong key for the instrument on which they are playing, they can still play it in the right key.

</doc>
<doc id="30462" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30462" title="Transposition (music)">
Transposition (music)

Transposition or transposing in music means playing or writing music in a different key. Transposing music means making it sound higher or lower.
Transposing is a useful skill for people who play an instrument, especially the piano or organ. If a pianist is accompanying a singer and the song is a little too high for the singer’s voice it is very useful if he is able to transpose it down so that the music sounds in a lower key. For example: if the music is written in the key of C major it could be transposed down a whole tone so that it sounds in B flat major.
It is a good idea for people who play keyboard instruments or transposing instruments to practise transposing. There are three ways to do this:
1) Transpose each note. For example: when transposing from C to B flat each note has to be one tone lower: an A becomes a G, a G becomes an F, an F becomes an E flat etc.
2) By watching the shape of the music and thinking in the new key. For example: when a note leaps up a major third the same needs to happen in the new key. This is a better way of transposing.
3) By hearing what the music should sound like and thinking in the new key.
When people transpose they probably use a mixture of all three of these ways.
There is a fourth possibility which sometimes works: by thinking in a different clef. For example: someone who is good at reading alto clef (viola clef) can transpose up a tone from music written in the treble clef by imagining it was written in the alto clef and playing an octave lower (a note on the middle line in the treble clef is a B, but in the alto clef it is a C, or – imagine the new key signature of 2 sharps – it becomes a C sharp).
It is very important to understand the key system in order to be able to transpose. This is why it is so useful to practise scales.
Most electric keyboards and organs these days have buttons which can be set so that the keyboard will transpose automatically. This can be very useful, although it may be confusing for people with absolute pitch.

</doc>
<doc id="30469" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30469" title="Erinyes">
Erinyes

The Erinyes (or Eumenides) were the goddesses of revenge in Greek mythology.
They forever followed the person who did a crime (even if the person had a good reason to do it), and they even could make the person go mad.
They are often shown with snakes on their heads, blood coming out of their eyes, and looking very horrific.
Very well known is the one time the Erinyes followed Orestes: Orestes' mother Klytaimnestra and her lover Aegisthos had killed Orestes' father Agamemnon. The god Apollo told Orestes to kill the murderers of his father, which he did. Orestes was then pursued by the Erinyes for his crime. But with the help of Athena and Apollo Orestes went to a court in Athens. It was decided that Orestes had acted right and nobody should hurt him. Even the Erinyes accepted the decision, and from then on they were also called Eumenides, which means "the kind ones", because they could also let people go in peace if their crime was done for a good reason.
These three female divinities were named Alecto, Tisiphone, and Megaera, & were born from Mother Earth & the blood of Uranus. They avenged family crimes such as matricide & parricide, & also tormented evil men in the "Hell" of the underworld, Tartarus. Their true name was "The Erinnyes" Angry ones, but to the Greeks were known as "The Eumenides" Kindly ones to try to avoid bad luck which may have been brought on by speaking their name.

</doc>
<doc id="30473" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30473" title="Indian subcontinent">
Indian subcontinent

The Indian subcontinent is a term mainly used for the geographic region surrounded by the Indian Ocean: the Republic of India, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Kashmir (disputed region), Nepal, Sikkim, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka (Ceylon), Bhutan and Myanmar (Burma) and few other countries. 
The subcontinent was once part of Gondwana, the ancient southern supercontinent. Geologically, the origin of the Himalayas is the impact of the Indian tectonic plate travelling northward at 15 cm per year to slowly hit the Eurasian continent, about 40-50 million years ago. The formation of the Himalayan arc resulted since the lighter rock of the seabeds of that time were easily uplifted into mountains. An often-cited fact used to illustrate this process is that the summit of Mount Everest is made of marine limestone.
About 50 million years ago, this fast moving plate had completely closed the Tethys Ocean. The existence of the Tethys has been proved by sedimentary rocks settled on the ocean floor, and the volcanoes that fringed its edges. Since these sediments were light, they crumpled into mountain ranges rather than sank to the floor. The Indian plate is still driving horizontally below the Tibetan Plateau, which forces the plateau to move upwards. 
The Indo-Australian plate is still moving at 67 mm per year, and over the next 10 million years it will travel about 1,500 km into Asia. About 20 mm per year of the India-Asia convergence is absorbed by thrusting along the Himalaya southern front. This leads to the Himalayas rising by about 5 mm per year, making them geologically active. The movement of the Indian plate into the Asian plate also leads to earthquakes from time to time.

</doc>
<doc id="30482" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30482" title="Dike">
Dike

Dike or dyke, can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="30484" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30484" title="Horae">
Horae

The Horae were three goddesses in Greek mythology.
There are in fact two different groups of goddesses which were known at different times: today they are called the first and second generation to distinguish between them.
They were the children of Zeus and Themis.
The first Horae were goddesses of the seasons.
They were:
The second Horae were goddesses of order, justice and law.
They were:

</doc>
<doc id="30500" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30500" title="Alkmene">
Alkmene

Alkmene is a person in Greek mythology. She was the daughter of King Elektryon of Mycenae and his wife Anaxo. She was the wife of Amphitryon. She is the mother of Herakles and Iphikles.
Once when Amphitryon was not at home, the god Zeus, looking like Amphitryon, seduced Alkmene. Alkmene gave birth to Herakles, who was the son of Zeus, and Iphikles, who was the son of Alkmene's husband Amphitryon. Zeus wanted to kill her but Hercules only being 1 day old fought back and saved his mother

</doc>
<doc id="30502" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30502" title="Danaë">
Danaë

Danaë is a person in Greek mythology. She was the daughter of King Akrisios of Argos. She is the mother of Perseus by Zeus.
Akrisios was told by an oracle that he would be killed by his grandchild. Because of that he put his daughter Danaë in a tower where noone was allowed to enter, so she could not have a child. But the god Zeus could enter in the form of a golden rain, and with him her child was Perseus.
Akrisios then put Danaë and her baby Perseus in a box and threw it into the sea. But Zeus tells the sea-god Poseidon to help them, and so Danaë and her son come to the island Seriphos. There they are found by Diktys, who lets them live with him.
A long time after that, the grown up Perseus takes part in some funeral games. During the games Perseus throws a discus, which accidentally hits Akrisios. Akrisios is killed by it: he was killed by his grandchild, like the oracle's prophecy said.

</doc>
<doc id="30505" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30505" title="Akrisios">
Akrisios

Akrisios (or Acrisius) is a person in Greek mythology. He was the King of Argos. He is the father of Danaë, and grandfather of Perseus.
Akrisios was told by an oracle that he would be killed by his grandchild. Because of that he put his daughter Danaë in a tower where noone was allowed to enter, so she could not have a child. But the god Zeus could enter in the form of a golden rain, and with him her child was Perseus.
Akrisios then put Danaë and her baby Perseus in a box and threw it into the sea. But Zeus tells the sea-god Poseidon to help them, and so Danaë and her son come to the island Seriphos. There they are found by , who lets them live with him.
A long time after that, the grown up Perseus takes part in some funeral games. During the games Perseus throws a discus, which accidentally hits Akrisios. Akrisios is killed by it: he was killed by his grandchild, like the oracle's prophecy said.

</doc>
<doc id="30508" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30508" title="Andromeda (mythology)">
Andromeda (mythology)

Andromeda is a person in Greek mythology. She was the daughter of King Kepheus and his wife Kassiopeia.
She is the wife of Perseus. With him her children are the sons Perses, Alkaios, Sthenelos, Elektryon, and the daughter Gorgophone. Andromeda is also the great-grandmother of Herakles.
Once Andromeda's mother Kassiopeia said she was more beautiful than the Nereids. This angered the sea gods, and the god Poseidon sent floods and the sea monster Keto to them as punishment. An oracle told them that they had to sacrifice Andromeda to the sea monster, and because of that Andromeda was chained to a rock at the shore. But Perseus came to the place after he had killed Medusa. Perseus killed the sea monster, saved Andromeda and married her.

</doc>
<doc id="30626" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30626" title="GB">
GB

GB or Gb could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="30627" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30627" title="Centaur">
Centaur

A centaur is a creature in Greek mythology. It has the upper body of a human, but below the waist it has the body of a horse. There are also female centaurs. 
Famous centaurs are Chiron and Nessus.

</doc>
<doc id="30628" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30628" title="Bruntál">
Bruntál

Bruntál is a small city in the Czech Republic. 20,000 people live there.
Bruntál is in the Hrubý Jeseník mountains (part Nízký Jeseník).
Bruntál was probably built in 1223. Its name is in the Unicov Charter published by Přemysl Otakar I. Bruntal is the oldest Czech city with Magdeburg Rights, meaning a city that can have its own wall and judges. Přemysl Otakar I gave it these rights because of the gold, silver and other minerals from there.
In Bruntál there are many places that tourists visit – for example, the Castle of Bruntál, the Decanal church of the Virgin Mary, Gabriel's house, Mildner's villa, Klippel's column.
- Tereza Krones
- Engelbert Adam
- Jan Krištof Handke
- Rudolf Templer
- Viktor Heegr
- Karl Anton Gebauer
- Walter Gotschke
- Emerich Machold
People who wrote about Bruntal were Erwin Weiser, Bruno Hans Wittek, Josef Lowag, Kurt Langer.
In the Brutal there are 5 primary schools and 6 intermediate schools. Since 2003, there are 2 universities.
In Bruntál there is one cinema, one theater, and one cultural building.

</doc>
<doc id="30629" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30629" title="Concerto">
Concerto

A concerto is a piece of music made for a solo instrument and an orchestra. When an orchestra plays at a concert they might play a symphony (a piece for orchestra) and they might play a concerto (with a soloist). If the solo instrument is a violin the piece is called a “violin concerto”, if it is a piano it is called a “piano concerto”, etc. The orchestra accompanies the soloist. This means that it is the soloist who decides how fast or slow to play. The conductor should listen to the way the soloist wants to play and make the orchestra accompany sensitively.
The word “concerto” is an Italian word (the second “c” is pronounced like an English “ch”). It means “agreeing” or “playing together”. The English plural is “concertos”. 
The concerto became popular during the 17th century in Italy. Some concertos had several soloists instead of just one. This kind of concerto was called a concerto grosso.
The solo concerto became popular with composers like Antonio Vivaldi (1678-1741) who wrote over 400 concertos for various instruments. His most famous concertos are a group of four known as "The Four Seasons". These are violin concertos, and each concerto deals in turn with one of the seasons: spring, summer, autumn and winter. Many other Baroque composers wrote concertos: Johann Sebastian Bach (1685-1750) wrote several concertos for violin although only two have survived, the others have been lost. He also wrote solo concertos for the harpsichord. George Frideric Handel (1685-1759) wrote concertos for the organ. Organs in England were very small in those days and balanced well with an orchestra. Handel sometimes put pauses in his concertos where the soloist could improvise (make up) some music. These improvised bits became known as “cadenzas”. Concertos ever since have cadenzas where the soloist can show how brilliant they are at playing and at improvising. Some composers wrote their own cadenzas.
In the Classical period Joseph Haydn (1732-1809) wrote a few concertos including two for the cello, but he is better known for his symphonies. It was Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart (1756-1791) who wrote many wonderful piano concertos. This was at a time when the piano was a new instrument. Mozart was a brilliant pianist and he wrote most of them for himself to perform. He also wrote five violin concertos, four horn concertos, two flute concertos and a clarinet concerto. He also wrote concertos for more than one soloist e.g. a flute and harp concerto and a violin and viola concerto which he called "Sinfonia Concertante". By this time concertos always had three movements: a fast one (usually in sonata form), a slow one, and a fast movement (often a rondo) to finish with.
Ludwig van Beethoven (1770-1827) became famous as a pianist before he was known as a composer. He wrote five piano concertos. The last one, known in English-speaking countries as the "Emperor Concerto", is a very big, powerful work which looks forward to the music of the Romantic period. Beethoven wrote a beautiful violin concerto. At the time everyone thought it was too hard for the soloist to play, but as composers wrote harder and harder music the players had to become better and better. Nowadays every professional violinist should be able to play it. Beethoven also wrote a "Triple Concerto" for piano, violin, cello and orchestra.
The 19th century is known as the age of Romanticism. People adored creative men like artists, musicians and writers (the time for women to be equal had not yet come). They were seen as heroes. The concerto fitted in very well with this way of thinking. The soloist was a great hero, and the concerto enabled him to show off his great technique. The violinist and composer Niccolò Paganini (1782-1840) was one of these great heroes. He played the violin like no one else had ever done, and because he was a thin, skinny man with a pale face and long hair people thought he looked like the devil. He wrote violin concertos which at the time only he could play.
Some of the most famous violin concertos of the 19th and 20th centuries include those by Felix Mendelssohn, Max Bruch (no 1), Johannes Brahms, Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky, Edward Elgar, Dmitri Shostakovich (no 1), Béla Bartók, Alban Berg, Igor Stravinsky and Sir William Walton.
Famous piano concertos after Beethoven’s time include those by Frederic Chopin (2), Robert Schumann, Johannes Brahms (2), Pjotr I. Tchaikovsky (3), Edvard Grieg, Sergei Rachmaninoff (4), Béla Bartók (3), Sergei Prokofiev (5) and Igor Stravinsky.
Famous cello concertos include those by Antonín Dvořák, Edouard Lalo, Edward Elgar and Dmitri Shostakovich. Tchaikovsky wrote a piece for cello and orchestra called "Rococo Variations" and Benjamin Britten wrote a piece for cello and orchestra which he called a “Cello Symphony” because the cello and orchestra are equal in importance. Brahms wrote a "Double Concerto" for violin and cello with orchestra.
There are viola concertos by Paul Hindemith and William Walton, and Hector Berlioz wrote "Harold in Italy" which is like a viola concerto.
Famous concertos for woodwind instruments include two for clarinet by Carl Maria von Weber, clarinet and flute concertos by Carl Nielsen, a clarinet concerto by Aaron Copland, an oboe concerto by Ralph Vaughan Williams.
Richard Strauss wrote two concertos for the French horn. Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov wrote a trombone concerto and Ralph Vaughan Williams wrote a tuba concerto.
Modern composers have written percussion concertos. These are usually pieces for one percussion player playing lots of different percussion instruments, and an orchestra accompanying. James MacMillan wrote a piece for percussion and orchestra called "Veni, Veni Emmanuel". 
Joaquin Rodrigo wrote several works for guitar and orchestra including "Concierto de Aranjuez".
Béla Bartók wrote a piece called "Concerto for Orchestra". He gave it this title because, although it is a piece for orchestra (like a symphony), there are lots of solos for the different instruments. Other composer, such as Alan Hovhaness, have also written concertos for orchestra.
Sir Peter Maxwell Davies has written ten concertos, each for a different solo instrument. They are known as the "Strathclyde Concertos".

</doc>
<doc id="30630" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30630" title="Concerto grosso">
Concerto grosso

A Concerto Grosso is a piece of music from the 18th century in which there are a small group of instruments and a large group of instruments. These two groups are contrasted with one another. Sometimes both play together, sometimes one plays by itself, or the two groups might imitate one another. The small group is called “concertino” and the large group is called "tutti", “ripieno” or “concerto grosso” (the same name as the musical piece). “Concerto grosso” is Italian for “big concerto”. The plural is “concerti grossi”. Notice that the second “c” in “concerto” is pronounced like an English “ch”.
A concerto grosso has several parts that differ in speed and character. There are usually three movements; the first is fast, the second is slow, and the last is fast. The first movement contrasts the tutti and the soloists, the second movement is quiet, while the last movement is lively.
The composer who made the concerto grosso very popular was the Italian Arcangelo Corelli (1653-1713). The instruments in the small group of soloists in his concerti grossi were usually two violins and one cello. George Frideric Handel (1685-1759) also used that combination for his concerti grossi. 
Johann Sebastian Bach (1685-1750) wrote a set of six concertos known as the "Brandenburg Concertos". Each of the Brandenburg Concertos is for a different combination of instruments. Most of them are concerti grossi. The second one, for example, has a concertino group of four instruments: trumpet, violin, recorder and oboe.
After the Baroque period, few composers wrote concerti grossi. They were more interested in the solo concerto. However, in the 20th century, some composers, including Igor Stravinsky (1882-1971) and Bela Bartok (1881-1945), wrote pieces of music that are like concerti grossi.

</doc>
<doc id="30637" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30637" title="Hyundai Grandeur">
Hyundai Grandeur

The Hyundai Grandeur is a car made by Hyundai Motor Company. It was first sold in 1986. In North America the car was called Hyundai XG (third generation) and Hyundai Azera (fourth generation).
The first Grandeur of 1986 was developed together with Mitsubishi(Mitsubishi Debonair).
The New Grandeur was developed together with Mitsubishi (Mitsubishi Debonair). Mitsubishi provided the powertrain and Hyundai took care of the exterior and interior design. Production of the car began in September 1992 and ended in 1998.
The Grandeur XG, this time developed by Hyundai alone, used the same platform and engines as the Kia Amanti. In North America and Europe, it was called the Hyundai XG. Originally powered by a 3.0 L 6-cylinder engine, the XG300 was renamed to XG350 in 2002, to reflect the increase in engine size to 3.5 litres of displacement.
Sold as the Hyundai Azera in North America, the Grandeur TG is a full-size sedan introduced for the 2006 model year. It shares many of its components with the mid-size Sonata.
Being a step up from the Sonata, the Azera is the most luxurious model sold by Hyundai outside of Korea. Pricing for the base model starts at starts at US$24,995. The 2006 Hyundai Azera has a 3.8 L 6-cylinder engine, automatic gearbox, cruise control, automatic air-conditioning, power front seats, anti-lock brakes (ABS), electronic brake-force distribution (EBD), electronic stability control (ESC), and several airbags. The better equipped Limited trim level adds 17-inch alloy wheels, heated front seats, leather seat-upholstery, and a power sunshade for the rear window, and costs US$27,495.
The Hyundai Azera was named "Best New Family Car (over CAN$35,000)" in the 2006 Canadian Car of the Year awards.

</doc>
<doc id="30643" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30643" title="Ape">
Ape

Apes are mammals belonging to the primate family Hominoidea. Its members are called hominoids. They are native to Africa and Southeast Asia. Its living members are divided into two families:
One clear difference between monkeys and apes is that monkeys almost always have tails, but hominoids never do. There are also differences in their teeth and the way they move their arms. They have a wide degree of freedom at the shoulder joint, which helps them swing by their arms in the trees (brachiation).
The diets of apes are similar to those of other primates. They eat fruits, nuts, seeds, leaves and sometimes other animals. They are omnivores, though most of their intake is herbivorous.

</doc>
<doc id="30653" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30653" title="Hattingen">
Hattingen

Hattingen an der Ruhr is a city about 60.000 people in the state of North Rhine-Westphalia in Germany. It belongs to the Ruhr area. It lies south of Bochum and Essen. Very famous is its "Altstadt".

</doc>
<doc id="30654" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30654" title="Shart">
Shart

Shart is the name of several Bollywood and Tollywood movies.

</doc>
<doc id="30658" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30658" title="Morning wood">
Morning wood

Morning wood is an informal term for a morning erection, for which the technical medical term is "nocturnal penile tumescence". It means an erection that a man sometimes has while asleep or right after waking up. Men who do not have erectile dysfunction can experience this sensation. It usually happens during Rapid Eye Movement sleep. Other slang terms include "morning glory" and "morning tent".

</doc>
<doc id="30692" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30692" title="Accompaniment">
Accompaniment

An accompaniment in music is music that accompanies (goes with) something else.
A piece of music may have a melody (tune) and an accompaniment underneath. The music may be played on the piano with the right hand playing the tune and the left hand playing the accompaniment. The accompaniment might also be played on a different instrument.
Music does not have to be a tune with accompaniment, although it often is. The accompaniment does not always have to be lower than the tune. To play the piano, the pianist has to learn to play a tune in the right hand and accompaniment in the left hand, or the tune might be passed from one hand to the other. The tune should usually be played a little louder than the accompaniment. The accompaniment must not ‘drown’ the tune.
An accompaniment might be single notes, or chords, or any other pattern. The accompaniments help us to feel the harmony. An accompaniment might be another tune (this is called counterpoint). Tunes can be played or sung without accompaniment. Folk songs are traditionally sung unaccompanied.
If one instrument accompanies another, the person who plays the accompaniment is an "accompanist". The piano is the most popular instrument for accompanying in Western music. A good pianist can accompany a violin, cello, oboe, trumpet, singer or choir. They have to listen carefully to the instrument(s) they are accompanying, and play with the same kind of feeling.
When a soloist plays a concerto the orchestra are accompanying the soloist. An organist playing a hymn is accompanying the congregation. A percussion player in a rock band is accompanying the lead instrument.
Guitars and electric keyboards are often used for accompaniment. In Elizabethan times the lute was popular. People sang songs and often accompanied themselves on the lute or harp. In the Baroque period the accompaniment was often played by the basso continuo (harpsichord or organ with cello or bassoon on the bass line).
The pianist Gerald Moore was a famous accompanist. When he started his career in the 1920s people did not think that the accompanist was very important. Sometimes their name would not even be printed in the programme. A singer would expect the audience to start to clap as soon as they had sung their last note, even if the piano had several more bars to play. This might not matter too much with some music, but in songs by Schubert, Wolf and other composers of Lieder the piano parts are very important. Gerald Moore made people realize how important the accompanist is. A good performance can be ruined by a bad accompaniment.

</doc>
<doc id="30698" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30698" title="Tagalog language">
Tagalog language

Tagalog is one of the main languages spoken in the Philippines. More than twenty-two million people speak it as their first language. It originally was spoken by the Tagalog people of the Philippines, who were mainly in Bulacan, Cavite, and some parts of the island of Luzon. Now it is spoken nationwide, just like English. It is a mix of Spanish, Malay, and English. It originally was used with an abugida, the Baybayin script, but now the Latin alphabet is used to write the words.

</doc>
<doc id="30703" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30703" title="Basso continuo">
Basso continuo

Basso continuo is a form of musical accompaniment used in the Baroque period. It means "continuous bass".
Basso continuo, sometimes just called "continuo", was played by a keyboard instrument and another bass instrument such as cello, violone (an old form of double bass) or bassoon. The keyboard instrument was normally a harpsichord, or, if it was being played in a church, an organ.
It was not usual to write out all the notes for the keyboard player. The composer normally just wrote the bottom line which would be played by the left hand (usually with a lower 8th doubling), and by the cello or whatever the instrument being used. The composer would indicate what the harmony should be (which chords should be played) by writing figures underneath the music. This is why it is called figured bass or sometimes thoroughbass. The continuo player will "realize" the figured bass, i.e. he will improvise the chords which are shown. In XIX and early XX century editions of old music the figured bass part was normally realized (written out) by the editor, while starting from the mid XX century editions of ancient music print the figured bass.
Basso continuo would accompany solo instruments and singers as well as instrumental groups.

</doc>
<doc id="30709" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30709" title="Diwali">
Diwali

Diwali (Deepawali or Dipawali) is India's big festival. Diwali means rows of lighted lamps. It is a festival of lights and all Indian Hindus celebrate it joyfully. In this festival, people light up their houses and shops. During this festival, people worship Lord Ganesh for good welfare and prosperity and people also worship goddess Lakshmi for wealth and wisdom.
Deepawali is an official holiday in India, Nepal, Sri Lanka, Singapore .
This festival is celebrated in the Hindu month of Kartik which falls sometime during the October or November months. It is celebrated to mark the return of Lord Ram from 14 years of exile and his victory over the demon Ravan. In many parts of India Diwali is celebrated for five consecutive days and is one of the most popular festivals in India. Hindus alike regard it as a celebration of life and use the occasion to strengthen family and relationships. For Hindus it is one of the most important festivals, and in some parts of India it marks the beginning of the new year. It is celebrated by letting off fireworks by children to really light up the whole of India. It is celebrated not only in India but also abroad. The Hindus worship the god Ganesh during Diwali.For sikhs it is an vital festival . In this day sikhs guru Hargobind singh ji goten from Jwalliar's prison 
Firecrackers, which use sulphur and paper, put sulphur dioxide and charcoal into the air so crackers are now forbidden in silent zones i.e. near hospitals, schools and courts.
Hindus light up their homes and shops, to welcome the goddess of wealth and fortune, Lakshmi to welcome her in to give them good luck for the year ahead.Diwali or Deepawali means a row or collection of lamps. A few days before Ravtegh, which is the day before Diwali, houses, buildings, shops and temples arc thoroughly cleaned, white-washed and decorated with pictures, toys and flowers. They look as beautiful as a newly, wedded girl. Beautiful pictures are hung on the walls and everything is tip-top. On the Diwali day, people put on rich clothes and move about in a holiday mood. People exchange greetings and gifts or sweets on this day.
At night, buildings are illuminated with earthen lamps, candle-sticks and electric bulbs. The city presents a bright and colourful sight. Sweets and toy shops are tastefully decorated to attract the passers-by. The bazaars and-streets are overcrowded. People buy sweets for their own families and also send them as presents to their friends and relatives. People often wish each other with Happy Diwali Quotess and other greetings for the betterment. Children explode crackers. At night, Goddess Laxmi, the goddess of wealth, is worshiped in the form of earthen images and silver rupee. People believe that on this day, Hindu Goddess Laxmi enters only those houses which are neat and tidy. People offer prayers for their own health, wealth and prosperity. They let the light on so that Goddess Laxmi may find no difficulty in finding her way in and smile upon them.

</doc>
<doc id="30711" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30711" title="Arthashastra">
Arthashastra

Arthashastra is an ancient book of India. Kautilya (also known as Chanakya) wrote this book. Kautilya was a minister of Chandragupta Maurya (321 BC – 297 BC), an emperor of Ancient India. After many revisions and additions, the book took its present form about 1800 years before, in the 2nd century. 
The book is divided into fifteen sections. It tells about politics and administration. Different sections of the book talk about many subjects, such as: war and politics "rule with a harsh hand"

</doc>
<doc id="30712" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30712" title="Hanuman">
Hanuman

Hanuman is one of the most popular gods of Hindus. He is also known by other names like Hanumat. His mother’s name was Anjana. Based on her mother’s name, Hanuman is sometimes called "Anjaneya", that is, one born of Anjana. His father’s name was Vayu. According to Hindu mythology, Vayu is the god of winds. Hanuman’s image shows him as a strong man with the face of a monkey. He also has a tail.
Hanuman was awarded boon of Immortality by Mother Sita ( Wife of Lord rama) and is still alive
Hanuman is a very powerful and strong god. He finds an important place in the Ramayana. He was a devotee of Rama, a form (avatar) of Vishnu, a god of Hindus. Hanuman is a figure of strength, perseverance and devotion. When he was young he thought the sun a mango.

</doc>
<doc id="30715" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30715" title="Indra">
Indra

Indra resides in a mythical city located above in the sky. The city’s name is Amravati. He lives there with his wife named Indrani, and several other smaller gods. There are many apsaras in amravati.
Indra was a very important God during the Vedic period. Later his importance became less. Gods like Brahma, Vishnu, and Shiva became more important in Hinduism. 
Indra in current form of mythology is similar to that of Zeus in Greek mythology. Though his importance has come down, he is still considered to be king of Gods. His status is below that of Brahma, Vishnu and Siva. Thus, he is considered to be king of lesser Gods.
Again, his weapon is Vajra which is represented by Thunderbolt! His means, at times, treacherous and he is shown as, at times, jealous and vengeful. Further, he is made to suffer his own bad deeds.

</doc>
<doc id="30716" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30716" title="Badrinath">
Badrinath

Badrinatha is an important pilgrimage place for the Hindus. The place is in Uttarakhand state of India, and is located at a high altitude in the Himalayas. The Hindu scriptures say that the place is sacred to Vishnu, one of the gods of Hindus.
Badrinath gets its name from a tree's name. The name of that tree is "badri-tree" or Indian Jujube tree. The botanical name of a badri-tree is "Zizyphus jujba Lam".
The modern Badrinath temple was established by Adi Shankaracharya in the ninth century after the old temple fell to ruin. The Badrinath area is referred to as Badarikaashram (बदरिकाश्रम) in Hindu scriptures.
The temple was renovated many times because of age or damage by avalanche. In the 17th century, the temple was renovated by the kings of Garhwal. After the great 1803 Himalayan earthquake, it was rebuilt by the King of Jaipur.

</doc>
<doc id="30718" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30718" title="Kanchipuram">
Kanchipuram

Kanchipuram is one of the seven most holy cities of Hindus. It is about southwest of Chennai, Tamilnadu state, India. Kanchipuram was an important religious and cultural place of Ancient India. The city continues to be an important religious place. 
For a long time from the 6th century till the 8th century, the city was capital city of the Pallava dynasty. 
There are many temples in the city.
There is a Math (Religious centre) of Shankaracharya in this city.

</doc>
<doc id="30724" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30724" title="History of Japan">
History of Japan

The history of Japan in written form dates from the 1st century. But archeologists have found proof of people living in Japan for the last several thousand years from the time when the last Ice Age ended.
The first period of Japan's history is its prehistory, before the written history of Japan. Archeologists have found pottery from that time. Japan’s Paleolithic era covers a period from around 100,000 BC to around 12,000 BC. Archeologists have found some polished tools made of stones. Some of them are kept in Tokyo's National Museum. These tools are more than 32,000 years old. 
The Jomon period lasted for about 10,000 years, from 10,000 BC to around 300 BC. This was the Mesolithic era for Japan. Some scholars say that during this period, Neolithic culture also developed in Japan.
Some believe that the Jomon people were the first people in the world to create pottery. But other scholars do not think so. Archeologists have found several pieces of pottery of that time. Some are clay figures and some are vessels and potteries of different shapes.
The Yayoi period covered about 550 years, from around 300 BC till around 250. The period had got its name from a location in Tokyo. By that time, Japanese people had learnt the cultivation of rice. Different clans controlled different areas and they also fought among themselves. Some Chinese texts tell about this time. These texts describe Japan as the Yamatai country. Yamatai came into being when about 30 smaller parts of Japan of that time united under a queen named Himiko.
The Ancient and Classical period covers about 900 years, beginning from the mid-3rd century till the end of the 12th century. The History of Japan of this period may further be divided into several smaller periods. These are described below.
In the history of Japan, the period from the mid-3rd century till around 710 is known as the Yamato period. This period has two parts. The first is the Kofun period (mid-3rd century – mid-6th century). Buddhism had not reached Japan by this time. The second period is called the Asuka period (mid-6th century till around 710). By this time Buddhism had reached Japan.
This period saw many important changes like introduction of the Chinese writing system to Japan. The relationship with Korea and China also brought social changes.
During this period, from the year 707, steps were taken to shift the capital to a place near present-day Nara. This was completed in 710. A new city was built. The city was built to look like the Chinese capital city of that time. At that time, the Tang Dynasty was ruling China, and the capital was at Chang'an (now Xi'an).
During the Nara period, development was slow. The Emperor’s family members were always fighting for power with the Buddhists and other groups. At that time, Japan had friendly relations with Korea and China’s Tang Dynasty. The capital was shifted twice. In 784, the capital was moved to Nagaoka and in 794 to Kyoto. In that period, Kyoto was known as Heian-kyo.
The years from 794 to 1185 are known as the . This grouping of years is named after city of Heian-kyō, which is the early name of present day Kyoto. 
Period from around the 12th century through the 19th century is called feudal period in the history of Japan. The Japanese Emperor was the head of the government, but he had no real power. Many powerful families (called daimyo and military groups called shogun) ruled Japan during this period. The feudal period of Japan is generally sub-divided into different periods named after the shogun, which ruled during that period.
The years 1185 to 1333 are known as the . This grouping of years is named after city of Kamakura which was the center of power of the Kamakura shogunate. 
Muromachi Period began in 1336 and ended in 1573. Emperor Go-Daigo lost his throne. The government of the Ashikaga shogunate took control of most parts of Japan. This period ended in 1573. In that year the 15th and the last shogun named Ashikaga Yoshiaki was forced to go out of the capital. At that time capital was in Kyōto. 
During this period, in 1542, a Portuguese ship reached Japan and made the first direct contact between both cultures, including the knowledge of firearms. In the next few years, merchants and also some Christian missionaries from several European countries, mainly Portugal, the Netherlands, England, and Spain, reached the shores of Japan.
Azuchi-Momoyama period covers the years from 1568 to 1600. During these years, different parts of Japan became again united. Its military power grew. In 1592, Japan wanted to conquer China. At that time China was ruled by the Ming dynasty. At that time Toyotomi Hideyoshi was one of the main leaders of Japan. He sent an army of 160,000 troops to Korea. But, the Japanese could not win and returned to Japan. In 1597, Japan again sent an army to Korea. In 1598 Toyotomi Hideyoshi died. After his death, the Japanese dropped the idea of conquering Korea and China.
During this period, Japanese brought many Koreans to Japan. These Koreans were very good at making pottery and at other arts. Some of them were very learned persons. Japan gained new information and knowledge from these Koreans.
During the Edo period, Japan had many small rulers. There were about 200 of them. They were called daimyo. Out of them, the Tokugawa clan was most powerful. They ruled from a place named Edo. This place was around the present day’s Tokyo. For fifteen generations they were the most powerful clan in Japan.
Edo period is also very important period in the history of Japan. Many developments took place. Main developments were:
In 1868, a war named the Boshin War took place. With this war, the government of the Shogunate ended. Japan again came under the rule of an emperor.
Beginning from the early 17th century, the rulers of Japan started to follow a policy of seclusion, known as sakoku in Japanese language. They suspected that traders, merchants and missionaries wanted to bring Japan under the control of European powers. These rulers (known as shogunate) started a policy of seclusion. Except the Dutch and the Chinese, all foreigners, traders and merchants from other countries, missionaries faced restrictions. They also ordered some foreigners to go out of Japan.
Still even during the period of seclusion, Japanese continued to gain information and knowledge about other parts of the world.
This policy of seclusion lasted for about 200 years. At last it was ended under force. On July 8th 1853, Commodore Matthew Perry of the U.S. Navy reached Edo, old Tokyo with four warships. The ships were heavily armed and their guns pointed towards the city. After shown such a power, Japan was asked to agree to trade with other countries. Later on, Japanese called these ships the "kurofune", the Black Ships.
Next year, on 31st March 1854, Perry came with seven ships, and Japanese signed a treaty (known as the Convention of Kanagawa) established diplomatic relationship with the USA. Another treaty (known as the Harris Treaty) was signed with the USA on 29th July 1858. This gave more facilities to foreigners coming to Japan and doing business with Japan. Though Japan started relationship with the USA and several other countries, many Japanese were not happy with this style of forcing Japan to do such things.
Meiji Restoration is an important period of history of Japan. At that time, Emperor Meiji was ruling Japan. During this period, power of Japan’s emperor (named Meiji) was restored, that is, he gained back his full power; and this is why the period is called Meiji Restoration. During this period, beginning after the Boshin War of 1868, many changes happened in Japan.
The feudal system was ended. Japan copied many systems of the western countries. Changes occurred in Japan’s legal system and the government.
At the end of the 19th century, a number of learned Japanese supported a particular theory. According to this theory, Japan had to make itself bigger in size to face foreign powers. Thus Japan tried to expand its areas. It wanted parts of nearby countries to make its borders safe. This resulted in wars with its neighboring counties. In 1894-1895, Japan and China had a war. After about ten years, in 1904-1905, another war took place with Russia. Japan became a strong power after these wars. But, Russian influence continued to grow inside China.
By the end of the 19th century and beginning of the 20th century, the Russian influence was increasing in China. Japan and the Great Britain used to get economic and other benefits from their relationship with China. Therefore, Japan as well as the Great Britain did not like Russia’s growing influence in China. Both countries discussed the matter. Finally, they signed a treaty on 30th January 1902. They agreed that in the event of any attack or war on any of them, they would fight together. This is known as the Anglo-Japanese Alliance. Russia was not happy at this type of agreement. He also tried to sign similar treaty with Germany and France. On 6th March 1902, Russia could sign a similar treaty with France. But, Germany did not join them.
Soon after this, Japan and Russia were at war and fighting with each other. By 1905, Japanese had won several rounds of victories over Tsarist Russia. At that time the Czar ruled Russia, and hence it was called Tsarist Russia. But, the Japanese victory was not final. The USA came to meditate under the US President Teddy Roosevelt. Japan got a number of concessions. In 1910, Japan completely took over Korea and made that a part of Japan.
In 1914, the First World War broke out. Japan also entered the war. It attacked several places (of East Asia), which were colonies of Germany. After the war ended in 1919, Japan developed very fast. It became one of the major powers of Asia.
Before the beginning of the Second World War, Japan was fighting with China. This is called Second Sino-Japanese War (1937-1945). When the Second World War broke out in 1939, Japan went to the side of Nazi Germany and Fascist Italy. Japanese planes attacked Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941. The fighting continued for years. When the USA dropped the first atomic bombs on the Japanese cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, Japan accepted defeat and surrendered in 1945.
World War II and Japanese occupation of the Philippines
Japan launched a surprise attack on the Clark Air Base in Pampanga on December 8, 1941, just ten hours after the attack on Pearl Harbor. Aerial bombardment was followed by landings of ground troops on Luzon. The defending Philippine and United States troops were under the command of General Douglas MacArthur. Under the pressure of superior numbers, the defending forces withdrew to the Bataan Peninsula and to the island of Corregidor at the entrance to Manila Bay.
On January 2, 1942, General MacArthur declared the capital city, Manila, an open city to prevent its destruction. The Philippine defense continued until the final surrender of United States-Philippine forces on the Bataan Peninsula in April 1942 and on Corregidor in May of the same year. Most of the 80,000 prisoners of war captured by the Japanese at Bataan were forced to undertake the infamous Bataan Death March to a prison camp 105 kilometers to the north. It is estimated that about 10,000 Filipinos and 1,200 Americans died before reaching their destination.
President Quezon and Osmeña had accompanied the troops to Corregidor and later left for the United States, where they set up a government in exile. MacArthur was ordered to Australia, where he started to plan for a return to the Philippines.
The Japanese military authorities immediately began organizing a new government structure in the Philippines and established the Philippine Executive Commission. They initially organized a Council of State, through which they directed civil affairs until October 1943, when they declared the Philippines an independent republic. The Japanese-sponsored republic headed by President José P. Laurel proved to be unpopular.
Japanese occupation of the Philippines was opposed by large-scale underground and guerrilla activity. The Philippine Army, as well as remnants of the U.S. Army Forces Far East, continued to fight the Japanese in a guerrilla war and was considered an auxiliary unit of the United States Army. Their effectiveness was such that by the end of the war, Japan controlled only twelve of the forty-eight provinces. One element of resistance in the Central Luzon area was furnished by the Hukbalahap, which armed some 30,000 people and extended their control over much of Luzon.
The occupation of the Philippines by Japan ended at the war's conclusion. The American army had been fighting the Philippines Campaign since October 1944, when MacArthur's Sixth United States Army landed on Leyte. Landings in other parts of the country had followed, and the Allies, with the Philippine Commonwealth troops, pushed toward Manila. However, fighting continued until Japan's formal surrender on September 2, 1945. The Philippines suffered great loss of life and tremendous physical destruction, especially during the Battle of Manila. An estimated 1 million Filipinos had been killed, a large portion during the final months of the war, and Manila had been extensively damaged.
After the end of the Second World War, Japan came under international control. Japan became an important friend of the USA when it entered into the Cold war with Korea. Over next few years, many political, economic and social changes took place. Japanese Diet (legislature) came into being. In 1951, USA and 45 other countries signed an agreement with Japan, and Japan again became an independent nation with full power (a country with full sovereignty) on 28th April 1952.
Post-Occupation Japan means Japan after its occupation and control by a group of nations had ended. This is the period after the Second World War. The Second World War had damaged Japan very badly. It has almost lost its industry and economy was in a very bad shape. After the war, Japan received assistance and technology from the USA and several other countries of Europe. The progress was very rapid. For about 30 years, from around the 1950s to the 1980s, Japan grew very fast. It became one of the major economic powers of the world.
When the UN forces were fighting in Korea during the Korean War, Japan was one of the major suppliers. This also helped Japan’s economy. By 1980s, Japan had become the world’s second largest economy, after the USA. At first, there was very close relationship between Japan and the USA. But, Japan’s economic might resulted into trade deficit for the USA. A trade deficit results when imports are more than exports. Thus, USA was importing more than it exported to Japan.
For various reasons, this phase of rapid development ended in the 1990s. Some historians have described this decade as the lost decade of Japanese economy. About 5 to 10 persons in 100 persons could not find any work.
By 1952, Japan had become free from most of the controls of the occupation period. It got its own democratic system. Various political parties came into being and Japan’s political life became active.
Historians and sociologists call the recent era modern life. In Japanese, this is called the Heisei period. By 1989, Japan’s economy had become very large. Much development had taken place. In the Gulf war of 1991, Japan gave billions of dollars.
Japan also faced some problems. In 1995, a big earthquake took place in Kobe. Another earthquake took place on 23rd October 2004 in Niigata Prefecture, and a very destructive tsunami damaged the north east coast in March 2011, causing a nuclear accident in Fukushima Prefecture.

</doc>
<doc id="30754" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30754" title="History of Saudi Arabia">
History of Saudi Arabia

History of Saudi Arabia covers thousands of years with lots of people from different cultures living there. There was a culture called the Dilmun culture among them, which was very old and existed along the Persian Gulf. It was as old as the ancient civilizations of Sumerians and the Egyptians. Saudi Arabia had trading relations with many parts of the ancient world, but the hot and harsh climate had made large settlements difficult. Some settlements had always existed around oases; these are places in the deserts where growth and water are available. 
Saudi Arabia became an important center, as Islam rose in the 620s. The cities of Medina and Mecca became the holiest places of Islam. They also became the two holiest cities for the Muslims in the whole world. The rulers and kings of Saudi Arabia also got more power.
The beginning of the modern history of Saudi Arabia was when an Islamic reformer named Muhammad ibn Abd al Wahhab and a local ruler named Muhammad bin Saud founded the Saudi state in the year 1744. It was founded in the central part of the Arabia. Over the next Century and a half, the Saud family saw bad and good times. The family also faced opposition from rulers of Egypt and the Ottoman Empire. The family also faced opposition from other powerful families of Arabia
Finally after many decades,The modern state of Saudi Arabia could be established by King Abdul Aziz Al-Saud (also known as Abdul Aziz Ibn Saud). In 1902, he took over the city of Riyadh from another family, named Al-Rashid. He continued to win more areas, and on 8 January 1926, he became the King of Hijaz. On 29 January 1927, he took the title of King of Nejd. On 20th May 1927, the government of the United Kingdom accepted him as the King of the areas ruled by him. His kingdom now became a sovereignty. All the regions under his control were united to form the state of Saudi Arabia by the year 1932. Petroleum oil was found in Saudi Arabia on 3 March 1938, which made the country rich as export of oil started to bring a lot of money.
Saudi Arabia discussed from the beginning of the 1920s with its neighboring countries about fixing of definite boundaries. It finalized its boundaries with Iraq, Jordan, and Kuwait. On borders with Iraq and Kuwait, two neutral zones were created – one with Iraq, and the other one with Kuwait. In 1934, borders with Yemen were almost finalized. 
In 1965, Saudi Arabia gave some of its areas to Jordan, and Jordan gave some of its areas to Saudi Area. In 1971, the neutral zone between Saudi Arabia and Kuwait was partitioned between these two countries. Likewise, Saudi Arabia and Iraq decided in 1981 to partition the neutral zone between them. The zone was partitioned between the two countries in 1984.
Still, Saudi Arabia's borders with the United Arab Emirates and Oman are not final. The border with Qatar was finalized in 2001.
King Abdul Aziz Al-Saud died in 1953. His son named Saud became the king. He reigned for 11 years. In 1964, he was forced to step down, and his half-brother, Faisal, became the king. Faisal had the support of the senior members of the royal family and the religious leaders. Faisal also held the post of the Prime Minister. This tradition of being both the King and the Prime Minister still continues in Saudi Arabia. All Kings after Faisal had followed this practice. 
Faisal took a number of new steps for economic development of Saudi Arabia. During his reign, many important political events also happened like the ones noted below:
In 1975, King Faisal was assassinated by one of his nephews. The nephew was found guilty, and he was sentenced to death. King Faisal's half-brother Khalid became the King and the Prime Minister of Saudi Arabia. During the reign of King Khalid, Saudi Arabia's importance in regional politics increased. The economic growth of the country also continued at a good rate.
King Khalid died in 1982. After his death, Fahd became the King. At the same time, he also became the Prime Minister of Saudi Arabia. His half-brother Prince Abdullah became the Crown Prince.
The income of Saudi Arabia became less during the period of King Fahd's reign. This was a result of lower price of petroleum oil. King Fahd's government used an economic policy which helped the country to survive with a lower income.
King Fahd helped Iraq during the Iran-Iraq war. Iraq's economy had become very bad on account of this war. The King also discussed with these two countries to stop war. Both countries (Iran and Iraq) stopped the war in August 1988. The King also helped in making Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) a stronger organization. The GCC is an organization of six countries of the Persian Gulf. The purpose of the organization is to increase development and cooperation among the member countries.
In 1990, Saddam Hussain was ruling Iraq. The Gulf War of 1991 was when he invaded Kuwait. Many people thought that his army would also invade Saudi Arabia. King Fahd allowed some Western countries and USA to send their forces to the country. Many Muslims were against that their most holy land was used by non-Muslim soldiers. 
During and after the Gulf War, King Fahd’s role was very important. During the war, he allowed the entry of the royal family of Kuwait inside Saudi Arabia and followed by 400,000 other persons from Kuwait to stay on a temporary basis. The King allowed the troops of countries like USA to mount attacks on Kuwait to liberate it. He also helped in arranging support of other Muslim countries for liberation of Kuwait. Iraqi forces were eventually ousted from Kuwait.
Presence of troops from the Western countries has angered many Muslims. One of them was the rich man Osama bin Laden. He was forced to leave Saudi Arabia when he disagreed and opposed the King of Saudi Arabia. Other than Osma bin laden and his groups, there were several other persons and groups who did not like the presence of Western troops inside Saudi Arabia. 
These persons and their groups attacked people, they tried manly to attack the foreign troops in Saudi Arabia. Some examples of such attacks are given below:
September 11, 2001 attacks in New York had resulted into many deaths and big destruction. After enquiry, it came to light that out of 19 suspected persons for these attacks, 15 were from Saudi Arabia. 
Such things attracted the attention of the government of Saudi Arabia. The government started a policy to check such activities. Even then, terrorist activities of such persons and groups continued.

</doc>
<doc id="30768" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30768" title="Linga">
Linga

A linga or a lingam is a very complex symbol of Hinduism. It is associated with Shiva, one of the three main gods of the Hindus. The Hindu scriptures say that a linga represents energy and strength. In almost all the temples of Shiva, Shiva is shown in the form of a linga.
The Hindu scriptures also say that Shiva took twelve forms as Jyotirlinga, that is, "a linga of light". In India, there are twelve places where this form of Shiva is worshiped. The Hindu scriptures also tell about five more forms of lingas. These form of lingas represent the earth, the water, the fire, the air and the sky (or ether). There are five different places in India where Hindus worship these forms of Shiva. These places are located at the following places:
Beside above places, in almost all the towns and villages of India, Shiva’s temples are found. In all such temples, lingas are worshipped. 

</doc>
<doc id="30773" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30773" title="United States National Guard">
United States National Guard

The United States National Guard is a branch or organization of the United States Army and the United States Air Force. The U.S. Army and U.S. Air Force are both branches of the United States military. The National Guard is a militia for the United States (in other words, an emergency army meant to protect the United States). Each U.S. State has its own National Guard, usually under the control of that state's government. When needed, they are mobilized under control of the United States. 
There are two parts of the National Guard: The Air National Guard and The Army National Guard. The Air National Guard is part of the United States Air Force; the Army National Guard is part of the United States Army. Together, the Army National Guard and the Air National Guard are called the United States National Guard. Separately, the two National Guard groups are identified by the kinds of jobs they do. For example, the Air National Guard does mainly airborne jobs, while the Army National Guard does the jobs on the ground. 

</doc>
<doc id="30774" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30774" title="Bishop's Stortford">
Bishop's Stortford

Bishop's Stortford is a town in Hertfordshire in south-east England, with about 35,000 people living there.
People have lived in the area for hundreds of thousands of years but it became a permanent town by the time of the Saxons.
The Domesday Book says there were 120 people living there in the 1100s. The Normans built a small castle there but it was unused and broken by the time of the Tudors.
The town grew as an important centre for transport. After 1769, ships were able to use the river. It was a stagecoach stop for travel on the road between London and Cambridge. In 1842 the town got a railway station.
In 1901 there were 7,000 people living there, and by 1951 it was 13,000. 
The town is popular for travellers to London because of the M11 motorway (an important road) and good train services to London. Stansted Airport has also caused development.

</doc>
<doc id="30781" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30781" title="Raven">
Raven

A raven is a big, black bird. It is similar to a crow but is a little different. The raven's feathers are all black, but a crow has feathers that are white at the bottom. These cannot be seen from a distance. 
The most famous raven is in the Edgar Allen Poe story called "The Raven".
The common raven can be easily tamed, but is mischievous and sly, and has been well known regarded as a bird of evil and mysterious character.

</doc>
<doc id="30782" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30782" title="Malnutrition">
Malnutrition

Malnutrition is not getting necessary nutrition to be healthy. It is considered a more scientific and official term than starvation which has negative associations. Malnutrition is not, however, simply not eating enough. Someone can be malnourished if they eat an unhealthy diet. 
Malnutrition becomes a bigger problem during famine because most of the people do not get enough food, hence increasing the death rate. This can be cured by eating a proper balanced diet. Children whose daily diet contains less carbohydrate and protein do not grow well. They do not gain weight. Their hands and legs appear as skin and bones. They cry all the time with hunger. They are not active and have sunken eyes. Such children often fall sick. Lack of a particular vitamin is another kind of malnutrition which can cause a particular deficiency disease.

</doc>
<doc id="30783" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30783" title="Carolina parakeet">
Carolina parakeet

The Carolina parakeet is an extinct species of parrot.
It was the last parrot type to have lived before the European conquest in the eastern United States. It was found from the Ohio Valley to the Gulf of Mexico, and lived in old woods along rivers. 
The last wild Carolina parakeet was killed in Okeechobee County in Florida in 1904, and the last bird kept by people died at the Cincinnati Zoo in 1918. This was the male bird called "Incas", who died within a year of his mate "Lady Jane". It was not until 1939, however, that it was agreed that all the Carolina parakeets had died.
At some date between 1937 and 1955, three parakeets looking like this sort of bird were seen and recorded on videotape in the Okefenokee Swamp of Georgia. However, the American Ornithologists Union thought that they had probably recorded escaped pets. Additional sightings were recorded in Okeechobee County in Florida until the end of the 1920s.
The Carolina parakeet died out for a number of reasons. To make space for more farms, large areas of forest were cut down, taking away its living space. The colorful feathers (green body, yellow head, and red around the bill) were in demand as decorations in ladies' hats, and the birds were kept as pets. Even though the birds were bred easily in captivity, little was done to make sure enough birds were bred to avoid their dying out. Finally, they were killed in large numbers because farmers thought they were pests.
Another reason that led to their extinction was that, unfortunately, they liked to return in large flocks to places where some of them had just been killed. This led to even more being shot by hunters as they gathered about the wounded and dead members of the flock.

</doc>
<doc id="30786" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30786" title="Match Game">
Match Game

Match Game was a game show that ran from 1962-1999.
First the challenging contestant would pick a question, A or B. Host Gene Rayburn would read it to the contestant. Then the contestant and the six celebrities would write their answer to the question on a piece of paper. Then after the contestant and the celebrities got done with their answer, Gene would ask for the contestant's answer. They would tell it to him. Then he would ask the celebrities for their answers. If the contestant's and a celebrity's answer are the same the contestant would get a point, and a green triangle would light up.
Then the defending contestant would take the remaining question. Then the process was the same as above, except red circles lit up.
Whoever had the most points at after two rounds of the above procedures would win $100 and go on to the Big Money Super Match.
Before the game show, the audience would be surveyed. Their top 3 answers to the question (e.g. Road ___) would be worth (3rd most popular) $100, (2nd most popular) $250, and (most popular) $500. The contestant would pick 3 celebrities to give them answers they thought would be under the $500 slot. Then the contestant would choose one of those answers or make up their own. The answers were revealed one at a time.
If the contestant won the Audience Match, they would get a chance to win 10 times that money. They had to match a celebrity's answer exactly to questions like ____ Bee. At first, the contestant chose the celebrity they wanted to play with. In 1978, the Star Wheel was introduced. The contestant spun a wheel to determine which celebrity they would be playing with. If the wheel stopped on a gold star section, the money the contestant would be playing for was doubled.
The first "Match Game" had different rules from this one and was shown on the NBC network starting in 1962 and ending in 1969. Then, this "Match Game" was introduced on the CBS network in 1973. That version ended in 1979. In 1975, a syndicated version titled "Match Game PM" started. It had three rounds of gameplay, and two Audience Matches in the Big Money Super Match. It ended in 1981. A second syndicated version with the same gameplay as "Match Game PM" started in 1979, and ended in 1982. In 1983, it was combined with another game show, "Hollywood Squares", to form the "Match Game-Hollywood Squares Hour", which was on television for one year. Six years later, in 1990, it was brought back for the ABC network with a new host, Ross Shafer. In this version, contestants played for cash. It also featured a new round called the "Match Up" round. It was played at the end of both rounds. To start, a contestant chose one of the celebrities. The contestant had 30 seconds (45 in the second round) to match the celebrity in Super Match-style questions. Each question had two choices. Matches were worth $50 in the first round and $100 in the second. This version ended in 1991, but in 1998 it returned with Michael Burger as host. It featured five celebrities instead of six. This version was not very famous, however, and ended in 1999.

</doc>
<doc id="30811" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30811" title="Fleet (ships)">
Fleet (ships)

A fleet is a large group of ships or boats. It is also sometimes used to mean a group of other vehicles, such as trucks, buses and airplanes.

</doc>
<doc id="30812" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30812" title="Melanesia">
Melanesia

Melanesia is a region of islands in Oceania. 
It stretches from the Western Side of the Eastern Pacific Ocean, to the Arafura Sea, northeast of Australia. Its name means "black islands". 
following islands and groups of islands since the 19th century have been considered part of Melanesia:
Islands whose long-established inhabitants are of mixed ancestry who do not necessarily self-identify as Melanesian:
Some of the islands to the west of New Guinea such as Halmahera, Alor, and Pantar can also be considered to be part of Melanesia, although people in this area do not make use of the term.

</doc>
<doc id="30822" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30822" title="Diaphragm">
Diaphragm

The diaphragm is a muscle that is at the bottom of the ribcage of mammals.
When breathing in, the diaphragm pulls down so that the size of the lungs increases, allowing air to enter the lungs.
When breathing out, the diaphragm rests and goes up making a dome shape, decreasing the size of the lungs and pushing air out. 

</doc>
<doc id="30829" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30829" title="Germ theory of disease">
Germ theory of disease

The Germ theory of disease is a theory in biology. It says that small organisms (called germs), also known as microbes, cause diseases. Most, but not all diseases are infectious diseases. The germ theory states that small organisms cause a reaction in the body of those who are infected. The body's reaction to infection is called a disease.
Many scientists and doctors in history figured out that diseases are caused by microscopic organisms. Even after the microscope was invented, people still didn't know that germs caused diseases. People long believed that "bad air" from stinky trash dumps and from rotting meat was the cause of diseases. So people thought that covering their mouth and nose with a cloth would help filter out the "bad air." Scientists and doctors would use garlic and perfumes to ward off the bad air. But people still got sick and even died, so this theory was wrong. Polluted air is not the cause of disease.
One problem with the old theories of disease was that people believed that living things were spontaneously generated. Spontaneous generation is when something like a fly grows from a small speck of smelly meat. That old theory is called abiogenesis. In the seventeenth century, Francesco Redi (February 18, 1626 – March 1, 1697) discovered that flies lay eggs that become maggots. Prior to this, people thought that maggots came from rotting meat. He discovered this by sealing some meat in a jar and watching it. No maggots were found on the sealed meat. He also put some meat in a jar and covered it with gauze. Maggots were found on the gauze but not inside the jar. But when he placed meat in an open jar, maggots were found on the meat and inside the jar. Experiments like this proved that maggots come from flies who lay eggs, not from rotting meat. Later scientists would prove that diseases did not come from the air. Diseases are spread by infection.
Also in the eighteenth century, Antonie van Leeuwenhoek discovered the first microscopic organisms with a microscope. He was the first microbiologist. He saw some of the microscopic organisms that cause diseases, but he didn't know what they were. In 1700, Nicolas Andry thought that some of these microscopic organisms caused smallpox and other diseases. Over 100 years later, Agostino Bassi figured out what caused disease in silkworms. Ignaz Semmelweis was a doctor who figured out that if doctors washed their hands after touching dead people, that other patients wouldn't get sick. That was in 1847. It was about this time that sanitation and hand washing became popular with some, but not all doctors. Doctors began to use chemicals to cleanse wounds and clean their tools between each patient.
One of the most famous experiments of the nineteenth century was when John Snow discovered the source of a cholera outbreak. It turns out that cholera is transmitted when human waste contaminates water that people drink. Snow found out that there was a large number of sick people in Soho in London. After talking to many people in the area and mapping where each sick person lived, he realized that the sick people were almost all getting their drinking water from the same public water pump. He solved the epidemic by having the water pump's handle removed so that the people would get water from some other place. It worked, and the epidemic was soon over.
Louis Pasteur showed that the germ theory of disease was true. In 1862, he invented a process that heats up a liquid to a high temperature to keep it from spoiling. This process is known as pasteurization, named after Pasteur. Pasteurization is used to kill microscopic organisms in liquids like milk, wine, and beer. Liquids that are pasteurized will last much longer before they spoil.
Later, he did an experiment with fermentation. In one case he made a broth that he put inside a jar with a very long winding tube, so that no particles could pass to it from outside. Air could get inside the tube, but almost no dust. The broth he made did not change, and no fermentation took place. 
He then took a similar broth, but this time he allowed air and dust to go inside the jar. This time, fermentation took place. The thing that caused fermentation therefore needed to come from outside (the environment). And it wasn't just air that caused fermentation, it must be something floating in the air which was very small. We now know that small particles called yeast cause fermentation.
In the latter part of the nineteenth century, Robert Koch and Joseph Lister would go on and help establish the germ theory of disease as an important part of science and medicine. Koch's theories are called "postulates" and helped medical researchers know what causes diseases. Lister's ideas would help establish sanitation as a major defense against disease. Koch's postulates and Lister's sanitation discoveries are still very important today.
We now know that small things cause diseases. Each one of these things can cause infection: fungus, bacteria, virus, prion, yeast, protist.

</doc>
<doc id="30830" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30830" title="Labor Day">
Labor Day

Labor Day (in Canada, Labour Day) is a holiday in the United States and Canada on the first Monday of September. This holiday honors workers. It is similar to the May Day holiday in other countries. Many businesses close on Labor Day. Many students start school the day after Labor Day. 

</doc>
<doc id="30834" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30834" title="Christian cross">
Christian cross

The Christian cross is the main symbol of the Christian religion. These crosses are usually found on Christian churches. 
Jesus, who Christians believe is God the Son and their Messiah, was crucified (nailed to a large wooden cross). This was a commonly used method for killing people in Roman times. 
Christians believe that Jesus' death made the sins of all humans who trust in him, go away, and that they are forgiven. They also believe that Jesus was resurrected (came back to life) after three days. Because of this, the cross is a symbol for Jesus' sacrifice and suffering, but also a symbol of hope, forgiveness of sins, and victory over death.
There are several different Christian crosses that are symbols for different Christian groups or persons.
A cross with the body of Jesus on it is called a Crucifix.
The empty cross is usually favoured by Protestants, and the symbol reminds them of the Resurrection of Jesus. The crucifix is favoured by Catholic churches and is a reminder of Christ's sacrifice.
Christians remember the death of Jesus on the cross on Good Friday every year.
The most common cross is the Latin Cross. The cross represents and memorializes Christ's death.
This cross is a symbol of hope over death, and of victory in returning to life. (See Philippians 2:8-9)

</doc>
<doc id="30835" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30835" title="Martin Luther King, Jr. Day">
Martin Luther King, Jr. Day

Martin Luther King, Jr. Day is a US Federal Holiday. It commemorates civil rights activist Martin Luther King, Jr.'s birthday. It is celebrated on the third Monday in January and is one of only four United States Federal holidays to honor an individual person.

</doc>
<doc id="30836" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30836" title="Washington's Birthday">
Washington's Birthday

Presidents' Day, is a United States Federal holiday to celebrate the birth of George Washington and Abraham Lincoln, who are widely considered the greatest Presidents of the United States. The holiday is held on the third Monday in February.

</doc>
<doc id="30837" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30837" title="Memorial Day">
Memorial Day

Memorial Day is a national holiday in the United States. It is also a state holiday in many states. The holiday honors troops who have died in past wars like World War I and the Korean War. Memorial Day was first held in 1865 after the American Civil War. It was called Decoration Day at that time. The holiday was first called Memorial Day in 1882, and became a federal holiday in 1967. On June 28, 1968, the United States Congress made a law that said that the official Memorial Day holiday is May 30, but that Memorial Day was to be observed by Federal Employees as a paid holiday on the last Monday in May. Memorial Day is thought of by many Americans as being the start of summer. 

</doc>
<doc id="30838" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30838" title="Columbus Day">
Columbus Day

Columbus Day is a holiday celebrating the day Columbus landed on San Salvador. It is celebrated in many countries. This holiday is very controversial because of the way Columbus treated the Indians. 

</doc>
<doc id="30839" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30839" title="Veterans Day">
Veterans Day

Veterans Day is the American holiday when people who had served in the military during war-time are remembered and are thanked. It is both a federal and a state holiday. The holiday is celebrated on the same day as Armistice Day or Remembrance Day in other countries. These holidays are all November 11. This is the day seen as the end of World War I. The first World War ended on November 11, 1918. 
The holiday was first created as Armistice day in 1919 by President Woodrow Wilson. Thirty states made it a state holiday that year. It was made a holiday for the entire country in 1938. On June 1, 1954, the name was changed to Veterans Day. 

</doc>
<doc id="30842" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30842" title="Ralph Vaughan Williams">
Ralph Vaughan Williams

Ralph Vaughan Williams (b. Down Ampney, Gloucestershire, 12 October 1872; d. London, 26 August 1958) was the most important English composer of his generation.
Vaughan Williams always pronounced his first name “Rafe” - (“Vaughan” rhymes with “born”). His father was a rector. Ralph was very young when his father died. The family moved to Dorking near London. He went to Charterhouse School and played the viola in the school orchestra. He studied at the University of Cambridge and at the Royal College of Music where Hubert Parry was his teacher.
Vaughan Williams wanted to be a good composer, so he went abroad to study with famous composers like Max Bruch in Berlin and Maurice Ravel in Paris. Yet he knew that he must not simply imitate these composers, so he also studied English folk song. He became good friends with the composer Gustav Holst. The two men always showed one another the music they were writing so that they could help one another by offering criticism.
In 1910 he wrote a work which became one of his best-known pieces of music: the "Fantasia on a theme of Thomas Tallis". The piece is for a string orchestra divided into two sections. It uses a theme by the famous 16th century composer Tallis. He also wrote hymn tunes for the English Hymnal. One of his most popular hymn tunes is the one called "Sine Nomine" sung to the words “For all the saints”. Another lovely work is "The Lark Ascending". This is a short work for solo violin and orchestra. The violin sounds like a skylark singing in the sky. In 1934 he wrote a short piece for flute, harp and string orchestra called "Fantasia on Greensleeves" which is based on the famous English Renaissance tune "Greensleeves". 
During his long life Vaughan Williams wrote nine symphonies, works for the stage, songs, choral music and chamber music. In 1938 he wrote a famous piece called "Serenade to Music" for 16 solo singers and orchestra. It was one of several works he wrote inspired by Shakespeare. The words were from the play "The Merchant of Venice". It was written for the 50th anniversary of Sir Henry Wood’s career as a conductor. In 1953 he wrote music for Queen Elizabeth II’s coronation, including a very short and simple motet "O taste and see" which has remained very popular with church choirs.
In his old age he became quite deaf. This was because of the noise of gunfire he had been exposed to when he was serving as a stretcher bearer in World War I.
Some of Vaughan Williams’s best works are those where he makes his music sound like folk song. He loved the poetry of Housman and used some of the poems in a song cycle called "On Wenlock Edge" for tenor, piano and string quartet. His music always sounds English. He was born in the 19th century which was a time when people thought English musicians were not very good. Vaughan Williams and Edward Elgar (who was a little older) made people realise that it was possible for an Englishman to write beautiful, moving music. 
The New Grove Dictionary of Music & Musicians, ed. Stanley Sadie; 1980 ISBN 1-56159-174-2

</doc>
<doc id="30844" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30844" title="Recycling">
Recycling

Recycling means turning the materials from waste into something new. Glass, paper, plastic, and metals such as aluminum and steel are all commonly recycled. Dead plants, fruit and vegetable scraps can be recycled through composting. It is important, however, not to confuse recycling with reusing, which is where old things, such as clothes, are donated or given a new use instead of being thrown out.
One reason that people give for recycling is that it reduces trash in landfills. Another reason people recycle is to reduce the amount of raw materials and energy used in making things. Most of the time, it takes less energy to recycle trash than to throw it away, "The Economist" says. Recycling can reduce your carbon footprint and it would help to minimize the size of landfills around the world.
The 3 R's are Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle.
Most people make about two kilograms of waste (trash) every day, and about 7% of this waste is made up of plastic products that can be recycled. Today, plastic can be recycled into products like picnic tables, park benches, and even high-chairs.
First, plastic is collected and taken to a recycling center, where it is "sorted out". When plastic is sorted out, symbols have to be printed on every recyclable plastic product used. There are two types of plastic: "polyethylene" and "polymer". There are two kinds of polyethylene plastic, too: "high density polyethylene" (HDPE), and "low density polyethylene" (LDPE). HDPE plastic is usually used to make furniture, and LDPE plastic are usually things like milk jugs, plastic and grocery bags.
HDPE plastic is ground into a small powder. LDPE plastic, which are usually thin films, need to be ground by a special machine. After that, both plastics are washed with hot water and . Dirt and other things, like labels, are taken off. After the wash, the powder is dried with hot air.
Sometimes, the powder is sold. But other times, the powder is heated, colored, and then put into a "pelletizer". The pelletizer makes the powder into little , which are bought by a company that shapes the pellets into pieces of plastic "wood". This plastic wood is used to make flowerpots, trash cans, pipes, picnic tables, benches, toys, mats, and many other things.

</doc>
<doc id="30845" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30845" title="Transnistria">
Transnistria

Transnistria, officially Pridnestrovskaia Moldavskaia Respublica, PMR (short form: Pridnestrovie) is a country in Eastern Europe. 
Most other countries do not agree it is a country. They think it is "unrecognised state". Only 3 other countries think it's a country. The country declared independence from Moldova on 2 September 1990. With the help of the Russian army, it defeated the Moldovan army in the War of Transnistria. 
There has been peace since 1992, but the Council of Europe calls Transnistria a "frozen conflict" region.
There is argument about whether it is really a country or not. The region continues to say it is independent, and acts independently over its territory with the help of peacekeeping forces from four countries.
In a vote in 17 September 2006, 97% voted to be free from Moldova. This vote has not been accepted by Moldova.

</doc>
<doc id="30850" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30850" title="Mercalli intensity scale">
Mercalli intensity scale

The Mercalli intensity scale (or more precisely the Modified Mercalli intensity scale) is a scale to measure the intensity of earthquakes. Unlike with the Richter scale, the Mercalli scale does not take into account energy of an earthquake directly. Rather, they classify earthquakes by the effects they have (and the destruction they cause). When there is little damage, the scale describes how people felt the earthquake, or how many people felt it.
Very often, non-geologists use this scale, because it is easier for people to describe what damage an earthquake caused, than to do calculations to get a value on the Richter scale.
Values range from I - Instrumental to XII - Catastrophic.
Giuseppe Mercalli (1850-1914) originally developed the scale, with ten levels. In 1902, Adolfo Cancani extended the scale to include twelve levels. August Heinrich Sieberg copletely rewrote the scale. For this reason, the scale is sometimes named Mercalli-Cancani-Sieberg scale, or MCS scale.
Harry O. Wood and Frank Neumann translated it into English, and published it as Mercalli–Wood–Neumann (MWN) scale. Charles Francis Richter also improved it. He also developed the Richter scale, later on. 
The lower degrees of the Modified Mercalli Intensity scale generally deal with the manner in which the earthquake is felt by people. The higher numbers of the scale are based on observed damage to struxtures
The large table gives Modified Mercalli scale intensities that are typically observed at locations near the epicenter of the earthquake.
There is a correlation between the magitude and the intensity of the earthquake. Even though this correlation is there, it may be difficult to link one to the other: This correlation depends on several factors, such as the depth of the earthquake, terrain, population density, and damage. For example, on May 19, 2011, an earthquake of magnitude 0.7 in Central California, United States 4 km deep was classified as of intensity III by the United States Geological Survey (USGS) over away from the epicenter (and II intensity almost from the epicenter), while a 4.5 magnitude quake in Salta, Argentina 164 km deep was of intensity I.
The small table is a rough guide to the degrees of the Modified Mercalli Intensity scale. The colors and descriptive names shown here differ from those used on certain shake maps in other articles.

</doc>
<doc id="30851" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30851" title="Dili">
Dili

Dili is the capital of the country East Timor. People from Portugal moved there around 1520. Now, Dili is home to about one hundred fifty thousand (150,000) people.

</doc>
<doc id="30853" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30853" title="Holly">
Holly

Holly is a type of bush with recognisable leaves. The leaves have sharp edges, and are often used to decorate a house on Christmas Day. Some types of holly are used to make tea. The leaves of the Holly don't fall of in the winter because they're very thick and have a waxy layer on them.

</doc>
<doc id="30856" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30856" title="Dysentery">
Dysentery

Dysentery is a disease that involves severe diarrhea. It is caused by a bacterium, which causes the intestines to swell up a lot. The main symptom of dysentery is having blood in the excrement. Some more symptoms are high fever and abdominal pain. It is usually treated with antibiotics. The diarrhea is severe and can be a problem for the people who catch the disease.

</doc>
<doc id="30870" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30870" title="NHK">
NHK

NHK, the Japan Broadcasting Corporation, is Japan's public broadcaster, like PBS in the United States. Its name is written as or Nippon Hōsō Kyōkai in Japanese.
NHK was founded in 1926, based on the BBC radio company in the United Kingdom. They began operating TV broadcasting in 1953. The first color broadcast was in 1960.
Everyone in Japan who owns a TV is asked to pay anywhere from 11,180 to 25,520 円 per year to support NHK.
In 2012 it decided to ban K-pop on New Year's Eve.
NHK has lots of types of TV shows:

</doc>
<doc id="30871" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30871" title="Fargo, North Dakota">
Fargo, North Dakota

Fargo is the largest city in the American state of North Dakota. It is in the eastern part of the state, near the Minnesota border. The city was founded in 1871, and it has a population of 105,549 as of the 2010 census. Fargo lies at the intersection of two major highways, Interstate 29 and Interstate 94.

</doc>
<doc id="30873" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30873" title="Blur">
Blur

Blur are a British rock band. They have made several albums including "Parklife" and "13". They helped make Britpop popular. Their singer is Damon Albarn. The other members are Alex James (bass), Graham Coxon (guitar) and Dave Rowntree (drums). The band formed in 1988 and released their first single, "She's So High", in 1990. Since the 1994 album" Parklife", every studio album they have released in the UK has reached number one. They have also had two number one singles, "Country House" and "Beetlebum".

</doc>
<doc id="30874" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30874" title="Daft Punk">
Daft Punk

Daft Punk is a band from France. There are two people in the band, Guy-Manuel de Homem-Christo (born February 8, 1974) and Thomas Bangalter (born January 3, 1975). Daft Punk uses analog synthesizers and other real instruments to make their music.
Both of the two Daft Punk members went to the same school in Paris.
They became friends and recorded a demo track with other students from the school. Thomas Bangalter played bass while Guy-Manuel de Homem-Christo played guitar.
They formed a band called Darlin' which featured an additional member named Laurent Brancowitz.
The Darlin' experience did not last very long and after a show they performed in the United Kingdom, a newspaper qualified the music of Thomas and Guy-Manuel as "daft punk" (silly punk music).
Thomas and Guy-Manuel were amused by this nickname and officially adopted it, and that's how they became the well known Daft Punk.
Laurent left the group and joined his younger brother Christian Mazzalai of Phoenix.
While attending a rave at Eurodisney, they met Scottish house/techno artists Stuart MacMillan and Orde Meikle of Slam who signed them up to the label Soma Quality Recordings based in Glasgow. 
Daft Punk recorded their first demo called, "The New Wave" as well as a handful of others including, "Alive" and "Da Funk" both of which would appear in their debut album a few years later. 
In 1995, Daft Punk began to record in the studio a song called Da Funk which became their first commercial success.
After that success, Daft Punk looked for a manager, and they chose Pedro Winter who is also known by the name Busy P.
The idea of Homework debuted when Daft Punk signed with Virgin Records.
That album became one of the most essential house albums of the nineties after that it had been released in 1997.
In 1999, Daft Punk returned to recording studio to work on Discovery which would be their second album and their second success.
Discovery reached the second place on the UK Charts.
One More Time, their first single from Discovery, became a giant hit around the globe and Daft Punk became one of the most famous electronic music groups.
Daft Punk used many samples (little sounds from other songs) to compose songs like Face to Face, Too Long and Harder, Better, Faster, Stronger. (Kanye West's 2007 song Stronger from the album Graduation uses a large sample from Harder, Better, Faster, Stronger.)
In 2003, Daft Punk released the full-length animated movie Interstella 5555. The band worked with the Japanese animation company Toei Animation and the famous Japanese producer named Leiji Matsumoto to create this film. It is a fully animated story that is set to the Discovery album from start to finish and with no additional words and only a few added sound effects.
In 2004, Daft Punk spent six weeks on their third album.
Human After All was a subject of controversy, concerning some aggressive aspects in songs like Technologic, saying that most of the songs were too repetitive.
De Homem-Christo and Bangalter only said:"We believe that Human After All speaks for itself".
In 2006, Daft Punk released "Electroma", a short film about two robots (Daft Punk themselves) who are on a journey to become human. The film however, did not feature any music by Daft Punk but instead a selection of songs by other artists of different types of music genres. 
Daft Punk went on their second world tour, "Alive 2006/2007". The duo played worldwide to thousands of people. Daft Punk played in a pyramid on stage which was admired for its futuristic design.
In 2008, Daft Punk made their first televised performance at the 2008 Grammy Awards. They performed with Kanye West as he rapped, "Stronger". 
In 2010, Daft Punk were chosen to compose the soundtrack to . The soundtrack had orchestra and psychedelic style sound.
In 2013, Daft Punk released Random Access Memories. Columbia Records became their new label after many years with Virgin Records. 
They collaborated with Giorgio Moroder, Todd Edwards, Nile Rodgers, Panda Bear, Chilly Gonzales, DJ Falcon, Julian Casablancas, Paul Williams and Pharrell Williams. 
The lead single "Get Lucky", featuring Pharrell Williams and Nile Rodgers, was met with critical acclaim becoming No. 1 in many countries. The song won Record of the Year at the 2014 Grammy Awards.
A small town in Australia called Wee Waa was chosen as the launch party location for the album. 
Random Access Memories had very little electronic music in it. Instead, Daft Punk used live instruments and minimized the use of synthesizers. It is a tribute to the disco, rock and funk music of the 1970's and 1980's. 
It won Album of the Year at the 2014 Grammy Awards. 
In 2015, a documentary called "Daft Punk: Unchained" was released. It told the history of the band from their beginnings in the early 1990s to the 2014 Grammy Awards. 

</doc>
<doc id="30875" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30875" title="Paralympic Games">
Paralympic Games

The Paralympic Games are a major international sports event. Athletes with physical disabilities compete in these games and are called Paralympians. This includes athletes with mobility disabilities, amputations, blindness, and Cerebral Palsy. There are Winter and Summer Paralympic Games. They are held just after the Olympic Games. All Paralympic Games are governed by the International Paralympic Committee (IPC).
The Paralympics have grown from a small gathering of British World War II veterans in 1948 to become one of the largest international sport events by the early 21st century. Paralympians work for equal treatment with able-bodied Olympic athletes. Olympic athletes receive much more financial support than Paralympic athletes. Some Paralympians who have also participated in the Olympic Games.
The Paralympic Games are run in parallel with the Olympic Games. The IOC also recognized Special Olympics World Games include athletes with intellectual disabilities. The Deaflympics is specially for deaf athletes.
Paralympic athletes have many different kinds of disabilities, so there are several categories in which the athletes compete. The disabilities are in six broad categories: amputee, Cerebral Palsy, intellectual disability, wheelchair, visually impaired, and "Les Autres" (This means "The Others" in French.) These categories are further broken down which vary from sport to sport.

</doc>
<doc id="30876" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30876" title="National Basketball Association">
National Basketball Association

The National Basketball Association (NBA) is the world's top men's professional basketball league. It is one of the major professional sports leagues of North America. There are 30 teams. 29 are in the United States and 1 (the Toronto Raptors) is in Canada. It is a member of USA Basketball (USAB). The NBA is one of the 4 major North American professional sports leagues. NBA players are the world's best paid athletes. They have the highest average annual salary.
The league was founded in New York City on June 6, 1946. It was called the Basketball Association of America (BAA). The league merged with the National Basketball League (NBL) in 1949. They then were known as the National Basketball Association. The league's head offices are in the Olympic Tower at 645 Fifth Avenue in New York City. Its international offices are in the same place. NBA Entertainment and NBA TV studios are in Secaucus, New Jersey.
The Basketball Association of America (BAA) was formed in 1946. Its founders were owners of the major ice hockey arenas in the Northeastern and Midwestern United States and Canada. On November 1, 1946, the Toronto Huskies hosted the New York Knickerbockers. This was the first game played in NBA history. There were earlier attempts at professional basketball leagues. Examples are the American Basketball League and the NBL. The BAA was the first league to play in major cities. They played in large arenas. The level of play in the BAA was not very good. Competing leagues and other teams had similar talent. The Harlem Globetrotters are an example.
On August 3, 1949, the BAA combined with the NBL. The National Basketball Association was born. The new league had 17 teams. They came from cities of different sizes. The league got rid of several teams. It reached its smallest size of eight teams in the 1954–55 season. They were the New York Knicks, Boston Celtics, Philadelphia Warriors (now Golden State Warriors), Minneapolis Lakers (now Los Angeles Lakers), Rochester Royals (now Sacramento Kings), Fort Wayne Zollner Pistons (now Detroit Pistons), Milwaukee Hawks (now Atlanta Hawks), and Syracuse Nationals (now Philadelphia 76ers). Teams in small cities moved to larger cities.
Japanese-American Wataru Misaka broke the NBA color barrier in 1947–48. He played for the New York Knicks. But 1950 is recognized as when the NBA integrated. African Americans joined several teams. Those players included Chuck Cooper, Nathaniel "Sweetwater" Clifton, and Earl Lloyd. They joined three different teams. During the 1950s, the Minneapolis Lakers won five NBA Championships. George Mikan was their leader. He played the center position. The Lakers were the league's first dynasty. In 1954, the league introduced the 24-second shot clock. A team must try a shot in 24 seconds. If they cannot, the other team gets the ball.
The NBA contains 30 teams. 15 are in the Eastern Conference and 15 are in the Western Conference. Each conference has three divisions with 5 teams. Teams play other teams in their division often. All teams play all other teams in a season.
The Boston Celtics have won 17 championships. No other team has won more championships. Some teams have never won a championship. Another strong team is the Los Angeles Lakers. They have a television deal with Time Warner. The deal gives them lots of money.
29 teams are in the United States. The Toronto Raptors are in Canada. David Stern wants the league to expand to Europe. Some teams have played games in the United Kingdom.
Teams begin training camps in September. This allows the coaching staff to observe their players. Teams play preseason games. These do not count for a team's final season record. The weaker players get cut. Other players stay on the team and get paid. The NBA regular season begins in the last week of October. All teams play 82 games during a normal season. There are 41 home games and 41 road (away) games. Home games offer benefits to teams. They generally play better due to fan support and lack of travel. Teams play every other team during the regular season. The best players play in the NBA All-Star game in February. Fans vote for the starters. The coaches vote for the reserve (substitute) players. There is a pause in the season during the All-Star Game. Teams do not play games for about a week. Other events occur during the All-Star break. These include the Three-Point contest, the Skills course, and the Slam Dunk contest. Players participate in part due to fan interest.
Before the trade deadline, teams can trade players. This can cause changes in the balance of power. Team bosses want to get the best players for their team. Other bosses want to lower their costs. Trades often happen on the last day.
The regular season ends in the middle of April. Individual awards are given to players. The Most Valuable Player (MVP) award is given to the player most important to his team. The Defensive Player of the Year award is given to the player who plays the best defense. There are a few other awards. The most recent MVP is LeBron James. He has won the award four times.
NBA Playoffs begin after the regular season ends. 16 teams play in the playoffs. Teams in the two conferences are assigned a seed number. The four top seeds are the division champions, plus the non-champion with the best record; those teams are seeded 1 to 4 by their regular-season record. The other four seeds, 5 to 8, are the next-best teams in each conference. Having a higher seed offers advantages. Teams with high seeds play weaker teams. They also (usually) play on their home court more often. However, a lower seed may play more games at home in a series than a higher seed, because home-court advantage is based solely on record, and not by seeding. All playoff rounds are best-of-7 series, meaning that a series can last up to 7 games, ending when a team has won 4 games. Since 2014 every round follows a 2-2-1-1-1 format. The team with the better record (usually, but not always, the higher seed) is home in games 1, 2, 5, and 7. The lower seed is home in games 3, 4, and 6.
To win a championship, a team needs to win four rounds. The fourth round is called the finals. A team from the Eastern Conference plays a team from the Western Conference. The team that wins this series is the NBA champion. The best player in the finals wins the Finals Most Valuable Player award. The finals are played in the same format as the other rounds, 2-2-1-1-1. The team with the worst record plays two straight at home, plus Game 6 if needed.
The Cleveland Cavaliers are the most recent NBA champion. They beat the Golden State Warriors 4–3 in the 2016 NBA Finals. This was their first title.

</doc>
<doc id="30881" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30881" title="FIFA Women's World Cup">
FIFA Women's World Cup

The FIFA Women's World Cup is the most important competition in the sport of Women's association football . The Fédération Internationale de Football Association (FIFA) organizes the World Cup every four years.
The most successful team has been the United States, with 3 titles.

</doc>
<doc id="30891" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30891" title="Nathula">
Nathula

Nathula is a mountain pass in the Himalayas. It connects Sikkim in India and Tibet in China. It is at a height of 4,500 metres above sea level.

</doc>
<doc id="30911" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30911" title="Klondike Gold Rush">
Klondike Gold Rush

The Klondike Gold Rush happened in the 1890s when many people went to the Klondike region of the Yukon, in Canada. They hoped to find gold there and become rich. Many of these prospectors came from the United States. Gold was first found in Klondike in a creek called Rabbit Creek. Prospectors named the creek "Bonanza Creek" because of the gold ("bonanza "means a lucky source of wealth). 
The city that probably profited most from the Klondike Gold Rush was Dawson City, Yukon in Canada. Four million dollars worth of gold was found there. 
However, not that much gold was found in Klondike overall. 

</doc>
<doc id="30921" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30921" title="Clone High">
Clone High

Clone High is an animated comedy television show about a high school full of clones of famous dead people. It aired on MTV in the USA and Teletoon in Canada. It was produced by Nelvana, Touchstone Pictures, Teletoon Canada, and MTV.

</doc>
<doc id="30924" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30924" title="Chinese Civil War">
Chinese Civil War

The Chinese Civil War was a civil war fought from 1927 to 1950. Because of a difference in thinking between the Communist Chinese Communist Party (CCP) and the Nationalist Kuomintang (KMT), there was a fight for legitimacy as the government of China. The war began in April 1927 with the "Northern Expedition" (國民革命軍北伐) and mostly ended in 1950 . Some people say the war has not ended, but no large battles have started since that year. The relations between the Republic of China (ROC) and the People's Republic of China (PRC) are bad because both still say they are the legitimate sovereign government of all of China. The Chinese Civil War was the third largest war in all of time after World War II and World War I.
The war started and stopped a several times before the Second Sino-Japanese War, and fighting did not stop during the fighting against the Empire of Japan. The war between the CCP and KMT started again in 1946 after Japan's defeat in World War II. CCP took control of most of China and KMT had only islands. About two million Chinese fled to Taiwan in late 1949. In 1950, no large battles were started. 
The loss of the KMT in Mainland China is said to be because of a number of reasons: the Yan'an Rectification Movement helped Mao have more control of the CCP, the ceasefire a United States officer made in 1946 which stopped the KMT for a time, the bad problems between the people and the KMT in the places of KMT control, the Soviet Union giving the guns of the Japanese to the CCP, and uncertain help from the United States for the KMT.
No agreement was made between the two governments, so some say that the war has not ended. Both governments have a lot of military equipment that is only to be used against the other, both still say they are the legitimate government of China, and they still fight for recognition from other countries as the legitimate government.
After the fall of the Qing dynasty in the 1911 Xinhai Revolution threw the country into turmoil. In the ensuing power vacuum, a large number of warlords seized control of different parts of the country. In order to defeat them and unify the country, Sun Yat-sen and the KMT sought help from foreign governments. 
Though he made pleas to several Western democracratic nations, none offered to help. It was only after turning to the Soviet Union in 1921 that Sun found aid. The communist Soviet Union agreed to help the KMT, under the condition that the smaller Chinese Communist Party be allowed to join. In 1923 the Soviet Union, KMT, and CCP made an agreement, the Sun-Joffe Manifesto, that said the Soviet Union would help China have one government and not many governments. Mikhail Borodin traveled to China in 1923 to help change the KMT to make it similar to the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. The CCP and KMT were joined in the First United Front.
In 1923 Chiang Kai-shek traveled to the Soviet Union to study military and politics with the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. In 1924 he became the leader of an important military school in China. 
Most help from the Soviet Union was for this school. This reason for the school was to teach the political and military ideas of the Soviet Union to the KMT and CCP. The Soviet Union gave books and guns to use for teaching about war and military things. With the help from the Soviet Union, Sun Yat-sen made an "army of the party". Members of the CCP were also in the school and some were teachers. Zhou Enlai was a teacher in the school.
In this time the KMT agreed to let some communists join the KMT sometimes. In this time the CCP was small in comparison to the KMT. The CCP had 300 members in 1922 and only 1,500 by 1925. The KMT in 1923 had 50,000 members.

</doc>
<doc id="30927" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30927" title="Nagorno-Karabakh">
Nagorno-Karabakh

Nagorno-Karabakh (Artsakh) is an autonomous region of Azerbaijan. Armenia wants it to be part of itself. Most of the people in Nagorno-Karabakh are Armenians.
The names for the region in the different local languages all translate to "mountainous Karabakh", or "mountainous black garden". The word "nagorno" is Russian for "mountainous/on the mountain", "kara" is Turkish for "black", and "bakh" means "garden" in Persian.
Nagorno-Karabakh became a subject of the dispute between Armenia and Azerbaijan in 1918 when both countries declared independence from Russia. Territorial dispute has not been resolved until 1920, when both young states became part of the Soviet Union, and actually lost their independence due to the actions of Russian communists (Bolsheviks). During this time many Azeris were killed by Armenian terrorists.
Supporters for the Armenian position frequently emphasize, that resolution of the Caucasian Bureau from July, 5, 1921, was obviously accepted under the Bolsheviks pressure, and, in any case, this resolution contradicts with the principle of self-determination and cannot be considered as valid: the problem should be solved by the countries, which it directly involves, and not by the Committee created specially for this case and inside the ruling party of the third country.
When Mikhail Gorbachev has come to power in Moscow and has started the campaigns of publicity and democratic reforms in the end of 80th, Armenians of Nagorno-Karabakh decided to address the problems to the international and Soviet heads. Complaining about "forced Azerification" of the region, the majority Armenian population started a movement for independence.
In November 1991, seeking to stop this movement, the Parliament of Azerbaijan abolished the autonomous status of the region. In response the Nagorno-Karabakh Armenians held a December 10, 1991 referendum in which the overwhelming majority of the population voted for outright independence. The Azeri community of Nagorno-Karabakh boycotted this referendum.
These events and especially violent deportation of approx. 200 000 Azeris from Armenia led to riots against Armenians living in Azerbaijan.
The war for Nagorno Karabakh became the longest and one of the bloodiest conflicts in states-successors of Soviet Union. According to last estimations, it has killed 15.000 people, and the number of refugees has exceeded one million.
Today Nagorno-Karabakh is a de-facto state calling itself the Nagorno-Karabakh Republic.

</doc>
<doc id="30928" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30928" title="Newcastle upon Tyne">
Newcastle upon Tyne

Newcastle upon Tyne is a city in north-east England. About 250,000 people live in the city, though even more live in the area around it.
Newcastle is a very friendly city and is mostly famous for the River Tyne, Angel of the North, Newcastle Brown Ale, the great north run, and all the bridges including the iconic Millenium Bridge.
The local dialect is "Geordie". Pronunciation of "alright", "town" and "house" is "areet", "toon" and "hoos". The Geordie people and many other non geordie people live in and around Newcastle upon Tyne which has excellent shopping facilities at Eldon Square. Out of town is the well known Metro Centre providing shopping.
Ant and Dec are from Newcastle

</doc>
<doc id="30932" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30932" title="James Read">
James Read

James Christopher Read (born July 31, 1953) is an American actor. He acted in many movies and television series. He is best known for the "North and South" miniseries (1985, 1986, 1994). He was born in Buffalo, New York.
The following is some of the movies and television programms Read has been in.

</doc>
<doc id="30939" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30939" title="Satyr play">
Satyr play

Satyr plays were an ancient Greek form of theatre, similar in spirit to burlesque. They featured choruses of satyrs, were based on Greek mythology, and were rife with mock drunkenness, brazen sexuality (including phallic props), pranks, sight gags, and general merriment.

</doc>
<doc id="30940" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30940" title="English Premier League">
English Premier League

The Premier League ('The Premiership' or 'Barclays Premier League') is the top league competition for English football. It is above the English Football League (EFL). For historic reasons, a few clubs from Wales compete in the English football system. One of these, Swansea City, has played in the Premier League since the 2011–12 season. Cardiff City also played in the Premier League in the 2013–14 season.
The competition started in 1992. Clubs in the Football League First Division decided to break away from The Football League (now the EFL), founded in 1888. The Premier League has since become the world's most watched sporting league. It is the world's most lucrative football league, with combined club revenues of £1.93 billion ($3.15bn) in 2007–08. It is also ranked first by UEFA. This rating is based on performances in European competitions over the last five years. In this English Premier League is ahead of Spain's La Liga and Italy's Serie A.

</doc>
<doc id="30947" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30947" title="Giro d'Italia">
Giro d'Italia

The Giro d'Italia, or Tour of Italy, is a famous bicycle race held in Italy, every spring. It is one of the most famous, and best paid bicycle races. The first race was in 1909. It started because the editor of a newspaper called "La Gazzetta dello Sport" wanted more people to read his newspaper. He planned a race similar to the Tour de France, which had started in 1903.
The leader of the race wears a pink jersey called the "maglia rosa". This is because pink is the colour of "La Gazzetta dello Sport". For many years, the leader of the mountain climbing competition wore a green jersey (called the "maglia verde"), but a change in the sponsor for that competition led to a jersey change in 2012. The mountains leader now wears a blue jersey (called the "maglia azzurra"). Similarly, the leader of the sprinters' competition wore a mauve jersey (called the "maglia ciclamino") for many years. However, a sponsorship change in 2010 also led to a jersey change. The sprints leader now wears a red jersey (called "maglia rosso passione"). The leader of the young riders' competition, for riders under age 25, wears a white jersey (called the "maglia bianca"). This is the same as the young riders' competition in the Tour de France.

</doc>
<doc id="30964" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30964" title="Rosalynn Carter">
Rosalynn Carter

Eleanor Rosalynn Carter (born Eleanor Rosalynn Smith; August 18, 1927) is the wife of former President Jimmy Carter and served as First Lady of the United States from 1977 to 1981. When her husband was Governor of Georgia, she served as First Lady of Georgia from 1971 to 1975. She was active in politics during her White House years, she sat in on Cabinet and policy meetings and also, serving as her husband's closest adviser. She also served as an envoy abroad, most notably to Latin America.
She was born in Plains, Georgia. She was the eldest of the four children of Allethea "Allie" Murray Smith (1905–2000) and Wilburn Edgar Smith (1896–1940). She attended Plains High School and graduated salutatorian. After completing her schooling, she studied at Georgia Southwestern College, Americus, Georgia.
Rosalynn's father died of leukemia when she was 13.
On July 7, 1946, she and Jimmy Carter were married. 

</doc>
<doc id="30966" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30966" title="Hitopadesha">
Hitopadesha

Hitopadesa is a collection of short stories. It was originally writtn in Sanskrit. It is very similar to another Sanskrit book named "Panchatantra". 
The book was written many centuries before. Its stories are now well known in different parts of the world. 
The work has been translated into most of the major languages of the world. An English translation, rendered by Sir Edwin Arnold , then principal of Puna College, Pune, India, was published in London in 1861.

</doc>
<doc id="30968" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30968" title="Tiberius">
Tiberius

Tiberius (Tiberius Julius Caesar Augustus, 16 November 42 BC – 16 March 37 AD) was the second Roman Emperor. He ruled from 14 to 37 AD. He was the step-son of Augustus.
Tiberius was one of Ancient Rome's greatest generals, whose campaigns protected the northern frontier. He reigned for 22 years, and the first part of his imperial work was excellent. Later, he came to be remembered as a dark, reclusive, and somber ruler. After the death of his son Drusus in 23, the quality of his rule declined and ended in terror. 
In 26, Tiberius moved from Rome to the Isle of Capri, and left administration largely in the hands of his unscrupulous Praetorian Prefect Sejanus. Sejanus became the effective ruler of Rome, and plotted against Tiberius, murdering people who opposed him. When alerted, Tiberius counter-plotted to remove Sejanus from his official positions, and eventually executed him. More executions followed of people who had committed crimes under Sejanus' rule.
Caligula, Tiberius' grand-nephew and adopted grandson, succeeded the Emperor upon his death.
Tiberius shared in Augustus' tribune powers as of 6 BC, but soon went into retirement in Rhodes. He was reported as wanting no further role in politics. After the early deaths of Augustus' young grandchildren-turned-sons, Lucius and Gaius in AD 2 and 4 respectively, and the earlier death of his own brother Drusus (9 BC), Tiberius was recalled to Rome in June AD 4, where he was adopted by Augustus on the condition that he, in turn, adopt his nephew Germanicus. This continued the tradition of presenting at least two generations of heirs. 
In the same year, Tiberius was also granted the powers of a tribune and proconsul, emissaries from foreign kings had to pay their respects to him, and by 13 was awarded with his second triumph and equal level of "imperium" with that of Augustus. Tiberius duly assumed the titles of Augustus when the old man's long reign came to an end in AD 14.
Problems soon arose. The northern legions had not been paid, and rebelled. Germanicus and Tiberius's son, Drusus, were dispatched with a small force to quell the uprising and bring the legions back in line. Germanicus rallied the mutineers and led them on a short campaign across the Rhine into Germanic territory, stating that whatever treasure they could grab would count as their bonus. Germanicus's forces smashed across the Rhine and quickly occupied all of the territory between the Rhine and the Elbe. So Germanicus dealt a significant blow to Rome's enemies, and quelled an uprising of troops, actions that increased his fame with the Roman people.
After being recalled from Germania, Germanicus celebrated a triumph in Rome in AD 17, the first full triumph that the city had seen since Augustus's own in 29 BC. As a result, in AD 18 Germanicus was granted control over the eastern part of the empire, just as both Agrippa and Tiberius had received before, and was clearly the successor to Tiberius. But tragedy struck once again, as Germanicus died after a year, apparently poisoned.
Sejanus had served the imperial family for almost twenty years when he became Praetorian Prefect in AD 15. The death of Drusus elevated Sejanus. Tiberius had statues of Sejanus erected throughout the city, and Sejanus became more and more visible as Tiberius began to withdraw from Rome altogether. Finally, with Tiberius's withdrawal to Capri in AD 26, Sejanus was left in charge of the entire state mechanism and the city of Rome. 
Sejanus's position was not quite that of successor. The presence of Livia (the third wife and advisor of Augustus) seems to have checked his power for a time. Her death in AD 29 changed all that. Sejanus began a series of purge trials of Senators in Rome. Germanicus's widow Agrippina the Elder and two of her sons were arrested and exiled in AD 30 and later all died in suspicious circumstances.
In response, Tiberius manoeuvered cleverly. He knew an immediate condemnation of Sejanus might not succeed. Since he and Sejanus were then joint Consuls, Tiberius resigned his post of Consul, which forced Sejanus to do likewise. This removed much of Sejanus' legal powers and protection. Then, in AD 31, Sejanus was summoned to a meeting of the Senate, where a letter from Tiberius was read condemning Sejanus and ordering his immediate execution. Macro was appointed Praetorian Prefect, with the specific job of removing Sejanus. Sejanus was tried, and he and several of his colleagues were executed within the week.
More treason trials followed. Tacitus writes that Tiberius had been hesitant to act at the start of his reign, but now, towards the end of his life, he seemed to do so without compunction. However, Tacitus' portrayal of a tyrannical, vengeful emperor has been challenged by several modern historians. The prominent ancient historian Edward Togo Salmon notes in his work, "A history of the Roman world from 30 B.C. to A.D. 138": 
The last years of Tiberius were notable for his complete absence from Rome, and his inactivity as Emperor. He was a man in his 70s, and left decisions to the officials in Rome. He did nothing to prevent the rise of Caligula, who was now popular with the people, and who had the support of the Prefect Macros.

</doc>
<doc id="30972" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30972" title="14">
14

14 is a year in the 1st century. It was a common year starting on Monday of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Pompeius and Appuleius.

</doc>
<doc id="30973" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30973" title="Ray Bradbury">
Ray Bradbury

Ray Douglas Bradbury (August 22, 1920 - June 5, 2012) was an American writer. His best known works are "The Martian Chronicles" and "Fahrenheit 451". He is also known for his big collections of short stories such as "Driving Blind".
He was born in Waukegan, Illinois to a Swedish mother. He graduated from a high school in Los Angeles, California. Many of his works are based on real life, such as "Dandelion Wine", a book about growing up in small-town Illinois. His other work includes movies, and screenplays. He won many awards. He died in his Los Angeles home.

</doc>
<doc id="30975" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30975" title="Porpoise">
Porpoise

Porpoises are mammals that live in the ocean. They are in the order "Cetacea". They form the family Phocoenidae. There are six species of porpoise.
Porpoises look much like dolphins, but they are different in some ways: They are smaller and more stout. They have spade-shaped teeth, rounded heads, blunt jaws, and triangular dorsal fins.

</doc>
<doc id="30978" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30978" title="Cetology">
Cetology

Cetology is a type of science. It is the study of the cetaceans, which are whales, dolphins, and porpoises.
Cetology is the branch of marine mammal science that studies the approximately eighty species of whales, dolphins, and porpoise in the scientific order Cetacea. The term was coined in the mid-19th century from the Greek cetus ("whale") and -ology ("study").
Cetologists, or those who practice cetology, seek to understand and explain cetacean evolution, distribution, morphology, behavior, community dynamics, and other topics.

</doc>
<doc id="30979" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30979" title="Primatology">
Primatology

Primatology is a type of science that is part of zoology, that studies primates (monkeys, apes, lemurs, and humans). Primatology is a part of physical anthropology.

</doc>
<doc id="30980" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30980" title="Orangutan">
Orangutan

The orangutan ("Pongo") is a great ape that has fur with a color between red and brown. There are two species of orangutan. They are from Southeast Asia. There are very few of them left, because loss of the jungle has reduced their habitat. There are orangutans on view at the Singapore Zoo.
The name orangutan comes from two Malay words, "orang" which means "person", and "hutan" which means "forest"; so orangutan means "person of the forest".
Orangutans have red-brown fur. They have long and strong arms. They also have hands that are good for climbing. The "Sumatran Orangutan" is smaller and has longer hair than the "Bornean Orangutan". Orangutans have suffered from forest loss and are on the very edge of extinction.
Orangutans are from the rainforests on the islands Borneo and Sumatra in Southeast Asia. They mostly live up in the trees. They eat fruit, leaves and bark, but also insects, bird eggs and small vertebrate animals. They drink water from rain that has been collected in leaves. Orangutans are not comfortable on the ground since they have to push themselves along with fists. Heavy adults move carefully through the trees, using their flexible feet to grasp the tree branches. Smaller orangutans swing with more ease.
An orangutan's diet consists mainly of fruit, they like ripe fruit. If they cannot find fruit they will eat bark, leaves and termites, rather than move to somewhere else to get food. About 60% of an orangutan's diet is fruit, 25% is leaves, 10% is bark and flowers, and 5% is termites and other insects.
After a pregnancy of 230–260 days the female gives birth to usually one baby, but sometimes two, every eight to nine years. The little ones stay with their mother for years, riding on their mother's back and learning to move through the forest. Like human babies, the young orangutans are playful and affectionate. When they are five or six years old, they become more independent and eventually go off on their own.

</doc>
<doc id="30981" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30981" title="Greeting">
Greeting

Greetings are nice things to say when people meet each other. Greetings may be different from culture to culture. These are some greetings used a lot in the English language:
There are also ways to greet without talking, such as these:

</doc>
<doc id="30982" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30982" title="Sunlight">
Sunlight

Sunlight is the light and energy that comes from the Sun. When this energy reaches the earth's surface, it is called insolation. What we experience as sunlight is actually solar radiation. It is the radiation and heat from the Sun in the form of electromagnetic waves.
The atmosphere affects the amount of solar radiation received. When solar radiation travels through the atmosphere, some of it is absorbed by the atmosphere (16%). Some of it is scattered to space (6%). Some of it is reflected by clouds (28%). About 47% of it reaches the Earth's surface.
Without sunlight, there could be no life on Earth. Plants need sunlight for the process of photosynthesis. During photosynthesis the plants use the energy of the sunlight, water, and carbon dioxide, to create glucose (sugar). The glucose can later be used by the plant for energy or animals eat the plant and the glucose in it. Plants need sunlight to grow green. Without enough sunlight but with enough water, the plant grows very tall very quickly, but looks yellow and dehydrated, although when touched, the leaves are very moist.
Solar radiation can be both good and bad for a person's health. When in the light, the human body uses the ultraviolet part of sunlight to make its own Vitamin D. Without sunscreen too much ultraviolet light can cause sunburn and skin cancer. Angle of incidence of the sunlight makes difference in seasons on Earth as well as in the length of day and night. A high angle of incidence makes the tropics hot, and a low angle makes the arctic cold.
Different bodies of the Solar System receive sunlight of different intensities. The table compares the amount of light received by each planet on the Solar System follows:
Solar energy is used in many different ways by people all over the world both in its traditional way for heating, cooking or drying and to make electricity where other power supplies are absent, such as in remote places on Earth or in the space. Sometimes, it is cheaper to make electricity from sunlight than from coal or oil.

</doc>
<doc id="30983" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30983" title="Theism">
Theism

Theism is the religious belief that at least one god exists. Polytheism is the belief in several gods, while monotheism is the belief in just one god. For example, a theistic religion is Christianity. The opposite to a theist is an atheist. An atheist is a person that does not believe in any god or gods.
All of these are rough definitions of the theisms; they are almost always different. We can split them all into different groups:
Gnosticism and agnosticism can be combined with other forms of theism. For example, it is possible to be an agnostic atheist, or a gnostic theist. In common usage, some people group atheism and agnosticism together under the group of nontheism — absence of clear belief in any deity.
The main types of theism are:
This is another way to group different theisms, based on the nature of the gods.
There is also these types:

</doc>
<doc id="30985" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30985" title="Plesiosaur">
Plesiosaur

The plesiosaurs were an order of large, carnivorous marine reptiles. They flourished from 245 million years ago (mya) to 65 mya.
In 1719, William Stukeley described the first partial skeleton of a plesiosaur. The great-grandfather of Charles Darwin, Robert Darwin of Elston told him about it.
Mary Anning was the first to discover a fairly complete plesiosaur. She found it on the 'Jurassic Coast' of Dorset, England in the winter of 1820/21. The fossil was missing its skull, but in 1823 she found another one, this time complete with its skull. The name "Plesiosaurus" was given to it by the Rev. William Conybeare. 
The earliest plesiosaur remains are from the Middle Triassic period, and the group was important through the Jurassic and Cretaceous. They had two large pairs of paddles, short tails, short or long necks, and broad bodies. They died out at the K/T extinction event, 65 million years ago.
Plesiosaurs had many bones in their flippers, making them flexible. No modern animal has this four-paddle anatomy: modern turtles use their forelimbs for swimming. They were mainly piscivorous (fish-eaters).
The pliosaurs were a group of mostly large submarine predators with short necks and large heads. Their sizes ranged from two to 15 metres, and they were predators of large fish and other reptiles. Their streamlined body shape suggests they swam and ate under water. 
There were three families of long-necked plesiosaurs, who evidently had a different life-style from the pliosaurs. It was suggested by D.M.S. Watson that their method was as surface swimmers, mostly eating with their head above water, darting down to snatch smaller fish which were feeding on plankton. It is hard to see the benefit of a long neck under water; aquatic mammals operating under water all have a streamlined torpedo-shape, as did pliosaurs and ichthyosaurs. All the longer-necked familiers were, from the setting of the teeth and jaws, eaters of small fish. However, some at least were bottom-feeders, consuming various prey. Digestion of shellfish was aided by gastroliths.
Plesiosaurs have been found with fossils of belemnites (squid-like animals), and ammonites (giant nautilus-like molluscs) associated with their stomachs. But plesiosaurs could not crack shells. Instead, they probably swallowed them whole. In the belly of a plesiosaur were "stomach stones", which are called "gastroliths." These stones moved around in the plesiosaur's stomach and cracked or crushed the shells of the animals it ate. One plesiosaur fossil found in South Dakota had 253 gatroliths weighing a total of 29 pounds.
Live birth has been proved for ichthyosaurs, but is uncertain for plesiosaurs. 

</doc>
<doc id="30988" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30988" title="Midland, Texas">
Midland, Texas

Midland is a city in the American state of Texas. It is called Midland, because many years ago it was the midway point between two bigger cities in Texas, Fort Worth and El Paso. Oil was discovered in the region in 1923 and is still a larger part of the economy. Midland is also famous as the childhood home of former US President George W. Bush and his wife Laura, who was born there, as well as his brother Jeb Bush, the former Governor of Florida. Midland was also home to former president George H. W. Bush and former First Lady Barbara Walker Bush. 

</doc>
<doc id="30990" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30990" title="Sardinia">
Sardinia

Sardinia (, Sardinian: "Sardigna") is the second largest island in the Mediterranean Sea. It is an autonomous region of Italy.
The official name is, in Italian, Regione Autonoma della Sardegna.The capital and largest city is Cagliari.
The island of Sardinia has an area of and, after Sicily, is the second largest island in the Mediterranean Sea. It is long from North to South, and wide from West to East. It lies between 38° 51' and 41° 15' latitude north and 8° 8' and 9° 50' longitude east.
The island is on the western Mediterranean Sea, between the island of Corsica to the north and Tunisia to the south. The Tyrrhenian Sea part of the Mediterranean is directly east of Sardinia, between the Sardinian east coast and the west coast of the Italian mainland peninsula.
The Strait of Bonifacio (, , Gallurese: "Bocchi di Bunifaciu", ) is the strait between Corsica and Sardinia, named after the Corsican town Bonifacio. It is wide and divides the Tyrrhenian Sea from the western Mediterranean Sea.
Sardinia has few major rivers, the largest being the Tirso, long, which flows into the western Mediterranean Sea, the Coghinas () and the Flumendosa ().
The highest peak is Punta La Marmora (), part of the Gennargentu group of mountains in the centre of the island. Other mountain chains are Monte Limbara () in the northeast, the Chain of Marghine and Goceano () running crosswise for towards the north, the Monte Albo (), the Sette Fratelli massif in the southeast, and the Sulcis Mountains and the Monte Linas ().
The mountain chains of the island are separated by wide valleys; the main ones are Campidano in the southwest between Oristano and Cagliari, and the Nurra in the northwest.
There are many small islands around the main island of Sardinia. Some of them are:
Sardinia is divided in eight provinces:

</doc>
<doc id="30991" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30991" title="Nuclear reactor">
Nuclear reactor

A nuclear reactor is a machine that uses fission to generate heat. There are different designs which use different fuels. Most often, uranium-235 or plutonium-239 are the main components of these fuels.
Most nuclear reactors are used to make electricity. In nuclear power plants heat from the reactor changes water into steam. The steam is then used to power electric turbines which make electricity. It is important to remember that the turbines do not change the temperature of the steam, or the amount of steam. Instead, the turbines take energy from the movement of the steam.
Some reactors are used for other purposes. Some reactors make neutrons for science research and others make radioactive isotopes. Some universities have small nuclear reactors to teach students how reactors work.
The first nuclear reactor was built in 1942 by a team of scientists led by Enrico Fermi. This was a part of the Manhattan Project which needed the fuel from the reactor to make the atomic bomb. The first nuclear reactor to make electricity was a small experimental reactor built in Idaho in 1951. It made just enough electricity for four light globes.
Nuclear reactors are expensive to build because of the many safety features they need to have. There is also a problem with the huge amount of radioactive waste from the reactors. However they produce electricity cheaply, and do not pollute the air. There have been serious accidents at several nuclear reactors: Windscale (UK) 1957, Mayak (USSR) 1957, Three Mile Island (USA) 1979, Chernobyl (USSR) 1986 and Fukushima (Japan) 2011. Concerns about safety have limited the growth of nuclear power. There are about 437 reactors around the world which provide about 5% of the world's electricity.

</doc>
<doc id="31005" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31005" title="Samobor">
Samobor

Samobor is a city in Zagreb county, Croatia, population 36,206 It is west of Zagreb, between the eastern slopes of Samoborsko gorje (Samobor hills, the eastern part of the Žumberak Mountains), in the Sava river valley. It is part of the Zagreb metropolitan area.
Samobor has been there since 1242, according to a document of endowment by King Bela IV. It is one of the earliest tourist resorts in the region, with the first tourist facilities dating back to 1810, oriented towards anglers, hunters and hikers.

</doc>
<doc id="31006" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31006" title="Frankfurt (Oder)">
Frankfurt (Oder)

Frankfurt (Oder) is a city in Germany. It lies on the Oder river, which marks the current border between Germany and Poland (The so-called Oder-Neisse line). It's in the east of the state of Brandenburg.
Since January 1999, the city added a prefix "Kleiststadt" to refer to Heinrich von Kleist, who was born there in 1777. Today, about 65,000 people live in the city.

</doc>
<doc id="31008" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31008" title="Cook Islands">
Cook Islands

The Cook Islands are a group of islands in the southern Pacific. They form an independent state, but have strong ties with New Zealand. The 15 small islands have a total land surface of 240 square kilometers. About 18.000 people live on the islands, most of them from tourism. The largest island, Rarotonga, also holds the territory's capital, Avarua.
The nation also has a distinctive Polynesian language known as Cook Island Maori, which is closely related to the Maori language of New Zealand and to the Tahitian language. 

</doc>
<doc id="31012" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31012" title="Punishment">
Punishment

Punishment is when something is done to a person (or animal) that they do not like. It may be because they broke a rule. There are many kinds of punishment, from a death penalty for very bad crimes, to things that parents may do to punish children, like spanking them or taking away their toys.
Punishment can be seen as good in society to prevent people from doing bad things. It can also seen as cruel and unnecessary. It can also be seen to do more harm than good.

</doc>
<doc id="31015" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31015" title="Om">
Om

The two letters OM can mean

</doc>
<doc id="31022" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31022" title="Blue whale">
Blue whale

The blue whale ("Balaenoptera musculus") is a marine mammal of the suborder of baleen whales (called Mysticeti). They grow to be about 30 meters long. The biggest blue whale found was 190 tons and measured 98 feet long. Larger specimens have been measured at 110 feet, but never weighed. This makes blue whales the largest animals ever to be on Earth, even bigger than the largest dinosaurs. 
The blue whale eats mostly very tiny creatures, like krill. These inch-long, shrimp-like crustacean swim in swarms. In the Antarctic summer, there are so many of these krill that they turn the waters orange. A blue whale can eat eight to ten tons of krill every day.
The blue whale's body is long and slender. It can be various shades of bluish-grey above and somewhat lighter underneath. There are at least three distinct subspecies: "B. m. musculus" of the North Atlantic and North Pacific, "B. m. intermedia" of the Southern Ocean and "B. m. brevicauda" (also known as the pygmy blue whale) found in the Indian Ocean and South Pacific Ocean. "B. m. indica", found in the Indian Ocean, may be another subspecies. As with other baleen whales, its diet consists almost exclusively of small krill.
Blue whales were once abundant around the world. In the nineteenth century, they were hunted almost to extinction by whalers. They were finally protected by the international community in 1966. A 2002 report estimated there were 5,000 to 12,000 blue whales worldwide, located in at least five groups. More recent research into the Pygmy subspecies suggests this may be an underestimate. Before whaling, the largest population was in the Antarctic, numbering approximately 239,000 (range 202,000 to 311,000). There remain only much smaller (around 2,000) concentrations in each of the eastern North Pacific, Antarctic, and Indian Ocean groups. There are two more groups in the North Atlantic, and at least two in the Southern Hemisphere.

</doc>
<doc id="31023" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31023" title="Cetacea">
Cetacea

The order Cetacea are marine mammals that live in oceans, seas, and even a few rivers around the world. Whales, dolphins, and porpoises are part of this group. These common name refer to size: whales are the largest, porpoises the smallest. How and what they eat is a better guide to their relationships. The study of cetaceans is called cetology.

</doc>
<doc id="31026" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31026" title="Scottish Gaelic language">
Scottish Gaelic language

The Scottish language (Gàidhlig, pronounced "Gah-lick") is often commonly called just Gaelic in English. 
It is a sister language of Irish and Manx; all three are Goidelic languages and part of the Celtic language family. 
It is also related to the Welsh language, Cornish language and the Breton language (these three are Brittonic or Brythonic languages). 
In past times, the language was spoken across all of Scotland, except for the Northern Islands (Orkney and Shetland). In the later part of the Middle Ages, the kings of Scotland began to speak the English language, and looked down on the Scottish language. After the union of England and Scotland, the language was snubbed and looked down on even more. The English language took over.
Scottish Gaelic today is basically that of the Gaelic spoken in the Outer Hebrides and on Skye. Generally speaking, the Gaelic spoken across the Western Isles is similar enough to be classed as one major dialect group, although there is some regional variation.
A census in the United Kingdom in 2001 showed that a total of 58,652 (1.2% of the Scottish population aged over three years old) in Scotland could speak some amount of Gaelic at that time. Only the Western Isles of Scotland have more people who can speak the language than not (61% of the people here speak Gaelic). The place in Scotland with the biggest percentage of Scottish Gaelic speakers is a village called Barvas on the Isle of Lewis. There, 74.7% of the people there speak the language.
Gaelic is dying out, but many people are starting to learn the language. However, it does not have official status from the Scottish Parliament, unlike the Welsh language in Wales. Children in Scotland do not have to learn the language in schools, though it is becoming a more popular subject as Gaelic is an important part of their Scottish culture.
Scottish Gaelic is also used overseas. It is estimated that 1,000–2,000 in Nova Scotia, Canada can speak some Gaelic.

</doc>
<doc id="31027" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31027" title="Scottish language">
Scottish language

Scottish language can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="31039" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31039" title="Germanic languages">
Germanic languages

The Germanic languages are a language family in the Indo-European languages. They came from one language, "Proto-Germanic", and were originally spoken in northern, western and central Europe.
The Germanic languages are separated into the East Germanic languages (these are no longer spoken), the North Germanic languages and the West Germanic languages.
All of them are extinct:

</doc>
<doc id="31042" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31042" title="Punjabi">
Punjabi

Punjabi might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="31043" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31043" title="Killer whale">
Killer whale

Killer whales, or Orcas ("Orcinus orca") are cetaceans. They are the largest dolphins in the world, called 'whales' because of their size. Orcas have mostly black skin with white patches.They are found in all the world's oceans, from the cold of the Arctic to the tropical seas. They are easy to identify because of their distinctive white and black colouring.
Like all toothed whales, they are carnivores. They hunt in family groups called 'pods'. Packs of fifty or more, all working together, surround and chase sharks, seals, dolphins, penguins, other whales.
Killer whales are the largest extant members of the dolphin family. Males typically range from 6 to 8 metres long and weigh in excess of 6 tonnes. Females are smaller, generally ranging from 5 to 7m and weighing about 3 to 4 t. The largest male killer whale on record was 9.8 metres, weighing over 10 tonnes, while the largest female was 8.5m, weighing 7.5 t. Calves at birth weigh about and are about long. The killer whale's large size and strength make it among the fastest marine mammals, able to reach speeds in excess of .
Killer whales have the second-heaviest brains among marine mammals. They can be trained in captivity and are often described as intelligent, although defining and measuring "intelligence" is difficult in a species whose life is very different from ours.
Killer whales imitate others, and seem to deliberately teach skills to their young. This is most strikingly seen when killer whales deliberately beach themselves to catch seals. Off Península Valdés, adults sometimes pull seals off the shoreline and then release them again near juvenile whales, allowing the younger whales to practice the difficult capture technique on the now-weakened prey. Off the Crozet Islands, mothers push their calves onto the beach, waiting to pull the youngster back if needed.
People who have interacted closely with killer whales offer numerous anecdotes demonstrating the whales' curiosity, playfulness, and ability to solve problems. For example, Alaskan killer whales have not only learned how to steal fish from longlines, but have overcome a variety of techniques designed to stop them, such as the use of unbaited lines as decoys. Once, fishermen placed their boats several miles apart, taking turns retrieving small amounts of their catch, in the hope that the whales would not have enough time to move between boats to steal fish as it was being retrieved. A researcher described what happened next:
In other anecdotes, researchers describe incidents in which wild killer whales playfully tease humans by repeatedly moving objects that the humans are trying to reach, or suddenly start to toss around a chunk of ice after a human throws a snowball.
The killer whale's use of dialects and the passing of other learned behaviours from generation to generation have been described as a form of culture.
The dorsal fin of the orca can extend up to six feet above its body. That's taller than most grown men. And because a killer whale swims close to the surface, the dorsal fin can often be seen gliding through the surface of the water. This causes some people to mistake killer whale for sharks. In captivity, dorsal fins often collapse for many reasons, but in the wild, dorsal fin collapse happens in less than one percent of wild orcas.
Female killer whales are often tamed and can be trained to do tricks for audiences in marine shows, like in Sea World. Sometimes, killer whales have even starred in movies, such as the movie titled "Free Willy". Orcas can be dangerous, and have been known to kill their attendants on rare occasions. Some marine parks now require trainers to stay outside the pool when they work with orcas. Unlike wild killer whales, captive killer whales are reported to have made nearly two dozen attacks on humans since the 1970s, some of which have been fatal.

</doc>
<doc id="31048" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31048" title="Pac-Man">
Pac-Man

Pac-Man is an arcade video game that was made by Namco. It was released in 1980, and became very popular in the history of games.
In "Pac-Man", the player makes a Pac-Man, a yellow disc, move around a maze. The goal is to eat every yellow pellet (circles) while not getting caught by the ghosts/monsters. For extra points, fruits that appear can also be eaten. When Pac-Man eats a white pellet, the ghosts turn blue and can be eaten. Even though the game has 256 stages, the last level can not be finished due to a problem with the creation of the game.
The game is called Puck Man in Japan. The game was named "Pac-Man" in the United States so that nobody could change the "P" to "F". There were many sequels and remakes based on the game. Hanna-Barbera made a animated TV show airing on ABC in the early 1970s. The game was also part of "Namco Museum" games. There is a "Namco Museum Remix" for the Wii.

</doc>
<doc id="31051" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31051" title="Shooting star">
Shooting star

A shooting star is the common name for the visible path of a meteoroid as it enters the atmosphere. A shooting star is also broken pieces of meteors that have become broken off in space.
Shooting star could also mean:
An album:
Shooting star may also be:
See also:

</doc>
<doc id="31054" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31054" title="Gujarati">
Gujarati

Gujarati might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="31056" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31056" title="Pot Noodle">
Pot Noodle

Pot Noodle is a type of cup noodle sold in the United Kingdom. They contain noodles, soya pieces, vegetables, and seasoning powder with a packet of sauce that can be added to taste.
Pot noodles are available in several varieties:

</doc>
<doc id="31065" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31065" title="Greenlandic">
Greenlandic

Greenlandic could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="31072" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31072" title="Superman (1978 movie)">
Superman (1978 movie)

Superman is a 1978 movie based on the popular Superman superhero comic book. It was directed by Richard Donner, produced by Ilya Salkind, and the music was provided by John Williams. The movie starred Christopher Reeve, Margot Kidder, Marlon Brando, Gene Hackman, Ned Beatty, Phyllis Thaxter, Glenn Ford, and Jackie Cooper. It was very successful at the box office and with critics, and inspired three sequels along with the 2006 movie, "Superman Returns".

</doc>
<doc id="31075" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31075" title="Domestic violence">
Domestic violence

Domestic violence means that in a relationship or marriage, one or both of the partners uses physical, sexual or psychological violence to try to get power or control over the other or due to losing their temper. Domestic violence can occur in heterosexual and same-sex relationships. There is often a predictable pattern or cycle of violence in a relationship and the abuse tends to get worse over time. Domestic violence can be also a factor to be homelessness, as pointed out by Principles 15 of the Yogyakarta Principles. 
In any culture or community, there are beliefs and attitudes that support domestic violence and beliefs and attitudes that do not support domestic violence. In most countries, laws exist to protect the victim of such violent acts. There are also organisations that can help in such situations. 
Domestic violence sometimes does not get reported to the police. Estimates say that only a third of domestic violence cases (or even less) get reported to the authorities.
Many people who use violence against their partners have mental disorders, especially antisocial personality disorder and borderline personality disorder.

</doc>
<doc id="31081" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31081" title="Emersons Green">
Emersons Green

Emersons Green is an area with lots of houses, just to the north of Bristol, in England.
It used to be just farming land between Mangotsfield and Downend, but in the 1990s houses, schools and shops were built.
Emersons Green is in South Gloucestershire.
There is a large shopping area in Emersons Green, including Sainsbury's, Boots, Lidl and Argos. There are also restaurants, three pubs and some cafés.

</doc>
<doc id="31083" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31083" title="Archaeopteryx">
Archaeopteryx

Archaeopteryx is one of the most important fossils ever discovered. It is a bird from the Upper Jurassic, about 150 million years ago. It shows the evolutionary link between theropod dinosaurs and birds. The first "Archaeopteryx" was found in 1860 near Solnhofen in Bavaria, Germany. Today, ten skeletons and one feather of "Archaeopteryx" have been found.
"Archaeopteryx" looked like a small carnivorous dinosaur with wings and feathers. It had a mouth with teeth, claws on the hands and a long tail. Today, it is known that dromaeosaurs, and possibly most theropods, looked like birds and that many had feathers. When they are born, today's South American hoatzin have claws on their wings when they are young, just like "Archaeopteryx". 
Thomas Henry Huxley ("Darwin's bulldog"), who was a comparative anatomist, made a study of this nearly 150 years ago. He compared "Archaeopteryx" with a small theropod dinosaur, "Compsognathus". These two fossils came from the same place: Solnhofen in Bavaria, Germany. The strata come from the end of the Jurassic period, about 144 million years ago. He showed that the two were very similar, except for the front limbs and feathers of "Archaeopteryx". 
Huxley's study showed the basic relationship between birds and reptiles. He united them under the title of "Sauropsida". His papers on "Archaeopteryx" and the origin of birds were of great interest then and still are. Huxley concluded that birds evolved from small carnivorous dinosaurs.
Only one dinobird has been found from a time before "Archaeopteryx". It is called "Anchiornis huxlei", from 160 to 155 million years ago. It had feathers on both front and rear legs, and could certainly glide. It may or may not have had some ability to fly. This discovery means we cannot say "Archaeopteryx" is the first known bird, but its contribution to science has been huge. We now know for sure that a whole group of small theropod dinosaurs had feathers, and that flight was a later, secondary, use of feathers. The first use of feathers was temperature regulation, and probably also signalling (see "Epidexipteryx").
It may be that "Archaeopteryx" is not directly ancestral to all birds, but it is still a fine transitional fossil.

</doc>
<doc id="31084" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31084" title="Mosel-Saar-Ruwer">
Mosel-Saar-Ruwer

Mosel-Saar-Ruwer is a German wine-growing-region in the valleys of the rivers Moselle, Saar and Ruwer near Koblenz and Trier, Rhineland-Palatinate. It is famous for its wines of Riesling, Elbling and Müller-Thurgau grapes. 
There are the following six sub-regions with 19 large vineyards: 

</doc>
<doc id="31086" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31086" title="Snail">
Snail

A snail is a common name for a kind of mollusc. The term is used for a gastropod with a coiled shell. 
Snails and slugs which breath with a kind of lung are members of a group, the Pulmonata, which was a well-known order in traditional taxonomy. Their fossil records extends back into the Carboniferous period. 
However, the Pulmonata was found to be polyphyletic in a molecular study. What this means is that, in the course of evolution, the same life-style evolved in a number of different lines. Therefore the pulmonates are polyphyletic, and the Pulmonata is no longer an official term in biological classification.
The term "snail" is also sometimes used for aquatic snail-like gastropods, which usually have gills. Actually, most snail species are marine snails: they have much greater diversity and a greater biomass. Numerous kinds of snail can also be found in fresh water.
Close relatives of the snails are the slugs, which are basically snails without shells. Both slugs and snails are numerous and successful on land. Most land snails and slugs are herbivorous. Aquatic snails and slugs are usually omnivores or predatory carnivores.
In some countries, like France, people eat snails. After the snails are cooked, they make a dish called Escargot, a delicacy in France. They usually boil them in salt water, and add a garlic sauce.
The biggest snail is the giant African snail. Their foot is up to 35 cm long. 
The fastest snail is the "Helix aspersa". It can reach speeds up to 0.03 mph.
There are known more than 43000 species of snails all over the world. 
Land snails are nocturnal animals and move to food and partners in the late evening or at night. They prefer a damp, but not a wet environment and bury themself up to two weeks in hot and dry phases.
Their enemies are birds and mammals like mice and similar predators normally.
There are also many water snails. Some of them live in rivers or freshwater, but most are resident on oceans ground. Ocean snails are colorful, so they can be pink, blue, red, grey, yellow and also with many other colors. The colors protect them, because this colours scare potential enemys away. Water snails are not as active as land snails in general, but they mostly do not distinguish different daytimes.
Water snails' most abundant enemies are fishes of prey.
Snails are invertebrates, which are animals with no backbones. The shell on the snail helps protect it, and also reduces the loss of water by evaporation. Shells have many different shapes, sizes, and colours. Snails do not breathe through their mouths, instead they have a breathing hole under their shells.
A snails "foot" is a muscle which allows it to move slowly across the ground. The foot puts out ('exudes') slime, which eases the snail's movement, leaving a trail. Snails can absorb mineral nutrients through their foot by simply sitting on a rock containing it.
The head is attached to the foot. The mouth is like a cheese grater. It is called a radula. It is used for cutting food. On the radula there are little teeth. On the head there are 15 mm stalks. At the end of the stalks are snail’s eyes, though they do not see very well.
Snails are found all over the world. Generally speaking, land snails live on damp habitats. They live in caves and dark places. Snails can be found in dark places such as in a garden under plant's foliage leaves. Some species live in cold places like the Arctic and a few are found in warm places like beaches and deserts. 
Some snails are aquatic and live in water. They live in the sea, fish tanks, rivers and oceans. They do not swim in the water because most of the time they stick to rocks. 
Land snails eat vegetables and fruits, such as lettuce, carrots, cucumber and apples. Aquatic snails are often carnivorous. Snails use their radula to cut food. The radula is a hard, rough plate in the mouth. Radula teeth are like little pieces of sandpaper. They are good for cutting up plants and if the snail eats meat they are good for tearing the meat apart. Radula teeth look like little fangs.
Many animals eat snails. Fireflies, snakes, beetles, fish, insects, turtles and people eat snails too. To defend themselves, snails pull back into their shells.
Slugs evolved from snails which reduced, and finally lost, their shells. They live in similar habitats.

</doc>
<doc id="31087" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31087" title="Ruwer River">
Ruwer River

The Ruwer is a river in Germany with a length of , a tributary of the Mosel River. The valley of the Ruwer is a part of the wine-growing region Mosel-Saar-Ruwer near Trier in Rhineland-Palatinate. It is famous for its Riesling wines.
At the lower Ruwer valley are the villages Waldrach, Kasel, Mertesdorf, Eitelsbach and Ruwer.
Tributaries are Alkenbach, Altbach, Altweiherbach, Apfelbach, Avelbach, Bausbach, Benninger Bach, Bingelbach, Burg Heider Bach, Burkelsbach, Eitelsbach, Enterbach, Eschbach, Eselsbach, Flonterbach, Gimpelbach, Gondersbach, Grindelbach, Großbach, Hinzerter Bach, Kittelbach, Klinkbach, Kreidbach, Kundelbach, Labach, Lehbach, Misselbach, Moertschelbach, Mühlscheider Bach, Pehlbach, Rauruwer, Rimperterbach, Riveris, Rothbach, Siebenbornbach, Thielenbach, Waldbach, Waschbach, Weiherbach, Wenigbach, Wenzelbach and Weschbach.

</doc>
<doc id="31088" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31088" title="Slug">
Slug

Slug is a general term for a gastropod mollusc which has no shell, or just a small internal shell. 
Slugs belong to several different families which also include snails with shells. Snails are gastropods with a coiled shell large enough for the animal to pull back inside. The families of land slugs are not very closely related, despite looking similar. The shell-less slug type is an example of convergent evolution, and so the category "slug" is not a taxonomic category.
The name "slug" is used for air-breathing land slugs, while the marine forms are usually known as sea slugs. Land gastropods with a shell that is too small to hide the body are sometimes called "semislugs".
Like land snails, most slugs have four 'feelers' or "tentacles" on their head. The upper two (the "optical tentacles") see light and have eyespots at the ends, while the lower two (the "sensory tentacles") are used for smelling. The tentacles are retractable, and can regrow if lost. 
On top of the slug, behind the head, is a body part called the "mantle," and under this are the genital opening and anus. On one side (almost always the right side) of the mantle is a breathing hole, which is easy to see when open, but difficult to see when closed. Inside the mantle in some species is a very small, flat shell.
The bottom of a snail is called a "foot". Like other snails, a slug moves by rhythmic waves of muscle contraction on the bottom of its foot. At the same time, it secretes a layer of mucus on which it travels, which helps prevent damage to the foot. Around the edge of the foot is the 'foot fringe'. 
Some slug species hibernate underground during the winter in places with cold winters, but in other species, the adults die in the autumn.

</doc>
<doc id="31090" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31090" title="Ruwer">
Ruwer

Ruwer could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="31091" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31091" title="Ruwer (municipality)">
Ruwer (municipality)

Ruwer is a municipality (a convention community called "Verbandsgemeinde" Ruwer) on the River Ruwer. The administrative offices are in the town of Waldrach, and it should not be confused with the nearby town of Ruwer, which is for administrative purposes a part of the city of Trier. 

</doc>
<doc id="31094" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31094" title="Gunpowder">
Gunpowder

Gunpowder (or gun powder) is a mix of chemical substances (charcoal, sulfur and saltpeter). It burns very quickly, and creates gases. Those gases use up more space than the gunpowder they come from, so they push outward. If the gunpowder is in a small space, the gasses will push on the walls of the space, building up pressure. In a gun, the pressure pushes against a bullet, causing it to fly out at high speeds. The pressure is not high enough, though, to destroy the gun barrel. 
Gunpowder was probably invented by the Chinese, the first references of black powder, which is a form of gun powder date to the 9th century, when Roger Bacon described the formula of black powder. According to legend, Chinese alchemists were looking for a formula to create the elixir of life, or the mythical potion that causes whoever drinks it to become immortal, when they accidentally created gunpowder. Because the powder was highly flammable, or burned very easily, they decided to call it "fire medicine" (Simplified Chinese: 火药 / Traditional Chinese: 火藥). Shortly after the discovery, the Chinese weaponized the substance, or made weapons out of it, and throughout the centuries they would make many weapons using gunpowder, including rockets, bombs, flamethrowers, and land mines before making cannons and guns. The oldest weapon that uses gunpowder dates back to a bronze handheld cannon made in northeastern China in 1288.

</doc>
<doc id="31095" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31095" title="Mayor">
Mayor

The mayor is a person who is in charge of the administration of a city. Some mayors are elected by the people who live in that city. For other cities, a central government body may choose the mayor. Some large cities have a Lord Mayor.
In a federal countries like Germany the mayor can also head of the government of a city state. The Mayor of Hamburg runs the government just like the Minister President of Bavaria runs the Bavarian government. In some big cities such as Tokyo the Mayor is a Governor.
In many countries, such as the United Kingdom and Australia, the mayor is not in charge of the daily functions of a city or town. That job is done by a Town Clerk or Chief Executive, who is appointed to a full-time paid job. The mayor works part-time, usually without payment, and represents the city at events and civic functions. 

</doc>
<doc id="31104" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31104" title="Churning of the Ocean">
Churning of the Ocean

Churning of the Ocean is a very important mythical story of Hinduism and Hindu mythology. It is described in many Hindu scriptures, especially in the Mahabharata and the Puranas. The story tells about the churning of the ocean by the gods and the demons. From this churning of the ocean, several things came out of the ocean. Some of them were:
The Hindu scriptures and the Hindu mythology tell that all the above things came out of the ocean for the good of human beings. 

</doc>
<doc id="31106" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31106" title="Martha Washington">
Martha Washington

Martha Dandridge Custis Washington (June 2, 1731 – May 2, 1802) was the wife of George Washington, the first president of the United States. Although the title was not coined until after her death, Martha Washington is considered to be the first First Lady of the United States.
She was born Martha Dandridge on June 2, 1731, at Chestnut Grove Plantation near Williamsburg, Virginia. Her education consisted of the womanly arts such as needlework and playing musical instruments. Later in life, she would learn to manage a plantation.
At 18, she married Daniel Parke Custis, a tobacco planter 20 years her senior. She bore him four children. Only two, John "Jacky" and Martha "Patsy", survived to young adulthood. She was widowed in 1757 at age 26. In 1759, she married George Washington, a colonel in the British Army. Their marriage was one of mutual affection and respect, but not one of passion. The Washingtons had no biological children.
During the American Revolutionary War, Martha visited the cold and starving Continental troops spending the winter at Valley Forge, Pennsylvania. She donated as much food as possible, and sewed clothing for the soldiers. She nursed those who were ill or dying. She urged local women to do the same. Her commitment to the welfare of the veterans of the Revolution would remain lifelong. They addressed her as "Lady Washington."
Washington was unanimously elected president in 1789. Martha served as First Lady from April 30, 1789 to March 4, 1797. She found the job unpleasant. She complained of the journalists who followed her everywhere (even to the circus with her grandson), and of the many restrictions placed upon her as First Lady (she was not allowed to accept dinner invitations, for example). 
She set many of the customs and standards that were observed by future First Ladies. She retired to Mount Vernon with her husband after serving her country.
She died in Mount Vernon on May 22, 1802. Her obituary (death notice) was widely printed in regional newspapers. She is buried in the vault at Mount Vernon. She was the first historical female figure to be depicted by the United States government on postage stamps and currency.

</doc>
<doc id="31107" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31107" title="Abigail Adams">
Abigail Adams

Abigail Smith Adams (November 11, 1744–October 28, 1818) was the wife of John Adams, the second President of the United States. Later on, people started to address the wife of the president as the First Lady. So, she became the second First Lady of the United States. She was born in Weymouth, Massachusetts. She belonged to a famous family of Massachusetts (the Quincy Family). 
Adams did not get any formal education in any school or college. Her father had a big library, so she studied a number of books and became knowledgeable. She married John Adams in 1764. In next ten years, she had five children (a sixth was stillborn), including John Quincy Adams, the sixth President of the United States. 
In 1801, the couple retired and lived in Quincy. Abigail died in 1818, at age 74 of typhoid fever.

</doc>
<doc id="31108" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31108" title="Martha Jefferson Randolph">
Martha Jefferson Randolph

Martha Washington Jefferson Randolph (September 27, 1772 – October 10, 1836) was the daughter of Thomas Jefferson and his wife Martha Wayles Skelton Jefferson. Thomas Jefferson was the third President of the United States. Because her father was a widower, Martha Washington Jefferson Randolph acted as the First Lady of the United States from March 4, 1801 to March 3, 1809. 
Martha was born in Monticello, near Charlottesville, Virginia. She was named Martha Washington in honor of Martha Washington, the wife of the first President of the United States, George Washington. She was educated in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and Paris. 
In 1790, Martha married Thomas Mann Randolph Jr. They had twelve children. Shortly before her death, she and her husband developed differences. She died in 1836 in Albemarle County, Virginia at the age of 64.

</doc>
<doc id="31120" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31120" title="Aracaju">
Aracaju

Aracaju is the modern capital city of the state of Sergipe in the northeastern region of Brazil. It has about 470.000 inhabitants (estimate 2003) and lies between the cities of Salvador and Maceio, also in the northeast of Brazil. It was planned and built to be the state capital in 1855.

</doc>
<doc id="31121" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31121" title="A Midsummer Night's Dream">
A Midsummer Night's Dream

A Midsummer Night's Dream is a play by William Shakespeare. The exact date the play was written is unknown. It is generally accepted that the play was written in 1595 or 1596. It was first printed in 1600. In 1623, the play was printed in the First Folio, a collection of all of Shakespeare's plays. 
Shakespeare's sources include works by Plutarch, Apuleius, Ovid, Geoffrey Chaucer, and Edmund Spenser. He found a description of Puck in Reginald Scot's "The Discoverie of Witchcraft" (1584). It is generally believed that the play was written for the festivities surrounding the aristocratic marriage of either Elizabeth Vere, Lord Burghley’s granddaughter, in 1595, or Elizabeth Carey, daughter of Sir George Carey, in 1596.
The play is about four confused young lovers, a group of clumsy workmen, the royal court of Duke Theseus, and the royal fairy court of King Oberon and Queen Titania. The play is set mostly at night in the woods near Athens. 
The play has been made into movies on numerous occasions. One movie stars Mickey Rooney as the fairy Puck. Benjamin Britten wrote an opera based on the play, George Balanchine and Frederick Ashton have both made ballets about it, and Felix Mendelssohn wrote many pieces of music for the play which include an "Overture" and a "Wedding March".
The Court at Athens:
The Lovers:
The Fairies:
The Rustics:
Egeus wants his daughter Hermia to marry Demetrius. Hermia does not want to marry him. She loves another man named Lysander. Hermia and Lysander decide to run away. Demetrius follows them. Helena, Hermia's best friend, is in love with Demetrius. She follows him. All four become lost in the woods near Athens.
Meanwhile, Oberon and Titania are having an argument. Oberon decides to teach Titania a lesson. He puts a love potion into her eyes while she is asleep. This potion will make her fall in love with the first thing she sees when she wakes. 
Oberon finds Helena and Demetrius. He tells Puck to give Demetrius some of the love potion so that he will love Helena. Puck makes a mistake and puts the potion in Lysander's eyes. When Lysander wakes up, he loves Helena instead of his real sweetheart Hermia! 
The workmen are practising a play in the woods for the upcoming marriage of Theseus and Hippolyta. Puck plays a trick on Nick Bottom by giving him donkey ears. The other actors run away, so Bottom goes to sleep. He is sleeping near Titania. She wakes up and falls in love with him.
Oberon realises everything is all mixed up. He gives some of the love potion to Demetrius. Now Demetrius and Lysander both love Helena. Sad and confused, all the lovers fall asleep. At last, Puck rights all the wrongs. He makes Lysander love Hermia again, and makes Demetrius love Helena. Everyone is happy.
The workmen perform their play after the wedding of Theseus and Hippolyta. Oberon has stopped Titania being in love with Bottom. They are happy with each other again. The fairies use their magic to bless all the lovers.

</doc>
<doc id="31140" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31140" title="Vodka">
Vodka

Vodka is an alcoholic drink that is usually about 40% alcohol. It is clear (but can be flavoured), though it is sometimes mixed with other liquids before people drink it. It was first popular in the Slavic countries of Eastern Europe, after being invented in Poland or in Russia. 
Vodka can be made from different things:
The process to make vodka is:
Unlike cognac or whisky, vodka is not usually matured in barrels, but bottled immediately. Some Scandinavian vodkas called "akvavit" (Latin "aqua vitae", "water of life") are matured in oak barrels before they are bottled. When the vodka is bottled, it is ready for drinking.
Most people think the name "vodka" comes from the Slavic word for water in its diminutive form, "little water". The earliest mention of Vodka in Poland is in 1405. The Russians are known to have first used the word in June 8, 1751. It is not known if it was the Russians or the Poles who made the first drinks that could be classified as vodka, as sources provide various views on this topic (though it's important to remember that the first mention of the word "vodka" in Cyrillic refers to a medicinal drink bought by the merchants of Kievan Rus from Poland). It is also worth noting that vodka was first used as medicine. When it became a popular drink, it was first known in Polish as "gorzałka" - from the Old Polish word "gorzeć", meaning burn. At first, gorzałka was a people's drink, but in the Slavic countries it soon became common among the nobility as well.
There are two basic kinds of Vodka: clear vodka and flavored vodka. Some types of vodka have plants or herbs added to the unflavored vodka to make it taste better. Contrary to popular belief, flavoured vodka is not new - it has been a part of Polish drinking tradition for centuries. It is only relatively recently in history that clear and flavoured vodkas have found their way to Western countries such as the UK or US.
Vodka is either drunk pure, or cocktails are made with it. The simplest form of cocktail is to mix it with orange or lemon juice. Usually, vodka is drunk during a longer meal. Usually salty or sour things (not sweets) are served. In Poland and Russia (as well as some of their neighbours, such as Ukraine or Lithuania), vodka is drunk from glasses that can hold about 100 grams (0,1 litres) of vodka. The glass is usually emptied in one draught, while holding the breath. Directly afterwards something small is eaten. In most Eastern European countries it is consumed with pickled cucumbers. Before drinking, a toast is given.
Vodka is a key element of Slavic tradition in some countries of Eastern Europe (especially Poland, Belarus, Ukraine and Russia). It has also spread to become a part of national culture in Baltic countries like Lithuania and Nordic countries like Sweden. It's traditional in Russia and other Slavic countries (as well as some Roma communities in Eastern Europe) to put a glass of vodka with a slice of bread (usually black bread) on top on graves or near photos of the deceased in their memory. This is similar to what people in Western countries do with flowers.

</doc>
<doc id="31142" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31142" title="Sexual reproduction">
Sexual reproduction

Sexual reproduction is how most animals and plants reproduce. Some protists and fungi also reproduce this way. Organisms that reproduce sexually have two different sexes: male and female. Offspring is made by a sperm fertilising an ovum from the female. Different steps are involved in the process.
The cells of an animal or higher plant have two sets of chromosomes: they are diploid. When gametes (sex cells) are produced, they have only one set of chromosomes: they are haploid. They have undergone a process of cell division called meiosis. Two things happen during meiosis, each of which makes the offspring more variable. That means they are different from the parents and from each other.
Assortment is when the double set of chromosomes becomes a single set in each gamete. In each pair of chromosomes, "which one goes into a single gamete is random". Because the gene alleles on each chromosome are not always the same, this means that there is genetic variation between gametes. This process was Mendel's 'first law', the law of segregation.
Because crossing over occurs during meiosis, this increases the variety of the chromosomes. This makes it possible to get recombination. 
The consequence of assortment and crossing over makes it certain that no two offspring of the same mother and father are identical. Identical twins are the exception, being identical genetically because they developed from the same fertilised egg.
There are advantages and disadvantages of sexual reproduction, compared to asexual reproduction. The main issues are:

</doc>
<doc id="31143" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31143" title="Leprosy">
Leprosy

Leprosy is an infectious disease. It has been known for a very long time. Today, it is mostly called Hansen's disease, named after the person who discovered the bacterium, Gerhard Armauer Hansen. It is caused by a bacterium, Mycobacterium leprae. A person with leprosy is called a leper.
As of 2004, the estimated number of new infections was about 400,000.
Getting the disease is hard, since it requires close contact with someone who has it, over a long period of time. In addition, about 95% of people seem to be naturally immune to it. 
Most cases of leprosy occur in India, and other developing countries. It has known to have been in the US before. There are practically no cases of leprosy in the developed world. This is because there are excellent drugs and people regularly take antibiotics which will kill the leprosy bacteria. 
In former times, leprosy was seen as a divine punishment for sins committed. 
The symptoms of leprosy are irregular spots and patches on the skin. These are either lighter colored than the surrounding skin, or reddish in color. On those patches, hair will fall out, and they will feel numb to the patient. Nerves will form knots there.
With the illness progressing the sense of touch will become less and less (until the patient feels completely numb). So called leptomes and ulcers will eat away the skin, the flesh and the organs on the patches. 
Usually people do not die of leprosy, but of secondary infections and diseases they get.
For many years there was a leprosy colony on the Hawaiian Island of Molokai called Kalaupapa. Tens of thousands of people from the United States that had the disease were sent there.

</doc>
<doc id="31150" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31150" title="Dolley Madison">
Dolley Madison

Dolley Payne Todd Madison (May 20, 1768 – July 12, 1849) was the wife of US President James Madison. James Madison was president from 1809 to 1817 while Dolley Madison was the First Lady of the United States. She is best known for saving Washington's portrait when the British burned the White House in the War of 1814. Though she is also a famous entertainer, the first to serve ice cream in the White House.
Dolley was born in New Garden. Now the place is known as Guilford County. It is in North Carolina. Some other account tells that she was born in a village named Payne’s Tavern. It is in Person County, North Carolina. 
Her father’s name was John Payne. As an unsuccessful farmer, he always faced shortage of money. Dolley’s mother was Mary Coles. 
Dolley spent her teenage years in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. On January 7, 1790, she married John Todd, Jr. (1764-1793). Todd was a lawyer. They had two sons. Their names were John Payne (1792-1852) and William Temple (born and died in 1793). William died in a yellow fever epidemic. In the same year, her husband also died of the same yellow fever epidemic. 
Dolley Todd married James Madison on September 14, 1794. They had no children, but they raised Dolley's son from her first marriage, John Payne Todd. John Payne Todd was a notorious drunkard and gambler, which caused his mother many financial problems, especially after Madison died.
In 1814, the British army had burnt the White House. Fleeing from her burning home, Dolley saved many records and papers. Legend states she also saved a painting of George Washington, though had to break it out of its frame. 
She was a very beautiful First Lady, on the National First Lady Library she says
"There is one secret,and that is the power we have in forming our own destinies."

</doc>
<doc id="31153" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31153" title="Elizabeth Monroe">
Elizabeth Monroe

Elizabeth Kortright Monroe (1768 - September 23, 1830) was the wife of James Monroe. James Monroe was the fifth President of the United States.
Elizabeth Monroe was born in an old family of New York. When she was a girl of 17 years, she married James Monroe. At that time, Monroe was a lawyer. He was aged 27 years. Once, the government sent Monroe as an envoy to Versailles. She also went along with her husband. 
During her last years, Elizabeth Monroe became very sick. She could not take part in social functions. She became more distant from people. Some persons thought her to be a snob. But, her husband always understood her problems. After a long illness, she died on September 23, 1830 at her home in Oak Hill at age 62.

</doc>
<doc id="31161" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31161" title="Celestia">
Celestia

Celestia is a free 3D astronomy program for Windows, Mac OS X, and Linux. It is created by Chris Laurel and licensed under the GNU.
The program is based on the Hipparcos Catalogue (120.000 Stars) and allows users to display objects from artificial satellites to entire galaxies in three dimensions in OpenGL. Different from other planetarium software, the user is free to travel in the universe.
NASA and ESA have used Celestia, but it is not to be confused with Celestia 2000, ESA's own program.

</doc>
<doc id="31162" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31162" title="Bill Cullen">
Bill Cullen

Bill Cullen (February 18, 1920 – July 7, 1990) was an American television game show host. His full name was William Lawrence Cullen.
Cullen was originally from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. He suffered from polio as a child. He had a limp for the remainder of his life.
Cullen was best known for hosting the original version of "The Price is Right" on the television networks NBC and ABC. That show is now on CBS and hosted by Drew Carey. He also hosted a version of "The $25,000 Pyramid", "Child's Play", and "Blockbusters".
Bill Cullen died in Bel Air, California in 1990 from lung cancer after smoking for most of his life.

</doc>
<doc id="31165" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31165" title="Rudi Carrell">
Rudi Carrell

Rudi Carrell (real name Rudolf Wijbrand Kesselaar) was a very successful comedian, singer and television presenter. He was born on December 19, 1934 in Alkmaar, in the Netherlands. He died of lung cancer on July 7, 2006 in Bremen, Germany. He was very popular in Germany, for shows like "Die Rudi Carrell Show".
He was awarded various prizes, amongst others the "Goldene Kamera" for a lifetime of good work, in February of 2006 (which was his last public appearance) as well as the Bundesverdienstkreuz (the only award given by the Federal Republic of Germany, for extraordinary achievements in politics or culture) in 1985.

</doc>
<doc id="31167" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31167" title="Lung cancer">
Lung cancer

Lung cancer is the uncontrolled growth of abnormal cells in one or both of the lungs. Cigarette smoking causes most lung cancers when smoke gets in the lungs. Lung cancer kills 1.3 million people each year, more than any other cancer. It is currently the leading cause of cancer death in both men and women, it kills more women than breast cancer, ovarian cancer and uterine cancers together. 
The large majority of people who get lung cancer have smoked for many years. However, there are types of lung cancers that appear in otherwise healthy patients who have never smoked.
There are two main types of lung cancer, small cell lung cancer and non-small cell lung cancer. Small cell lung cancer typically responds well to chemotherapy and radiotherapy, and non-small cell lung cancer is more commonly treated with surgical removal of the lung tumor.
Non-small cell lung cancer
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) account for about 85% to 90% of lung cancer cases. There are three types of non-small cell lung cancer: 

</doc>
<doc id="31184" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31184" title="Whitchurch, Shropshire">
Whitchurch, Shropshire

Whitchurch is a small town in the north of Shropshire, England. It is the oldest town inhabited in Shropshire. In 2001, the population of the town was 8,673. A more recent estimate puts the population of the town at 8,907 . The town was founded by the Romans. There are still some artefacts that can be visited in a Museum

</doc>
<doc id="31194" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31194" title="Panthera">
Panthera

Panthera is a genus of the family Felidae.
It has five living species, which are the biggest cats in the Felidae. The tiger is the largest "Panthera" species, and the largest of all cats. The leopard is the smallest "Panthera" species. 
Results of genetic analysis indicate that the snow leopard also belongs to the "Panthera", a classification that was accepted by IUCN assessors in 2008. The genus "Neofelis" is also closely related.

</doc>
<doc id="31199" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31199" title="Superpower">
Superpower

A superpower is a country that is one of the most powerful countries in the world. It is more powerful than a major power. And right now, only the United States is a superpower.
In the years following World War II, the United Nations was formed. The 5 countries that would later have nuclear bombs – those who would be able to start a nuclear war – were all given "permanent" seats on the Security Council. This means they are on the Security Council forever. They were also all given equal veto power over decisions in the Security Council. These five countries were: United States, United Kingdom, China, France, and the Soviet Union. 
For most of the 1900s, the Soviet Union was a superpower. After the Soviet Union split into a lot of smaller countries in 1991, it was not a superpower anymore. Russia got most of the Soviet Union's nuclear weapons, and also its permanent seat in the Security Council. Some other countries also have nuclear weapons now, and can also start a nuclear war just as well, but they are not permanent members with veto power. The Republic of India, North Korea and Pakistan are a few countries like this.

</doc>
<doc id="31200" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31200" title="Snow leopard">
Snow leopard

Appearance
Snow leopards are about 2-5 meters long in the body, and have a 90-100 centimeter long tail. They weigh up to 75 kilograms. They have grey and white fur with dark rosettes and spots, and their tails have stripes. Its fur is very long and thick to protect it against the cold. Their feet are also big and furry, which helps them to walk on snow easier. They use their long tails for balance and as blankets to cover sensitive body parts against the severe mountain chill.
They are one of the cats which cannot purr: "In five cat species (lion, tiger, jaguar, leopard and snow leopard) the epihyoideum is an elastic ligament, whereas in all other species of the Felidae the epihyal is completely ossified (bony)... those felids with an elastic epihyoid are able to roar but not purr, while species with a completely ossified hyoid are able to purr but not to roar". Despite this, it seems now that snow leopards cannot roar, though they can make a number of other sounds.
Snow leopards are well camouflaged, and are crepuscular (most active at dawn and dusk). They stalk and eat medium-sized prey like Ibex, bharal (mountain sheep) and wild goats. It can survive on a single sheep for two weeks.
Snow leopards prefer to ambush prey from above, using broken terrain to conceal their approach. They try and land on the sheep, and kill it directly. If the sheep runs, they pursue it down steep mountainsides, using the momentum of their initial leap to chase prey for up to . 
They kill with a bite to the neck, and may drag the prey to a safe location before feeding. They consume all edible parts of the carcass, and can survive on a single bharal for two weeks before hunting again. Annual prey needs is 20–30 adult blue sheep (bharal).
In summer, snow leopards usually live above the tree line on mountainous meadows and in rocky regions at altitudes from . In winter, they come down into the forests to altitudes around . Snow leopards prefer broken terrain, and can travel without difficulty in snow up to deep, although they prefer to use existing trails made by other animals.
They live alone. After a pregnancy of about a hundred days the female gives birth to 2 or 3 kittens. They are protected in most of the countries they live in. However, people do still kill them for their fur, or to protect their cattle.
The snow leopard has a huge range in central Asia. It is in Afghanistan, Bhutan, China, India, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Nepal, Pakistan, Russia, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, Kashmir, Kunlun, and the Himalaya to southern Siberia, Mongolia, and Tibet.
Its numbers are quite low, though difficult to estimate. Many estimates are rough and outdated. The total wild population of the snow leopard was estimated in 2008 as 4,510 to 7,350 individuals.
The snow leopard was not thought closely related to the "Panthera" or other living big cats. However, recent molecular studies put the species firmly in the genus "Panthera": its closest relative is the tiger ("Panthera tigris"). MSW3 still refers to the snow leopard as "Uncia uncia", but the more recent IUCN classifies it as Panthera uncia.

</doc>
<doc id="31203" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31203" title="Yonkers, New York">
Yonkers, New York

Yonkers is the 4th largest city in the American state of New York. It is the southwestern part of Westchester County
Yonkers borders the New York City borough of The Bronx and is 2 miles (3 km) north of Manhattan. Broadway runs through all three, and railroads also connect them to Grand Central Terminal. The Bronx River separates Yonkers from Mount Vernon, New York on the east. The city's best-known attraction is Yonkers Raceway, a harness racing track. There is a large shopping area along Central Park Avenue. It is sometimes called "Central Avenue" by area residents.

</doc>
<doc id="31213" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31213" title="Louisa Adams">
Louisa Adams

Louisa Catherine Johnson Adams (February 12, 1775 – May 15, 1852) was the wife of US President John Quincy Adams. As the wife of the US President, she was the First Lady of the United States from 1825 to 1829.
She was born in London. Her mother, Catherine Nuth Johnson was an English lady. Her father, Joshua Johnson, was from the USA and a citizen of the USA. Until date, Louisa Adams is the only First Lady not born in the United States. John Adams, the second president of the USA, was her father-in-law.
In 1794, John Quincy Adams met Louisa in London. At that time, Adams was a US diplomat. After about three years, they married. The couple also lived in Berlin where Adams got a posting. Louisa along with her husband arrived to the USA in 1801. They lived in different places before her husband became the President.She went to school in London and France. 
She died in 1852, aged seventy-seven. She is buried in the United States Parish Church, Quincy, Massachusetts.

</doc>
<doc id="31215" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31215" title="Angelica Van Buren">
Angelica Van Buren

Angelica Singleton Van Buren (February 13, 1818 - December 29, 1877) acted as the First Lady of the United States. She was the daughter-in-law of Martin Van Buren, the 8th president of the USA. Angelica Singleton had married the President's son, Abraham Van Buren. She took over the role of the First Lady, as the president's wife had died 17 years earlier. 
Angelica Singleton belonged to a high society. She was also related to Dolley Madison, wife of US President James Madison. Angelica brought a special style to her role as the First Lady.
She and Abraham Van Buren married in 1838. After marriage they took a long tour of Europe. When they came back to the USA in 1839, she took up the role of the First Lady during the presidency of her father-in-law. In 1841, Martin Van Buren was defeated, she and her husband shifted to Kinderhook, Lindenwald. During the winter, they lived in their family home in South Carolina. From 1848 until her death in 1877, she lived in New York. 
Angelica was from the cream of southern society and was the great-granddaughter of Gen. Richard Richardson and Mary Cantey (Richardson). Gen. Richardson was the progenitor of six South Carolina governors, three Manning and three Richardson governors. One descendant, Elizabeth Peyre Richardson, was so closely related to all of these governors that she appears in Ripley's Believe it or Not. Angelica's sister, Marion, has a bio that, although sad, is actually more interesting than hers. See "A Tale of Two Sisters," by Joseph C. Elliott, Sandlapper: The Magazine of South Carolina.

</doc>
<doc id="31217" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31217" title="Jane Irwin Harrison">
Jane Irwin Harrison

Jane Irwin Harrison (1804 - 1845) was the First Lady of the United States for a very brief period. She was married to William Henry Harrison Jr. William was the son of William Henry Harrison, ninth President of the United States. As the daughter-in-law of the president, she acted as the First Lady for about a month in 1841. She acted as his official hostess during his brief tenure in office, which lasted for a month in 1841. President’s wife Anna Harrison was very ill, and she could not go out of their home in Ohio, when her husband moved to take up the presidency. 

</doc>
<doc id="31218" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31218" title="Mary Todd Lincoln">
Mary Todd Lincoln

Mary Ann Todd Lincoln (née Todd; December 13, 1818 – July 16, 1882) was the wife of the sixteenth President of the United States, Abraham Lincoln, and was First Lady of the United States from 1861 to 1865.
She was born in Lexington, Kentucky. Her father was Robert Smith Todd and her mother was Eliza Parker. Her parents were prominent residents of the city. Mary's paternal great-grandfather, David Levi Todd, was born in County Longford, Ireland, and emigrated through Pennsylvania to Kentucky. Her great-great maternal grandfather Samuel McDowell was born in Scotland, and emigrated to Pennsylvania. Other Todd ancestors came from England. When she was around twenty years old, Mary came to Illinois where her sister Elizabeth lived. There she met Abraham Lincoln. He was a young lawyer at that time. 
She married Abraham Lincoln on November 4, 1842.
The Lincolns loved one another very much. But, at times, their relationship became troubled, too. The Lincolns had four children:
The last person known to be of direct Lincoln lineage, Robert's grandson "Bud" Beckwith died in 1985. 
Mary Lincoln was well-educated lady. She was also interested in public affairs. She also shared her husband’s ambition. At times, she became touchy and irritated. The newspapers sometimes criticized her for spending the government’s money to buy new furniture for the White House. 
After the assassination of her husband in 1865, the death of her two sons, Willie and Thomas, had made her very sad. She became very depressed. His son Robert wanted to take control of his mother's money. He sent his mother to an insane asylum. After three months, she was freed. She never forgave her son. She spent about four years in France in a city named Pau. She also traveled to many parts of Europe. 
During her last years, her health became very weak. In 1879, she suffered spinal cord injuries when she fell from a stepladder. She also got cataracts and her eyesight became weak.
During the early 1880s, Mary Lincoln was confined to the Springfield, Illinois residence of her sister Elizabeth Edwards. She died there on July 16, 1882, at age 63. She was interred in the Lincoln Tomb in Oak Ridge Cemetery in Springfield alongside her husband.

</doc>
<doc id="31219" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31219" title="Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis">
Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis

Jacqueline Lee Bouvier "Jackie" Kennedy Onassis (July 28, 1929 – May 19, 1994), was the wife of President John F. Kennedy and First Lady of the United States from 1961 until his assassination in 1963. She subsequently married Greek shipping magnate Aristotle Onassis. In later years, she enjoyed a successful career as a book editor. 
Jacqueline Lee Bouvier was born in Southampton, Long Island, New York, the daughter of wealthy Wall Street stockbroker John Vernou Bouvier III (1891-1957) and his wife Janet Norton Lee (1907-1989). She had a younger sister, Caroline Lee Bouvier, born in 1933, later known as Lee Radziwill. She was of Irish, French, Scottish, and English ancestry. Her maternal great-grandfather emigrated from Cork, Ireland, and later became the Superintendent of the New York City Public Schools. 
Her early years were spent in New York City and East Hampton, Long Island, at the Bouvier family estate called "Lasata". She became at a very early age an accomplished equestrienne, a sport that would remain a lifelong passion. As a child, she also enjoyed drawing, reading and writing poems. 
Her parents divorced in 1940, and her mother married Standard Oil heir Hugh D. Auchincloss in 1942, with whom she had two children: Janet (1945-1985) and James Auchincloss (b. 1947). She and her sister moved in with their mother's new family, and divided their time between their stepfather's two vast estates: "Merrywood" in McLean, Virginia, and "Hammersmith Farm" in Newport, Rhode Island. 
She was educated at selective schools such as Chapin's, Miss Porter's and Vassar College. She spent one year (1949-50) in Paris, France, studying at La Sorbonne, before graduating from George Washington University in 1951, with a Bachelor of Arts in French literature. Other interests included art, history and languages. 
After graduation, she worked as an "inquiring-photographer" for the Washington Times-Herald and was sent to London in June 1953 to cover the coronation of Queen Elizabeth II.
Jacqueline Bouvier and then congressman John F. Kennedy belonged to the same social circle and were introduced by a mutual friend at a dinner party in May 1952. Kennedy was then busy running for the US Senate, but after his election in November, the relationship grew more serious and led to a proposal. 
The wedding took place on September 12, 1953, at St Mary's Church, in Newport, Rhode Island, and was considered the social event of the season with an estimated 800 guests at the ceremony and 1000 at the lavish reception that followed at "Hammersmith Farm". 
Behind all the glamor, however, the couple had to face several personal setbacks. John Kennedy had serious health problems unknown to the public. He suffered from Addison's disease and from chronic and debilitating back pain due to a war injury. During the fall and winter of 1954, he underwent two delicate spinal operations which almost killed him. Jacqueline Kennedy suffered a miscarriage in 1955, and gave birth to a stillborn baby girl in 1956. 
The couple eventually became parents to a daughter Caroline (b. 1957) and a son John (1960-1999). A second son, Patrick, was born prematurely in August 1963 and died two days later.
When John Kennedy became the 35th president of the United States, on January 20, 1961, Jacqueline Kennedy became, at age 31, one of the youngest First Ladies in American history. Young, attractive and cultivated, she quickly became extremely popular both at home and abroad and was often simply known as "Jackie" by the public. 
After moving into the White House, she was dismayed at the state the official residence was in. She established a Fine Arts Committee to help her restore the house to its original splendor with American furniture, paintings and "objets d'art" of historical significance. She had a booklet on the history of the house published to help finance the restoration and hosted an immensely popular televised tour of the White House, on February 14, 1962, to show the progress of the work. She also redesigned the White House East Garden, which now bears her name, and through her intervention, historic buildings were saved from demolition in Lafayette Square. 
On the international scene, she accompanied President Kennedy on state visits to Canada, Europe, Central and South America, where her knowledge of art and history and her skill at languages served her well. She made a very successful and highly publicized goodwill trip to India and Pakistan in March 1962, accompanied by her sister Lee Radziwill. 
On November 22, 1963, while on a pre-electoral visit in Dallas, Texas, with President Kennedy, she was seated next to him in an open limousine driving through the city when he was shot in the head by a sniper. The courage and dignity she displayed in the aftermath of that tragedy won her international admiration.
After leaving the White House, Jacqueline Kennedy lived for a time in Georgetown, Washington, D.C., but moved to New York City with her children in late 1964. She attended occasional memorials for her late husband and helped supervise the plans for the John F. Kennedy Library in Boston. She made semi-official trips to England, Ireland and Cambodia. 
On October 20, 1968, she married Greek shipping magnate Aristotle Onassis, 23 years her senior. After his death in 1975, she once more settled in New York City where she worked as a book editor for the last two decades of her life, first for Viking Press and later for Doubleday. She also took an active part in a campaign to preserve New York City's Grand Central Terminal. 
Her last years were spent quietly mostly in the company of her family and longtime companion Maurice Templesman. 
Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis died of cancer (lymphoma) at her home in New York City, at the age of 64. She was buried at Arlington National Cemetery in Virginia, next to President Kennedy, their stillborn daughter and infant son.

</doc>
<doc id="31224" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31224" title="Missile">
Missile

In general, missile may refer to anything thrown or launched object at a target like a javelin or darts. Nowadays, it means, mostly, a self-propelled guided weapon system. Missiles are used in war to destroy military targets. Missiles can carry explosives or other destructive loads. The loads a missile may carry are called a "payload". This payload is not always harmful to people: for example in the 1991 Gulf War, missiles threw reels of wire at electric power stations, causing the power to go out.
The two main kinds of missiles are simple "rockets" and "guided missiles". A rocket is no longer controlled once it has been launched. Most guided missile are also propelled by a rocket engine but can be controlled after it has been launched. Some missiles used in anti-aircraft warfare, such as the AIM-9 Sidewinder, guide themselves with temperature. Others guide themselves by radar or are under radio control. 
The V-1 flying bomb was an early cruise missile, a little airplane with a bomb, propelled by a jet engine instead of a rocket. 

</doc>
<doc id="31242" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31242" title="Salford">
Salford

Salford is a city in England. It was made a free borough by Ranulf, Earl of Chester in about 1230. and was granted city status in 1926. Salford is unusual because it borders the city of Manchester at its center, rather than its outskirts. The two cities are divided by the River Irwell.
Salford shares the industrial history of its neighbour Manchester. It hosts several museums and art centres, chiefly: The Lowry and the Imperial War Museum, both on Salford Quays.

</doc>
<doc id="31244" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31244" title="1290s">
1290s


</doc>
<doc id="31245" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31245" title="The Nightmare Before Christmas">
The Nightmare Before Christmas

The Nightmare Before Christmas is a 1993 stop motion fantasy movie directed by Henry Selick and produced/co-written by Tim Burton. It tells the story of Jack Skellington, a skeleton from "Halloween Town" who opens a portal to "Christmas Town".This new town makes Jack realize he wants to do something different than Halloween every year. Jack tries Christmas out but soon realizes that Christmas may not be for him. Danny Elfman wrote the music to the movie and provided the singing voice of Jack, as well as other characters. Other voices in the movie include Chris Sarandon, Catherine O'Hara, William Hickey, Ken Page and Glen Shadix.

</doc>
<doc id="31256" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31256" title="Crumple zone">
Crumple zone

Crumple zones in a car help to reduce the impact of force on the people in the car when the car crashes into a solid object or another vehicle. The car is designed to crumple in a way so it absorbs energy to decelerate for longer and so reduce the force and severity of the crash on the people in the car.

</doc>
<doc id="31269" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31269" title="Harriet Lane">
Harriet Lane

Harriet Rebecca Lane Johnston (May 9, 1830 – July 3, 1903), niece of lifelong bachelor United States President James Buchanan, acted as First Lady of the United States from 1857 to 1861. She was one of the few women to hold the position of First Lady while not being married to the President.
Her parents were Elliot Tole Lane and Jane Buchanan Lane. When she was 9 years old, her mother died. Two years later, her father also died. She became an orphan. She requested that her uncle, James Buchanan, be made her guardian. Thus, Buchanan became her guardian. He arranged for her education. She received a very good education. 
In 1854 she went to London to live with her uncle, James Buchanan. There she attracted the attention of Queen Victoria of the United Kingdom. She gave her the title of “dear Miss Lane”. 
In 1857, her uncle became the President of the United States. She became the First Lady. She was a popular First Lady, and was very active. Women of that time even copied her hair style and style of dressing. People describe her as the first of the modern first lady.
After her uncle retired, they went to live in his big home at, Wheatland near Lancaster, Pennsylvania. From her young age, she had met many persons. 
Within next 18 years, she saw many deaths: her uncle, her husband, and her two young sons. 
After this, she moved to Washington to live. She gifted a large collection of her art works to the government. An official of the Smithsonian Institute once described her as the First Lady of the National Collection of Fine Arts. She also donated a large amount to build a facility for invalid children at the Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore.
She married when she was 36. Her husband was Henry Elliot Johnston. Her husband was a banker from Baltimore.
After her death, she was buried at Baltimore, Maryland.

</doc>
<doc id="31270" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31270" title="Afelia">
Afelia

Afelia is a Greek food. It is popular in the island nation of Cyprus. Afelia is made from pork, red wine, mushrooms, potatoes and coriander seed.

</doc>
<doc id="31271" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31271" title="President of Ireland">
President of Ireland

The President of Ireland (Irish: Uachtarán na hÉireann ) is the head of state of Ireland. It is mostly ceremonial and elections are held every seven years, a person can be elected for up to two terms. The current President of Ireland is Michael D. Higgins.

</doc>
<doc id="31272" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31272" title="Normandy">
Normandy

Normandy () is a region in the northern part of France. People from Normandy are called Normans. The name Normandy comes from the settlement and conquest of the area by the "Northmen" () also called Vikings. The band that settled at Rouen and became the Normans was led by Rollo. It is also famous for being the location of the Allied invasion of France during World War II (See D-Day). The Battle of Normandy was the beginning of the Allied invasion and liberation of Europe from Nazi Germany.
Archeological finds, such as cave paintings, prove that humans were present in prehistoric times. The Gouy and Orival cave paintings also testify to humans in Seine-Maritime. Several megaliths can be found throughout Normandy, most of them built in a uniform style. 
Groups of Belgae and Celts, known as Gauls, invaded Normandy 4th to the 3rd centuries BC. Much of our knowledge about this group comes from Julius Caesar’s "de Bello Gallico". Caesar identified several different groups among the Belgae who occupied separate regions and lived in enclosed towns. In 57 BC the Gauls united under Vercingetorix and tried to resist Caesar’s army. After their defeat at Alesia, the people of Normandy continued to fight until 51 BC, the year Caesar completed his conquest of Gaul. Under Roman rule it was part of Armorica.
The history of the duchy of Normandy began about the year 911. This is when a treaty, popularly called St. Clair-sur-Epte, was made. Charles the Simple of France gave territory around Rouen and the lower Seine to Rollo, leader of a band of Vikings. More grants followed in 924 and 933. In 1066, the Duke of Normandy, William the Conqueror, invaded England after the death of King Edward the Confessor believing he had the most right to be King of England. But King Harold II had himself crowned king instead. King Harold's Saxon army, and William Norman army fought at the Battle of Hastings on October 14 1066. King Harold was killed in the battle. On December 25 1066 William was crowned King of England as 'William I'.
The historic duchy includes two regions of France: Upper Normandy and Lower Normandy; and also the Channel Islands which are not part of France. The duchy of Normandy was not returned to France until after 1204 when Philip II of France took all the French possessions away from his vassal, King John of England. From that time Normandy was a region in France.
During the Second World War (1939–1945) Normandy was part of the German occupied France. The town of Dieppe was the site of the unsuccessful Dieppe Raid by Canadian and British armed forces. The Allies (Britain, the United States, and Canada) build-up a large number of troops and supplies for a planned invasion of Normandy. The D-Day landings were on 6 June 1944 under the code name 'Operation Overlord'. This invasion from the sea involved nearly 160,000 Allied soldiers in about 7,000 ships and landing craft. About 12,000 planes dropping paratroopers preceded the amphibious assault by several hours. The Germans were defending their fortifications above the beaches. Caen, Cherbourg, Carentan, Falaise and other Norman towns endured many casualties in the Battle of Normandy. The German defenders fought aggressively but constantly pushed back by overwhelming force. The battle for Normandy continued until the closing of the Falaise pocket. The liberation of Le Havre followed. What followed was the breakout of Allied forces into France and finally Germany. This was a significant in the war. It led to the restoration of the French government in France. The remainder of Normandy was liberated only on 9 May 1945 at the end of the war, when the German occupation of the Channel Islands effectively ended.
The historical duchy of Normandy occupied the lower Seine area, the Pays de Caux and the region to the west through the Pays d'Auge as far as the Cotentin Peninsula. The region is bordered along the northern coasts by the English Channel. There are granite cliffs in the west and limestone cliffs in the east. There are also long stretches of beach in the center of the region. The unique bocage hedges are typical of the western areas of Normandy. The highest point is the Signal d'Écouves at in the Massif armoricain. Normandy is lightly forested. Eure has the most wooded areas with about 20% being forest. The population of Normandy today is around 3.45 million.
<br>

</doc>
<doc id="31273" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31273" title="Sarah Childress Polk">
Sarah Childress Polk

Sarah Childress Polk (September 4, 1803 - August 14, 1891) was the wife of the US President James K. Polk. She was the First Lady of the United States from March 4, 1845 to March 3, 1849.
She was born in Murfreesboro, Tennessee. She was the elder daughter of her parents, Captain Joel and Elizabeth Childress. As a child, she lived on a plantation near Murfreesboro, Tennessee. She got a good education and studied at Salem College in Winston-Salem, North Carolina. 
On 1st January 1824, she married James K. Polk. At the time of her marriage, she was 20 years old. Polk was aged 28 years. At the time of this marriage, Polk had just begun his first year's service in the Tennessee legislature.
The Polk couple did not get any children of their own. They raised a nephew, Marshall Polk (1831-1884). After her husband’s death, Sarah Polk raised a niece, Sarah Polk Jetton (1847-1924). 
She also helped privately her husband in preparing his speeches and in his correspondence. During her term as the First Lady, the functions at the White House were famous for their calmness and soberness. One of the reasons being her young age when she became the First Lady. She became the First Lady when she was only 41. The other reason that she was having a good health.
Her husband died just after three months of her retirement as the President. At that time the couple was living at their new home named Polk Place in Nashville. After her husband’s death she always dressed in black. She lived in that house for about 42 years, the longest retirement and widowhood of any former US First Lady. 
Only three other First Ladies, namely, Anna Harrison, Edith Bolling Wilson, Lady Bird Johnson and Bess Truman had lived longer than Sarah Polk. Sarah Polk, as the First Lady of the United States, even outlived several of her successors. She lived longer than Margaret Taylor, Abigail Fillmore, Jane Pierce, Mary Todd Lincoln, Eliza McCardle Johnson and Lucy Webb Hayes.
She died in Nashville, Tennessee just three weeks before her 88th birthday.
As the First Lady, and even after her retirement as the First Lady, she earned a lot of respect from all section of the society.

</doc>
<doc id="31274" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31274" title="Anna Harrison">
Anna Harrison

Anna Tuthill Symmes Harrison (1775 - 1864) was the wife of President William Henry Harrison. President Benjamin Harrison was her grandson. She was the First Lady of the United States during her husband's one-month term in 1841. But she never entered the White House.
She was born near Morristown, New Jersey on July 25, 1775. Her father was a judge and his name was John Cleves Symmes. Her mother’s name was Anna Tuthill Symmes. Her mother died in 1776 when Anna was hardly one year old. During the American Revolution, Anna's father dressed like a British soldier and carried her on horseback passing through the British lines to her grandparents on Long Island. They cared for the child till the end of the war with the British.
At the age of thirteen, she went to North Bend, Ohio to live with her father and the stepmother. After few years, she met William Harrison, a young army officer. She married him on 25th November 1795. The couple had six sons and four daughters: Elizabeth (1795), John Cleves (1798), Lucy (1800), William Henry, Jr. (1802), John Scott (1804), Benjamin (1806), Mary (1809), Carter (1811), Anna (1813), and James (died as an infant).
After an eventful career in the US Army, her husband became the President of the United States in 1841. Due to her illness, she could not attend the inauguration ceremony and remained at their home in North Bend. After a month, on April 4, 1841, she was about to move to Washington when she learned of her husband's death. Thus, she never entered the White House, even though she was the First Lady. 
After the death of her husband, she lived in North Bend with one of her sons, John Scott Harrison. She helped raise his children. One of the children was eight-year old Benjamin who became President of the United States. She died at the age of 88 on February 25, 1864 at home in North Bend, Ohio.

</doc>
<doc id="31275" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31275" title="Sarah Yorke Jackson">
Sarah Yorke Jackson

Sarah Yorke Jackson (July 1805? - August 23, 1887) was the daughter in law of US President Andrew Jackson and Rachel Donelson Jackson. She acted as the First Lady of the United States from November 26, 1834 to March 4, 1837. 
Sarah Yorke was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Her parents were very rich. The exact date of her birth is not known. But, it was in July 1805. Her father’s name was Peter Yorke. Her father had worked as a sea captain, and then became a merchant. Her mother’s name was Mary Haines York. Her father died in 1805. While going to New Orleans, her mother died in 1820. Sarah had two other sisters. Her two aunts raised all the three children.
On November 24 1831, Sarah married Andrew Jackson, Jr. He was the adopted son of president Andrew Jackson. The couple lived in the family plantation farm in Tennessee. There in 1834, a fire destroyed the main house. They came to Washington, and started living in the White House. By that time, they had become parents of two children. 
The couple and their children reached the White House on November 26 1834. She immediately started to act as the First Lady. At the same time, the President’s niece Emily Donelson was also acting as the First Lady. This is the single example of two ladies acting as the First Lady in the history of the United States. In 1836, Emily died of tuberculosis. After that, Sarah continued to act as the First Lady. 
President Jackson’s term as president expired in 1837. Until then Sarah remained in the White House, and continued to act as the First lady. By that time, a new house was constructed at Tennessee. The couple and the former president lived there for about eight years. In 1845, Andrew Jackson died. She continued to live there with her husband. When the American Civil War broke out, the couple moved to Mississippi. She died on August 23 1887.

</doc>
<doc id="31288" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31288" title="Carnivora">
Carnivora

The order Carnivora is a group of mammals. The group is divided into the "cat-like" Feliformia and the "dog-like" Caniformia. 
Animals of the order Carnivora are "carnivores", a term which applies to all flesh-eaters. If one needs to refer to members of the order, then "carnivorans" is used. Many species of Carnivora are actually omnivores, and a few of them, like the Giant Panda, eat mostly plants.
The order includes aquatic relatives in the superfamily Pinnipedia, the walruses and seals. 
The Carnivores are linked with the Miacids and Viverravids in an unranked clade, the Carnivoramorpha:
The carnivores known as †Creodonts have some relation to these groups, but are placed outside the Carnivoramorpha. The †Mesonychids are another extinct group of early carnivores, which are also not in the Carnivoramorpha.

</doc>
<doc id="31294" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31294" title="Fowl">
Fowl

Fowl usually refers to birds belonging to one of two biological orders, namely the gamefowl or landfowl (Galliformes) and the waterfowl (Anseriformes). It happens that birds in these groups are good to eat, and often hunted by gun. So the word 'fowl' may be used for a gamebird. The group is mostly of birds we hunt or farm, and which we eat.
Studies of anatomical and molecular similarities suggest these two groups are close evolutionary relatives. Together, they form the fowl clade, the Galloanserae. This clade is also supported by morphological and DNA sequence data, as well as retrotransposon data.

</doc>
<doc id="31295" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31295" title="Receipt">
Receipt

A receipt is usually a piece of paper, but in some parts of the world they can also be hard tokens. The word comes from "receive", which means "to get".
Receipts are used to show or prove that someone has got or received something. It usually shows proof that something has been paid for. It might also be used to show that something was brought in to be fixed, for example, a bicycle.

</doc>
<doc id="31309" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31309" title="Error">
Error

An error is a mistake: that is its basic meaning. However, there are some differences in how the word is used in different subjects.
Elementary errors in arithmetic show a wrong pattern of thought. For example, if a child misplaces the decimal point in some decimal arithmetic, that shows he or she has not understood the idea. By explaining how decimal points should be placed, a teacher can correct all future calculations of this kind. The error is a sign of a general misunderstanding, which, when cured, may never happen again. In this way, errors can help learning.
This idea can be developed in many other subjects. Errors can help learning if corrected, and that is used by many textbooks with end-of-chapter questions. The idea of the questions (which often have end of book answers) is to help the reader find out what needs correcting. The principle of learning is called knowledge of results.
A statistical error is "the amount by which a sample differs from its expected value". The expected value is based on the whole population from which the individual was chosen.
A tricky point is this:
The word 'error' can be used to describe a computer program that was not written in the right way. A "syntax error" is a bit of source code that does not make sense to the computer. A "logic error" is a mistake in the algorithm used, which might result in problems with the output. 
An error may also be an "exception", which is something that happens unexpectedly. For example, it is an error to try to write more files onto a disk that is full. Careful programmers write code that can deal with errors that may happen; they can do this by labeling each error with an error code and using exception handling. Continuing to run a program when an error has not been dealt with can cause error avalanche, which means errors pile up and behavior becomes more difficult to predict.
In a catastrophe like a nuclear accident, even small errors in accuracy and precision can lead to very harmful consequences.

</doc>
<doc id="31310" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31310" title="Union of European Football Associations">
Union of European Football Associations

The Union of European Football Associations mostly called the UEFA, is the organization that controls European football (soccer) (often referred to as association football). The UEFA is one of 6 continental confederations of the FIFA. It is also the biggest one. President of the UEFA is former player Michel Platini. 
Some members of the UEFA are partly or whole not part of the European continent (Israel, Turkey, Kazakhstan,Azerbaijan, Georgia, Armenia, Cyprus and Russia). There are members that do not represent sovereign states, such as the Faroe Islands, England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. 
UEFA national teams have won eleven FIFA World Cups (Italy 4, Germany 4, England, France and Spain one trophy each), and UEFA clubs have won 21 Intercontinental Cups and four FIFA Club World Cups. In the women's game, UEFA teams have won three World Cups (Germany 2, Norway 1) and one Olympic gold medal (Norway).
The main international competition ist the UEFA European Football Championship. This competition started 1958, with the first finals in 1960. It is held all four years. The last was 2008 in Austria and Switzerland. The title was won by Spain. There were also European competitions at the Under-21, Under-19 and Under-17 levels. For women there was the UEFA Women's Championship.
There are two main club competitions. The highest is the UEFA Champions League. It started in the 1992/93 season as follower of the UEFA Champion Cup. This competition was first held in 1956. The second is the UEFA Europa League. The league started in 1999 when the UEFA-Cup and the Cup-winner´s cup merged. In women's football UEFA governs the for club teams. The competition was first held in 2009 (out of UEFA Women's Cup until 2009)
Since 1992 no winner of the Champions League was able to defend the title the next season.

</doc>
<doc id="31311" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31311" title="Asian Football Confederation">
Asian Football Confederation

The Asian Football Confederation often referred to as just AFC, is the organization that controls Asian football.
The AFC has 46 member associations split into four regions.
SAFF Members
CAFF Members

</doc>
<doc id="31313" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31313" title="Micronesia">
Micronesia

Micronesia is an area in Oceania. Many islands in southwest Pacific Ocean are part of it. Micronesia means "small islands" in ancient Greek language.
Philippines is to the west of Micronesia. Indonesia, Papua New Guinea, and Melanesia are to the south of Micronesia. Polynesia is to the east of Micronesia.

</doc>
<doc id="31314" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31314" title="2002 FIFA World Cup">
2002 FIFA World Cup

The 2002 FIFA World Cup was a football sporting event that was held in Korea Republic and Japan from May 31 to June 30, 2002. 32 teams took part from many countries. Brazil won the trophy after beating Germany in the final by a score of 2-0. 69,029 people were at the finals at International Stadium, Yokohama.

</doc>
<doc id="31315" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31315" title="Confederación Sudamericana de Fútbol">
Confederación Sudamericana de Fútbol

CONMEBOL or CSF (CONfederación SudaMEricana de FútBOL in Spanish, CONfederação Sul-AMEricana de FuteBOL in Portuguese; "South American Football Confederation") is the governing body of football in most of South America.
Three countries or territories on the South American mainland—the independent countries of Guyana and Suriname, plus the French overseas department of French Guiana—are not CONMEBOL members. Instead, for cultural and competitive reasons, they are members of CONCACAF, the governing body for the rest of the Americas.

</doc>
<doc id="31316" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31316" title="Monotreme">
Monotreme

Monotremes are a group of mammals that form the order Monotremata. Monotremes are the only mammals that lay eggs, but they also feed their babies with milk.
The word 'monotreme' refers to their common rear opening, the cloaca. In amphibia, reptiles, birds and probably all early tetrapods, there is a common opening for urine, reproduction and faeces.
Monotremes are derived from earlier mammals than the marsupials and eutherians, but their fossil record is poor. 
The time at which the monotreme line diverged from other mammalian lines is uncertain, but one survey of genetic studies gives an estimate of about 220 million years ago. This is in the Upper Triassic. Fossils of a jaw fragment 110 million years old were found at Lightning Ridge, New South Wales. This means they originated up to 100 million years before the Metatheria or Eutheria, so they are definitely 'living fossils'.
The egg-laying and the cloaca are primitive ('basal') features inherited from earlier synapsid tetrapods. 
But the monotremes also have other features such as the production of milk, caring for their young in burrows, homeothermy and a neocortex in their brains. These are advanced ('derived') features which they share with placentals and marsupials. This mixture of basal and derived features is characteristic of the way different body parts often evolve at different rates. This is called mosaic evolution. 
In mammals, a monophyletic group, there were a number of different lines living at the same time through the Upper Triassic to the Upper Cretaceous. Each of these lines had a mixture of basal and derived features until, at last, the placental mammals developed the whole suite of derived characters. This gave them a great advantage over the other groups wherever open competition occurred. However, because of their long seclusion in southern continents, some of the monotremes and marsupials have survived.
There are two surviving families of monotremes, with five living species. They all live in Australia and New Guinea. People commonly know them as the platypus and the spiny anteaters. There is only one platypus that exists now, the duck-billed platypus. The four others are the spiny anteaters, or the echidna.

</doc>
<doc id="31319" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31319" title="FIFA Club World Cup">
FIFA Club World Cup

The FIFA Club World Cup is a competition in the sport of Club football. The Fédération Internationale de Football Association (FIFA) organizes the World Cup every one year. It is normally contested between the Champions of each continent, and the champion of the host country. Futbol Club Barcelona has been the most successful team in the tournament, with 3 titles.

</doc>
<doc id="31320" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31320" title="Metatheria">
Metatheria

Metatheria is a group in the class Mammalia which contains the marsupials and the sparassodonts. 
First proposed by Thomas Henry Huxley in 1880, it is nearly synonymous with the earlier taxon Marsupialia, but it also contains the nearest fossil relatives of marsupial mammals.
The earliest known representative, "Sinodelphys", is from the Lower Cretaceous of China. 
The closest relatives of the metatheres are the Eutheria (also erected by Huxley in 1880). Both are conventionally united as infraclasses within the subclass Theria, which contains all living mammals except monotremes.
During development, metatherians produce a yolk sac placenta and give birth to 'larval-like' offspring. 
These offspring have underdeveloped rear limbs, and after birth they migrate to the marsupium where they attach to a nipple. The mouth of newly born metatherians forms an "O" shape into which the mother's nipple fits. Then it swells to secure the offspring into place.
The Greek words "meta-" and "theria" roughly means the ""other beasts"", in contrast with "Eutheria" (""true beasts"").
Metatherians first appeared in the Cretaceous period. Some stem group metatherians persisted well into the Neogene period before becoming extinct. Crown group marsupials, the one branch of Metatheria that survives today, diversified close to the time of extinction at the end of the Cretaceous.

</doc>
<doc id="31323" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31323" title="Spermatic cord">
Spermatic cord

The spermatic cord (also known as Van Deferens or Sperm Duct) is a cord-like structure in the male reproductive system that runs from the abdomen down to each testicle. It carries sperms from the epididymis to the urethra.

</doc>
<doc id="31326" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31326" title="Mixed martial arts">
Mixed martial arts

Mixed martial arts (or MMA) is a hybrid martial arts form. It includes any mixture of combat disciplines or any blend of two or more styles of martial arts. MMA can also mean the sport of mixed martial arts fighting. Bellator, WSOF, ONE Championship, and UFC are companies that promote MMA sport fighting. 
The people who organize a MMA fight can decide the rules for that fight.
There is no one group of people who decides the rules for all MMA fights,in the world. Some states regulate all professional fights including MMA fights and set some rules.
MMA fights once had few rules, but now have many rules to protect the fighters. Boxing (and other fighting sports) also have many rules, different from those in MMA.
Fighters can use any martial art, or combination of arts, they like in the fight. In these fights, fighters can fight standing with punches, kicks and other strikes, in a clinch where fighters are grabbing each other while standing, or on the ground.
An example of an illegal strike is the 12-6 elbow strike. It is illegal under the Unified Rules of Mixed Martial Arts, where it is called "striking downwards using the point of the elbow". The ban was made for medical and safety reasons, due to it being likely there would be serious injuries to opponents if they are used.
Each fighter will try to defeat the other either by submission, or knock out. Each fight can last only for a period of time, after the time ends, judges decide who is the winner. The referee in the fight will make sure no one gets hurt too badly and that rules are followed.
The pankration was an old style of unarmed combat. The ancient Greeks introduced this sport into the Olympic Games in the 648 BC. Some public fights took place at the end of the 19th century. They represented different styles of fighting, including jujutsu, wrestling, Greco-Roman wrestling and others in competitions and challenges across Europe. After World War I, wrestling was born again in two main flows. The first flow was real competition; the second flow began to depend more on the choreography and on the grand public shows that resulted in professional wrestling. 
Modern mixed martial arts (MMA) has its roots in two kinds of competition: the Vale Tudo (Brazil) and Japanese Shootfighting. 
Vale Tudo began circa 1930, when Carlson Gracie invited every competitor to compete in a fight. That was the so-called "Gracie's Challenge". Later, Hélio Gracie and the Gracie family continued this. 
In Japan, about 1970, Antonio Inoki organized a series of mixed martial arts fights. They were the forces that produced the Shootwrestling, and they later caused the developing of the first organization of mixed martial arts, known as Shooto. Mixed martial arts obtained great popularity in the United States in 1993, when Rorion Gracie helped create the first UFC event, one of the earliest MMA events in the USA . In 1997, in Japan, the interest for this sport resulted in the creation of the greater organization of mixed martial arts - Pride Fighting Championship.
The Gracie family caused the tournaments, as the UFC, to be well known. It should be noticed that the UFC is the most famous tournament, but the persons who practises Brazilian jiujitsu normally do not use blows. Undoubtedly, the Gracie family played an important role in the creation of open competitions of Vale Tudo and in causing them to be well known through the television. Nevertheless, before anyone created the UFC or Shooto, where the persons who represent every method of self-defense can fight, there had already existed such mixed martial arts.
About the year 1990, three styles were famous for their effectiveness in the competitions of the mixed martial arts: the wrestling, the Brazilian jiu-jitsu, and the shootwrestling. This can be because of their attention given to the combat by means of holds. Before the year 1990, the promoters organized a lacking amount of the competitions of the mixed martial arts, and some martial arts base on blows. Therefore, probably, most instructors of these arts had given too little attention to the holds.

</doc>
<doc id="31329" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31329" title="Urarina">
Urarina

Urarina are Indigenous Peoples who live in the Peruvian Amazon Rainforest

</doc>
<doc id="31331" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31331" title="Sergipe">
Sergipe

Sergipe is the smallest state in Brazil. Aracaju is the capital and largest city. Sergipe borders two other states, Bahia and Alagoas.
Sergipe's land is mostly caatinga. A strip of rainforest runs down the Atlantic coast. There are also swamps near the coast.
Sergipe's main crop is sugarcane. Cassava is also grown. There is a small petoleum industry.
The first people to live in Sergipe were from the Tupi Tribe. The name "Sergipe" is the Tupi word for "crab".
The Portugal took over the area, and made a settlement at São Cristóvão. Later, French pirates invaded Sergipe, but they left soon after.
Now, Sergipe is part of free Brazil.

</doc>
<doc id="31339" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31339" title="Soviet war in Afghanistan">
Soviet war in Afghanistan

The Soviet war in Afghanistan was a war initially fought between the forces of the Afghanistan government and foreign mercenaries. Without proper equipment and training, the Afghanistan government was unable to resist the foreign mercenaries, eventually seeking the aid of the Soviet Union.The entry of the Soviet Union into the country caused an immediate increase in the presence of foreign mercenaries. Massive military campaigns against foreign mercenaries, who blended in with the local population, caused extensive destruction of local infrastructure and death, causing the local population to side with the foreign mercenaries. This change, among the local population, caused a loss of support for the Soviet military presence, creating nation-wide resistance, and the eventual quagmire. The war began in December 1979, and lasted until February 1989. About 15,000 Soviet soldiers were killed, and about 35,000 were wounded. About one million Afghan civilians were killed. The anti-government forces had support from many countries, mainly the United States and Pakistan. 
The war started when the Soviet Union sent its 40th Army to fight in Afghanistan. They began to reach Afghanistan from 25 December 1979. The fighting continued for about ten years. Then, from 15 May 1988, the Soviet troops started to leave Afghanistan. This continued until 2 February 1989. On 15 February 1989, the Soviet Union announced that all its troops had left Afghanistan.
Arabs moved into this area in 731, and they were Muslim. Almost all the people of Afghanistan also started to follow Islam after that. The country has many mountains and deserts that make movement difficult. The population is made up mainly of Pashtun people, along with Tajiks, Hazara, Aimak, Uzbeks, Turkmen people, and some other small groups.
In 1979 Hafizullah Amin was the ruler of Afghanistan. The Soviets were told by its KGB spies that Amin's rule was a threat to the part of Central Asia that was Soviet. They also suspected that Amin was not loyal to the Soviet Union. They found some information about Amin's attempt to be friendlier with Pakistan and China. The Soviets also suspected that Amin was behind the death of president Nur Muhammad Taraki. Finally, the Soviets decided to remove Amin.
On 22 December 1979, Soviet advisors to the Army of Afghanistan took many steps. They stopped all telecommunication links in Kabul. No message could come inside the city, or go outside the city. Troops of the Soviet Air force also reached Kabul. Amin saw some dangers. He moved to the Presidential palace for better safety. The palace was named Tajbeg Palace. 
On 27 December 1979, about 700 Soviet troops took over major government and military buildings at Kabul. The troops wore uniforms similar to the army of Afghanistan. At 7:00 pm, the Soviet troops destroyed Kabul's communication. This stopped all communication among Afghan troops. At 7:15 pm, Soviet troops entered Tajbeg Palace. By morning of 28 December, the first part of the military action was over. Amin and his two sons were killed in the fighting by this time. The Soviets announced freedom of Afghanistan from the rule of President Amin. They also said that all the Soviet soldiers were there to fulfill their duty as stated in the "Treaty of Friendship, Cooperation and Good Neighborliness of 1978."
An announcement came from the Kabul radio station about the killing of Hafizullah Amin. The Pro-Soviet Afghan Revolutionary Central Committee (ARCC) took the responsibility for this killing. Then, the ARCC chose Babrak Karmal as the head of government of Afghanistan. He asked the Soviet Union for military assistance.
The government of Afghanistan asked the Soviet Union many times to send troops. Despite the Soviet Union's treaty with Afghanistan to assist, and fearing a Vietnam-style quagmire, the Soviet Union resisted, instead telling the Afghanistan government to reach a compromise with the foreign mercenaries. As the situation deteriorated between the Afghanistan government and foreign merecenaries, the Soviet Union initially responded with only intelligence and advisors. 
The Soviet soldiers did many things in Afghanistan. But they could never control all parts of Afghanistan. Soviet soldiers in Afghanistan lacked the proper military tactics for guerilla warfare in Afghanistan's rugged mountainous terrain and many of the Soviet troops were young conscripts untested in combat. Several Afghan groups continued to attack and fight with the Soviet troops.
People in most countries around the world did not like what the Soviet Union was doing in Afghanistan. But they liked the way the Afghan people were fighting them. Some reactions were very serious. US President Jimmy Carter said that the Soviet action was "the most serious threat to the peace since the Second World War". Carter threatened to boycott the 1980 Olympic Games in Russia unless the Soviet Union withdrew its forces by February 1980. It did not do this, and therefore the U.S. boycotted the Games.
By mid-1980s, many groups in Afghanistan had organized themselves. They fought the Soviet troops. These groups received help from many countries like United States, United Kingdom, China, Saudi Arabia, and Pakistan. 
Pakistan thought that the Soviet war in Afghanistan was also a threat to it. Through its intelligence agency, the ISI, it also started its active support to Afghans fighting the Soviet troops.
The Soviet war in Afghanistan seemed like a war that would never end. The Soviet Union looked very bad in the eyes of the world for trying to control this country. Inside the Soviet Union also, most people did not support this war. As more and more Soviet soldiers were being killed or wounded as the war dragged on, Mikhail Gorbachev would refer to the Soviet war in Afghanistan as a "bleeding wound". Finally, after ten years with no end in sight, the Soviets decided to get out of Afghanistan.
The Soviet war in Afghanistan badly affected the rule of Communist Party. Many thought that the war was against Islam. This created strong feelings among the Muslim population of Central Asian Soviet Republics. The Soviet army was really in very low spirits or "morale" because they were unable to control the people and were treated only as invaders everywhere they went. Andrei Sakharov openly said the action of Soviet Army in Afghanistan was wrong.
Over 15,000 Soviet troops were killed in Afghanistan from 1979 until 1989. In the war, the Soviet Army also lost hundreds of aircraft, and billions worth of other military machines. Around a million Afghan men, women and children died in the war.
Even after the Soviet Army left Afghanistan, civil war continued in Afghanistan. For about three years, the Communist government of Najibullah could not defend itself from the mujaheddin forces opposing it. Many groups had arisen within the government itself, and some of them supported the mujaheddin forces. In March 1992, General Abdul Rashid Dostam and his Uzbek militia stopped supporting the Najibullah’s government. Soon, mujaheddin forces won Kabul and started to rule most parts of Afghanistan. 
During this war lasting for about ten years, Afghanistan's economy suffered badly. Grain production came down to 3.5% per year between 1978 and 1990. The Soviets also tried to bring commercial and industrial activities under state control. This also had a bad effect on the economy. With the break-up of the Soviet Union in many countries, Afghanistan’s traditional trade also suffered.
At the beginning, many people and countries had praised the USA for supporting groups fighting the Soviet forces. But after the September 11 attacks, people started to question the US policy of supporting and giving money to such groups. In an effort to find Bin Laden, the US has continued to fight in Afghanistan since 2001, and almost two years after Bin Laden was killed.

</doc>
<doc id="31346" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31346" title="Emily Donelson">
Emily Donelson

Emily Tennessee Donelson (June 1, 1807 - December 19, 1836) was the niece of President of the United States Andrew Jackson. She acted as an unofficial First Lady of the United States from 1829 to 1836.
Emily Tennessee Donelson was born in Donelson, Tennessee. Her father’s name was John Donelson. He was the brother of Rachel Donelson Jackson. Rachel Donelson Jackson later on married Andrew Jackson, the President. She studied at Nashville Female Academy in Nashville, Tennessee. She was a bright student and she got a very good education. At the age of seventeen, she married Andrew Jackson Donelson, called in short as A. J. Donelson. 
With her husband, she came to the White House in 1829. At that time, she was just 21 years old. Her husband A. J. Donelson served as a secretary to the President Jackson. Her first months at the White House marked the mourning for the death of Rachel Donelson Jackson. The period of mourning ended when Emily gave a party at the White House on 1st January 1830.
She continued to act as the First Lady for few years. She left the White House for some time. But, she returned again on the 5th September 1831. On 26th November 1834 Sarah Yorke Jackson, the President's daughter in law arrived at the White House. She also started to act as the First lady. It was the only time in the history of USA that two women acted at the same time as the First Lady. 
In 1836, Emily’s health became very weak. She was suffering from tuberculosis. In June 1836 she left the White House to recover and rest "Tulip Grove", her plantation. She could not recover and died on the 19th December 1836.

</doc>
<doc id="31348" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31348" title="Letitia Christian Tyler">
Letitia Christian Tyler

Letitia Christian Tyler (November 12, 1790 - September 10, 1842) was the first wife of John Tyler, the tenth President of the United States. She was the First Lady of the United States from 1841 until her death in 1842. 
Letitia Christian Tyler was born at her family’s plantation in Virginia. She could not get any formal education. But, she learned to manage the plantation and raise a family. 
She married John Tyler on 29 March 1813. The day was the twenty-third birthday of John Tyler. The couple had eight children. Out of the eight, one died very young. 
After 1839, she fell ill. When John Tyler became president, Letitia Tyler was very sick. She was confined to her invalid’s chair. She lived in a second-floor room of the White House. She could not take part in social activities, but she looked after other affairs of the household. 
She died on 10 September 1842. She was the first President’s wife to die in the White House. Her picture also appears on a postage stamp issued by the Isle of Man Post Office in her honor. After her death, Priscilla Cooper Tyler became the First Lady.

</doc>
<doc id="31349" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31349" title="Julia Gardiner Tyler">
Julia Gardiner Tyler

Julia Gardiner Tyler (July 23, 1820 - July 10, 1889) was the second wife of John Tyler, the tenth President of the United States. She was the First Lady of the United States from June 26, 1844 to March 4, 1845.
Her parents were Juliana McLachlan and David Gardiner. Her parents belonged to a famous and wealthy family of New York. From her childhood, Juliana got training to move in high society. When she was just a girl of 15, she went to tour Europe with her family. There she saw a social life of much glamour. In late 1842, she along with her parents went to Washington DC. In Washington DC, she attracted the attention of several men. One of them was President Tyler, a widower since September 10 1842. 
In 1843, Julia, her sister, and their father joined the President Tyler on a tour on a steam naval ship. During the tour a huge naval gun exploded, killing her father. The President Tyler comforted her. He also got her consent for a secret engagement. Marriage took place on 26th June 1844. When the news was announced, it attracted interest and publicity. Some people also criticized it as the President Tyler was 30 years older than Julia. 
Her role as the First Lady was very decent and charming for the guests. After her husband’s term ended as the president, they retired to their home at Sherwood Forest Plantation in Virginia. The President got seven more children from her. He was already having eight children with his first wife. There her husband died on 18th January 1862. In the meanwhile, the American Civil War had broken out. She had to move to New York as a refugee. She also faced monetary problems. 
In 1870, the US Congress granted a pension of US $ 1,200 a year to Mary Lincoln, widow of Abraham Lincoln. In 1880, Julia could also get a pension of the same amount. After Garfield's assassination, the US Congress granted a pension of same amount of US $ 5,000 a year to all the widows of the presidents. They were Lucretia Garfield, Mrs. Lincoln, Sarah Childress Polk, and Mrs. Tyler. 
Mrs. Tyler spent her last years comfortably in Richmond, Virginia. She died there on 10th July 1889. 

</doc>
<doc id="31351" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31351" title="Newsround">
Newsround

Newsround is a television programme for children. It talks about the news and gives information about things that are happening at the moment. It is shown on the channels BBC One and the CBBC channel. 
"Newsround" used to be called "John Craven's Newsround" before the presenter called 'John Craven' left. "Newsround" started on 4 April 1972 and is still going on today. 

</doc>
<doc id="31355" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31355" title="Lancelot">
Lancelot

Sir Lancelot was a character in the legend of King Arthur, and was a Knight of the Round Table. Sir Lancelot of the Lake was one of the most trusted knights of King Arthur's Round Table, but this soon changed when he fell in love with the king's wife, Queen Guinevere. He was raised by the Lady of the Lake, hence his title Lancelot Du Lac. Sir Lancelot was the only knight known to defeat King Arthur during a jousting match. He is also known briefly as the father of Sir Galahad, the greatest knight of all Camelot.
Lancelot was a Red Cross Knight, which meant that he was one of the knights who was in the quest to find the Holy Grail. He saw the ascension of Sir Galahad.

</doc>
<doc id="31372" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31372" title="Pitcairn Islands">
Pitcairn Islands

The Pitcairn Islands are a group of islands in the southern Pacific. People only live on the second-largest of the four islands. That island is named "Pitcairn". It is governed by the United Kingdom. It has the smallest number of people of any country. In 2007, 48 people lived there.
The islands are best known as home of the descendants of the Bounty mutineers and the Tahitians (or Polynesians) who accompanied them, an event retold in numerous books and films. This history still shows in the surnames of many of the islanders. There are only four family names (as of 2010): Christian, Warren, Young and Brown.
Originally people from Polynesia lived on the Pitcairn Islands, but there was no one living on the islands when they were discovered (found) by Captain Philip Carteret of "H.M.S. Swallow" on 2 July 1767. The island was named after Robert Pitcairn, a 15 year old midshipman who was the first person on the "Swallow" to see it. Robert is believed to have been lost at sea in early 1770 when the ship he was on, "HMS Aurora," went missing in the Indian Ocean.
In 2004 charges were laid against seven men living on Pitcairn and six living abroad with sex-related offences dating back a number of years. On 25 October 2004, six men were convicted, including the island's mayor at the time. After the six men lost their final appeal, the British government set up a prison on the island at Bob's Valley. The men began serving their sentences in late 2006, as of 2010 all men have served their sentences or been granted home detention status (Pitcairn News, 2010).
In 2010 the island received a new and updated constitution.

</doc>
<doc id="31376" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31376" title="Sun Bear">
Sun Bear

The Sun Bear ("Ursus malayanus" or "Helarctos malayanus") is a bear living in Southeast Asia.
The Sun Bear is the smallest bear. It has short black fur, and a yellow spot on its chest. Its ears are small and round. It has big feet with naked soles and long claws, which help the Sun Bear climbing. It can climb very well. It cannot see very well, but its sense of smell is very good.
Sun Bears mostly live in tropic rainforests. They are mostly active at night, and they stay in trees a lot of the time.
It eats a lot of different things: fruit and other plants, eggs, honey and insects. They also eat small vertebrate animals, like reptiles, birds and mammals.
After a pregnancy of 96 days the female gives birth to 1-2 babies. Young Sun Bears become mature when they are 3-4 years old. Sun Bears can become up to 28 years old when in captivity (held by humans, e.g. in zoos).
Sun Bears do not hibernate.

</doc>
<doc id="31379" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31379" title="Priscilla Cooper Tyler">
Priscilla Cooper Tyler

Elizabeth Priscilla Cooper Tyler (June 14, 1816 – December 29, 1889) was the daughter in law of John Tyler. John Tyler was the tenth President of the United States. She acted as the First Lady of the United States from September 10, 1842 to June 26, 1844.
Elizabeth Priscilla Cooper was born in New York City. Her father’s name was Thomas Apthorpe Cooper. Cooper was a successful stage actor and producer. Priscilla Cooper’s mother was Mary Fairlee Cooper. At the age of 17 Elizabeth Priscilla Cooper started to work as an actress. Her father became very successful, and the family lived in a big house on Broadway theatre. But, in the Panic of 1837, the family suffered great losses. Sometimes, they only had radishes and strawberries to eat.
She met her future husband Robert Tyler while performing in a play in Richmond, Virginia. They became closer and their marriage took place on 12th September 1839. John Tyler, his father in law, was a US Senator. She received a nice welcome at her husband’s home. Her father in law became the Vice President after 1840 presidential election. But, the President William Henry Harrison dies just after one month of becoming the President of the United States. After this, John Tyler became the President. 
Letitia Tyler, wife of the President John Tyler was a semi-invalid lady. Therefore, the President asked Priscilla to assist Letitia in her duties as the First Lady. Letitia died on 10th September 1842. After Letitia’s death, Priscilla became the First Lady. People of her time has described Priscilla as attractive and intelligent. 
In 1844, Robert Tyler moved to Philadelphia along with his wife, Priscilla. Priscilla passed her duties to the President's daughter Letitia Tyler Semple.
Robert Tyler and Priscilla lived in Philadelphia for 16 years. Robert worked as a lawyer. In 1861, American Civil War broke out. They declared their loyalty to the Confederate States of America. They moved to Richmond. In Richmond, Robert worked as the register of the Confederate Treasury. After the American Civil War, Robert became the editor of the "Mail and Advertiser" newspaper in Montgomery, Alabama. He died in 1877. Priscilla remained in Montgomery after Robert's death. She died in Montgomery in 1889. 

</doc>
<doc id="31380" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31380" title="Eliza McCardle Johnson">
Eliza McCardle Johnson

Eliza McCardle Johnson (October 4, 1810 – January 15, 1876) was the First Lady of the United States and the wife of Andrew Johnson, the 17th President of the United States. She previously served as Second Lady in 1865.
She was born in Telford, Tennessee. She was the only child of John McCardle, a shoemaker, and Sarah Phillips-McCardle. Eliza lost her father when she was still a small child. She was raised by her widowed mother in Greeneville, Tennessee]. One day in September 1826, Eliza was chatting with classmates from Rhea Academy when she spotted Andrew Johnson and his family pull into town with all their belongings.
Andrew Johnson, aged 18, married Eliza McCardle, aged 16, on May 17, 1827, at the home of the bride's mother in Greeneville. Mordecai Lincoln, a distant relative of Abraham Lincoln, presided over the nuptials.
The Johnsons had three sons and two daughters, all born in Greeneville:
She supported her husband in his political career, but had tried to avoid public appearances. During the American Civil War, Confederate authorities ordered her to evacuate her home in Greeneville; she took refuge in Nashville, Tennessee. 
A few months later after her husband became president, she joined him in the White House, but she was not able to serve as First Lady due to her poor health. She remained confined to a room on the second floor, leaving the social chores to her daughter (Martha Johnson Patterson). Mrs. Johnson appeared publicly as First Lady on only two occasions - at a reception for Queen Emma of the Kingdom of Hawaii in 1866 and at the president's birthday party in 1867.
After episodes of "consumption" (tuberculosis), Eliza died on January 15, 1876, at the of age 65 in Greeneville, Tennessee. She survived her husband by five and a half months.

</doc>
<doc id="31381" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31381" title="Rose Cleveland">
Rose Cleveland

Rose Elizabeth Cleveland (June 13, 1846 − November 22, 1918), was the First Lady of the United States from 1885 to 1886, during the first of her brother U.S. President Grover Cleveland's two administrations. 
Rose Elizabeth Cleveland was born in Fayetteville, New York, on June 14, 1846. Known to her family as "Libby", Rose was the youngest of nine children born to Reverend Richard Falley Cleveland and Ann Neal Cleveland. In 1853 the family moved to Holland Patent, New York, where her father was settled as pastor of the Presbyterian church, and where he died that same year. Rose was 7 at the time of her father's death. She stayed in Holland Patent to care for her widowed mother. Grover Cleveland, Rose's elder brother, was 16 years old at the time.
When her elder brother, Grover Cleveland, won the election to the twenty-second presidency of the United States, Rose became First Lady and lived in the White House for two years, she stood by her brother as First Lady during his inauguration, and his two initial bachelor years in the White House.
During her early tenure as First Lady, Rose received front-page treatment from the New York Times about her appearance during her second reception at the White House. The Times reported that Miss Cleveland, Wore a dress of black satin, with entire overdress of Spanish lace. The satin bodice was cut low and sleeveless, and the transparent lace revealed the shoulders and arms. Rose Cleveland did not completely fit into Washington high society during her tenure as first lady. It is said that," Rose Cleveland was a bluestocking, more interested in pursuing scholarly endeavors than in entertaining cabinet wives and foreign dignitaries." Rose was an intellectual, and she preferred to lecture rather than entertain, but she made sure to perform her duties as First Lady as a favor to her brother. 
Later on President Cleveland married Frances Cleveland. Rose resigned as the First Lady, and started her career in the field of education. 
She died on November 22, 1918 in Bagni di Lucca, Italy, from the Spanish flu. She is buried in Bagni di Lucca.

</doc>
<doc id="31384" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31384" title="Project Gutenberg">
Project Gutenberg

Project Gutenberg (PG) was started in 1971. It was started by Michael S. Hart. The purpose of the Project is to collect in and make available cultural work (like books) using computers. These are generally free and may be used on most computers. The project gets its name from Johannes Gutenberg. Johannes Gutenberg lived in the 15th century in Germany. He made the first European printing press. 
As the PG continued to grow, in 2000, the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, Inc. was created. It is a non-profit organization with main office in Mississippi, United States. 

</doc>
<doc id="31389" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31389" title="F. Scott Fitzgerald">
F. Scott Fitzgerald

Francis Scott Key Fitzgerald (September 24, 1896 - December 21, 1940) was an Irish American writer. He is remembered mostly for his novel The Great Gatsby, and for being one of the main members of the Lost Generation.
Fitzgerald was born in Saint Paul, Minnesota. He briefly went to the Nardin Academy– a private Roman Catholic school in Western New York. When his father lost his job, the Fitzgerald family returned to Minnesota. F. Scott Fitzgerald then went to the St. Paul Academy, but was thrown out of the school when he was aged 16 for not working hard enough. Fitzgerald went to another school in New Jersey and eventually went to Princeton University in 1913. While he was at Princeton, Fitzgerald wrote for a musical-comedy club at the University which led to him sending a novel off to a book publishing company, Charles Scribner’s Sons. The editor liked Fitzgerald’s writing, but did not publish the book. Fitzgerald left Princeton University to serve in the United States Navy in World War One, but the war ended shortly after he signed up.
Fitzgerald got engaged to Zelda Sayre in 1919. He moved into an apartment on Lexington Avenue in New York where he wrote short stories and worked in advertising. Zelda did not think that Fitzgerald’s job was good enough and she broke off their engagement. Fitzgerald went back to his parent’s home in St. Paul and worked on his first novel This Side of Paradise. "This Side of Paradise" was finally accepted by Charles Scriber’s Sons in late 1919 and Zelda and Fitzgerald got engaged again. "This Side of Paradise" was published in 1920 and was very popular. Scott and Zelda got married in St. Patrick’s Cathedral in New York. On October 26, 1921, their daughter Frances Scott Fitzgerald was born.
Fitzgerald’s most famous book, "The Great Gatsby", was first sold in 1925. Fitzgerald travelled a lot at this time – mainly to France, where he met a number of other Americans who had left the United States. It was around this time that Fitzgerald first met Ernest Hemingway. They became good friends, but Hemingway did not like Fitzgerald’s wife, Zelda. Hemingway said that Zelda was insane, made Fitzgerald drink alcohol and that she did not allow him do his best work. It is generally accepted, however, that Zelda had a big influence on Fitzgerald’s writing.
Fitzgerald’s other novels did not sell as well as his first novel while he was alive. He and Zelda spent a lot of money on parties and Fitzgerald had to try and make money by writing short stories. In the late 1920s, Fitzgerald started working on a fourth novel, but problems arose when Zelda’s mental health got worse. The fourth novel, "Tender is the Night", was not published until 1934. Some people say that the characters in the novel are very similar to Fitzgerald and Zelda themselves. "Tender is the Night" did not sell as well as "This Side of Paradise" in Fitzgerald’s lifetime, and a number of critics said it was poor. The book is now considered to be one of Fitzgerald’s better works, however.
Zelda’s mental health did not improve and she went to live in a mental hospital while her husband worked on more short stories and his fifth novel.
Fitzgerald’s health got worse; possibly due to the fact that he drank a lot of alcohol during his life. On December 21st 1940, he had a heart attack and died. The last words of "The Great Gatsby" are written on Fitzgerald’s gravestone. His fifth and last novel, "The Love of the Last Tycoon", was released after he died.

</doc>
<doc id="31390" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31390" title="Cupertino, California">
Cupertino, California

Cupertino is a small town in Silicon Valley in the U.S. state of California. According to the 2000 census, Cupertino has a population of 50,546. The headquarters of Apple Computer and Symantec are in Cupertino.

</doc>
<doc id="31398" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31398" title="The A-Team">
The A-Team

The A-Team was an American action television series that started in 1983 and ended in 1987. It was about four former US Army commandos who are running from the military (who think that the commandos committed a crime that they did not) and make money by helping people with their problems.

</doc>
<doc id="31401" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31401" title="Philadelphia (movie)">
Philadelphia (movie)

Philadelphia is a 1993 American drama movie starring Tom Hanks and Denzel Washington. It is about Andrew Beckett (Hanks), a gay lawyer who has AIDS. The people he works with find out and fire him. He thinks this is unfair and hires another lawyer (Washington) who does not like gay people.

</doc>
<doc id="31402" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31402" title="Forrest Gump">
Forrest Gump

Forrest Gump is a 1994 American epic comedy-drama romance movie. It is based on the 1986 book of the same name by Winston Groom. Forrest Gump is the main character of both the movie and book. The movie earned much money in theaters. It earned $677 million worldwide during its theatrical run. It earned more money than any other movie in North America that year. The movie was nominated for a total of 13 Academy Awards. It won six of these, including Best Picture, Best Visual Effects, Best Director (Robert Zemeckis), and Best Actor (Tom Hanks).
The movie is set in Alabama. It tells the story of a man with an IQ of 75 and his epic journey through life. It tells about him meeting historical people, affecting popular culture and being a part of historic events. While all this happened, Forrest does not know the importance of the events were because of his naiveté and much lower than average intelligence. There are many differences between the story in the movie and the story in the novel.
The movie won six Academy Awards: Best Picture, Director, Actor, Visual Effects, Film Editing and Adapted Screenplay. The film was nomiinated for an additional six Academy Awards, including Best Actor in a Supporting Role for Gary Sinise as Lieutenant Dan. The other nominations were for Best Cinematography, Art Direction, Sound Editing, Makeup, Original Score and Sound Mixing. At the Golden Globes the film won for Best Motion Picture in the Drama Category, Best Direction of a Motion Picture and Best performance by an Actor in a Motion Picture and was nominated for Best Original Score, Best Supporting Actor, Best Supporting Actress and Best Screenplay. The movie has a 71 percent rating on the website Rotten Tomatoes with 40 positive and 16 negative reviews. The audience gave the film a rating of 4.1 out of 5 on the website with 93% of the audience liking the film.

</doc>
<doc id="31411" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31411" title="Ted Kennedy">
Ted Kennedy

Edward Moore "Ted" Kennedy (February 22, 1932 - August 25, 2009) was the Senator for the U.S. state of Massachusetts from 1962 to 2009. 
Ted Kennedy was born in Brookline, Massachusetts, which is a neighborhood in Boston. He was the youngest son of Joseph P. Kennedy, Sr. and Rose Fitzgerald Kennedy. He was the younger brother of former President John F. Kennedy and Senator Robert F. Kennedy, both of whom were assassinated, as well as Joe Kennedy, who was killed in World War II. A lot of other sad things happened in his life: he almost died in a plane crash, he was involved in a car crash that took the life of a campaign worker, and one of his sons had cancer as a child.
Ted Kennedy went to Harvard and served in the Army before entering politics. He ran for and won the seat given up by his brother when he became President. While in the Senate, he fought for the working class, mainly for health care and the minimum wage. In 1980, he ran for President, but lost in the primaries to Jimmy Carter.
In 2008, he found out he had cancer. Despite the cancer, he campaigned for Barack Obama and sometimes appeared in the Senate. 
He died from brain cancer at his home in Hyannis Port, Massachusetts just before midnight on August 25, 2009.

</doc>
<doc id="31429" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31429" title="Flag of Singapore">
Flag of Singapore

The Flag of Singapore consists of two horizontal halves, red above white. Red symbolises universal brotherhood and equality of man; white stands for pervading and everlasting purity and virtue. In the upper left corner, a white crescent moon and five white stars form a circle. The five stars stand for the ideals of democracy, peace, progress, justice and equality.
For 140 years (1819-1959), the Union Jack flew over Singapore. Then, on 3 December 1959, the National Flag was unveiled at the installation of the new Head of State, the Yang di-Pertuan Negara, when Singapore was granted self-rule (but not complete independence) by the British Government. Also unveiled that day were the State Crest and the National Anthem. The flag was conceived and created by a committee headed by then Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Toh Chin Chye.
Guidelines for the use of the flag have been relaxed in recent years to encourage greater usage.
Singaporeans and non-governmental buildings may display or fly the national flag to identify with the nation. Singaporeans are encouraged to do this during occasions of national celebration or national significance.

</doc>
<doc id="31432" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31432" title="Bess Truman">
Bess Truman

Bess Truman (née Elizabeth Virginia Wallace; February 13, 1885 — October 18, 1982) was the wife of Harry S. Truman and First Lady of the United States from 1945 to 1953. Before becoming First Lady, she was Second Lady of the United States in 1945.
Her birthplace was Independence, Missouri, and her birth name was Elizabeth Virginia. Her parents were Margaret ("Madge") Gates and David Wallace. Her nickname was "Bessie." Harry Truman’s family came to live in Independence, Missouri in 1890. Elizabeth Virginia and Harry Truman attended the same school from fifth grade through high school. Once Truman remembered her childhood days, and described her as a girl with “golden curls” and “the most beautiful blue eyes.” 
After completing her schooling, she studied in Miss Barstow's Finishing School for Girls in Kansas City, Missouri. Her father died in 1903. She returned to Independence, Missouri to live with her mother.
By the outbreak of the First World War, Harry S Truman had become a Lieutenant. He proposed to her and she accepted. After their engagement, Lieutenant Truman left for the battlefields of France in 1918. After the War ended, they married on June 28, 1919. In 1924, their only daughter, Margaret Truman, was born. Before that she had many miscarriages.
By this time, Harry Truman had become active in politics. Mrs. Truman always traveled with her and shared the public platform with her husband. Harry Truman became a member of the United States Senate in 1934. The Truman couple came to live in Washington, DC. In 1944, Harry Truman became the Vice President of the United States of America. When President Franklin Delano Roosevelt died on April 12, 1945, Harry Truman became the President of the United States. Elizabeth Virginia Wallace Truman became the First Lady.
When Harry Truman became the President of the United States, Truman took the role of the First Lady. But, she felt the absence of privacy in the White House. She continued to attend to social functions, but to a minimum level. 
Sometimes, people compare her with Eleanor Roosevelt, who was the First Lady before her. Mrs. Roosevelt was very active in press. But, Mrs. Truman did give only one press conference. She got the questions in advance. Her replies were written replies. When one reporter asked her whether she wanted her daughter, Margaret, to become President. Her reply was: "most definitely not". To a question, she replied that after her husband’s retirement as President, she wanted to "return to Independence". However, once she had thought of living in Washington after 1953.
After the President retired, the Truman couple returned to Independence, Missouri, in 1953. Truman spent his time building his library. In 1959, Mrs. Truman underwent an operation. In 1972, her husband died. Mrs Truman continued to live a quite and private life. Her daughter and son-in-law, Clifton Daniel, and their four sons, often visited her. 
She died in 1982. She lies buried beside her husband in the courtyard of Harry S Truman Library. She lived up to the age of 97 years, and at the time of her death, she was the longest-lived First Lady of the United States, setting a record, which still stands today.

</doc>
<doc id="31434" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31434" title="Margaret Taylor">
Margaret Taylor

Margaret Mackall Smith Taylor (September 21, 1788 – August 14, 1852), wife of Zachary Taylor, the President of the United States. She was First Lady of the United States from 1849 to 1850. Some people called her Peggy Smith. 
She was born in Calvert County, Maryland. Her mother’s name was Ann Mackall and her father’s name was Walter Smith. Her father was a major in the American Revolutionary War. When she was visiting her sister in Kentucky in 1809, she met Zachary Taylor. Taylor was a lieutenant at that time. They married in June 1810. For sometime, she stayed in a farm she had got as a marriage gift from her father. There she gave birth to her first baby. But, then she started to live with her husband. Taylor’s garrison moved from one location to other on the western front, and she also moved with him. 
Their two small daughters died in 1820. As described by Taylor, the children had died of “a violent bilious fever.” They had three other girls and a boy. All four grew to adulthood. Taylor knew the difficult life of a military man. He was always against their daughters marrying military men, but all the three married military persons from the United States Army.
At the White House, Peggy Taylor participated in the household activities and personal functions. She did not participate in formal and official functions. Her youngest daughter, Mary Elizabeth Bliss, acted as the official hostess for her mother.

</doc>
<doc id="31443" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31443" title="Persian Gulf">
Persian Gulf

The Persian Gulf is the name of a geographical place. Its location is in the Middle East. It is an extension of the Gulf of Oman. It is between Iran and the Arabian Peninsula.
During the Iran-Iraq War (1980-1988), the Persian Gulf came into news. Both sides attacked oil tankers of each other. When Iraq invaded Kuwait in 1991, this war got the name the Desert Storm But, this war, major fighting happened on the land.
The water in the Persian Gulf is rich in fishes; it has long beautiful coral reefs. Deep inside the water of the Persian Gulf, there are many pearl oysters. Due to this, the area attracts a lot of activities.
In Persian language, the term khalīj-e-Fars means the Persian Gulf.
The sea waters of the Persian Gulf covers an area of 233,000 km². On the east, it connects with the Gulf of Oman by Strait of Hormuz. On the west, it connects a major river delta of Shatt al-Arab. In this river delta, waters of two big rivers of the area flow into: the waters of the Euphrates and the Tigris rivers.
The length of the Persian Gulf is 989 kilometers, and the shortest distance between two land points are 56 kilometers. The waters are generally not very deep. The maximum depth is only 90 meters. The average depth is only 50 meters.
There are many countries with borders touching the Persian Gulf. If taken in a clockwise direction, these countries are from the north: Iran, United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, Qatar on a peninsula off the Saudi coast; Bahrain on an island; and Kuwait and Iraq in the northwest. Many small islands lie within the Persian Gulf.
The area in and around the Persian Gulf has world’s largest crude oil. Industries relating to crude oil are the main industries in this area. Al-Safaniya, the world’s largest offshore oilfield is in the Persian Gulf. Many countries with large crude oil are in this area. They are called Persian Gulf States, that is, the countries around the Persian Gulf. These countries are Iran, Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. But, Iraq (with its small portion touching the Persian Gulf) is not called a Persian Gulf State.
For about 200 years, from 1763 until 1971, the United Kingdom kept some control over some of the Persian Gulf countries. These countries were the United Arab Emirates and at various times Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, and Qatar.

</doc>
<doc id="31453" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31453" title="Khalistan movement">
Khalistan movement

The Khalistan movement is a political Sikh nationalist movement that wants to create an independent state for Sikh people, inside the current North-Western Republic of India Such a state existed in Punjab from 1709 to 1849. It was called the Sikh Empire. 
The new state created would be called Khalistan (Doabi:ਖਾਲਿਸਤਾਨ) in the modern territories of East Punjab and Himachal Pradesh. Its capital would be Chandigarh or possibly Amritsar.
The movement was most popular in the 1970s and 1980s. In 1971, the movement could collect millions of dollars of funding. 
Today, it is seen on a smaller scale. There are claims that the movement supports young people financially, if they join militant groups fighting to get a Sikh homeland. Most of this funding comes from Sikh supporters outside the current state of India.
On April 12, 1980, Jagjit Singh Chauhan, a prominent supporter of the movement, met with Indira Gandhi. After the meeting, he declared that he had formed the "National Council Of Khalistan", at Anandpur Sahib. He said he was the President of this movement, and Balbir Singh Sandhu was its Secretary General. In May 1980, Chauhan travelled to London and announced the formation of Khalistan. A similar announcement was made by Sandhu, in Amritsar. Sandhu also released stamps and currency of Khalistan. 
Some people said, the Indian authorities in Amritsar and elsewhere should not have been inactive and that this was a planned political move by the Indian National Congress.
In the 1980s, some supporters of the movement became violent. The Indian Army reciprocated the violence. In one such incident, the Indian Army forced their way into the Harmandir Sahib, also known as the Golden Temple. The Indian Government was criticised for how they handled the operation, which resulted in deaths to both parties, and damage to the Temple. Many Sikhs say that the Indian Government desecrated the holiest Sikh shrine. Indian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi was assassinated by her two Sikh bodyguards, and many thousands of Sikhs were massacred in the following riots. In January 1986, the Golden Temple was occupied by militants of the "All India Sikh Students Federation" and "Damdami Taksal". On 26 January 1986, the gathering passed a resolution ("gurmattā") favouring the creation of Khalistan. The people in favor of Khalistan said it should become a Sikh-majority state. Those opposed to the idea said the state would probably become a theocracy.
The Constitution of India says it is forbidden to make new states which are independent of India. This is known as "secession". Different groups in favor of Khalistan fought an insurgency against the government of India. Indian security forces suppressed this insurgency in the early 1990s. Since then, little has been done inside Punjab to get a Sikh state, but certain organisations in favor of Khalistan, such as "Dal Khalsa (International)" are still active outside India.
People in the US who supported the idea of Khalistan include Dan Burton, Jesse Helms and Edolphus Towns.
Other people who sympathise are Eric Lubbock, fourth Baron Avebury and Lord Nazir Ahmed.

</doc>
<doc id="31457" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31457" title="World Trade Organization">
World Trade Organization

The World Trade Organization (WTO) is a large international organization to regulate trade that was established in 1995. As of 15 December, 2005, there were 153 member countries. In the WTO, agreements are made on trade between countries. The General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) means that countries have to lower barriers to international trade, such as tariff on goods crossing borders. This lets businesses operate in many different countries.
There are about 30 such agreements. Based on these agreements, the member countries trade with each other. They sell items to each other and follow a set of rules. They have to give a special job to the other country. The phrase used (for such and many alike items) is to give the other country a special job – this is known as to give the other country "a most favored country job". From 2004, if a member sells any item to another member country, the same type of item should be offered to all other member countries. 
While it is highly regarded, from its beginning the WTO has also received criticism. 

</doc>
<doc id="31458" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31458" title="Międzyrzec Podlaski">
Międzyrzec Podlaski

Międzyrzec Podlaski is a city in the east of Poland, in Lublin Voivodeship. It is on the Krzna rivers. It has 17 283 people.

</doc>
<doc id="31459" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31459" title="Qing Dynasty">
Qing Dynasty

The Qing Dynasty () was a dynasty of rulers of China from 1644 to 1912. The dynasty was founded by the Manchus and so its other name is Manchu Dynasty. The surname of the Qing emperors was Aisin Gioro.
In 1580, Nurhaci became the Jian Zhou general of the Ming Dynasty. He unified the Manchu tribe and organised the Eight Banners. In 1616, Nurhaci declared himself Khan (King) and founded the Jin Dynasty in Liao Ling. In 1626, Nurhaci led armies to attack Ning Yuan. Unluckily, Nurhaci was wounded by Yuan Chonghuan's Portuguese cannon and he died 2 days later. Huang Taiji, the son of Nurhaci, then succeed to the throne and became the Khan of the Manchu trible. In 1643, Huang Taiji was dead, caused by apoplexy. Shunzhi Emperor inherited Huang Taiji's throne. Prince Dorgon became the regent. In 1644, the Manchu armies fairly conquered the north of China. The capital was changed to Beijing. The Ming Dynasty was overthrown.
The Self-Strengthening Movement ( or ; 1861 - 1895) was a reform organised during the late Qing. With the defeat in the Opium Wars and the outbreak of Taiping Rebellion, the emperor and the imperial officials realised that it was necessary to improve the country's statement with a series of reforms. Therefore, the Self-Strengthening Movement was started. 
The movement could be divided into three phases: the first phase (1861 - 1872), the second phase (1872 - 1885) and the third phase (1885 - 1895). The Major Leaders are Yixin, Prince Gong (Chinese: 恭親王), Wenxiang (Chinese: 文祥), Zeng Guofan (Chinese: 曾國藩), Li Hongzhang (Chinese: 李鴻章), Zuo Zongtang (Chinese: 左宗棠), Shen Baozhen (Chinese: 沈葆禎) and Zhang Zhidong (Chinese: 張之洞). However, owing to the conservatives opposition and the problems of modernization, it failed finally.
With the failure of the Self-Strengthening Movenment, the defeat in the First Sino-Japanese War and the scramble for concessions, many Chinese leaders realised that reforms were urgently needed. Thus, the Hundred Day's Reform (Chinese: 戊戌變法; 11 June 1898 - 21 September 1898) was started in 1898. The leaders of the reform were Guangxu Emperor, Kang Youwei (Chinese: 康有為) and Liang Qichao (Chinese: 梁啟超). Eventually, it ended in a coup d'état led by Empress Dowager Cixi.
The Manchus changed their ways to be more like the Chinese in order to rule them better. The Manchus started wearing Chinese clothes and writing in Chinese. They began to enjoy Chinese food and art. One of the Manchu emperors, Qianlong Emperor, began to worry about how much like the Chinese the Manchus were becoming and he tried to get Manchus to be more Manchu. Qianlong Emperor made Manchus ride horses and shoot bows and arrows so that they would remember where they came from. The Chinese people used different types of clothes like maccukau,konaha,schinin and sakahn.
In the early Qing, Guangdong was a province. There were totally 79 counties. In 1911, it was checked that there were 5,041,780 households, approximately 28,001,564 people. The famous mountains in Guangdong were Lingchau, Huangling and Luofu. Dongjiang, Beijiang and Xijiang were the most important rivers in Guangdong. Guangzhou, Zhaoqing, Xiamen and Fujian were the major Guangdong cities.

</doc>
<doc id="31472" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31472" title="Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic">
Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic

Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic is a video game developed by BioWare. It was released in 2003. The game has a sequel, titled "".
The game, also known as "KotOR", is a role-playing game. Developed using BioWare's engine "Aurora", the game is set in the fictional universe of "Star Wars". The story takes place four thousand years before the Battle of Yavin, 40 years after the war with Exar Kun (circa 3,956 BBY).
Darth Revan has been killed by his apprentice, Darth Malak, who has taken the mantle of Dark Lord of the Sith. Malak is continuing the war against the Old Republic, using numerous battleships. The Jedi Order sees its hope in Bastila Shan, a young female Jedi who is skilled in the art called "Battle Meditation". With that power, she can optimize the performance of the Jedi troops and the battleships. Also, an unnamed soldier (the player chooses the name) comes under attention of the Jedi Council.
Since it is a roleplaying game, the player can choose which class he wants to be. He can choose between soldier, scout, and scoundrel. The choice affects the statistics of the character (strength, agility, etc.). Also, the player can choose their character's gender and face.
The player must follow several main objectives, with many other minor missions. The player, while travelling on several planets, will meet some people who join him in his quest. A number up to 8 companions can join the player: Trask Ulgo, Carth Onasi, Bastila Shan, Mission Vao, Zaalbar, Canderous Ordo, Juhani, Jolee Bindo.
The main goal is to find the Star Forge, a powerful battle station that builds an endless fleet, which is used against the Republic. The player also has to kill Darth Malak.
The main character (the player) is entirely customizable. Face, gender and class can be chosen from a series of menus. One later discovers that they are Darth Reven, but still go by the original own name.
The player will meet some companions (playable characters, or PCs) during the adventure.
The player will also meet other minor characters (non-playable characters, or NPCs).

</doc>
<doc id="31473" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31473" title="Hypnosis">
Hypnosis

Hypnosis is "a trance state characterized by extreme suggestibility, relaxation and heightened imagination".
It is an altered state of consciousness. 
Usually, one person (the "hypnotist") talks to another (the "subject") in a special way that puts the subject into a trance. While the subject is in this state, he can be influenced by suggestions. The hypnotist can tell him to forget his name, or that the room is hot (he will start sweating), or that he is someone else. Hypnotic suggestions may be delivered by a hypnotist in the presence of the subject, or may be self-administered ('self-suggestion' or 'autosuggestion'). The use of hypnotism for therapeutic purposes is referred to as 'hypnotherapy', while its use as a form of entertainment for an audience is known as 'stage hypnosis'.
Contrary to a popular misconception—that hypnosis is a form of unconsciousness resembling sleep—some contemporary research suggests that hypnotic subjects are fully awake and are focusing attention, with a corresponding decrease in their peripheral awareness. Subjects also show an increased response to suggestions. However, the behaviour of subjects under hypnotism goes so far beyond normal focused attention that the description of "altered state of consciousness" is more used.
Hypnotherapy is when a hypnotist uses hypnosis to help the subject heal emotionally, or to heal a sick mind. Hypnotherapy is hypnosis used for therapy.
Hypnosis can also be done by one person acting alone. Then he is acting as both hypnotist and subject. This is called "self-hypnosis," or sometimes "auto-suggestion." In some cases, this is simply a form of using trance.
Almost every pre-modern society had practices which were somewhat like hypnotism. Often a special person in a society (witchdoctor, shaman, priest...) would conduct a ceremony. The ceremony might use incantations (spells), chants, repetitive music, mind-altering substances, darkness, fire, and other settings. The purpose was to send a person or group into an altered state of mind like a trance. Even literate societies such as ancient Greece had phenomena suggestive of hypnosis. The Delphic oracle was in a trance of some kind as she uttered her famous predictions. Whether that was self-hypnosis or just the effects of volcanic gas will never be known.
There seem to be many ideas about how hypnosis started. Historic records in modern Europe start with the work of Franz Mesmer, though he did not invent the word 'hypnotism'. Mesmer and his followers practised what was first called 'animal magnetism', and later mesmerism. Descriptions of his work leave no doubt that he had discovered for himself what we now call 'hypnotism'.
The words "hypnosis" and "hypnotism" both derive from the term "neuro-hypnotism" (nervous sleep) coined by the Scottish surgeon James Braid around 1841. Braid based his practice on that developed by but differed in his theory as to how the procedure worked.
The main hypnosis discoveries came in 1842 when Braid started to learn more about its effects. He did not think that 'mesmerism' was the cause of hypnosis, and in the end he thought that trances were only a 'nervous sleep'. In 1843 he wrote a book about this with the title "Neurypnology". In this book Braid described hypnotism as a state of physical relaxation accompanied and induced by mental concentration ("abstraction").
Hypnosis is used to treat fears, addictions, emotional trouble, pain control, stress, and so on. 
The hypnotist must do two things to do hypnosis. First, he must put the subject into a trance. Second, he must lead the subject through the trance process (for therapy, or whatever effect is needed). Often, he will switch between these, first making sure the subject is in the proper state of mind, and then leading him through the process. These steps are repeated in a cycle throughout.
In trance, the subject does not make decisions about the truth of the hypnotist's suggestions: If trance is reached -- it is not always -- the subject will accept as true anything the hypnotist says, unless it goes against the subject's deepest beliefs. This is the heart of hypnosis: to put the subject in trance so he will accept suggestions.
Stage hypnotists get truly amazing effects from good subjects: they can make them forget their names, believe they are someone else, make them see people who are not there, make them forget letters or numbers, and so on. This happens because the subject actively follows the hypnotist's suggestions, because he trusts the hypnotist and he believes it is safe. If the trust is broken or the subject believes it is not safe, the subject may emerge from trance.
Hypnosis is not truly a power resting in the hypnotist. Instead, the power rests in the mind of the subject. The hypnotist simply knows how to guide the subject through trance.

</doc>
<doc id="31476" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31476" title="Krusty Krab">
Krusty Krab

The Krusty Krab is a fictional fast food restaurant in the television series, ""SpongeBob SquarePants"". It is in the city of Bikini Bottom. The restaurant is run by a crab, Eugene H. Krabs. Two workers at the restaurant are SpongeBob SquarePants (fry cook), and Squidward Tentacles (cashier). The fast food that is sold are the popular Krabby Patty (which are similar to hamburgers but made of krill), and others such as French fries, and drinks.

</doc>
<doc id="31481" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31481" title="M6 motorway">
M6 motorway

The M6 motorway is the longest motorway in the United Kingdom. It is also one of the busiest motorways in the country. It is often referred to as "The Backbone of Britain".
The M6 is part of the unsigned E-road E24 from the M1 to the M6 Toll near Birmingham. The E5 joins the M6 Toll from the M42 and then uses the M6 to its north end at Carlisle. Then it continues along the M74. The motorway is 230 miles (370km) long. This is 37 miles longer than the M1 motorway.
The first section of the motorway was the Preston by-pass, opened on 5 December 1958. It was built by a company called Tarmac Construction. It was the first motorway in the United Kingdom. It was opened by Prime Minister Harold Macmillan. The motorway was later extended in both directions.
Junction 6 in Birmingham has the name Spaghetti Junction. This is because it looks very complex from the sky.
On the high ground between Shap and Tebay, the north and south-bound carriages split apart. Strangely, at this point a local road runs between the two carriageways without a link to the motorway.
The section of the M6 which runs over Shap Fell in Cumbria is 1050 ft (320 m) above sea level. This is one of the highest points on any motorway in the UK. The West Coast Main Line railway follows the same course. It runs alongside the M6 for much of its length.
The motorway starts at the M1 in Rugby. It passes through Birmingham and Spaghetti Junction. The motorway continues to the north, passing Liverpool and Manchester. It goes around Preston and up to Lancaster. It then follows through a valley past the Lake District and Penrith. It finishes at Carlisle.
At the end of the M6 motorway at Carlisle, there is a 6-mile stretch of the A74 which links England to Scotland. This is called the "Cumberland Gap". This was caused by an argument between the British Parliament and the Scottish Parliament, which left neither the M6 or the A74(M) being built. After a lot of controversy, building started on the remaining six miles. When it is completed, there will be a complete motorway going from London to Glasgow.
The M6 Toll is a toll road which was opened in 2003. It starts at Junction 11A and runs around Birmingham to Junction 3A. It is the first toll road to be built in the United Kingdom. It was opened on 9 December 2003. It is reported to save 45 minutes from the average journey. 

</doc>
<doc id="31486" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31486" title="Sloth bear">
Sloth bear

The Sloth Bear ("Melursus ursinus") is a bear that lives in India and Sri Lanka.
Sloth Bears have long and shaggy black fur, but its fur can also be brown. On its chest it has a white or yellow mark, which is shaped like an Y or V. They have big feet with long claws. The long claws are also the reason for its English name, because the claws look like the claws of a Sloth.
Sloth Bears eat insects, like for example termites. But they also eat fruit, honey, eggs, and also meat.
Female Sloth Bears usually have 1-2 babies, sometimes 3. Young Sloth Bears stay with their mother for 2-3 years. In captivity they can live to be 40 years old.
Sloth bear adults can weigh anywhere from 120-130 pounds and measure anywhere form 60-70 inches in length.

</doc>
<doc id="31489" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31489" title="Inclined plane">
Inclined plane

An inclined plane is a simple machine. It allows one to use less force to move an object.
Examples of inclined planes are ramps, sloping roads and hills, plows, chisels, hatchets, carpenter's planes, and wedges. The typical example of an inclined plane is a sloped surface; for example a roadway to bridge a height difference. 
Another simple machine based on the inclined plane is the blade, in which two inclined planes placed back to back allow the two parts of the cut object to move apart using less force than would be needed to pull them apart in opposite directions.
To calculate the forces on an object placed on an inclined plane, consider the three forces acting on it.
We can break the force from gravity into two vectors, one perpendicular to the plane and one parallel to the plane. Since there is no movement perpendicular to the plane, the component of the gravitational force in this direction ("mg" cos "θ") must be equal and opposite to normal force exerted by the plane, "N". Therefore formula_1.
If the component of the force from gravity parallel to the surface ("mg" sin "θ") is greater than the static frictional force "f" – then the body will slide down the inclined plane with acceleration where "f" is the force of friction – otherwise it will remain stationary. 
When the angle of the slope ("θ") is zero, sin "θ" is also zero, so the body will not move.

</doc>
<doc id="31491" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31491" title="Jamestown, New York">
Jamestown, New York

Jamestown is a city in southwestern New York State, United States.

</doc>
<doc id="31493" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31493" title="Lego">
Lego

Lego, also called LEGO, is a type of building toy created and made by the Lego Group, a company in Denmark. "Lego Bricks" are colorful plastic building blocks that can be joined together easily. Lego blocks are joined together by studs on the top, and holes in the bottom of the brick commonly known as the stud-and-tube connection. LEGO is the most popular building toy in the world.
The Lego company was started by Ole Kirk Christiansen a Danish toy maker in 1935. Christiansen made wooden toys for children. He made and sold his first plastic Lego set in the 1940s. Since then, Lego toys have become very popular and are known and loved by people around the world.
Lego bricks come in many shapes and sizes. There are wheels, car screens, and plants. Lego bricks can be joined together in many ways. Vehicles, buildings and even robots can all be built with Lego bricks.
Almost all the blocks from Lego sets can fit together. New blocks made today can fit with old blocks made years ago. The blocks can join together no matter which set they come from. Lego has become so popular that people sometimes use the word "Lego" to talk about any sort of building blocks. There are millions of LEGO fans and conventions around the world 
Many LEGO video games are being created for different video game systems. LEGO video games usually come from LEGO themes, such as LEGO Star Wars and Lego Indiana Jones. Lego Star Wars is a famous theme and it has three video games. A new game Harry Potter is a video game which came out before the new Harry Potter theme but made after the old Harry Potter. LEGO Star Wars 1 and 2 are some of the best selling video games and are about to get a new version of LEGO Star Wars, LEGO Star Wars 3: The Clone Wars.
In LEGO Clone Wars, you can play as most of your favorite characters, like Rex, Yoda, Cody, and a lot of others. Also, you can face fearsome monsters like the Rancor.The newest game from LEGO is LEGO Universe, a massively multi-player online game. new games for the movie will be loaded with legos. 
There has been a Lego game that is very popular Lego Dimensions. The starter pack is expensive but the game is very popular. The fun packs are the cheapest pack to extend the game. The level and team packs are the expensive packs. 
A Lego Cartoon Network show "" was aired from 2011 until the show's end in 2012. A second Cartoon Network Lego show aired in 2013. A 2014 Lego movie ("The Lego Movie") stars Chris Pratt, Will Arnett, Elizabeth Banks, Morgan Freeman, Will Ferrell, and Liam Neeson. The movie was released on February 7, 2014.

</doc>
<doc id="31515" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31515" title="Giant panda">
Giant panda

The giant panda, "Ailuropoda melanoleuca", is a bear. It lives in south central China. 
Although it belongs to the order Carnivora, the panda's diet is 99% bamboo. Pandas in the wild occasionally eat other grasses, wild tubers, or even meat in the form of birds, rodents or carrion. In captivity, they may get honey, eggs, fish, yams, shrub leaves, oranges, or bananas along with specially prepared food.
The giant panda lives in a few mountain ranges in central China, mainly in Sichuan province, but also in the Shaanxi and Gansu provinces.
As a result of farming, deforestation and other development, the panda has been driven out of the lowland areas where it once lived.
Giant pandas are bears. They have black and white fur. The black fur is on their ears, around their eyes, on their legs, and on their shoulders.
Giant pandas are about the size of an American black bear. They are about tall at the shoulder when they are standing on all four legs. They are about long. Males weigh up to in the wild. Females usually weigh less than .
Wild giant pandas live in the mountains of central China. They live in forests of tall trees. They eat the bamboo that grows under the trees. The weather is rainy and misty in these mountain forests. There are thick clouds almost all the time.
In the wild, giant pandas eat a lot of bamboo. Ninety-nine percent of the food they eat is bamboo. They eat as much as of bamboo every day. They spend 10 to 16 hours every day looking for food and eating it. 
Bamboo is a grass. Sometimes giant pandas eat other grasses. They also eat little rodents or musk deer babies (fawns). In zoos, giant pandas eat bamboo, sugar cane, vegetables, and fruit.
Giant pandas get a lot of water from the bamboo they eat. They need more water though. They drink from the fresh water streams and rivers in the mountain. Melting snow high in the mountains runs into these streams and rivers.
There are two kinds of giant panda. They both live in China. The best known is the black and white panda. Its scientific name is "Ailuropoda melanoleuca melanoleuca". 
The other giant panda has dark brown and light brown fur. Its skull is smaller than the other giant panda. It has larger molars. This panda lives only in the Qinling Mountains. Its scientific name is "Ailuropoda melanoleuca qinlingensis".
Giant pandas are ready to have babies (cubs) when they are between the ages of four and eight years. They may be able to have babies until about age 20. Female pandas are ready to have a baby only once a year. This is in the springtime. There are only two to three days she is ready for a baby. Calls and scents bring the males and female pandas to each other. 
Female pandas may give birth to two young. Usually only one lives. Giant panda cubs may stay with their mothers for up to three years. Then they leave her for a life of their own.
Today, the giant panda is a symbol for China. It is protected by the Chinese government. Killing a giant panda is a crime. The giant panda may become extinct. It will die out if the forests of bamboo continue to disappear. 
People outside of eastern Asia did not know about the giant panda until 1869. The first "Westerner" to see a live panda was a German zoologist in 1916. In 1936, Ruth Harkness became the first Westerner to bring a live giant panda out of China. It was a cub (baby panda) named Su-Lin. The cub was taken to live at the Brookfield Zoo in Chicago.
In the 1970s, China began showing giant pandas in zoos in the United States and Japan as a type of diplomacy. This happened until 1984, when China changed how this was done. Starting in 1984, China would allow zoos to keep the giant pandas for 10 years, but the zoo would have to pay China up to $1,000,000 each year. Also, the zoo would have to agree that any cubs born would belong to China.
14 cities outside China have zoos with giant pandas.
The Adelaide Zoo in Adelaide, Australia received two giant pandas in 2009.
The giant panda is an endangered species. It may become extinct. In 2013, it was estimated that there were less than 2,500 mature giant pandas living in the wild. Illegal hunting is no longer a problem. Hunting for pandas is a crime. The penalties are harsh if you hunt pandas. 
The greatest threat to survival is the loss of living areas. People are ruining the areas where pandas live. They are cutting down trees. They are building farms. Groups of pandas are forced to live in small areas. They are isolated. They cannot mix other panda groups.
Giant pandas eat bamboo. Sometimes the bamboo dies off. At one time, pandas could move to an area where bamboo was still growing. Moving has become more and more difficult. People are living and working in panda areas. Pandas cannot move about as freely as they once did.
China set up the first giant panda nature reserve in 1963. Other nature reserves were also set up. There were 40 giant panda reserves in 2006.

</doc>
<doc id="31517" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31517" title="Game Boy Color">
Game Boy Color

The Game Boy Color is a video game console manufactured by Nintendo. It was first introduced in Japan on October 1998. It is the successor to the original Game Boy, but it precedes the Game Boy Advance. The biggest innovation of the Game Boy Color was its colorful graphics. The Game Boy Color is almost as powerful as the Nintendo Entertainment System. With the exception of the Pokemon Mini, it was the last 8-bit console made by a mainstream company. The last game released for Game Boy Color was "Harry Potter And The Chamber of Secrets" in 2002.

</doc>
<doc id="31518" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31518" title="Hula">
Hula

Hula is a type of dancing from Hawaii.
Hula is a word in the Hawaiian language. Male dancers and female dancers can both dance hula. A long time ago, hula dance was used only in special ceremonies. Now, hula dance is mainly for entertainment. 
A hula dancer usually wears a grass skirt or a leaf skirt, a flower necklace (called "lei" in Hawaiian), and sometimes a flower in the hair.
Traditionally, the hula dancer dances to a chant (a poem that is sung to a rhythm). The chanter beats his or her hand on a gourd (dried, empty squash) to create the rhythm.
There are many kinds of hula dance. For example, the Hawaiian hula dance style is slow and the Tahitian hula dance style is fast.

</doc>
<doc id="31522" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31522" title="Herakles">
Herakles

Herakles () was a divine hero in Greek mythology. He was the greatest of the Greek heroes. He was the son of the god Zeus and the mortal woman Alkmene. Herakles was strong and courageouseven as a baby. When he was a young man, he dressed in a lion's skin, carried a club of olive wood, and was an expert with the bow and arrow.
Hera, the Queen of the Gods, hated Herakles because he was the son of her husband and a mortal. She designed some difficult tasks for Herakles to do and hoped they would kill him. These tasks are called The Labors of Herakles. He finished them all with success and Zeus gave him immortality. He had many adventures. When he died, he went to live with the gods on Mount Olympus.
Herakles was worshipped throughout the Greek world. He was popular among athletes because he was the god of gymnasiums and wrestling schools. He started the Ancient Olympic Games and marked out the length of the Olympic stadium. The Romans called him Hercules. He was the subject of much ancient and modern art, and even of movies like Walt Disney's "Hercules".
Zeus was the greatest of all Greek gods. He lusted after a beautiful mortal woman named Alkmene. One day her husband was not at home, so he tricked her into having sex with him. Ten months later, she gave birth to a son and named him Alkides. He would one day be called Herakles. They lived in Thebes.
Zeus' wife Hera was angry with her husband because he had become the father of a child outside their marriage. She hated Herakles and looked for ways to hurt him. The goddess Athena felt sorry for the baby. She tricked Hera into breast feeding him. This was one step on the road to immortality. Hera hated Herakles more than ever. She sent two snakes to kill him, but the baby Herakles killed the snakes with his hands. This was his first great act of courage and physical strength.
Herakles became a strong teenager. He learned to use weapons and to drive a chariot. One day he killed his music teacher Linus because the man had tried to whip him. Herakles was charged with murder, but said he had acted in self defense. He was freed. People feared him though, so he was sent far out of town to work on a farm. Herakles became stronger with the hard work. He was seven feet tall. He was eighteen when he left the farm.
Herakles was eighteen when he hunted the large and powerful Lion of Kithaeron. This lion was killing cows in a land near Thebes. The hunt lasted fifty days and ended when Herakles smashed the lion's skull with a club of olive wood. This club is seen in pictures of Herakles. He dressed in the lion's skin. 
Herakles slept in King Thespius' palace while the hunt progressed. He had sex with the King's fifty daughters and became the father of fifty-two sons. One of the girls did not have sex with him. She became a priestess in his shrine.
Herakles was going back to Thebes when he met the heralds of King Erginus. They were on their way to Thebes to collect tribute. They treated Herakles with contempt. Herakles cut off their ears, noses, and hands. Erginus made war on Thebes, but was defeated and killed by Herakles. For saving Thebes, King Kreon gave his daughter Megara in marriage to Herakles.
Hera could not rest easily because Herakles was becoming more and more famous. He was loved by everyone. Her anger and hatred made her look foolish. She tricked Herakles into thinking his sons were his enemies and, insane with anger, he murdered them.
When he came to his senses, he was overcome with grief. He ran from other people and lived for a time in exile. He looked for advice from the Oracle of Delphi. The priestess sent him to serve King Eurystheus, King of Tyrins in Mycenae. In this way, she said, he would be washed clean of his crimes.
Eurystheus was a dull and bad man. Herakles hated him. Eurystheus set some tasks for Herakles to do. These tasks came to be called "The Labors of Herakles". It was said that Hera designed them. She hoped the tasks would kill him. Zeus would grant Herakles immortality with the successful completion of the Labors.
Herakles was married to a beautiful woman named Deianeira. They lived in Trachis and had a son named Hyllus. In a war with a neighboring city, Herakles made the king's daughter Iole his captive. Herakles had met her sometime in the past and had fallen in love with her. Deianeira was jealous, and used a mix of blood and semen from the centaur Nessus to get her husband back. She put the mix on a shirt and sent it to Herakles. He put the shirt on. Unknown to Deianeira, the mix was really a poison and burned Herakles' skin and flesh. Deianeira learned of this and killed herself. Herakles died in great pain. Before he died, he ordered Hyllus to marry Iole. Herakles' body was set on fire at the funeral ceremonies. His ghost fell to the underworld while his immortal part rose to Mount Olympus. The gods welcomed him, even Hera. He married Hebe, his fourth wife, and became the father of two sons. According to Homer's "Odyssey", Herakles became the porter (keeper of the gates) on Mount Olympus.

</doc>
<doc id="31527" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31527" title="Steam engine">
Steam engine

A steam engine is an engine which uses steam from boiling water to make it move. The steam pushes on the engine parts to make them move. Steam engines can power many kinds of machines including vehicles and electric generators. 
Steam engines were used in mine pumps starting in the early 18th century and were much improved by James Watt in the 1770s. They were very important during the industrial revolution where they replaced horses, windmills and watermills to work machines.
The first steam engines were piston engines. The steam pressure pushed on a piston which made it move along a cylinder and so they had a "reciprocal" (back-and-forth) motion. This could move a pump directly or work a crank to turn a wheel and work a machine. They operated at low pressure and had to be very big to make much power.
Steam engines were used in factories to work machines and in mines to move pumps. Later smaller engines were built that could move railway locomotives and steam boats.
The steam to power a steam engine is made in a boiler that heats water to make steam. In most places fire heats the boiler. Fuel for the fire may be wood, coal, or petroleum. Nuclear energy or solar energy may be used instead of fire. The steam coming out of the boiler applies the force on a piston. A valve sends the steam to one end of the piston, then the other, to make it move backwards and forwards. Movement of the piston is then used to turn wheels or drive other machinery. The crosshead stops the piston rod from getting out of line when it pushes the connecting rod. The heavy spinning flywheel smooths out the power from the piston. The governor controls the speed of the engine.
Today many steam engines are still at work, but they are almost all turbines which have no pistons but spin like a windmill pushed by jets of steam. These turn faster with more energy efficiency than the original kinds of piston steam engines. They are used in power plants to operate generators which make electricity. Some ships are also powered by steam turbines. The boilers of steam turbines can be heated by many different types of fuel, even a nuclear reactor in some power stations and warships.

</doc>
<doc id="31531" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31531" title="Computer programming">
Computer programming

Programming is telling a computer how to do certain things by giving it instructions. These instructions are called programs. A person who writes instructions is a computer programmer. These instructions come in different languages; they are called programming languages. Sometimes programmers use special software, such as IDEs, which have many features to help them to make programs, and sometimes they use simpler software, called a text editor, which only gives them a place to type. There are many types of programming languages.
A program is a set of instructions for the computer to follow. Making these instructions in "computer form" would be tedious and difficult, so instructions are written in a language similar to English, which has to be turned into "computer form" instructions so the computer can follow them. A compiler is what we call the translator from the half-English language to the computer language. Some languages, called interpreted languages, use interpreters instead of compilers.
Once a program has been compiled, the instructions in "machine form" are written into a file that contains a series of numbers that the computer can understand. These files are generally called "executables". These machine-instructions will be loaded into the computer's memory so that the CPU can run them when the executable is opened. In the event that data is not transferred correctly, it can result in data loss. 
A variable is a piece of the program that can be changed. Variables can include information added by the user, or answers that are found as a result of a calculation.
Conditionals are parts of the program that work if something about the program is true. If that part is not true, then the program won't have it work. A common way for a conditional to be done is with an "If Statement." 
Here is an example of an if statement in the Perl programming language. What it does is it checks to see if the name variable is Bill. If the name variable is Bill, then it will print out the words "Hi Bill!".
Sometimes, a programmer might want to have the "if statement" do something else if the first part of it is not true. This is known as an else block. Here is an example of an else block in the Perl programming language.
And sometimes, the programmer might want to have multiple things for the if statement to do. For example, they may have the if block run if something is true, but will have parts of the if statement known as else if blocks that will run if the first part doesn't work, but if it works somewhere else. In the Perl programming language, else if is spelled like this, "elsif." Other languages might have it spelled like "else if" however. But for Perl, it is spelled like "elsif." Else If blocks will only run if their condition is true, just like the first if block. An if statement can have as many else if statements as the programmer needs. If the if block, and none of the else if blocks are true, then the plain "else" statement will be used by the program.
In the program, a comment is information that is meant to be read by people who are reading the program. Comments have a special symbol in front of them that tells the computer that they are comments and should not be read as code. 
Comments are used to explain how a certain part of a program works. This is helpful when multiple people are working on the same program, and if they need to work on a section where someone else was working on. If the programmer that was working on it first left behind comments for any other programmer that works on it later, it will help them know faster what is going on in the program.
Here is an example of programming comments in the C (programming language). In C, the two slash symbols "//" known as a forward slashes, are used. With the comments, a person can read the code and know what is going on.
Sometimes, a programmer may need to remove something from the code, but for many different reasons, they may not want to just simply delete it. An easy solution is to use the comment symbol. The computer will think that the code is just comments, rather than actual code, but the programmer will still be able to see it and read it.
Here is an example of that in the Perl programming language. In Perl, the "#" symbol is used for comments, instead of forward slashes "//" like in the C (programming language).

</doc>
<doc id="31540" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31540" title="BASIC">
BASIC

BASIC is one of the first programming languages ever to be created. It was first used as a programming language on console computers. The name is an acronym (a word made from other words) that spells Beginner's All-purpose Symbolic Instruction Code. 
A specialized version of Basic is Bliz basic. It is specially for coding games.
It was designed by John Kemeny and Thomas Kurtz in 1963. It was made to follow these eight principles:
The creators made the free of charge to make programmers interested in using the language. Since the creation, a large number of have been made so users can make their programs.
"for x=9/3*9+9"
"print x"
"next x"
code prints number 36 to screen.

</doc>
<doc id="31544" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31544" title="Mayon Volcano">
Mayon Volcano

The Mayon Volcano, also known as Mount Mayon, is an active volcano in the province of Albay, on Luzon island in the Philippines. It is a part of the Pacific Ring of Fire. It is one the most active and dangerous volcano in the Philippines. Mount Mayon is high, and it is famous for it's "perfect cone" shape, which attracts tourists. In 1938 the mountain was declared a national park. It was reclassified and renamed as "Mayon Volcano Natural Park" in the year 2000. The name Mayon is from the Bicol word "magayon" meaning beauty.
<br>

</doc>
<doc id="31546" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31546" title="Grease">
Grease

Grease refers to a number of things:

</doc>
<doc id="31548" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31548" title="Visual Basic .NET">
Visual Basic .NET

Visual Basic .NET is the second series of Microsoft's Visual Basic series. It is sometimes shortened to VB.NET. It is an IDE (Integrated Development Environment) and it includes an easy 'drag-and-drop' interface. It can make complete programs for Windows very easily.
It was first released in 1992 by Microsoft. Visual Basic is a simple way to make programs for Windows. It started as "Project Ruby" by Alan Cooper and then was sold to Microsoft. The system is built loosely on the original BASIC programming language released in 1963 and it can 'Test' programs in real-time, error checking them in a user-friendly way.
This package is the 'backbone' of Visual Basic .NET. When applications are created, the Windows Installer includes the framework with it. It includes all the items needed to run the VB.NET applications that have been made.
Visual Basic was first released in May 1991 for Windows. Many versions have been released since then. These are listed below:
This is a free version of Visual Basic 2010 released officially from Microsoft. It is aimed at encouraging more newbie programmers to try the series. The program can be downloaded from Microsoft's Website.
Visual Basic .NET uses many controls which can be added to the forms or windows in the application. Other developers can create controls for applications, not just the ones that Microsoft include.
The following example makes a program window pop up that says "Hello World" and has a button that says "OK" used to close the window:

</doc>
<doc id="31555" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31555" title="Temperature record of the past 1000 years">
Temperature record of the past 1000 years

Many scientists and others are interested in the temperature record of Earth. Especially the temperature changes in the past 1000 years.
Temperatures were not measured that far back, so weather records are used. Unfortunately, the weather records can be wrong, so the final temperature records are not accurate.
The average worldwide temperature will drop in about two centuries, for an ice age will occur.
As fresh water, from the melting ice caps, is added to the Atlantic Ocean, the North Atlantic Current will come to a halt. This current is based on a balance of salt water and fresh water. Fresh water from the ice caps will damage this balance, the current will stop, and Europe, which is kept warm during the winter because of the North Atlantic Current, will freeze.

</doc>
<doc id="31568" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31568" title="Camping">
Camping

Camping is a leisure activity, usually during summer when school children are on holiday, where people leave their homes and spend one or more nights outdoors. Usually they seek nature, adventure, or a different environment. They may sleep in a campervan or trailer, a tent, or in the open air in good weather. Winter camping is less common but in some parts of the world, tents are people's homes year around. 
When camping, people usually prepare food to eat that is easy to make. If they were hunting or fishing, they may cook the animal or fish they caught over a campfire. 
Dangers can arise, such as wild animals or illness from drinking unclean water. 

</doc>
<doc id="31570" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31570" title="New Guinea">
New Guinea

New Guinea is a big island north of Australia. It is the second largest island in the world.
On the east side of New Guinea is the country Papua New Guinea. On the west side of the island are the Indonesian provinces of Papua and West Irian Jaya.
About 6.9 million people live on the island.
New Guinea is also very important for its nature and biology, because there are many different animals.

</doc>
<doc id="31574" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31574" title="Honda">
Honda

Honda is a large engineering company from Japan. It is well known for making cars and motorcycles. Although Honda started in Japan, it now has many factories in other countries that includes the United States, Canada, Brazil, Thailand and China. Honda sells a luxury line of cars in the United States with the Acura name.
Some of the cars that Honda makes include the:
Some of the cars Honda has made in the past are:
Honda also makes ATVs. Honda is also known for participating in a very wide range of motorsport events, including Formula 1, MotoGP, LeMans, IRL and others.
Honda also makes small engines for chainsaws, lawnmowers and leaf blowers.
Honda does a lot of research on humanlike robots. Honda built Asimo, a robot that can walk, talk, dance,carry stuff and answer questions. These are not yet for sale in the United States. 
Honda also creates Jet Airplanes, known as the HondaJet. The jet is rarely seen in America but it is an amazing airplane according to reviews on www.google.com

</doc>
<doc id="31585" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31585" title="Camelid">
Camelid

Camelids are a group of even-toed ungulate mammals. They form the family Camelidae. There are six living species of camelids.
The animals of the genus "Camelus" are also called "Afro-Asiatic Camelids". The animals of the genus "Lama" and genus "Vicugna" are also called "South American Camelids". 
There also exists a camelid hybrid called a "Cama". It is the child of a female Llama and a male Dromedary Camel. The Cama does not exist in nature, but is "made" by humans through artificial insemination (that means the sperm is artificially put into the female).
The two "Camelus" species originally lived in northern Africa, south-west and eastern Asia. The other four camelids lived in South America.
Camelids have been domesticated by humans for about 5000 years. They have been important for transport, but were also kept for wool, meat and milk. The llama and alpaca were very important for the South American cultures, like the Inka. The camels were used by people in north Africa and Asia, especially in deserts.

</doc>
<doc id="31592" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31592" title="Wallis and Futuna">
Wallis and Futuna

Wallis and Futuna, officially called the Territory of Wallis and Futuna Islands ( or "Territoire des îles Wallis et Futuna"), is a group of three volcanic tropical islands Wallis (Uvea), Futuna, and Alofi with fringing reefs. They are in the South Pacific Ocean between Fiji and Samoa. One of the islands in the group is named after Cornish explorer Samuel Wallis.

</doc>
<doc id="31593" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31593" title="Western New Guinea">
Western New Guinea

Western New Guinea is the western half of the island of New Guinea. As of 2006, it is internationally recognised as Papua, a province of Indonesia. It was previously known by various names, including Netherlands New Guinea (until 1962), West Irian (1962-1973), and Irian Jaya (1973-2000). The incorporation of western New Guinea remains controversial in some quarters, including some within the area itself, and those who do not recognise the legal issues of Indonesia's claim to the area, calling it West Papua.
Papua was annexed by Indonesia under the controversial Act of Free Choice in 1969. In 2003, the Indonesian central government declared that the province would be split into three areas: Papua Province, Central Irian Jaya, and West Irian Jaya. Opposition to this resulted in the plan for Central Irian Jaya being scrapped, and even the designation of West Irian Jaya Province is still legally unclear. The independent sovereign state of Papua New Guinea (PNG) borders Papua Province to the east.

</doc>
<doc id="31598" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31598" title="Maluku Islands">
Maluku Islands

The Maluku Islands (also called the Moluccas, Moluccan Islands or simply Maluku) are an archipelago in Indonesia. They are part of the larger Malay Archipelago. They are on the Australian Plate, lying east of Sulawesi (Celebes), west of New Guinea, and north of Timor. The islands were also called the "Spice Islands" by the Chinese and Europeans. Other islands have also been called the Spice Islands.
Most of the islands are mountainous, some with active volcanos. The vegetation of the small and narrow islands, with their wet climate, is very luxuriant. It includes rainforests, sago, rice, and the famous spices; including nutmeg, cloves, and mace. Though originally Melanesian, the people of many island clans, especially in the Banda Islands, died in the 17th century. A second group of Malay people arrived in the early 20th century under the Dutch and this has continued in the Indonesian era.
Politically, the Maluku Islands formed a single province of Indonesia from 1950 until 1999. In 1999 the North Maluku ("Maluku Utara") and Halmahera Tengah (Central Halmahera) regency were split off as a separate province. The islands are now divided between two provinces, Maluku and North Maluku. Between 1999 and 2002 they were known for fighting between Muslims and Christians, although both groups had previously been peaceful.

</doc>
<doc id="31599" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31599" title="Delphi">
Delphi

Delphi can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="31600" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31600" title="Domestication">
Domestication

Domestication is a change that happens in wild animals or plants, when they are kept by humans for a long time. 
If humans take wild animals and plants and keep and breed them, over time the animals and plants may change. The animals and plants become dependent on the humans who keep them, and they change in ways that are better for human use. This change (domestication) happens by humans choosing which animals will breed the next generation. Biologists call this method artificial selection.
The first domestication of plants happened during the first use of agriculture. Humans first domesticated dogs. After the invention of agriculture, people domesticated sheep and goats, and later cattle and pigs. 
Domesticated plants are crops or ornamental plants. People use domesticated animals as livestock, that means for food, clothing, and work. Otherwise, the domesticated animals may be kept as pets.
The origin of the domestic dog ("Canis lupus familiaris") began with the domestication of the grey wolf ("Canis lupus") several tens of thousands of years ago. Domesticated dogs provided early humans with a guard animal, a source of food, fur, and a working animal (hunting, pulling sleds). The process continues to this day.
Archaeology has placed the earliest known domestication at possibly 30,000 BC, and with certainty at 7,000 BC. Other evidence suggests that dogs were first domesticated in East Asia.
Perhaps the earliest clear cultural evidence for this domestication is the first dog found buried together with humans, 12,000 years ago in Palestine.
Cats were also domesticated quite early. At the beginning of agriculture, people started to domesticate sheep and goats, and later pigs and cattle. Other animals that were domesticated early are camels, donkeys and horses. Some animals, like the domestic rabbit, were only domesticated in recent times.
The first evidence of plant domestication comes from wheat found in pre-Pottery Neolithic villages in Southwest Asia. They are dated at 10,500 to 10,100 BC. The Fertile Crescent, Egypt, and India were sites of the earliest planned sowing and harvesting of plants.
Agriculture developed independently in a number of places at different times. The eight Neolithic founder crops (emmer wheat, einkorn wheat, barley, peas, lentils, bitter vetch, chickpeas and flax) had all appeared by about 7000 BC.
In this section are animals which have been artificially selected by humans over a long period, not simply living with humans. The list is not intended to be complete.

</doc>
<doc id="31601" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31601" title="Night of the Living Dead">
Night of the Living Dead

Night of the Living Dead is a 1968 American horror movie directed by George A. Romero. It stars Duane Jones, Judith O'Dea and Karl Hardman. It premiered on October 1, 1968. It was completed on a US$114,000 budget. The film became a financial success, grossing $12 million domestically and $18 million internationally. 
"Night of the Living Dead" was heavily criticized at its release owing to explicit content. It eventually garnered critical acclaim. It was selected by the Library of Congress for preservation in the National Film Registry as a movie deemed "culturally, historically or aesthetically significant. The movie is in the public domain due to an error by the distributor.
The story follows characters Ben (Duane Jones), Barbra (Judith O'Dea), and five others trapped in a lonely farmhouse in Pennsylvania which is attacked by unnamed "living dead" monsters which later became known in popular culture as zombies. "Night of the Living Dead" was the basis of five "Living Dead" movies (1978–2010) also directed by Romero, and has inspired remakes.

</doc>
<doc id="31607" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31607" title="Russian Civil War">
Russian Civil War

The Russian Civil War was a civil war fought from November 1917 until October 1922 between several groups in Russia. The main fighting was between the Red Army and the White Army. The Red Army was an army of communists. The White Army opposed the communists. Other forces fought against both these groups or sometimes helped one against the other. The Red Army won this war because their army was better-organised and they held the best territory. After this war, the communists established the Soviet Union in 1922. 
Czar Nicholas II, the traditional ruler of the Russian Empire, had just lost his throne. The Russian Revolution of 1917 had just ended. Many regions forming part of the Russian Empire were not stable. Many groups had organized themselves. The workers and farmers supporting the communists organized themselves into the Red Army. People opposing them organized themselves into the White Army.
In Ukraine, some groups fighting for a free Ukraine organized themselves as the Green Army. There were several other groups. The Green Army and the smaller groups fought each other, and sometimes they fought the Red Army and the White Army. Other nationalist armies fought for independence from any kind of Russian control. Finland, Poland, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia succeeded.
At the same time, some foreign countries were worried about the communists ruling the Soviet Union. They feared that communism would come to their countries also if the communists were successful so they helped fight against the communists’ Red Army. They started the Siberian Intervention and otherwise helped the Whites. Slowly, the war became very large and continued for years. 
The Red Army and the White Army fought this war on three main regions. These regions were located in the east, the south and the northwest of the Soviet Union. There were also three main periods of the war. The outbreak of the Russian Civil War and its big scale surprised Vladimir Lenin. 
Soon after the Russian Revolution of 1917, the first period of the Russian Civil War began. Most of the fighting in this period was on a small scale. But, the fighting started at many places. Some foreign countries also helped the White Army. 
The second period of the Russian Civil War was a very important phase. It lasted from January to November of 1919. At first, the White Army was winning on all three fronts. But, Leon Trotsky reorganized the Red Army. The Red Army fought back, and the White Army’s loss was heavy. The White Army almost lost its fighting power.
Fighting in Crimea was the third and the final period of the Russian Civil War. Many soldiers of the White Army had gathered in Crimea. They had made their position very secure and strong. The Red Army continued to fight with them. When the Polish-Soviet War ended, more soldiers of the Red Army could reinforce their comrades in Crimea. This action defeated the White Army in November 1920.
During and after the Russian Civil War, Soviet Russia suffered great damage. In 1920 and 1921, there was little rain, which caused serious famine in 1921. About one million Russians left Russia and went to other countries to live there on a permanent basis. Many of them were very educated and expert persons. 
Economic loss was also very big. The value of Russia’s currency (ruble) fell. In 1914, with 2 rubles one could buy a US dollar. In 1920, one had to give 1,200 rubles to buy one US dollar. Estimates say that the war cost the Soviet Russia around 50 billion rubles or $35,000,000,000.00 in today’s price. Production of industrial goods fell to very low level. For example, The Soviet Union was producing only 5 % of the cotton, and only 2 % of the iron ore, compared to the production of 1913. Generally, the production had fallen to 20% of the production of 1913.
The Russian Civil War had a very bad result for agriculture also. Farm produced only 37 % of the normal production. Number of horses fell from 35 million (in 1916) to 24 million (in 1920). The number of cattle also became less, from 58 million to 37 million. 
During this war, the government of the Soviet Union could somehow manage the country. In March 1921, four months after the defeat of the White Army in the Crimea, the Lenin administration abandoned the policy of War Communism and instead formulated the New Economic Policy which allowed denationalisation of agriculture and industry, but most financial institutions retained state ownership with a deregulation in such sectors. On 30 December 1922, the USSR was formally created, and by 1928, production returned to pre-war levels. Lenin, however, did not live to see that day: his health deteriorated rapidly since July 1922 and frequent was nearly incapacitated by strokes, and reluctantly handled gave many of his functions to Stalin and Trotsky. Lenin tried to demote Stalin, but the Party refused through a vote. He died on the 21st of January 1924 at the age of 53.
However, after few years of this war, the Soviet Union developed very fast in 1930s. But, the result of the First World War and the Russian Civil War was very bad for the life and society for the newborn Soviet Union. People always remembered their bad results.

</doc>
<doc id="31608" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31608" title="Foster's Home for Imaginary Friends">
Foster's Home for Imaginary Friends

Foster's Home For Imaginary Friends is a children's cartoon that is shown on Cartoon Network. It was created by Craig McCracken, who also made "The Powerpuff Girls". It premiered in August 2004. The cartoon finished production of its episodes on May 3rd, 2009.
In the show's world, imaginary friends are as real as humans. Once the creator decides he or she does not want the imaginary friend anymore, they are sent to live at "Foster's Home for Imaginary Friends," an adoption home for the unwanted imaginary friends.
In the ninety-minute debut episode, an imaginary friend named Bloo is allowed to live in the house without being available for adoption, as long as his creator Mac visits him every day at 3 o'clock. The show from this point onwards is about their many silly adventures with their new friends, both imaginary and human.
The main characters are:

</doc>
<doc id="31609" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31609" title="Interpol">
Interpol

Interpol is the short form of International Criminal Police Organization. It began in 1923. Now, Interpol is the second biggest international organization; the United Nations is the biggest. Some important information about Interpol:
In 1923, Interpol begun its functioning from Austria. At that time, its name was "International Criminal Police Commission" (ICPM). During the Second World War, Nazi Germany controlled Austria. ICPM also came under Nazi control. They used it for collecting many types of information. After the Second World War, senior military men of Belgium, France, Scandinavia, and the United Kingdom made many changes in ICPM. Thereafter, ICPM started to work in its new form.
The Interpol General Secretariat is the main office of Interpol. The highest-ranking officer of Interpol is the president. Just below him, there is a secretary general. In 2001, about 384 persons from 54 countries worked in this secretariat. Earlier the working time was from 9 o’clock in the morning till 5 o’clock in the evening. Now, this secretariat works all 24 hours without any break. In 2001, Interpol could help in arresting or finding out about 1400 persons, generally criminals. 
Interpol does not take any political side in its work. It takes cases where the crime or the matter relates to more than one country. It looks after many types of cases. Some of them are note below:
Over the years, Interpol has developed a method of its working. Each member country keeps a special office. The name of this office in every member country is National Central Bureau (NCB). If necessary, Interpol contacts this office for getting information or for any other action. In turn, the National Central Bureau gets in touch with Interpol (on behalf of the member country) to ask for any assistance. 
Interpol also has collected a large data about criminals and crimes. Such information includes information about illegal drug trade, lost and stolen passports and visas. Member countries may use the information. Officers of Interpol do not directly conduct any enquiry or investigation. This is always done through the policemen of the member country. 

</doc>
<doc id="31611" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31611" title="El Niño–Southern Oscillation">
El Niño–Southern Oscillation

El Niño-Southern Oscillation (ENSO in short) is a term for a natural event that takes place in the Pacific Ocean. It is also called El Niño and La Niña. In Spanish they mean "little boy" and "little girl". El Niño is also used in Spanish for the infant Jesus. 
El Niño happens when the sea water temperature rises in surface waters of the tropical Pacific Ocean. Every two to five years the Pacific Ocean has this event. A weak, warm current starts around Christmas along the coast of Ecuador and Peru. It lasts for only a few weeks to a month or more. Every three to seven years, an El Niño event may last for many months. This can change the weather and have important effects around the world. Australia and Southeast Asia can have drought but the deserts of Peru have very heavy rainfall. East Africa can have both. In a La Nina event the weather patterns are reversed.
The Southern Oscillation was discovered by Sir Gilbert Walker in 1923. It is a "seesaw" of atmospheric pressure between the Pacific and Indian Oceans. There is an inverse relationship between the air pressure measured at two sites: Darwin, Australia, in the Indian Ocean and the island of Tahiti in the South Pacific. The Southern Oscillation Index (SOI) is the difference in sea-level pressure measured at Tahiti and Darwin. The Cold Tongue (CT) Index measures how much the average sea-surface temperature in the central and eastern Pacific near the equator varies from the annual cycle. The two measurements are anti-correlated, so that a negative SOI is usually together with an unsual warm ocean wind known as El Nino.
By the early 1980s it was clear that El Niño and the Southern Oscillation were related, and the acronym ENSO is used to describe this large-scale event.
The 2010-2011 Queensland floods were caused by a La Nina event which brought very heavy rain to the east coast of Australia. Other big floods in Australia have also happened during a La Nina, 1916, 1917, 1950, 1954-1956, and 1973-1975. The cost of the 2010-2011 Queensland floods has been worked out to A$30 billion.
Not all El Niños happen in the Eastern Pacific. During recent decades, Central Pacific El Niños have been discovered. When these happen, the effects from CP El Niños are very different from traditional El Niños. Central Pacific El Niños took place in 1986–88, 1991–92, 1994–95, 2002–03, 2004–05, 2006–07, 2009–10 and 2015–16.

</doc>
<doc id="31617" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31617" title="Pressure cooker">
Pressure cooker

A pressure cooker is a type of pot with a very tight lid.
As the liquid in the cooker gets hot, pressure rises. Higher pressure results in a higher boiling point. Pressure cookers allow cooking at higher temperatures, which allows faster cooking.

</doc>
<doc id="31621" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31621" title="1710">
1710

Year 1710 (MDCCX) was a year starting on Wednesday of the Gregorian calendar.

</doc>
<doc id="31625" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31625" title="Pescozada">
Pescozada

Pescozada is a hip-hop group from El Salvador. Their members are two men named Debil Estar and Fat Lui. They rap about gangs, politics, and the future of El Salvador. Their songs include "Primer Acto" and "I Could Fly". They rap in Spanish.

</doc>
<doc id="31626" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31626" title="Rhyme">
Rhyme

Rhyme means words that sound the same or similar in their endings. Poems and popular song lyrics often use rhyme. A simple poem can also be called a rhyme.
Many examples of rhyme are in folk songs, children's songs, and of course in nursery rhymes. Rhymes at the ends of the lines in a song or poem are normal:
The counting song
uses "internal rhymes," rhymes that fall within a single line instead of at the end of lines. In another children's poem,
"knack" and "whack" give another example of internal rhyme. Also, the rhymes at the ends of the lines, "bone" and "home", are not "exact rhymes." Exact rhymes are the same in everything but the first sound. Exact rhymes are the most common type of rhyme and can be formed easily with common sounds in English:
Other rhymes are not exact but only similar:
Here, the rhymes are not exact rhymes. Also, "gander" and "wander" are "sight rhymes," words that look like rhymes when printed but do not sound quite alike. Sight rhymes are more common in poetry meant to be read, than in songs or verse meant to be sung or spoken aloud and heard by listeners.
Rhymes can be made up of more than one word, as in the short poem "Rondeau" by James Henry Leigh Hunt:
Along with simple normal rhymes, "met" and "get", "sad" and "add", and one internal rhyme, "health" and "wealth", Hunt creates sets of clever two-word rhymes.
Some poets and writers use very unusual rhymes. Well-known examples are in the song lyrics to the 1939 MGM film version of L. Frank Baum's "The Wizard of Oz". The lyrics, written by E. Y. "Yip" Harburg, use many odd rhymes, plus internal rhymes, complex rhyme patterns, and other tricks of language. W. S. Gilbert, the lyricist for the Gilbert and Sullivan comic operas, wrote the same way. The books of Dr. Seuss are also famous for their many strange rhymes.
Poets who choose to avoid rhyme write in blank verse or free verse.

</doc>
<doc id="31628" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31628" title="Lock">
Lock

A lock is a fastening device: a thing which keeps people from opening something, such as a door or a box. Locks can be released by an object called a key, or by an electronic card, or by secret information, like a code. The verb to lock means to set the lock so the door or object is closed. A person who works on locks is called a locksmith.
A key lock is a lock that uses a key (a piece of metal with teeth like a little saw) to open it. Someone must put the key in the lock and turn it to open the lock. This lock is used in doors and locks for boxes. Key locks can be defeated by picking them.
A combination lock is a lock that uses a dial (a knob with numbers all around it) to open it. Someone must turn the dial to the right numbers in the right order. This is called the "combination." This lock is used on safes and locks for bicycles.
An electronic lock is a special lock that can only be opened with a message from a computer. This message can be stored in a computer chip on a card (called a "key card" or "security card"). Or it can be made by a computer looking at someone's fingerprint or eye. 
Time locks are used in banks. They prevent anyone opening the vault until a preset time. This defeats burglary attempts when the bank is closed.
Padlocks are probably the most common type of lock. They are opened either with a key or a combination. The best way to break them is to snap the hoop with a long-handled bolt cutter.
Pin tumbler locks, commonly called 'Yale locks', are very common for fastening doors. They were indeed invented by Linus Yale Jnr in the 1860s.
Deadbolts are locks which cannot be moved to the open position except by rotating the cylinder.
Spring latch lock. The common door latch which locks when you pull the door closed. It is much less secure than a deadbolt lock, but more convenient.
No lock is completely safe, though some are safer than others. Locks can be defeated by brute force or by lock picking. The most common brute force tool is the crowbar, commonly called (UK) a jimmy or jerry or (US) a wrecking bar.
Picking involve tools such as pin-tumbler lock picks, skeleton keys, bump keys, pick guns etc. Carrying these tools, especially after dark, is an arrestible offence in most countries except if the owner is a registered locksmith.

</doc>
<doc id="31629" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31629" title="Knob">
Knob

A knob is a round handle that can be turned or pulled. A doorknob is a round handle that is turned to open a door. A cabinet knob is a small handle that is pulled to open a cabinet door or drawer. A control knob can turn a lamp on and off or make the volume on a radio go up or down.
A "knob" can also be any small, round thing that sticks out.

</doc>
<doc id="31641" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31641" title="The Sims 2">
The Sims 2

The Sims 2 is a 2004 video game and the sequel to "The Sims". It is a simulation game made by Maxis and EA Games.
The game features a full 3D graphics engine. Like the first "The Sims" game, it has many expansion packs.
EA released a sequel, "The Sims 3", in June 2009.
There are now six life stages: baby, toddler, child, teenager, adult, and elder. An additional young adult stage is added when you get the University expansion pack. Sims can now grow up and eventually die. In the first game, Sims would stay children forever and adults would stay adults forever. Teenagers can hold jobs as well as go to school.
Careers have gone under many changes. There is now a schedule; there are seven days in a week, and Sims at school are off on Saturday and Sunday. Sims can now get paid vacation days and start working 4–5 days a week. A meter measures job performance (their mood when they get to work). A new thing called "chance cards" lets the player pick what to do in a situation. Sims can gain/lose skill points, gain/lose money, or be promoted, demoted, or even fired.
Children and teenagers now bring homework home and their grades rise or fall depending on whether they finish it or not. Teenagers can hold jobs as well as go to school, but if their grades drop too low they can lose their job.
Other new things are wants and fears. These change when a want or fear is done or when the Sim wakes up from sleep.
Also, Sims can have aspirations (big things they want to do) like to have a family, to have many friends, to fall in love, to learn a lot, or to have a lot of money. A player can choose which aspiration they want their Sim to have, and the aspirations will affect their wants and fears. For example, a Sim with the family aspiration might want to have a child, but a Sim with the money aspiration might want to get a job instead.
Like in the first Sims game, a mother Sim and a father Sim can have a child. Also, children can be made at the start of the game or got from the adoption service.
One of the biggest changes in Sims 2 is that a Sim can go to a community lot (a place in the town like a store or a park). They can go there by using the phone to call a taxi.
These are addons to the game which add new items, new places and new features. They are listed in the order that they came out in the shops. They are meant to come out 2 times a year.
There are eight expansion packs in total.
These are packages that add only items to the game. They are less expensive than the regular expansion packs.

</doc>
<doc id="31648" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31648" title="RollerCoaster Tycoon">
RollerCoaster Tycoon

RollerCoaster Tycoon (or RCT) is a series of computer games where the user can make their own theme park. Each game in the series allows players to construct their own theme parks in an objective-based level. Players can also build their own roller coasters.
The first game was made by three people: designer and programmer Chris Sawyer, artist Simon Foster and composer Alistar Brimble. It was published by Hasbro Interactive.
The game was very popular. It was released for the PC.
These are the games which have been released:
This is the original game, for the PC. It was released in 1999 There is a long list of scenarios (levels) which the user can complete. Users can also download famous theme parks from the internet. A large amount of rides and shops are included with the game.
Also named 'Corkscrew Follies'. It was released in 1999 This game includes many more levels and some more rides and shops are added. The original game MUST be installed to be able to play this one.
This addon also includes the "Added Attractions Pack". It was released in 2000 for the PC. It includes three famous theme parks: Blackpool Pleasure Beach, Alton Towers and Heide Park. It adds many more levels and rides to the game.
The 2002 sequel to RCT was made because of the success of the first game. It had the same interface but it added a few new features:
The game also added support for buildings to be made using walls to make ride entrances. It included famous Six Flags theme parks and their rides.
There are two expansion packs released for RCT2. These are:
RCT3 is the first game in the series to use full 3D graphics. It was released in 2004. Players can ride their rides and rollercoasters for the first time. Night and day is a new feature. Firework displays can now be made to custom music.
RCT3 now has a sandbox mode. This is where the user can build a park with all items available and unlimited money. It is a good way to build parks in practise for the 'Career Mode'. There are many Scenarios packaged with the game. Each one can be completed on three difficulty levels. More are added with the expansion packs. This game adds the ability to make your own Peep groups to wander around your park.
This is the first expansion pack to be released for RCT3. It was released in 2005. The User can build water parks with different types of waterslides. He or she can also build swimming pools. A few water-themes attractions have been added as well as new shops. The number of scenarios available is doubled with this expansion pack. It also adds some new music to the game. This Expansion Pack came with the Hershey's Stormrunner and the Rollersoaker. Both based on coasters based on real coaster designs at Hershey Park somewhere in the U.S.A.
The Fireworks mode has been upgraded to a Laser and Water display feature as well. The user can now make longer shows to their music.
This expansion pack was released in 2005. The users can now add animals to their park. A new set of animal-themed rides have been added, like the 'Insect House' and 'Elephant Ride'. The game has new music and new scenery. Also some new shops have been added. There are a lot of scenarios added as well as some jungle themed music. This expansion pack came with the Extended Coaster which is basically a dream coaster. It has the most inversion parts and also the ability to make beyond vertical drops like on SAW the ride at Thorpe Park.

</doc>
<doc id="31649" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31649" title="Fuhua Secondary School">
Fuhua Secondary School

Fuhua Secondary School is a school in Jurong West, Singapore. It started in 2000 and the founding principal was Ong Kian Choon from Chung Cheng High(Branch). Oen Siew Yock took over as principal in 2005 when Ong transferred to Nan Chiau High School. The Vice Principal is Ronald Lu Jing Yuan.
Fuhua has 4 core values:
Although Fuhua's history is short, unlike other established schools, Fuhua has won many awards since its start. The school is most famous for its robotics team, known as Fubotics. Students has gone on to South Korea representing Singapore in a robotics meet in 2003. Many of its performing arts groups clinched an Singapore Youth Festival (SYF) Silver award in the second time they took part in the SYF competition.
Fuhua's NCC (Land) Unit have also achieved outstanding performance in the Best Unit Competition 2004/05. They have clinched the Gold award and hopes to maintain it in 2006.
Fuhua's NPCC Unit have clinched a Silver Award for the year 2005. An improvement from the previous, clinching a bronze in 2004. 
Every year, the NCC would organise its annual shooting competition. For the year 2004, a team comprising of 5 shooters from then Part C(Sec 3) have shot their way to being the 1st in the West District and 6th in the national. For the year 2005, the shooters have achieved 4th in the nation and Part A Jia Hao ranked 4th in the individual IMT shoot.
Fuhua's uniform is similar to that of Chung Cheng High School. It is an all-white Uniform. There are shoulder lapels on the shirt/blouse. It is secured by metal epaulettes. The shirt/blouse has chest pockets and metal epaulettes are also placed on the pockets. Upper Secondary male students wear long pants instead. 
Its attire for physical education (PE) compromises of a red attire. The school crest is placed on the left chest. The word "Fuhua" spreads from the right to the left at the front. At the back of the PE T-shirt, "Fuhua Secondary" is slightly curved and spans from the left to the right.
The school blazer is bright red in colour. Students have to wear their tie with the blazer. The tie is blue in colour with yellow diagonal stripes. The word "fuhua" is placed on top of these stripes.
The school has co-curricular activities
A drama was filmed in 2005. Called "Subject to Change", it was directed by Jason Ye. There was another film, a documentary on cosplay. This documentary won the Silver award, an improvement compared to the previous year's documentary on Pets, which bagged the Bronze award.
The school holds its speech day every year in March or April. In 2006, the school held its Speech Day in the morning, unlike the previous year, which held its Speech Day at night. This was because the school had organised its bi-annual cultural night.
In 2006, Fuhua started aesthetics education lessons.
The school has an air rifle range and an aesthetics room, where NCC Cadets can practice drumming.
The aesthetics room was officially opened on 31 March 2006 by the school's Advisory Committee Member, Mr Yip Mein Hui. The opening coincided ith the school's Speech Day.

</doc>
<doc id="31656" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31656" title="Eintracht Frankfurt">
Eintracht Frankfurt

Eintracht Frankfurt is a German sports club, best known for the football section.
The club plays in the Bundesliga. They have won the German Championship once and German Cup (DFB-Pokal) 4 times and the UEFA Cup once.
They were founded in 1899. The team colours are red, black and white. They play at Commerzbank-Arena (former Waldstadion). The current captain of the side is midfielder Alexander Meier from Germany.
The coach of Eintracht Frankfurt is Niko Kovač.
Eintracht has also 16 other sections such as athletics, basketball and ice hockey.

</doc>
<doc id="31668" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31668" title="Commonwealth of Nations">
Commonwealth of Nations

The Commonwealth of Nations is a group of countries. Originally, it was called the British Commonwealth of Nations which was founded in 1926 when the British Empire began to break-up. Now, there are 53 member countries of the Commonwealth of Nations. Some countries such as the United States that were once in the Empire are not in the Commonwealth.
Some other associations have similar sounding names. For example, the Commonwealth of Australia, Commonwealth of Virginia, or Commonwealth of Independent States. The Commonwealth of Nations is different and a separate organization.
The term the Commonwealth of Nations originated in 1884. Lord Rosebery was on a visit to Australia in 1884. At Adelaide he told that over a period of time a number of colonies of the British Empire will become free and many may become more independent. He further told that all of these countries would then become the Commonwealth of Nations. The use of the term continued, though in its present form and in a practical sense the Commonwealth of Nations originated decades later.
The Commonwealth of Nations is not a political organization. Queen Elizabeth II is also head of state of 16 Commonwealth countries, referred to as Commonwealth realms. Canada and Australia are two of the largest realms. A Secretary General manages the day-to-day matters of the Commonwealth of Nations. However, the United Kingdom or the Secretary General does not have any direct or indirect control over these countries. In fact, almost all the 53 members are independent countries with their own governments. These countries have come together to form an association with some common aims. Such common aims include:

</doc>
<doc id="31669" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31669" title="Interpol (disambiguation)">
Interpol (disambiguation)


</doc>
<doc id="31671" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31671" title="Nuclear meltdown">
Nuclear meltdown

A nuclear meltdown describes a malfunction of a nuclear reactor. A nuclear meltdown occurs when the middle portion of the nuclear reactor (its "core") is not properly cooled. This can occur when the cooling system fails or is otherwise defective. If this happens, uranium or plutonium or similar materials inside the nuclear reactor become hot and may start melting or dissolving. It is this melting that is a nuclear meltdown. 
Around the world, some nuclear meltdowns have occurred. Some of them were mild, but few of them were very serious. Nuclear meltdowns can kill people from radiation poisoning.
The very last accident was the Fukushima nuclear disaster in March 2011. Four reactors at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant had cooling problems after back-up diesel generators were destroyed by the tsunami.
In 1986, a nuclear meltdown occurred in a place named Chernobyl (Ukraine). In this case, all the people living in the towns and the villages (near the defective nuclear reactor) had to move to far away places. 
Many Russian submarines get power from nuclear energy produced inside these submarines. These are nuclear submarines. Some such nuclear submarines have faced nuclear meltdown.
Sometimes, the nuclear meltdown may happen immediately. For example, the nuclear reactor at Chernobyl. Sometimes, the nuclear meltdown may take many hours to happen. For example, the nuclear meltdown at Three Mile Island, (Pennsylvania, United States) took many hours to happen. 

</doc>
<doc id="31672" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31672" title="Zoroaster">
Zoroaster

Zoroaster, or Zarathushtra, was an ancient prophet who lived in Persia. He founded a religion named Zoroastrianism. This religion has a long history. It was the national religion of Sassanid Empire of ancient Iran. In Persian language, the name takes the form of "Zartosht".
Most of the scholars agree that Zoroaster was a real person who lived long back. No one is certain about the time when he lived. Estimates tell that he lived about 3200 years before, around 1200 BC. Some other estimates tell that Zarathushtra may have lived anywhere between the 18th century BC and the 6th century BC. 

</doc>
<doc id="31673" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31673" title="Russian Empire">
Russian Empire

The Russian Empire, also called Imperial Russia, was a country which was located in Europe as well as Asia. It started in 1721 when Peter I of Russia proclaimed it. Before that, it was known as the Duchy of Moscow. It lasted until it was declared a republic in March 1917 after the Russian Revolution. It was an absolute monarchy ruled by Russian emperors known as "Tsars". Tsars believed that they had the divine right of kings over their people.
In 1914, the Russian Empire covered an area of about 21,799,825 km². In 1897, it had a population of 128,200,000 (1897 year). Its official language was the Russian language. Its official church was the Russian Orthodox Church.
This is a list of modern day countries that were part of the russian empire 
Most people in Imperial Russia were peasants. They lived mainly in rural areas until the late 19th century when the Emancipation of the Serfs freed them from the farms where they had to stay. They were allowed to marry whomever they wanted, own property, and vote.
A few people were nobility, also called boyars. They were educated and held higher prestige. Towards the end of the 19th century many of the educated wanted to remove the Tsar and give people more power.
In 1917 World War I caused the bad conditions of people who worked in factories to become even worse with a food shortage, which people blamed on the Tsar. People rebelled and the cities such as St Petersburg and Moscow were faced with riots. The Tsar was soon forced to abdicate in the February Revolution in 1917. After the October Revolution he was assassinated with his family. 
In 1922 the Russian Empire became part of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, or USSR when a communist government took over. Some of the counties in the Empire escaped but the biggest ones were forced into the USSR.

</doc>
<doc id="31675" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31675" title="International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement">
International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement

The International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement is a movement to save human life and health.
Although it is a big international organisation, it is privately run. No government controls the Red Cross.
The Red Cross has a special job, given by international law. It is the only private group to have its jobs set out by international law.
Three things make up the movement:
The Red Cross, the Red Crescent and the Red Crystal,the three international symbols of the Red Cross
According to the Geneva conventions, there are five goals for International red cross and red crescent movements;

</doc>
<doc id="31682" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31682" title="Cello">
Cello

The cello is an instrument used to play music. Its name comes from the Italian language, so it is pronounced “chello”. The full word is violoncello, but when speaking, people normally call it the “cello”. A person who plays the cello is called a “cellist”. The cello is a very popular instrument. It belongs to the string family. It has many uses: as a solo instrument, in chamber music and also in orchestras. It is also occasionally used by pop musicians, e.g. by The Beatles, Björk and Jamiroquai.
The cello came into use in the 16th century. At that time there was a family of instruments called the viols. The instruments of the violin family were also developing and there were lots of experiments with instruments of different shapes and sizes. The violone was popular as a bass instrument. It was similar to a modern double bass. The name "violoncello", means "little violone". The cello also has 4 strings. The cello developed as the bass instrument in string groups (the double bass was added later, “doubling the bass” i.e. playing the same as the cello an octave lower). It was used to accompany in basso continuo, playing the same as the left hand of the harpsichord player. When composers started to write concerti grossi (pieces for orchestra and a small group of soloists), they started to give the cello small solos. In this way the cello started to be used as a solo instrument as well. Johann Sebastian Bach wrote six very famous suites for solo cello (unaccompanied). They are among the most beautiful pieces written for the cello.
Other composers started to write works for solo cello. Joseph Haydn wrote two solo concertos for the instrument. King Friedrich Wilhelm II of Prussia loved the cello, and he inspired Haydn, Mozart and Beethoven to write music with interesting cello parts. The cello was now an equal with the other string instruments, no longer just playing a simple bass line.
In the 19th century many famous composers wrote cello music. A lot of them were cellists themselves e.g. Carl Davidov, David Popper and Julius Klengel. Some very famous composers who wrote important cello music were: Mendelssohn, Chopin, Schumann, Brahms, Dvořák, Fauré, Saint-Saëns, Elgar, Sergei Rakhmaninov. Two famous pieces written more recently for cello and orchestra are the "Cello Symphony" by Benjamin Britten and "The Protecting Veil" by John Tavener.
The parts of the cello are similar to those of the violin. The strings are tuned to E – A – D – G, (low to high) exactly one octave higher than the double bass. The cello is played sitting down and holding the instrument between the knees. There is an end-pin which rests on the ground. This is adjustable in height so that the player can put it in a position to make himself/herself comfortable. The cello is normally played with a bow.
The cello has a deep, rich sound. It starts one octave below middle E, but can go very high. For the highest notes the player can use “thumb position” (a violinist cannot do this). This means that the left thumb is pressing down on one or two strings high up over the fingerboard (“high” means “nearer the bridge” where the high notes are. In fact, it is nearer to the floor). Although cello music is most frequently written in the bass clef, cello music often goes quite high so that the tenor clef is used especially in the solo repertory.
The most famous cellist of the early part of the 1900s was the Spanish cellist Pablo Casals. He made the cello popular as a solo instrument today. Casals also discovered the famous Suites for cello by J.S. Bach which had been lost. 
Some other famous cellists of the last century include Emanuel Feuermann, Gregor Piatigorski, Paul Tortelier, Jacqueline du Pré and Mstislav Rostropovich. 
Cellists of today include Yo-Yo Ma, Julian Lloyd Webber, Octavia Philharmonica, Mischa Maisky, Tim Hugh, Robert Cohen, Pieter Wispelwey and Truls Mørk.

</doc>
<doc id="31687" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31687" title="European colonization of the Americas">
European colonization of the Americas

European colonization of the Americas started with the discovery of America by Columbus in 1492. However, about 500 years before Colombus, the Norse had reached America and colonized Vinland. But, they did not continue. Thus, in a practical sense, colonization of the Americas began with the arrival of Columbus.
The first Europeans to reach America had been Vikings. 
These strong sailors and warriors lived in Scandinavia, the north end of Europe. About the year AD 1000 their crew reached the coast of North America. That place they named Vinland meaning “wineland”. The settlement at Vinland was soon abandoned.
In 1300s - 1400s people in western Europe searched for trading routes between the Indies and Europe, because the old spice trade route was too hard and too long. Prices were also high because groups of merchants controlled the trade and could charge whatever they wished. Some geographers thought the world was so small, ships could sail west around the world to reach East Asia. The Genoese sea captain Christoforo Columbo persuaded Queen Isabella of Castile to finance an expedition to do this.
In August 1492, Columbus left southern Spain with three ships: Nina, Pinta and Santa Maria. On October 12, after weeks at sea, the ships reached an island in the Bahamas. Columbus named this island San Salvador. He thought it was an island of India, so he called the people "Indians". 
Columbus next sailed farther into the Caribbean, reaching Cuba where he saw people smoking tobacco. Then he sailed back to Spain. The King and Queen gave Columbus many honors.
On his later voyages Columbus took more men, including missionaries. The ships also carried farm animals and supplies to establish colonies. He established a new settlement on an island that is now the Dominican Republic.
After they realized that they found a “New World” but not a new route to Asia, the main task of the Spanish was to gain the new lands. The conquistadors had permission from the Queen to explore and conquer the New World.
Spanish conquistadors with only a few hundred soldiers defeated large Indian empires. In 1519 Hernando Cortes and few hundred soldiers marched into Aztec capital and eventually destroyed the city, later rebuilt as Mexico City. Francisco Pizarro was able to conquer the Inca Empire. The Spanish won for several reasons. Indians thought that they were Gods and they were afraid of horses and guns. The Indians also fought each other.
The Spanish and Portuguese people were the first to colonize many parts of South America and Central America in the 16th century. They also won many parts of North America. In the next century, people from many countries of Europe reached the Americas. They settled mostly in North America since the Spanish and Portuguese already had the warm countries. France and England were the most successful in these later colonies. England took the middle of eastern North America, and the French took what they could further north. Eventually, the English colonists took over most of the French territory.
The people in the southern English colonies sought gold at first. However, they had good soil, and because of this they could grow cash crops, starting with tobacco. The English people in colonies further north could not grow these crops so easily. The ones who started New England were Puritans and wanted to be free from the Anglicans back home. The Middle Colonies were more commercial. They traded furs, and grew food for themselves and the other English colonies and later exported some back to England. 
The Spanish settled in Central America and South America, mining for gold and silver, and farming tobacco, the Spanish had a surplus of labor, because they used the Natives to do the work for them, this was called Encomienda. In some places this system killed too many of the natives, so they imported slaves from Africa. The Portuguese grew much sugar and other tropical cash crops in Brazil and imported many Africans for this purpose. They were the biggest buyers in the Atlantic slave trade.
France had colonies in the Caribbean, and also in the north of the North American mainland which they called Canada. In the north they were looking for what we call the Northwest Passage, finding a route to Asia. They had a low population, forcing them to cooperate with the natives to survive. The French had major profits in the fur trade until they lost Canada in the French and Indian War. The French Caribbean colonies were warm and good for farming, so they bought many slaves. French Canada had poor farmland, so no slaves.

</doc>
<doc id="31688" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31688" title="Doha">
Doha

Doha (Arabic: الدوحة;, Ad-Dawḥah or Ad-Dōḥah) is the capital city of Qatar. It has a population of 400,051 (2005), and is at 25.3° N 51.5333° E, on the Persian Gulf. The city is home to Doha International Airport and the major oil and fishing industries. Doha is also home to Education City, an area devoted to research and education. Doha was the host of the 2006 Asian Games, a major Asian sporting event.
It is bordered by Saudi Arabia on its South and the Persian gulf on its North, East and West.

</doc>
<doc id="31690" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31690" title="Bandar Seri Begawan">
Bandar Seri Begawan

Bandar Seri Begawan is the capital city of Brunei. It has a population of 140,000 (2010 estimate). The city is the home of producers of furniture, textiles, handcrafts, and timber. It is the site of the Royal Ceremonial Hall or Lapau, Royal Regalia Building, the Sultan Omar Ali Saifuddien Mosque, the Malay Technology Museum, and the Brunei History Center. Bandar Seri Begawan is located at 4°55' North, 114°55' East (4.91667, 114.91667).

</doc>
<doc id="31691" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31691" title="Thimphu">
Thimphu

Thimphu (ཐིམ་ཕུ་) is the capital city of Bhutan. It is the name of the surrounding valley and dzongkhag, the Thimphu District. It has a population of 50,000 (2003), it is the largest population center in the country. Thimphu is located at 27°28′00″N, 89°38′30″E.

</doc>
<doc id="31692" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31692" title="Colombo">
Colombo

Colombo (; ) is the largest city of Sri Lanka. It is the city which is economically most important to the country. It has 642,163 people. It is on the southwest coast close to the capital city of Kotte.
The name Colombo is borrowed from Sinhala language name Kola-amba-thota which means "harbor with leafy mango trees". Traveller Ibn Batuta in the 14th century referred to it as "Kalanpu".

</doc>
<doc id="31693" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31693" title="Malé">
Malé

Malé (Dhivehi: މާލެ) is the capital city of the Maldives. It has a population of 81,647 (2004). The city is on Malé Island in the Kaafu Atoll. Although Malé is in Kaafu Atoll, administratively it is not considered part of it. There is a commercial harbor in the Island. It is the center of all commercial activities in the country. Many government buildings and agencies are on the waterfront. Malé International Airport is close to Hulhule Island which includes a seaplane base for internal transportation.
and male' has the most beautiful reefs on earth. Male's current president is Yameen Abdulgayoom and it is known as the smallest city on earth.

</doc>
<doc id="31694" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31694" title="Islamabad">
Islamabad

Islamabad (, "abode of Islam") is the Federal capital city of Pakistan, and is in the Pothohar Plateau in the northwest of the country. Islamabad Town is also a town in Jammu and Kashmir. It is in the Islamabad Capital Territory, though the area has historically been a part of the crossroads of the Punjab region and the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province (the Margalla Pass being a historic gateway to the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, and the Pothohar Plateau historically is a part of the Punjab region). Islamabad is at 33°40′N 73°10′E. 
This city is rich in nature. It is surrounded by the Margalla Hills. It has a humid subtropical climate ("Cwa" in the Koeppen climate classification).
The places that attract the tourists include:
Islamabad has a large number of educational institutions including colleges, universities and technical education and training bodies.Some of them are:

</doc>
<doc id="31702" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31702" title="Wall of Voodoo">
Wall of Voodoo

Wall of Voodoo is a rock band from the United States. The band was from Los Angeles, California. The band's music style was punk and new wave. Their most famous song was "Mexican Radio".
The band's genesis was in a Hollywood company called "Acme Soundtracks", a commercially unsuccessful venture founded in 1977 in Hollywood by songwriter Stan Ridgway. Ridgway's intent for the company was to provide soundtrack music for independently produced low-budget horror films; unfortunately, they found few takers for their services. Instead, Acme Soundtracks evolved into a band that played live shows, as Ridgway (vocals, harmonica, keyboards) enlisted Marc Moreland (guitar) followed by Marc's brother Bruce Moreland (bass), Chas T. Gray (keyboards), and Joe Nanini (percussion) to the line-up.
The band was named Wall Of Voodoo by Ridgway before their first gig in reference to a comment made while recording and overdubbing a Kalamazoo Rhythm Ace drum machine, a gift to Ridgway by writer and iconic voice over artist Daws Butler, partner to Stan Freberg, voice of Yogi Bear and many other Hanna-Barbera characters. When someone jokingly compared the multiple drum machine and farfisa organ laden recordings to Phil Spector's Wall Of Sound, Ridgway commented it sounded more like a "Wall Of Voodoo", and the name stuck.
Actually, for new listeners, the voodoo reference was a little misleading, as it referred to the music's often spooky quality, as opposed to any Haitian or Caribbean influences. In fact, WoV's music could fairly have been described as a cross between early synthesizer pop (especially that of Devo) and Ennio Morricone's spaghetti western soundtracks. Adding to the music's distinctiveness was Ridgway's unusual vocal style, a half-spoken western drawl, and Nanini's percussive experimentation, mixing drum machines with found instruments such as pots, pans and various kitchen utensils, as well as Marc Moreland's distinctive guitar.
In 1980, Wall Of Voodoo released their self-titled debut EP, which included a cover version of Johnny Cash's Ring of Fire, as well as three original songs and a few snippets of atmospheric Acme Soundtracks work. In 1981 the band released Dark Continent, an album concerned largely with workplace issues.
After that album, bassist Bruce Moreland exited the band, and Gray doubled up on both bass and keyboards. Now a quartet, in 1982 WoV recorded their best-known album with producer Richard Mazda, Call of the West, which included "Mexican Radio". Though "Mexican Radio" did not make the top 40 in either the US or the UK, it was a sizeable underground hit, and the song's video received heavy airplay on MTV in the US and MuchMusic in Canada.
Wall Of Voodoo added Bill Noland from L.A.'s quirky outfit Human Hands as a keyboardist in 1982, but increasing tensions within the band eventually led to a breakup of the band after the Us Festival in 1983. Ridgway would there after embark on a solo career, which netted him much critical acclaim and a top 5 hit in the UK with the 1986 single "Camouflage" in addition to songs such as "The Big Heat","Drive She Said" and "Salesman". Numerous solo recordings have followed.
Noland and Nanini also left the band in 1983. WoV regrouped in 1984 with a new lead singer (Andy Prieboy), as well as a new drummer (Ned Leukhardt) and returning bassist Bruce Moreland. 
A 1984 single ("Big City") was followed by two albums from this lineup: 1985's Seven Days in Sammystown, and 1987's Happy Planet. The Sammystown album also spawned "Far Side Of Crazy", a minor hit single in Australia.
Bruce Moreland again exited the band before their final album in 1989, the live recording "The Ugly Americans In Australia". 
After the final break-up, Andy Prieboy issued three solo albums :"Upon My Wicked Son", "Montezuma Was A Man of Faith" and "Sins of The Father." "Wicked Son" featured the haunting ballad "Tomorrow Wendy" which was covered by a score of bands, most notably Concrete Blonde on their hit "Bloodletting" album. 
Marc Moreland recorded with Pretty & Twisted and Department of Crooks as well as issuing a solo album shortly before his death on March 13, 2002.
Stan Ridgway continues to release numerous recordings and projects, including collaborations with his wife, composer Pietra Wexstun of the electronic lounge band Hecate's Angels. These include "Soundtrack for Blood" (2003), a musical score to an exhibit of paintings by the surrealist artist Mark Ryden, and "Barbecue Babylon", the latest album by Drywall, their "experimental noise combo trio" with electric guitarist Rick King. 
Ridgway's most recent solo cd is "Snakebite - Blacktop Ballads and Fugitive Songs" (2005) which featured the amazing song Talkin' Wall Of Voodoo Blues.
A newly reformed Wall Of Voodoo recently opened for Cyndi Lauper at the 2006 Pacific Amphitheatre Summer Concert Series at the OC Fair. 
The line up consisted of Stan Ridgway - vocals, harmonica, farfisa organ, compass, polygraph, and new members Joe Berardi - percussion, drums, foley, laugh box, gong, atomic clock, Rick King - guitar, twang wire, tremolo tonic, bees vs moths, maps, Pietra Wexstun - keys, electric piano, C3 organ, tarot cards, mind reading, Jeff Boynton - keys, moog, oberheim, circuit bending and soldering iron, David Sutton - bass, thunder stick, vitalis, casuals, and golf balls, Richard Mazda - Special Guest, guitar, clavinet, SFX, points of discussion, producer-dude of Call Of The West and Mexican Radio, and other strange things. Andy Prieboy, Chas T Gray and Bill Noland were approached to participate but declined. All sent their well wishes and may contribute in the future.
Drummer Joe Nanini died of a brain hemorrhage on December 4, 2000.
Guitarist Marc Moreland died of kidney and liver failure on March 13, 2002.

</doc>
<doc id="31707" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31707" title="Khyber Pass">
Khyber Pass

The Khyber Pass (also called the Khaiber Pass or Khaybar Pass) () is a pass between Pakistan with Afghanistan; National "border" Pass (International). It is the "National Pass" of Pakistan, and connects the frontiers of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan, to Afghanistan.
Throughout history it has been an important trade route between Central Asia and South Asia, and a strategic military place. The actual pass summit is 5 kilometers inside Pakistan at Landi Kotal. The pass cuts through the Safed Koh mountains which are a far southeastern extension of the Hindu Kush range.the height of the khyber pass is 1,070 and width is 140m.
The area around the Pass is inhabited by a number of Pashtun tribes, especially the Afridis. 

</doc>
<doc id="31713" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31713" title="Ground zero">
Ground zero

Ground zero is the name for the exact place where an explosion occurs. It is the place where the most damage happens. The farther away from ground zero, the less damage there is. Sometimes, people say "ground zero" about a famous explosion, like the atomic bomb in Hiroshima or the World Trade Center attacks. These places can have special markers at ground zero.

</doc>
<doc id="31715" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31715" title="Anne Rice">
Anne Rice

Anne Rice (born Howard Allen O'Brien, 4 October 1941) is an American author of horror/fantasy novels. "Interview with the Vampire" and "The Queen of the Damned" are among her best-known works. She has written four series, including "The Vampire Chronicles" and "Christ the Lord". 
She was born in New Orleans, Louisiana to Irish Roman Catholic parents. One of her sisters was novelist Alice Borchardt (1939-2007). Rice was married to poet Stan Rice (1942-2002) from 1961 his death. They had a daughter, Michele (1966-1972) and a son, novelist Christopher (born 1978). 

</doc>
<doc id="31721" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31721" title="Homemaker">
Homemaker

A homemaker is a person whose main job is to take care of his or her own family home and children. Traditionally, the job of homemaker is done by women and the job of provider is done by men.
Because it has been the traditional job of a woman to be a "homemaker", a woman who spends most of her time caring for the family home has been called a "housewife". Many women still use this word on government forms, because they see the value in homemaking. 
For many thousands of years, men have been thought of by society as the main "breadwinners" in families. This means that it has been the job of men to do work in which animals were hunted for food by one or more men, or the men grew food crops or earned money to pay for food, while the women have cared for children, prepared food for eating, cleaned the home, and made and cared for clothes.
In societies where people are "hunters and gatherers", for example the traditional society of the Australian aboriginal people, it is the men who do the hunting of animals for meat, and the women who do the gathering of other types of food such as grain, fruit and vegetables. One of the reasons is that a married woman usually had children and babies for a large part of her life. It is much easier to gather fruit with a baby on your hip or back than to hunt a fast-moving animal. So the men were able to raise up sons and daughters and the life of the community could continue into another generation. Even in a society where homes were very simple and people did not own very many things, men and women did different jobs. In the extreme conditions of the Arctic North the hunters must know how to hunt in extreme cold (among ice and snow); the women must maintain home life in huts made of ice ("igloos") and clothing needs to be made out of animal skin and insulated with moss and other plants. Babies live very close to their mothers so that they can be kept warm.
In "rural societies", where the main work is farming women have also taken care of gardens and animals around the house, brewed weak alcoholic drinks (such as ale and mead) and helped men with heavy work whenever a job needed doing in a hurry, usually because of the season.
Examples of the heavy work that a traditional "housewife" (homemaker) in a "rural society" would do are:
An "urban society" is when most people live in towns and cities. In urban societies, since ancient times, most men did work that earned money. They worked in workshops, trading, banks and other businesses as well as in churches, schools and the town council. It was seen as the job of a woman to be a "housewife" (homemaker).
Every society always has some women who never marry. They might stay at home and do "housework" for other family members, or they might work outside the house like a man. In many urban societies, there have been few jobs that a woman was allowed to do. In modern society there are still strong traditions about the jobs that women should do.
In the 19th century (1801-1900) more and more women began to stop being homemakers and began to do jobs that men usually did. At this time many big factories were set up, first in England then in some other European countries and the United States as well. Many thousands of young women went to work in factories.
Other women, like Florence Nightingale, stopped being housewives and did dirty dangerous jobs, even though they were not poor and did not need to work. In most families where there was a husband and wife, everybody thought it was the job of the husband to earn money and the job of the woman to be a "housewife" (homemaker). Women were often very proud to be a good homemaker and have their house and children spotlessly clean, their husband's shirts neatly pressed, and tasty meals to eat every night.
In the first half of the 20th century (1901-1950) there were two big wars (World War I and World War II) that were fought by men from many countries. While the men were at war, their wives went to work to keep the countries running. Women, who were also homemakers, worked in factories, businesses and farms. 
By the 1960s in western countries there was the idea that it was all right for a woman to work and be a "career girl" until the woman got married, when she should stop work and be a "housewife" (homemaker).
At this time, when more and more women had good educations and were able to earn a lot of money, in some families (usually if there were young children to care for) the husband would be the person that was the homemaker. (See above:The term "homemaker)
Nowadays, in many families where both the husband and wife do paid work, both partners share in the "housework" and caring for the children. In other families, there is still a traditional idea that housework" is the job of the wife, so the husband works to provide for the family and the wife stays home to care for her house and children". In addition, in some families, the wife works to provide for the family and the husband stays home to care for the home and the children. 
The job of a homemaker is to take care of a family and the place where the family lives. The usual things that a homemaker does are:

</doc>
<doc id="31722" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31722" title="Necktie">
Necktie

A necktie (or "tie") is an article of clothing worn by men. A tie is part of an ensemble (or outfit) of clothing called the "suit and tie." This outfit is worn in Western countries by men in professional jobs such as business, law, and politics.
A necktie is usually made of silk or polyester, and it usually has a color or pattern on it. Men tie a knot in neckties and wear them with dress shirts in order to make them look more formal.
The bow tie is a type of necktie. It is a ribbon of fabric tied around the collar in a symmetrical manner such that the two opposite ends form loops. 
Ready-tied bow ties are available, in which the distinctive bow is sewn and a band goes around the neck and clips to secure. Some "clip-ons" dispense with the band altogether, instead clipping to the collar. 

</doc>
<doc id="31723" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31723" title="Joke">
Joke

A joke is something told to make people laugh. There are many kinds of jokes; they can be questions with surprising answers or stories with unexpected endings. The humour of a joke comes from the surprise. 
Jokes can be about anything. Jokes can be found anywhere: on the Internet, in books or heard from friends. Some jokes are about certain types of people and can hurt people's feelings, for example if they are racist or sexist.
Jokes are used in comedy, plays and movies.
Jokes could take the form of sarcasm or even try to poke fun at something to get a point across. People sometimes get hurt by jokes at them. If a joke is used to show a problem in someone's thought, it is normally called satire.

</doc>
<doc id="31724" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31724" title="Brother-in-law">
Brother-in-law

A brother-in-law is the brother of someone's wife or husband. A brother-in-law is also someone's brother's or sister's husband.

</doc>
<doc id="31725" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31725" title="Sister-in-law">
Sister-in-law

Someone's sister-in-law is the wife of his or her brother or sister. Someone's sister-in-law is also his or her spouse's sister.

</doc>
<doc id="31726" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31726" title="Tuxedo">
Tuxedo

A tuxedo is an ensemble (or outfit) of clothing which includes a white dress shirt, a bow tie, dress pants, a tuxedo suit jacket (sometimes called a dinner jacket), leather dress shoes, and sometimes a vest or cummerbund, top hat and gloves. In European countries, this outfit is called black tie. Many men wear this outfit in Western countries on formal occasions like a marriage ceremony or a fancy party or dance.
The white dress shirt is usually made of cotton or linen. A dress shirt has a stiff collar and it is ironed before it is worn. A bow tie is usually made of silk or polyester, and it is usually black or white. Dress pants are made of wool or polyester, and they are ironed before they are worn. A tuxedo suit jacket is usually made of wool or polyester. Suit jackets have a collar, pockets, and a silk or polyester lining. Leather dress shoes are usually made of dark-colored leather which is polished. Sometimes, a person wearing a tuxedo will also wear a sleeveless vest with buttons in the front, a black top hat, and white gloves.
Some men wear a tuxedo for their jobs, such as symphony orchestra musicians or waiters in expensive restaurants.
Since most men do not wear tuxedos very often, they rent them when needed instead of buying them. Sometimes, men's tuxedo vests and ties match the dress of the woman he is with. They are mainly worn to big events such as weddings, dinner parties or some sort of smart dressed do. 

</doc>
<doc id="31727" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31727" title="Experience points">
Experience points

Experience points are numbers used in certain role-playing games. Gaining enough experience points usually leads to the player "leveling up". Each "level up" means that the player is more powerful than before. They can use better weapons, armor and magic. Most games have a maximum level that the player can achieve, which means they cannot get any more experience points.

</doc>
<doc id="31729" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31729" title="Eagle (disambiguation)">
Eagle (disambiguation)

Eagle could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="31730" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31730" title="Hide (musician)">
Hide (musician)

, better known by his stage name hide, was a Japanese musician, singer and songwriter, best known for his work as the lead guitarist of the heavy metal band X Japan. He was also a successful solo artist, and formed the American-based band Zilch. He is regarded as very influential to modern Japanese music. His music can be classified as glam rock and pop. X Japan was one of the main bands to develop the musical movement called visual kei.
hide was born at Yokosuka, in Kanagawa Prefecture. He lived and created music in Tokyo and Los Angeles. He died in Tokyo on 2 May 1998, after a night of drinking. He committed suicide.
hide's solo project was called hide with Spread Beaver. It was formed at the start of 1998, and was based in Los Angeles. They released three single CDs and one album. The first single was "Rocket Dive", released on 28 January 1998. The other two singles were recorded by the end of April, and were scheduled to be released in May. hide travelled to Tokyo to promote the new songs, but he died on 2 May before they were released. The two new singles were released on 13 May and 27 May. They were called "Pink Spider" and "Ever Free". "Pink Spider" entered the Oricon charts at #1 and eventually received the year's MTV video music award. hide's studio album, "Ja, Zoo", was released in November 1998. His band played their promotion tour live in Japan as scheduled.
hide's backing musicians were:

</doc>
<doc id="31735" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31735" title="Measurement">
Measurement

To measure something is to give a number to some property of the thing. Measuring something puts the amount of the thing into numbers. Measurement can be written using many different units.
Many things can be measured. Some properties of things that can be measured:
One can measure many other things. 
Most properties are measured using a number and a unit of measurement. The unit of measurement is a standard amount. The number compares the property to that standard amount. This means a tree that is ten times as tall as a meter stick is 10 meters tall.
There is an advanced part of mathematics that is about measuring things with unusual characteristics. This is called measure theory.
Measurement can be the capacity, how long something is, or distance, etc. 

</doc>
<doc id="31739" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31739" title="Alligator clip">
Alligator clip

Alligator clips are toothed clips on the ends of electric wires. They are hinged near the back, making them look like alligator jaws. Sometimes they are also called crocodile clips. Usually those clips are temporary example in measuring purposes.

</doc>
<doc id="31741" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31741" title="Gordon Brown">
Gordon Brown

James Gordon Brown (born 20 February 1951) was the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom and was the leader of the British Labour Party. He is the Labour MP Representative for the Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath UK Constituency.
He was born in Glasgow, Scotland and is married to Sarah Macaulay. Their daughter Jennifer Jane died as a baby. They have two sons, John Macaulay and James Fraser. Brown is blind in his left eye after a sports injury but he has a replacement eye made of glass.
Brown took over as the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom after Tony Blair resigned on 27 June 2007. Before this, he had been Chancellor of the Exchequer since May 1997.
Brown has a PhD in history from the University of Edinburgh. He spent his early career working as a television journalist. He has been a Member of Parliament since 1983. At the beginning for Dunfermline East and since 2005 for Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath. As Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, he was also First Lord of the Treasury and the Minister for the Civil Service.
Brown's time as Chancellor was marked by major reform of Britain's financial and fiscal policy architecture. For example was the interest rate setting power transferred to the Bank of England. This was done by a wide extension of the powers of the Treasury to cover much domestic policy and by giving the responsibility for banking supervision to the Financial Services Authority. Controversial moves included the abolition of Advance Corporation Tax (ACT) relief in his first budget, and the removal in his final budget of the 10 per cent "starting rate" of personal income tax which he had introduced in 1999.
After an initial rise in opinion polls, Brown's time as Prime Minister has seen his approval ratings fall. The Labour Party suffered its worst local election results in 40 years. Despite public and parliamentary pressure on his leadership, he remained leader of the Labour Party. He announced on the 6 April 2010 that there would be a general election on 6 May 2010, in which Labour came second, with 258 seats. Brown resigned, allowing Conservative leader David Cameron to become Prime Minister.
On 14 July 2012, United Nations Secretary-General Ban ki-moon named Brown UN Special Envoy for Education. 

</doc>
<doc id="31744" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31744" title="Chancellor of the Exchequer">
Chancellor of the Exchequer

The Chancellor of the Exchequer is a political office in the United Kingdom. The Chancellor of the Exchequer, sometimes shortened to "The Chancellor", is responsible for Britain's money and economy. In other countries the job is called Minister of the Treasury or of Finance.
Other well-known Chancellors of the Exchequer include Robert Peel, Winston Churchill, Denis Healey, Geoffrey Howe and George Osborne.
"Many Chancellors were also Prime Minister for some or all of the time they were Chancellor. These are shown with a *"

</doc>
<doc id="31745" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31745" title="Dallas Cowboys">
Dallas Cowboys

The Dallas Cowboys are a professional American Football team from the Dallas, Texas, USA area. Their stadium, AT&T Stadium, is in Arlington, Texas, which is just outside of Dallas County, Texas. Before 1970 they played at the Cotton Bowl Stadium before 1971. From 1970 to 2008 they played at Texas Stadium in Irving, Texas, which is just outside of Dallas. They were started when they joined the NFL in 1960. They have won 5 Super Bowls, and they are currently owned by Jerry Jones. Their uniform is white silver and blue with a blue star on their helmet. Troy Aikman was a great quarterback for the Cowboys. Emmitt Smith and Tony Dorsett were notable runningbacks. The Cowboys are often known as "America's Team." 
The team's current starting quarterback is Tony Romo and their head coach is Jason Garrett.

</doc>
<doc id="31746" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31746" title="Duncanville, Texas">
Duncanville, Texas

Duncanville is a city in Texas that is right next to Dallas, Texas, USA. It has about 37,000 people. It is known as "The City of Champions," and "D'ville".

</doc>
<doc id="31750" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31750" title="Koror">
Koror

Koror is the capital city of Palau. Palau is divided into sixteen states, and Koror is one of the states in Palau. The state of Koror has about 90% of the population of the country. Koror is also the largest town, it has a population of 14,000 (2004).

</doc>
<doc id="31752" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31752" title="Palikir">
Palikir

Palikir is the capital city of the Federated States of Micronesia. It is on the island of Pohnpei. About 7,000 people live there.

</doc>
<doc id="31754" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31754" title="Atari XL">
Atari XL

The Atari XL was a series of 8-bit home computers introduced in 1983. They were an improved version of the Atari 400 and Atari 800 computers from 1979.
Their main CPU was a MOS Technology 6502. There were 3 versions- the 1200XL, the 600XL and the 800XL. All three used a normal television as a display.

</doc>
<doc id="31757" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31757" title="Port Moresby">
Port Moresby

Port Moresby (9°30′S 147°12′E) is the capital city and the main city of Papua New Guinea. In 2000, 255,000 people lived there. The city is on the shores of the Gulf of Papua, on the southeastern coast of the island of New Guinea.
The area on which the city was built was first sighted by a European in 1873 by Captain John Moresby. It was named in honor of his father Admiral Sir Fairfax Moresby.

</doc>
<doc id="31758" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31758" title="Astana">
Astana

Astana (Kazakh: Астана, Persian: آستانه) is the capital city of Kazakhstan. It has a population of 600,000 (2004), has been the capital of Kazakhstan from 1998. The name "Astana", which in Kazakh language means "Capital city", was chosen because it is easily pronounced in many languages. In Kazakh, it is pronounced "As-ta-na", while in English (and, for instance, German), common pronunciation is "As-ta-na". It is within the Aqmola Province.

</doc>
<doc id="31763" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31763" title="National emblem">
National emblem

A national emblem is an official symbol for a country. It can be an animal, plant or any other thing. National emblems appear for example on "flags".

</doc>
<doc id="31766" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31766" title="Cessna 172">
Cessna 172

The Cessna 172 is one of the best-selling single engine airplanes in the world. Over 43,000 of them have been made. It is made by The Cessna Aircraft Company. It can carry 4 people including the pilot. From 1956 until 1967 it had a Continental six-cylinder piston engine. Beginning in 1968, the 172 was powered by a Lycoming four-cylinder piston engine.
172guide.com – complete reference about all models of the Cessna 172 airplane

</doc>
<doc id="31768" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31768" title="United States Marine Corps">
United States Marine Corps

The United States Marine Corps (also known as USMC) is one of the five branches of the military of the United States in the United States Department of Defense. It was created in 1775 as a special maritime service.Samuel Nicholas founded it. He was the first commissioned office in the Corps. The birthplace of the Marines is in Philadelphia at the Tun Taven. 
Although it is part of the U.S. Naval Service, it is a separate military branch with its own special ranking structure. 
The Marines have been involved in many conflicts, and had important roles in key battles such as Tripoli, Iwo Jima, Guadalcanal, and Inchon Bay. Every Marine receives infantry training to be ready for battle at all times. Marine Corps training is also known for being especially challenging; at 13 weeks long, Marine Recruit Training is the longest basic training of the four military branches. United States Marines place a large emphasis on morale. This is reflected in their motto, "semper fidelis" (meaning "always faithful").

</doc>
<doc id="31769" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31769" title="San Antonio">
San Antonio

San Antonio is a large city in southern Texas, USA. It is the second most populous city in Texas, with about 1.3 million people. The city is known for The Alamo, and The River Walk, which is a small river that flows through the middle of the city and is lined with shops and restaurants. San Antonio is also home to the San Antonio Spurs, which is a basketball team in the NBA. 57% of the population is Hispanic, 32% is white, 8% is African-American, 2% is Asian, and 1% Native American. The main industries of San Antonio are health-care, tourism, and national defense. Besides tourist attractions, the city has many medical centers and military bases.
San Antonio is surrounded by Hill Country, Prairie, and the South Texas Plains. 
San Antonio has a Semi-Arid Climate with characteristics of a Humid Subtropical Climate
Like Austin, rain comes during the spring.
San Antonio has a Spanish Culture due to Spanish having settled here for years.
The Alamo is located here. 
One of three SeaWorlds is located here, the other two being in Orlando and San Diego.
San Antonio is home to two amusement parks, Six Flags Fiesta Texas and SeaWorld San Antonio.

</doc>
<doc id="31771" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31771" title="The Alamo">
The Alamo

The Alamo is an old Spanish Mission (like a church built by Catholic missionaries to minister to the natives) that is located in what is now San Antonio, Texas, United States. The Alamo was authorized in 1718 but was not built until 1744. The original name of the Alamo was San Antonio de Valero Mission. 
The Alamo is most famous for The Battle of the Alamo, which took place in 1836. It was occupied by 187 men from Texas and around the world who were fighting for the independence of Texas from Mexico. On March 6, 1836 the men in the Alamo were defeated by a force of 5,000 Mexican troops. All 187 men were killed, and "Remember the Alamo!" became the battle cry of the Texans for the rest of the war. 
The Alamo became a National Historic Landmark in 1960, and is now open for tourists.

</doc>
<doc id="31772" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31772" title="Odesa">
Odesa

Odessa (, also referred to as Odessa) is a city in southwestern Ukraine. It is the administrative center of the Odessa Oblast (province), and is its own separate district within the oblast. Odessa is a major port on the Black Sea.
In 2004, about 1,012,500 people lived in Odessa.
A very old Greek colony named "Olbia" (Greek: "Ολβία", glorious) probably was where the city is now. Many monuments from old times link this place to the Eastern Mediterranean. In the Middle Ages these lands were a part of the Kievan Rus, Galich and Volyn Principality, the Golden Horde, the Great Lithuanian Principality, the Crimean Khanate and the Ottoman Empire. Crimean Tatars traded there in the 14th century. At the time of the Russian–Turkish wars these lands were captured by Russia. That was at the end of the 18th century.
From 1819–1858 Odessa was a free port ("porto franco"). During the Soviet time it was the most important port of trade in the U.S.S.R. and a Soviet naval base. On January 1, 2000 the Quarantine Pier of Odessa trade sea port was made a free port and free economic zone for 25 years.
Odessa is a warm water port, but of small military value. Because Turkey controls the Dardanelles and Bosphorus, NATO can control ships moving between Odessa and the Mediterranean Sea. The city of Odessa has two important ports: Odessa itself and Yuzhny. Yuzhny is an oil terminal that is important to the world. It is in Odessa's suburbs. Another important port, Illichivs'k (or "Ilyichyovsk"), is in the same oblast, to the south-west of Odessa. Important transportation comes together at these ports. Railways and pipelines come to these ports. Pipelines connect Odessa's oil and chemical factories to Russia's and the EU's.
Odessa is the fifth-largest city in Ukraine and its most important trading city. In the 19th century it was the fourth city of Imperial Russia, after Moscow and St. Petersburg, and Warsaw. Its old buildings seem more Mediterranean than Russian. They were made like French and Italian buildings. People in Odessa could always laugh and had a spirit of freedom. The reason is probably because Odessa is a nice place and because the people accept others. They let others be the kind of people that they are.
In the 15th century AD, nomadic tribes of the Nogays under the government of the Khanate of Crimea lived in the place that is now Odessa. During the reign of Khan Haci I Giray, the Khanate was in danger because the Golden Horde and the Ottoman Turks were not friends of the Khanate. To get help, the khan gave Odessa to the Grand Duchy of Lithuania.
The place now named Odessa was then named "Khadjibey" (also spelled as Khadjibei, Khadzhibei, or Gadzhibei; Lithuanian: "Chadžibėjus"; Crimean Tatar and Turkish: "Hacibey"). It was part of the Dykra region. Few people lived in that region. They were part of the Turkic tribes. The land was mostly empty steppes.
The Ottoman Empire controlled Khadjibey after 1529. The region surrounding Khadjibey was named Yedisan. The Ottoman Empire controlled that region as part of Silistra (Özi) Province. In the middle of the 18th century, the Ottomans rebuilt a fortress at Khadjibey. It was named Eni Dunia (Turkish: "Yeni Dünya", literally "new world").
At the time of the war between Russia and Turkey (1787–1792), on 25 September 1789, Ivan Gudovich led a group of Russian soldiers to Khadjibey. They took Khadjibey and Yeni Dünya for the Russian Empire. A Spaniard in the Russian army named Major General José de Ribas led one group of soldiers. Russians named him Osip Mikhailovich Deribas. The main street in Odessa today is named Deribasovskaya street after him. Turkey let Russia keep the city in the Treaty of Jassy (agreement of Jassy) in 1792. Russians made it a part of a place they named Novorossiya (New Russia).
The Russian government decided to build a naval fortress on the ruins of Khadjibey city in 1794. This became the city named Odessa by January 1795. In that year its new name was first written in government letters. The reasons for the new name are lost but people guess why Odessa got a new name. According to one of the stories, when someone said Odessos should be the name for the new Russian port, Catherine II said that all names in the South of the Empire were already 'masculine,' and she did not want another one, so she decided to change it to more 'feminine' Odessa. This story may be false. There were at least two cities (Eupatoria and Theodosia) with names that sound 'feminine' for a Russian; also, Catherine II did not speak Russian when she was a child, and lastly, all cities are feminine in Greek (and in Latin). Another story is that the name 'Odessa' is from word-play in French. French "was" then the language spoken at the Russian court. 'Plenty of water' is "assez d'eau" in French. If one says this backwards, it sounds like the Greek colony's name. Word-play about water makes sense. Odessa is next to a very big body of water but has a little fresh water. Anyhow, there is still a link with the name of the old Greek colony. So there may be some truth in the things people said long ago.
The new city quickly became a major success. Its early growth owed much to the work of the Duc de Richelieu, who served as the city's governor between 1803–1814. Having fled the French Revolution, he had served in Catherine's army against the Turks. He is credited with designing the city and organising its amenities and infrastructure, and is considered one of the founding fathers of Odessa, together with another Frenchman, Count Alexandre Langeron, who succeeded him in office. Richelieu is commemorated by a bronze statue, unveiled in 1828 to a design by Ivan Martos.
In 1819 the city was made a free port, a status it retained until 1859. It became home to an extremely diverse population of Russians, Ukrainians, Jews, Greeks, Bulgarians, Albanians, Armenians, Italians, Frenchmen, Germans and traders representing many other European nationalities (hence numerous 'ethnic' names on the city's map, "e.g.", "Frantsuszkiy" (French) and "Italianskiy" (Italian) Boulevards, "Grecheskaya" (Greek), "Evreyskaya" (Jewish), "Arnautskaya" (Albanian) Streets). Its cosmopolitan nature was documented by the great Russian poet Alexander Pushkin, who lived in internal exile in Odessa between 1823–1824. In his letters he wrote that Odessa was a city where "you can smell Europe. French is spoken and there are European papers and magazines to read".
Odessa's growth was interrupted by the Crimean War of 1853–1856, during which it was bombarded by British and French naval forces. It soon recovered and the growth in trade made Odessa Russia's largest grain-exporting port. In 1866 the city was linked by rail with Kiev and Kharkov as well as Iaşi, Romania. 
The city became the home of a large Jewish community during the 19th century, and by 1897 Jews were estimated to be about 37% of the population. They were, however, repeatedly subjected to severe persecution. Pogroms were carried out in 1821, 1859, 1871, 1881, and 1905. Many Odessan Jews fled abroad, particularly to Palestine after 1882, and the city became an important base of support for Zionism.
In 1905 Odessa was the place of a workers' uprising supported by the crew of the Russian battleship Potemkin (also see Battleship Potemkin uprising) and Lenin's Iskra. Sergei Eisenstein's famous motion picture "The Battleship Potemkin" commemorated the uprising and included a scene where hundreds of Odessan citizens were killed on the great stone staircase (now popularly known as the "Potemkin Steps"), in one of the most famous scenes in motion picture history. At the top of the steps, which lead down to the port, stands a statue of Richelieu. The actual massacre took place in streets nearby, not on the steps themselves, but the movie caused many to visit Odessa to see the site of the "slaughter". The "Odessa Steps" continue to be a tourist attraction in Odessa. The film was made at Odessa's Cinema Factory, one of the oldest cinema studios in the former Soviet Union.
Following the Bolshevik Revolution in 1917 during World War I, Odessa was occupied by several groups, including the Ukrainian "Tsentral'na Rada", the French Army, the Red Army and the White Army. Finally, in 1920, the Red Army took control of Odessa and united it with the Ukrainian SSR, which later became part of the USSR.
The people of Odessa suffered from a great famine that occurred in 1921–1922 as a result of the war. During World War II Odessa was occupied by Romanian and German forces from 1941–1944. The city suffered severe damage and many casualties.
Under the Axis occupation, approximately 60,000 Odessans (mostly Jews) were either massacred or deported. Many parts of Odessa were damaged during its fall and later recapture in April 1944, when the city was finally liberated by the Soviet Army. It was one of the first four Soviet cities to be awarded the title of "Hero City" in 1945.
During the 1960s and 1970s the city grew tremendously. Nevertheless, between the 1970s and 1990s, the majority of Odessa's Jews emigrated to Israel, the United States and other Western countries, domestic migrationof Odessan middle and upper classes to Moscow and Leningradthat offered even greater opportunities for career advancement, also occurred on a large scale. But the city's grew rapidly by filling the void with new rural migrants elsewhere from Ukraine, industrial professionals invited from Russia as well as other Soviet republics. Despite being part of Ukraine Socialist Republic, the city preserved and somewhat reinforced its unique cosmopolitan mix of Russian/Ukrainian/Mediterranean culture and a predominantly Russophone environment with a uniquely accented dialect of Russian spoken in the city. The city's Russian, Ukrainian, Greek, Armenian, Moldovan and Azeri and Jewish communities have influenced different aspects of Odessa.
In 1991, after the collapse of Communism, the city became part of newly independent Ukraine. Today Odessa is a city of around 1.1 million people. The city's industries include shipbuilding, oil refining, chemicals, metalworking and food processing. Odessa is also a Ukrainian naval base and home to a fishing fleet. It is also known for its huge outdoor market, the Seventh-Kilometer Market.
The transportation network of Odessa consists of trams (streetcars), trolleybuses, buses; and marshrutkas.
Odessa is (Google Map) on terraced hills overlooking a small harbor, approximately 31 km (19 mi.) north of the estuary of the Dniester river and some 443 km (275 mi) south of the Ukrainian capital Kiev. The city has a continental climate ("Dfa" in the Köppen climate classification) with average temperatures in January of -2 °C (29 °F), and July of 22 °C (73 °F). It averages only 350 mm (14 in) of precipitation annually.
The primary language spoken is Russian, with Ukrainian being less common despite its being an official language in Ukraine. The city is a mix of many nationalities and ethnic groups, including Ukrainians, Russians, Jews, Greeks, Moldovans, Bulgarians, Armenians and Turks among others.
Odessa is a popular tourist destination, with many resorts in and around the city.
The Tolstoy, Vorontsov, and Potocki families owned palaces in Odessa, which can still be visited.
The writer Isaac Babel was born in the city, which has also produced several famous musicians, including the violinists Nathan Milstein, Mischa Elman and David Oistrakh, and the pianists Benno Moiseiwitsch, Sviatoslav Richter and Emil Gilels. The chess player Efim Geller was born in the city. (All listed, except for Richter, are representatives of the city's Jewish community.)
The most popular Russian show-business people from Odessa are Yakov Smirnoff (comedian), Mikhail Zhvanetsky (legendary humorist writer, who began his career as port engineer) and Roman Kartsev (comedian). Their success in 1970s contributed to Odessa's established status of a "capital of Soviet humour". Later several humour festivals were established in the city, including the celebration of the April Fools' Day.
Most of the city's 19th century houses were built of limestone mined nearby. Abandoned mines were later used and broadened by local smugglers. This created a complicated labyrinth of underground tunnels beneath Odessa, known as "catacombs". They are a now a great attraction for extreme tourists. Such tours, however, are not officially sanctioned and are dangerous because the layout of the catacombs has not been fully mapped and the tunnels themselves are unsafe. These tunnels are a primary reason why subway was never built in Odessa.

</doc>
<doc id="31775" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31775" title="Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother">
Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother

Elizabeth Angela Marguerite Bowes-Lyon (4 August 1900 – 30 March 2002), known as Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother, or just The Queen Mother was the wife (Queen Consort) of King George VI of the United Kingdom from 1936 until his death in 1952. After her husband's death, she was known as Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother, so that she would not be confused with her elder daughter, Queen Elizabeth II. Before her husband became king, from 1923 to 1936 she was known as the Duchess of York. She was the last Queen Consort of Ireland and Empress Consort of India.
Her family belonged to the Scottish nobility. Her father was the 14th Earl of Strathmore and Kinghorne. In 1923, she became known to everyone when she married Albert, Duke of York, the second son of George V and Queen Mary. She was loved by the British people as she became a figure of family life. They had two daughters, the then Princess Elizabeth and Princess Margaret. She was known as the "Smiling Duchess".
In 1936, her husband unexpectedly became King when her brother-in-law, Edward VIII, abdicated because he wanted to marry an American lady, Wallis Simpson, who had been divorced. The king was known as King George VI. As his wife, she had the title of Queen Consort. She went with her husband on official tours to France and North America. During World War II, she supported the British public with great courage. After the war the king became ill and died in 1952. She was then 51, and she lived for another 50 years. As the mother of the queen, grandmother to the queen's four children and, later, great-grandmother, she continued to be a popular member of the royal family.
The Queen Mother had an appendectomy in 1964, colon cancer removed in 1966 and breast cancer removed in 1984. 
The death of her younger daughter Princess Margaret on 9th February 2002 was a sad event for her. She died seven weeks later at the age of 101. She was the first member of the British royal family to live past the age of 100.

</doc>
<doc id="31776" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31776" title="United States Department of Defense">
United States Department of Defense

The United States Department of Defense, also known as the DoD, is a department in the United States government that is in charge of the military of the United States. It was created in 1947 and its headquarters is in The Pentagon in Washington, D.C.. The person in charge of the Department of Defense is called the Secretary of Defense. The current Secretary of Defense is Ashton B. Carter, who replaced Chuck Hagel in 2015. The Secretary of Defense answers directly to the President. 
The Department of Defense is made up of the Department of the Army, the Department of the Navy, the Department of the Air Force, the National Security Agency, and the Defense Intelligence Agency. (The Department of the Navy includes the Navy and the Marine Corps. Also, during time of war the United States Coast Guard is under the authority of the Department of Defense.)

</doc>
<doc id="31778" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31778" title="United States Department of the Navy">
United States Department of the Navy

The United States Department of the Navy was created by the United States Congress on April 30, 1798. It was created in order to give civilian leadership and administration to the United States Navy and the United States Marine Corps. The Secretary of the Navy is in charge of the Department of the Navy, and the Department of the Navy is under the authority of the Department of Defense. 
The Department of the Navy is in charge of recruitment, training, organizing, building, and construction for the Navy and the Marine Corps. While the Navy and the Marine Corps both is under the Department of the Navy, they are two separate branches of the military.

</doc>
<doc id="31780" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31780" title="Queen Elizabeth">
Queen Elizabeth

There are many people called Queen Elizabeth.
Among the women known to history as "Queen Elizabeth" are, in order of date of death:
"(Note that the name "Isabel" or "Isabella" is sometimes translated into English as "Elizabeth" or "Elisabeth".)"

</doc>
<doc id="31789" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31789" title="Houston (disambiguation)">
Houston (disambiguation)

Houston is a city in Texas that is the fourth-largest in the United States. It can also mean:

</doc>
<doc id="31793" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31793" title="Weather station">
Weather station

A weather station has machines that measure wind speed, wind direction, temperature, barometric pressure, and humidity of the air around them. There are many ways to do this with instruments such as barometers (air pressure), psychrometers (humidity), anemometers (wind speed) and cielometers (electronic, for cloud cover). Many weather stations have no people; they report their measurements automatically. 

</doc>
<doc id="31796" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31796" title="Atmospheric pressure">
Atmospheric pressure

Atmospheric pressure is a force in an area pushed against a surface by the weight of air in Earth's atmosphere. The earth is covered in a layer of air. However, this layer is not distributed evenly around the globe. At different times, the layer of air is thicker in some places than in others. Where the layer of air is thicker, there is more air. Since there is more air, there is a higher pressure in that spot. Where the layer of air is thinner, there is a lower atmospheric pressure. 
The higher the altitude, the thinner the air is, and the lower the atmospheric pressure is. This is because high places do not have as much air above them, pushing down.
Barometers can be used to measure atmospheric pressure. There is the same atmospheric pressure from all directions. The SI unit for atmospheric pressure is hPa. Other units are used for various applications.

</doc>
<doc id="31797" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31797" title="1482">
1482


</doc>
<doc id="31800" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31800" title="Franz Berwald">
Franz Berwald

Franz Adolf Berwald was a Swedish composer of the 19th Century. He was born in Stockholm on 23 July 1786. He died in Stockholm on 3 April 1868. While he was alive, people generally ignored his composing work, so he had to do other things to gain a living. He worked as an orthopedic surgeon, and later as the manager of a saw mill and glass factory. Franz adolf berwald came from a family with four generations of musicians.
Today, many people see him as one of the finest Swedish composers of the 19th century.

</doc>
<doc id="31802" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31802" title="Chemnitz">
Chemnitz

Chemnitz is a city in Germany. It is in the state of Saxony. In 2006, about 245.000 people lived there.
During the partition of Germany Chemnitz was in East Germany. From 1953 to 1990 Chemnitz was called Karl-Marx-Stadt. The name was in reference to the social reformer Karl Marx. Now the city has its old name. This name is from the river that flows through it.
The first mention of the city was in 1143. The city had an important role in the Industrial Revolution. In about 1883, the city population passed 100.000 inhabitants.
Chemnitz is north of the Ore Mountains in the western part of the Bundesland Saxony. It is the 3rd biggest city in Saxony with about 245.000 inhabitants. The area is about 220 km. There is a river that is also called Chemnitz.
The average temperature is 8 °C and the amount of rain and snow every year (annual precipitation) is 700 mm.
The "Karl-Marx-Monument" has been an attraction of the city since 1971. The 7,10 meter high statue was created by the Russian artist Lev Kerbel. The inhabitants of Chemnitz call it "Nischel", which means "head" in the dialect of the area.
The "Roter Turm" (the "red tower")is one of Chemnitz's oldest sites; it was built in the 12th or 13th century and was once part of the city wall.
The town hall of Chemnitz consists of two buildings. The old town hall was built in the 15th century. The new townhall, on the other hand, was built at the beginning of the 20th century and was designed by Richard Möbius. The new town hall was erected next to the old one.
One of the new attractions of the city is "das Tietz". The former department store was constructed in 1912/1913. Today the Museum for Natural History, the public library, an adult education centre, a gallery and the "Petrified Forest" are here.
Chemnitz had an ICE connection for a short time, until 2006. Chemnitz is part of the railway line Dresden - Chemnitz - Hof - Nuremberg which is called 'Franken - Sachsen - Magistrale'. Today an InterRegioExpress services Dresden, Nuremberg and Leipzig. There are regional train (RegionalBahn) connections to the Ore Mountains and to Elsterwerda.
Here are listed on the most important roads of the metropolitan:
Chemnitz has got a big tram and a big bus network. There are 6 tram lines and 25 (+1 at fair days) bus lines. These networks belong to CVAG, the transport companies of Chemnitz.

</doc>
<doc id="31811" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31811" title="List of Brazilian football teams">
List of Brazilian football teams

This is a list of Brazilian football teams. 

</doc>
<doc id="31816" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31816" title="Small intestine">
Small intestine

The small intestine is between the stomach and the large intestine. In humans over 5 years old, a small intestine may be five to six meters long. It is where most of the digestion and absorption happens.
The small intestine has three regions – the duodenum, jejunum, and ileum. 

</doc>
<doc id="31817" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31817" title="Songwriter">
Songwriter

A songwriter is a writer who creates songs. A songwriter generally writes pop songs, rather than art songs or classical music. Many songwriters are also singers, and perform the songs they write - they are called singer-songwriters. Other songwriters have their songs performed by other singers.
The history of writing songs is thousands of years old. Scholars believe that men and women may have created and sung songs even at the time of prehistory. Many modern bands have one or two members who write songs for the band. Others have more members contribute songs, or give the whole band credit for writing. Others perform songs by outside writers.

</doc>
<doc id="31818" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31818" title="Hezbollah">
Hezbollah

Hezbollah (, meaning "Party of God") is an Islamic political party and paramilitary organization in Lebanon. It was formed in Lebanon in 1982, during the Lebanese Civil War. The leader of Hezbollah is currently Hassan Nasrallah.
Hezbollah's main goals during the Civil War were to fight against Western influences and create an Islamic state in Lebanon. Its members are Shia Muslims, which are the largest Islamic denomination in Lebanon. It is also supports Arab nationalism. It wants freedom for the Palestinian people in Palestine. Because of this, it believes that the State of Israel should not exist, and fights against it. Over the years, the Hezbollah militia has fought a guerrilla war against the Israeli Army along the border in southern Lebanon. It often attacks Israel's military positions by firing rockets across Israel's northern border.
Hezbollah is supported by Syria and Iran.
To destroy Hezbollah bases, Israel has responded in different ways; for example, air strikes on sites in Lebanon and sending ground troops into Southern Lebanon. In 2000, Israel withdrew its troops from the "security zone" in Southern Lebanon, but not from a sliver of land called Shebba Farms. This fertile area was kept under Israeli occupation. The border stayed relatively quiet until July 2006, except for targeted assassinations and kidnappings by Israel. In July, Hezbollah captured two Israeli soldiers. This led to the 2006 Lebanon War, in which Hezbollah rockets reached deep into Israel.
A few governments consider Hezbollah a terrorist group. The majority do not. Among those who consider it to be a terrorist group are the United States, and Israel. The European Union and the United Kingdom consider Hezbollah's military branch to be a terrorist group, but not the political party. Lebanon considers Hezbollah to be a legitimate resistance movement. This view is shared by Syria, Iran and all other countries in the Arab world.

</doc>
<doc id="31820" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31820" title="S.E. Palmeiras">
S.E. Palmeiras

Sociedade Esportiva Palmeiras, usually called Palmeiras, is a Brazilian football team. They are from São Paulo, Brazil. The team was founded by an Italian-speaking community on August 26, 1914, as Palestra Itália. They changed to the name used now on September 14, 1942.
They play in green shirts, white shorts and green socks and are one of the most popular and traditional Brazilian clubs.
Palmeiras plays at the Palestra Itália stadium, which has seats for 32,000. But in the past, local derbies against São Paulo or Corinthians were usually played in Morumbi stadium. However, the Arena Palestra Itália is under construction with capacity for 45,000 people, expected to be finalized in 2013.

</doc>
<doc id="31824" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31824" title="Agastya">
Agastya

According to Hindu mythology, Agastya was the name of a famous sage (rishi). The Hindu tradition states that he brought the Vedic culture to the southern part of India. He also helped in development of Tamil language. According to traditional belief, he still lives in a mountain names "Agasyta Malai" in Tamilnadu, India. Scholars believe that Agastya wrote many hymns of Rigveda. He also find mention many times in the Vedic mythology. 
There are many stories about Agastya. In the famous Hindu epic, the Ramayana, Rama (an avatar of god Vishnu) meets Agastya. Agastya gives Rama many advices and his support. There are two older stories about Agastya. One story tells that he forced the Vindhya mountains to bow down. The Vindhya Mountain is in middle of India, and divided the North India and the South India. In the second story, he drank all the waters of the ocean. This happened before the Churning of the Ocean. 

</doc>
<doc id="31825" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31825" title="International Criminal Court">
International Criminal Court

The International Criminal Court (ICC) was created on 1 July 2002. It investigates and punishes people for genocide, crimes against humanity, and war crimes. It is sometimes called the ICC or the ICCt.
The ICC's main office is in The Hague in The Netherlands. It has smaller offices in New York City, Kampala, Kinshasa, Bunia, Abéché and Bangui.
The ICC is different from the International Court of Justice (ICJ). The main difference is that ICJ settles arguments between countries, but the ICC punishes people.
On 1 January 2008, 105 countries were members of the ICC. These countries have a duty to help the ICC.
Nearly all the countries in Europe and South America are members, and about half the countries in Africa are members. Only a few countries in Asia have joined.
The ICC can normally only investigate three kinds of crime:
The ICC can only investigate crimes that happened after 1 July 2002. It can only open a case when national courts are not able to or do not want to. If a national court is investigating or prosecuting a case, the ICC is not allowed to.
There are 18 judges in the ICC. They all come from member-countries of the ICC. No two judges can come from the same country.
The prosecutor's job is to investigate crimes. If he finds evidence that a person did something wrong, he asks the judges to start a trial.
The ICC is managed by an "Assembly of States Parties". The Assembly elects the judges and the prosecutor. Each ICC member-country has one vote in the Assembly.
The ICC has opened investigations in four places: Northern Uganda, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the Central African Republic and Darfur. 
The ICC has arrested three people. They are all from the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Thomas Lubanga is accused of using children to make war. Germain Katanga and Mathieu Ngudjolo Chui are both accused of murder, sexual slavery, using children to make war, and other crimes.

</doc>
<doc id="31826" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31826" title="Brahma">
Brahma

According to Hinduism and Hindu mythology, Brahma is one of the three major gods of Hindus. Brahma is said to be the creator of the whole universe. The other two gods are Vishnu, the preserver, and Shiva, the destroyer, all three of which make up the Trimurti. Brahma represents Brahman, a term and concept of Hinduism. 
The Hindu tradition states that Brahma had five heads. However, the mythological story tells that Shiva cut one of the heads of Brahma. The tradition also states that the four heads of Brahma represent many aspects of Hinduism. The four heads represent four Vedas, which are very important Hindu scriptures. These four heads also represent four divisions of time of Hinduism, the Yugas. They also represent four divisions of the Hindu society, the four Varnas. 
Brahma does not have many followers as he is said to have sought out his daughter using his four heads after falling in love. 

</doc>
<doc id="31827" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31827" title="Asexual reproduction">
Asexual reproduction

Asexual reproduction is reproduction without sex. 
In this form of reproduction, a single organism or cell makes a copy of itself. The genes of the original and its copy will be the same, except for rare mutations. They are clones.
The main process of asexual reproduction is mitosis. This type of reproduction is common among some single-cell organisms, for example, amoeba. Many plants also reproduce asexually.
Some organisms like bacteria reproduce using binary fission. They split in two, so one bacterium becomes two bacteria. This always leads to daughter cells, and the offspring will be identical to the parent.
Budding is similar to binary fission, but it is used by plants and some animals, which cannot simply split in half as bacteria can. It is when a small part of a plant or animal breaks off and then, while they are separated from their "mother", they start to grow until both the "parent" and the "offspring" are the same size and both are capable of budding again. This may happen many more times.
Fungi (for example, mushrooms) produce spores, which may be asexual or sexual. The asexual spores have the genetic material inside, which allows them to make a whole new organism identical to its parent. They are produced by mitosis. Different fungi make different kinds of asexual spores, conidia, oidia, and pycniospores. The shape and colour of the spores can be helpful to identify the species of fungus.

</doc>
<doc id="31829" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31829" title="Brahman">
Brahman

Brahman is the concept of God in Hinduism. It is a word of the Sanskrit language. Brahman (or God) is said to be infinite, with no beginning or end. Brahman is changeless and is the source of the universe in Hindu beliefs.

</doc>
<doc id="31831" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31831" title="International Monetary Fund">
International Monetary Fund

The International Monetary Fund (IMF) is an international organization. 188 countries are members of the International Monetary Fund. It has its headquarters in Washington, D.C., USA. 
In the 1930s, many countries faced economic problems. Some of such problems were falling standard of living and unemployment by large number of people. Trading between different countries also came down. Some countries reduced the value of their currencies. All such factors combined and an economic depression resulted. By late 1939, the Second World War had started. 
After the Second World War was over, most countries found that the international value was not smooth and faced many restrictions. Leaders of many countries thought over these matters and discussed them in meetings. Thus, after the Second World War, many countries felt the need to have an organization to get help in monetary matters between countries. To begin with, 29 countries discussed the matter, and signed an agreement. The agreement was the Articles of Association of the International Monetary Fund. The International Monetary Fund came into being in 29th December 1945.
Any country may apply to become a member of the IMF. When a country applies for membership, the IMF’s Executive Board examines the application. If found suitable, the Executive Board gives its report to IMF’s Board of Governors. After the Board of Governor clears the application, the country may join the IMF. However, before joining, the country should fulfill legal requirements, if any, of its own country. Every member has a different voting right. Likewise, every country has a different right to draw funds. This depends on many factors, including the member country’s first subscription to the IMF.
The IMF does a number of supervisory works relating to financial dealings between different countries. Some of the works done by IMF are:
A Board of Directors manages the IMF. One tradition has governed the selection of two most senior posts of IMF. Firstly, IMF’s managing director is always European. World Bank's president is always from the United States of America. 
The major countries of Europe and America control the IMF. This is because they have given more money to IMF by way of first subscriptions, and so have larger share of voting rights.
Many people and countries have commented about IMF. Some are good and some are bad comments about the work of IMF. Despite many bad comments about IMF, a research shows that more than 60 percent of Asians and 70 percent of Africans feel that IMF have had a "positive" effect on their country.

</doc>
<doc id="31834" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31834" title="São Paulo F.C.">
São Paulo F.C.

São Paulo Futebol Clube, usually called São Paulo FC or just São Paulo, is a very traditional Brazilian football team from São Paulo. The team was founded on January 25, 1930, and re-founded on December 16, 1935. It is often called "Tricolor" (meaning "with three colours") by its supporters. The prime footballer in the team is the goalkeeper called Rogério Ceni.
It is the most successful club of Brazilian football.
Twenty-two won state championships, six Brazilian Championships - besides being the only one to win it three times, in 2006, 2007 and 2008, three Libertadores and three World Club Championship.
FIFA Club World Cup
Intercontinental Cup
Copa Libertadores
Copa Conmebol
Recopa Sudamericana
Supercopa Sudamericana
Copa Masters Conmebol
Campeonato Brasileiro Série A
Copa do Brasil
Copa dos Campeões
Torneio Rio-São Paulo
Campeonato Paulista
Supercampeonato Paulista

</doc>
<doc id="31835" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31835" title="World Bank Group">
World Bank Group

The World Bank Group is a group of five international organizations. The World Bank Group gives advice and finance to member countries for economic development and reducing poverty. It is a non-profit-making international organization owned by member governments. The Group has its headquarters in Washington, D.C.. It also has offices in 124 other member countries.
The World Bank Group is made of the following five organizations:
The World Bank Group originated at Bretton Woods, New Hampshire. Many countries met and decided to start a Bretton Woods system including an international organization to provide finance to member countries. The Bank came into existence on 27th December 1945. Its name was the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The Bank’s first loan was to France. The loan was of 250 million US Dollars. The purpose was to help France to again build industry and other important things like roads destroyed during the Second World War. 
The activities of the World Bank Group cover many activities. Some of these activities are as follows:
The World Bank Group gives loans at low rate of interest to member countries. The member countries use the money received for any one of above or some other similar activity. 
In short, the World Bank Group’s main mission is 1) to fight poverty and 2) to improve the living standards of people in the developing world. Beside giving direct money and finance, the World Bank Group provides advice and assistance to developing countries on almost every aspect of economic development.
In general, the World Bank Group is part of the United Nations system. But, member countries govern it through a board. The IBRD has 184 countries as its members. Other four organizations of the Group have between 140 to 176 member countries. A Board of 24 Executive Directors controls the activities of the World Bank Group. A President heads the Board. 
Many economists and people have criticized the World Bank Group for its style of functioning. Before giving loans, the Bank sometimes requires many changes in the policies of a country. This has attracted criticism as it reduces the country’s independence to run its economy in its own way. The criticism is also on account of other factors. One of them is that two or three countries have more power to decide matters. As of November 1, 2004 the United States held 16.4% of total votes, Japan 7.9%, Germany 4.5%, and the United Kingdom and France each held 4.3%. As major decisions require an 85% super-majority, the US can block any change.
In spite of several criticisms, the World Bank Group’s role in economic development and reduction of poverty has continued in many countries. 

</doc>
<doc id="31836" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31836" title="International Court of Justice">
International Court of Justice

The International Court of Justice (French La Cour internationale de justice (CIJ), is an international organization. It is the main judicial organ or branch of the United Nations. In short, International Court of Justice is ICJ; sometimes people call it the World Court. In French language, it is "Cour internationale de justice". Established ICJ in 1945, ICJ has its headquarters at The Hague, Netherlands. The ICJ began its working from 1946. It replaced an earlier similar court named Permanent Court of International Justice. The International Court of Justice is different from the International Criminal Court. The ICJ uses two languages, the English language and the French language. 
The Internal Court of Justice has two major functions. Firstly, it settles disputes, which the member countries may bring before it. Secondly, it may give its opinions on legal matters. Since 1980s, many developing countries have been using the services of the ICJ. But, in 1986, the United States of America did not accept the court’s views on all matters, but rather selectively, on a case-to-case basis. Since the year 2000 the docket went down from 23 to 12 cases. In the meantime the staff tripled. 
The ICJ has fifteen permanent judges. The UN General Assembly and the UN Security Council elects the judges. A judge serves a for nine year period and may be re-elected if necessary. If a serving judge dies, another judge, from the same country he or she belonged to is generally elected to fill the vacant position. Elections are staggered, thus five judges (one-third of the Court) come up for election every three years. 
The fifteen permanent judges are elected from a list of persons nominated by the national groups in the Permanent Court of Arbitration. The election process is set out in Articles 4-12 of the ICJ statute Generally, five members of the Security Council of the United Nations always have a judge from their country. These countries are China, France, Russia, United Kingdom, and the United States of America. 
In some case, the ICJ allows Ad hoc judges. Thus, the countries in dispute have a right to nominate one judge each for that particular case, if desired. This right is not available if that country already has a judge of its nationality in the ICJ. Thus, sometimes, instead of fifteen, seventeen judges may be deciding a case. 
There are many rules, which lay down the qualifications and conduct of the judges of the ICJ.
Generally, all the judges of the ICJ sit together to hear and decide any matter. However, sometimes smaller chambers of three to five judges hear and decide a case. Such chambers may be for special types of cases. Sometimes, the ICJ sets up ad hoc chambers to hear and decide particular disputes. 
While deciding the case, the ICJ applies the principles of international law. It also uses the laws of the civilized world. This may be the civil and criminal law of major countries. It may also refer to legal writings, law books, and earlier decisions while deciding any matter.

</doc>
<doc id="31837" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31837" title="Indian independence movement">
Indian independence movement

The Indian independence movement was a movement from 1857 (in many cases, even pre-dating 1857) until 15 August 1947, when India got independence from the British Raj. The movement involved many political and social organisations and armed and unarmed struggle. Many political ideas also contributed to the movement and the most famous person in it was Mohandas Gandhi.
Vasco da Gama of Portugal had discovered a sea route to India. He had reached Kozhikode (Calicut, Kerala) in 1498. After this, many Europeans started coming to India for trading. They made their offices and forts in various parts of India. The British East India Company became the major force in India. The Company's troops led by Robert Clive defeated the rulers of Bengal in 1757. This battle became famous as the Battle of Plassey. This was the beginning of British rule, known as the British Raj, in India. In 1764, the Battle of Buxar was won by the English forces. After "this", the British got control over Bengal, Bihar and Orissa.
The Parliament of the United Kingdom passed many laws to help the British East India Company. The Regulating Act of 1773, the India Act of 1784, and the Charter Act of 1813 were designed to help trade with India.
Before the First War of Independence (1857), Indians in different parts of India had revolted against the British. Many such revolts and armed struggles had taken place. Some examples include:
India's First War of Independence was a revolt of Indian soldiers and people against British rule. Historians had used the terms like the Indian Mutiny or the Sepoy Mutiny to describe this event. The rebellion by Indian troops of the British Raj started in May 1857 and continued until December 1858. Many reasons had combined to result in this rebellion.
The British rulers continued to forcibly take regions ruled by Indians and made these regions part of the British Raj. They did not give any respect to old royal houses of India like the Mughals and the Peshwa. They also made the Indian soldiers of their army use a special type of cartridge. The soldiers had to open the cartridges with their teeth before loading them into their guns. The cartridges supposedly used cow and pig fat. For Hindus the cow is a sacred animal and they do not eat beef. The Muslims consider pig a dirty animal. Thus, the use of these cartridges made soldiers of both the religions turn against the British. Although the British tried to replace the cartridges, the feelings against them stayed.
Rebellion broke out when a soldier called Mangal Pandey attacked a British sergeant and wounded an adjutant. General Hearsey ordered another Indian soldier to arrest Mangal Pandey but he refused. Later the British arrested Mangal Pandey and the other Indian soldier. The British killed both by hanging them.
At the beginning the British were slow to respond. Then they took very quick action with heavy forces. They brought their regiments from the Crimean War to India. They also redirected many regiments that were going to China to India. The British forces reached Delhi, and they surrounded the city from 1st July 1857 until 31st August 1857. Street-to-street fights broke out between the British troops and the Indians. Ultimately, they took control of Delhi. The massacre at Kanpur (July 1857) and the siege of Lucknow (June to November 1857) were also important. The last important battle was at Gwalior in June 1858 in which the Rani of Jhansi was killed. With this, the British had practically suppressed the rebellion. However, some guerrilla fighting in many places continued until early in 1859 and Tatya Tope was not captured and executed until April 1859.
 India's First War of Independence was a major event in the history of modern India. The Parliament of the United Kingdom withdrew the right of the British East India Company to rule India in November 1858. The United Kingdom started ruling India directly through its representative called the Viceroy of India. It made India a part of the British Empire. They promised "the Princes, Chiefs, and Peoples of India," equal treatment under the British law. In 1877, Queen Victoria took the title of Empress of India.
The British sent Bahadur Shah II, the last Mughal Emperor, out of India, and kept him in Yangon (then called Rangoon), Burma where he died in 1862. The Mughal dynasty, which had ruled India for about four hundred years, ended with his death.
The British also took many steps to employ Indian higher castes and rulers into the government. They stopped taking the lands of the remaining princes and rulers of India. They stopped interference in religious matters. They started employing Indians in the civil services but at lower levels. They increased the number of British soldiers, and allowed only British soldiers to handle artillery.
The period following India's First War of Independence was an important period in the Indian independence movement. Many leaders emerged at the national and provincial levels, and the Indians became more aware of their rights. Social movements also helped in shaping people's outlook, tried for social changes, and tried to remove bad social practices and evils like illiteracy and caste system. During this period, many social and religious leaders worked to inspire the Indian society. They included men like Swami Vivekananda, Ramakrishna Paramhansa, Sri Aurobindo, Subramanya Bharathy, Bankim Chandra Chatterjee, Sir Syed Ahmed Khan, Rabindranath Tagore and Dadabhai Naoroji. They spread the message of self-confidence, removing of social evils, and making India free from domination of foreign power. Lokmanya Tilak was one such leader who was not very modest in his views. The British arrested him. In the court he declared: "Swaraj (independence) is my birthright". This concept of Swaraj later became a main policy and philosophy of India's independence movement in the following decades until India became independent. 
In 1885, at the suggestion of Allan Octavian Hume, a retired British civil servant, seventy-three Indian delegates met in Bombay. They founded the Indian National Congress. The delegates represented educated Indians in professions such as law, teaching, and journalism. A few years before, Dadabhai Naoroji had already formed the Indian National Association. It merged with the Indian National Congress to make form a bigger party. 
To begin with, the Indian National Congress was not a very active political party. It met annually and gave some suggestions to the rulers of the British Raj. The suggestions generally related to civil rights and opportunities for Indians in the government jobs. Despite its claim to represent all Indians, it represented only the educated and higher class of the society. But, it failed to attract all Muslims. Many Muslims had become distrustful of Hindu reformers who raised their voice against matters like religious conversion and killing of cows for their meat. For Hindus, the cow is a sacred animal not to be killed. Sir Syed Ahmed Khan launched a separate movement for Muslims, and founded in 1875 a college in Aligarh, Uttar Pradesh state, India. Later, this college became Aligarh University in 1921. The objective of the college was to give modern education to India's Muslims. By 1900, the Indian National Congress had become a national party, but did not represent all groups of Indian society, particularly the Muslims. 
In 1905, Lord Curzon (George Nathaniel Curzon, 1st Marquess Curzon of Kedleston), the Viceroy and Governor-General (1899-1905) of India divided Bengal province into two provinces: Eastern Bengal & Assam, with its capital at Dhaka, and West Bengal, with its capital at Calcutta (Kolkatta). At that time Calcutta was the capital city of the British Raj. The people became very angry at that partition (division), and created the phrase "divide and rule" for the policy followed by the British Empire. The leading intellectual figures of India at that time expressed their unhappiness at this partition. For example, Rabindranath Tagore, the most famous Indian poet (originally from Bengal) composed a poem against this partition.
During the First World War, Indians gave support to the United Kingdom. About 1.3 million Indian soldiers went to many parts of Europe, Africa, and the Middle East to fight. Many Indians, including the princes and rich people of India, contributed money and materials to the war funds of the United Kingdom. However, many Indian soldiers died in foreign lands. In India, flu spread like an epidemic killing many people. The tax rates increased in India, and prices also increased. The Indians became restless. 
In August 1917, Edwin Samuel Montagu, the Secretary of State for India, announced in the British Parliament about many steps to give more rights to Indians. A new law named the Government of India Act of 1919 gave many rights to the Indians in the provincial government. These rights related to farming, local government, health, education, and public works. The British administrators kept matters like taxation, finance, and law and order under their control.
In 1919 the British made a new law named the Rowlatt Act. Under this law, the government got many powers to arrest people and keep them in prisons without any trial. They also got the power to stop newspapers to report and print news. The people called this act the Black Act. Indians protested against this law in many places.
The positive impact of reform was seriously undermined in 1919 by the Rowlatt Act, named after the recommendations made the previous year to the Imperial Legislative Council by the Rowlatt Commission, which had been appointed to investigate "seditious conspiracy." The Rowlatt Act, also known as the Black Act, vested the Viceroy's government with extraordinary powers to quell sedition by silencing the press, detaining political activists without trial, and arresting any individuals suspected of sedition or treason without a warrant. In protest, a nationwide cessation of work ("hartal") was called, marking the beginning of widespread, although not nationwide, popular discontent.
The agitation reached a peak in Amritsar (Punjab, India). In Amritsar, on 13th April 1919, about 10,000 Indians had assembled to protest against the Rowlatt Act. The British military commander, Brigadier-General Reginald Dyer ordered his troops to fire at the civilians without any warning. The troops fired 1,650 times. Some historians estimate that the troops killed 379 persons and injured about 1,137 persons. This incident became famous as Jallianwala Bagh massacre. With this killing of innocent people, the British lost the trust of the Indian people.
Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi (also known as Mahatma Gandhi) had received his education at London. He was a barrister (lawyer). In 1893, he went to South Africa. He protested against inequality, etc. He became successful and the government of South Africa removed most of such rules and restrictions.
When Gandhi returned to India in 1915, few people knew him. Under the leadership of Gandhi, Indians began to use a different method to get freedom over the next few years.
In December 1929, the Indian National Congress Party agreed to start a movement for complete independence from British rule. The Party decided to start a movement named to disobey the British rule. It became the civil disobedience movement. They decided to observe 26th January 1930 as the complete Independence Day. Many other political parties and revolutionaries came together to support this movement.
Gandhi started this movement. He led a number of persons on a 400 kilometer route from Ahmedabad to Dandi (both in the Indian state of Gujarat), on the coast of the Arabian Sea. There they made salt from the seawater and broke a law of British India prohibiting making salt without paying taxes, so this event is referred to as the Salt March. Thus the civil disobedience movement began, and it soon spread throughout India. Indians started to break unfair laws in a peaceful manner in protest against the British rule.
Many Indians did not believe in such peaceful protests. They thought that the British would not give independence to Indians so easily. They believed in armed struggle to oust the British from India. In some way, this had continued for years after the partition of Bengal in 1905. Many revolutionaries and leaders emerged from time to time.
The rulers of the British Raj made a new law to govern India, named the Government of India Act 1935. This law aimed at constitutional process to govern India. It had three major aims: to establish a federal system with many provinces, to give self-ruling position (autonomy) to the provinces, and to give the Muslim minority protection through giving them some separate electorates. In such separate electorates only Muslims could stand for elections. In February 1937, elections took place for the provincial assemblies. The members of the Indian National Congress won in five provinces, and held upper position in two more provinces. The Muslim League's performance in the election was not good.
During the Second World War, the rulers of the British Raj declared India to be a party to the war. They did not discuss the matter with Indians and their leaders. The Indians and their leaders became divided over this matter. Some supported the British, while many did not. British rulers of India wanted the Indians to fight and die in the name of freedom, yet they had denied this freedom to India and the Indians for more than a hundred years. This created a lot of dissatisfaction among Indians, and two big movements for India's independence took shape. The first was the Indian National Army of Subhas Chandra Bose. The second was Quit India Movement of Mohandas Gandhi.
Subhas Chandra Bose and many leaders did not like the British decision to drag India into the Second World War. He had twice (in 1937 and 1939) become president of the Indian National Congress Party, the leading Indian political party of that time. However, he and many other leaders of the Indian National Congress Party differed on many matters. He resigned and formed a new party named All India Forward Bloc. The British government of India put him under house arrest, but he escaped in 1941. He reached Germany and secured the support of Germany and Japan to fight the British in India. In 1943, he traveled in submarines of Germany and Japan, and reached Japan. He organised the Indian National Army. The INA fought the troops of the British Raj in northeastern India. Despite many difficulties, INA recorded many victories. However, with the surrender of Japan in 1945, INA's operations stopped. Bose died in a plane crash, but circumstances of his death are not clear.
The British government of India put on trial three Indian National Army officers at the Red Fort in Delhi. The British had chosen for this trial one Hindu, one Sikh, and one Muslim of the INA. This made many Indians of all religions very angry. A naval mutiny also broke out in Bombay. Ultimately, the British ruled that these officers were guilty, but they set them free seeing the public anger. When India became independent, the government of India did not allow the former officers and soldiers of the INA to join the armed forces of the independent India. However, the government granted them very good pensions and other facilities. The Indian public also gave them much respect.
Many consider Nethaji Subhas Chandra Bose a controversial figure due to his association with the Axis Powers. But, in India, people consider him a patriotic hero of the Indian independence movement.
On 8th August 1942, the leaders of the Indian National Congress Party met in Bombay (Mumbai). The leaders adopted a policy to force the British out of India. Gandhi's slogan "Do or Die" became a national slogan, and the movement became the Quit India Movement. At the beginning of the Second World War, the Indian National Congress Party had supported the British, but they had demanded freedom for India after the war. The British did not agree to this proposal. On 14th July 1942, the Indian National Congress Party passed a resolution demanding complete independence from the British rule. However, this did not have support of some other political parties.
Gandhi had asked the people to keep the Quit India Movement as a peaceful movement. Many people started the movement in many places of India. But at some places, the movements turned violent. Gandhi refused to eat until the violence stopped. He was successful in ending the violence.
The British action was very quick. They arrested over 100,000 people. They levied fines on many people. They dropped bombs on the people who demonstrated against the British Raj. The troops of the British Raj even beat people with sticks and caned them. The British arrested all the leaders of the Congress Party. Gandhi's wife, Kasturba Gandhi, died during detention. His secretary Mahadev Desai also died. Gandhi's health had also become very bad. In 1944, the British set him free fearing that Gandhi's death might result in a very large protest by Indians. Gandhi continued to oppose the British, and demanded that all other leaders be set free.
The Second World War had reduced the economic, political, and military strength of the British Empire. They were also aware that after the war Indians would begin a larger movement for independence. The mood of the British people and the British Army had also changed. After the Second World War, most of them were in no mood come to India to become part of the British ruling class in India. The position was now clear to the leaders of the United Kingdom. By early 1946, they set free all the political prisoners held in India. They started discussion the leaders of the Indian National Congress Party. Finally, India won its freedom on 15th August 1947.And Pakistan won the freedom on 14th August 1947.
On 3rd June 1947, the Viceroy Lord Mountbatten announced partition of India into two countries: union of India, and an Islamic Pakistan. In this partition many people died and got separated from their families. On midnight of 14th August 1947, India became an independent country, and still is today. On 26th January 1950, India adopted their constitution. The Indian constitution is the longest constitution in the world.

</doc>
<doc id="31839" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31839" title="Declaration of the Establishment of the State of Israel">
Declaration of the Establishment of the State of Israel

The Declaration of the Establishment of the State of Israel is a document that announced the establishment of the independent and sovereign state (country) of Israel. 
This term describes the announcement of establishment of a Jewish state, named State of Israel. This State of Israel was established on 14th May 1948. In Hebrew language, "" means the State of Israel. The British Mandate of Palestine was a part of the British Empire. This was the land where the Kingdom of Israel and the Kingdom of Judah had once been. The State of Israel covered more or less the same land. 
Some persons call this as the beginning of "Third Jewish Commonwealth". The "First Jewish Commonwealth" ended with the destruction of Solomon's Temple, and the second with the destruction of the Second Temple in Jerusalem two thousand years ago.
On November 29th 1947, the United Nations had adopted a resolution. The resolution recommended the establishment of an Arab State and a Jewish State in Palestine. The resolution recommended taking steps to establish such a state. 
On May 12th 1948, the Jewish national administration met at Tel Aviv Museum of Art. They had gathered to decide acceptance of an American proposal for a truce or to declare a new state of Israel. Six of the ten voting members supported declaration of a state of Israel. Two days later, on May 14th 1948, the Jewish National Council (Vaad Leumi) met at Tel Aviv. At mid night of May 14th, 1948, a member of the Council read the Declaration of the Establishment of the State of Israel.
The declaration followed a style generally seen in the United Nations documents. First few sentences stated the reasons for the declaration and the right of the Jews for an independent country. Then, the sentences gave the features and characteristics of the new Jewish state.
A few quotes from the declaration:
The United States, the Soviet Union, and many other major countries of the world accepted the state of Israel. Using terms of international law, these countries recognized the state of Israel. However, many Arab countries and countries of the Middle East opposed the establishment of Israel. They did not recognize the state of Israel as a sovereign state, that is, an independent country. Many countries of the world did not recognize Israel, but establish trading and other relations with it. 

</doc>
<doc id="31840" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31840" title="Parvati">
Parvati

According to Hinduism and Hindu mythology, Parvati is the wife of Shiva. Shiva is one of the main gods of the Hindu religion. Parvati is considered to be a mother goddess by many people. Parvati is a word in the Sanskrit language that means "daughter of the mountain". Hindu teachings call Parvati the daughter of the Himalayas Mountains, where she is said to live. She has two sons, Ganesha and Kartikeya.
When shown alone, Parvati has four arms. In her arms she carries prayer beads, a mirror, a bell and citron. But when she sits by the side of her husband Shiva, Parvati has only two arms. In her form with two arms, Parvati holds her right hand up in blessing and holds a lotus flower in her left hand. 
Parvati's conveyance (vahana) is a lion or tiger. This means that Parvati rides a lion or a tiger. 
In Hindu scriptures, Parvati is mentioned many times. She is called by many other names. Some of them are:

</doc>
<doc id="31841" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31841" title="Estádio Palestra Itália">
Estádio Palestra Itália

Estádio Palestra Itália, also known as Parque Antártica, is the name of the football stadium of Palmeiras. It is located in São Paulo, Brazil, and has a capacity of 32,000.

</doc>
<doc id="31843" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31843" title="1963 Pan American Games">
1963 Pan American Games

The 4th Pan American Games were held in 1963 in São Paulo, Brazil.
"Host country in bold."

</doc>
<doc id="31844" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31844" title="Pan American Games">
Pan American Games

The Pan American Games are a multi-sport event, held every four years between competitors from all nations of the Americas.
Pan American Games were going to be started in 1932, but World War II caused the first Pan American Games to happen on 1951. From that time, the Games are held every four years.
More than 5000 athlets from more than 40 countries have attended the recent Games. USA has won most gold, silver and bronze medals in total. Hopefully, that will change because it's unfair that they always win. Everyone else has barely any people and then they send in 800 to compete.
2012 Toronto!!!

</doc>
<doc id="31845" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31845" title="Campinas">
Campinas

Campinas (IPA: ) is a Brazilian city in the state of São Paulo. In 2005, 1,045,706 people lived there. It is about from the city of São Paulo. Campinas has an area of .

</doc>
<doc id="31865" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31865" title="Multilingualism">
Multilingualism

Multilingualism is when a person can speak more than one language. People who can speak two languages are called "bilingual", which is a type of multilingualism. Multilingualism is important today in jobs, because different countries buy things from each other more.
There are more multilingual people in the world than monolingual people.

</doc>
<doc id="31867" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31867" title="Fall/Liberation of Saigon">
Fall/Liberation of Saigon

The Fall/Liberation of Sàigòn happened on April 30, 1975. It was the capture of Saigon (Vietnamese:Sài Gòn) by the National Front for the Liberation of Vietnam and the Vietnam People's Army, marking the end of the Vietnam War. It also resulted in the name of Saigon being changed to Ho Chi Minh City, in honour of former President Ho Chi Minh.
New York Times Archive

</doc>
<doc id="31871" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31871" title="Between Friends">
Between Friends

Between Friends is a comic strip from Canada created by Sandra Bell-Lundy. It features three women with troubles with parenting and life. Sometimes they go back in time to simpler days. For example, at a department store, they compared themselves as teenage girls buying outfits to enhance sex appeal in the 1970s to buying conservative clothes in the 1990s.

</doc>
<doc id="31872" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31872" title="Patrice Lumumba">
Patrice Lumumba

Patrice Émery Lumumba (July 2, 1925 – January 17, 1961) was the only elected leader of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (called the "Republic of the Congo" at the time, but this should not be confused with today's Republic of the Congo). The official position of the US government, as seen in the US News and World Report, associated Lumumba's ideas of African socialist democracy as an African brand of communism. Thus, the Americans had plans to kill him. He was murdered by the Katangans on January 17, 1961, just months after independence.
Lumumba's son, François is now a political figure in the Congo. He has created a small Lumumbist group.

</doc>
<doc id="31873" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31873" title="Ho Chi Minh">
Ho Chi Minh

Hồ Chí Minh, born Nguyễn Sinh Cung, (May 19, 1890 - September 2, 1969) was the leader (Prime Minister from 1945-1955, and President from 1945-1969) of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam (later the Socialist Republic of Vietnam). 
Hồ Chí Minh is often called "the Vietnamese George Washington" by Communist Vietnamese, because he spent much of his life trying to get the French, who controlled Vietnam, to leave. There is a city named Ho Chi Minh City that honors him.
'Hồ Chí Minh', meaning 'Hồ (a common Vietnamese last name) with the will of light', was not his real name. He took this name around the time of the August Revolution in 1945. His name was Nguyễn Sinh Cung when he was born. At age ten, he changed his name to Nguyễn Tất Thành, according to Confucian tradition. He would later use many 'pseudonyms' (false names). Other than 'Hồ Chí Minh', his most famous name was probably Nguyễn Ái Quốc meaning 'Nguyễn (by far the most common Vietnamese last name) who loves his country'. Communist Vietnamese people commonly refer to him as Bác Hồ (Uncle Hồ).
Nguyễn studied in Paris from 1919-23. In those four years, he started following communism, and began to believe that Vietnam- then a French colony-should be independent. During this time he wrote a letter, which was ignored, to United States President Woodrow Wilson, asking for U.S. military aid to help overthrow the French colonial rulers. He joined the French Communist Party, and started visiting Moscow regularly, as a member of the Asian branch of the Comintern.
Hồ led a revolution against the French rulers of Vietnam from 1945-1954. After overthrowing the French, a Communist regime, supported by the Soviet Union and China, was set up in the northern half of the country, with himself leading the country as both President and Prime Minister. A non-Communist government, supported by the United States, was set up in the southern half of the country, because the United States did not want all Vietnam to be Communist. This was because the United States was then fighting the Cold War.
When South Vietnam and America did not keep their promise to hold an election and unite the two halves into one country, Hồ led Vietnam into a military and political struggle to bring the rice fields of the South under his Communist rule. Two decades of war followed, killing millions of Vietnamese. The United States supported South Vietnam with military aid, while the Soviet Union (led by Nikita Krushchev and then Leonid Brezhnev) and People's Republic of China (led by Mao Zedong) continued to support North Vietnam's war effort.
In the end, North Vietnam won the war several years after Hồ Chí Minh died.
Suffering from diabetes and heart problems, Hồ Chí Minh died on the morning of September 2, 1969, of a heart attack.
In his will he said he wished to be cremated and have his ashes be buried in hills in the north, center, and south of Vietnam. After he died however, his followers embalmed his body and put it in a tomb, the mausoleum, where he is still worshipped today.
In 1976, in the style of the Soviet Union, the victorious Communist North renamed the capital of the non-Communist South, Saigon, to Ho Chi Minh City, in honour of their leader.

</doc>
<doc id="31875" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31875" title="Vietnamese Declaration of Independence">
Vietnamese Declaration of Independence

The Declaration of Independence of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam was a speech read by Ho Chi Minh on September 2, 1945, in Ba Dinh Square, Hanoi, Vietnam, which proclaims the independence of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam from France and Japan Empire after the Second World War. 
During the August Revolution, Ho Chi Minh wrote the speech at 48 Hang Ngang Street, Hanoi, at the home of a bourgeoisie family that donated 5,147 taels of gold to the Revolutionary Government headed by Ho Chi Minh. The Declaration was written with the advise of OSS Detachment 101 Maj. Archimedes Patti.
It is based on the American Declaration of Independence and the Declaration of the Rights of Man and Citizen.

</doc>
<doc id="31877" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31877" title="Khmer Rouge">
Khmer Rouge

The Khmer Rouge (Khmer: ""; French for "Red Khmer") were a Stalinist, Maoist militant group in Cambodia. They took over the capital, Phnom Penh, on 17 April 1975. It was led by Pol Pot, who was called Saloth Sar before the take over. They named the country Democratic Kampuchea. They immediately forced everyone out of the cities, effectively turning the whole country into a giant labor camp. They were defeated by the Vietnamese in January of 1979. During the Khmer Rouge Years, between 1.7 million and 2 million people were killed (20–30% of the population) in a genocide comparable to the Holocaust. The international community continued to recognize the Khmer Rouge as the government of Kampuchea for a decade after they were defeated. Therefore the Khmer Rouge held a seat in the United Nations until 1989.
Pol Pot killed himself in 1998. He was cremated without any ceremony. By 1999, the Khmer Rouge disbanded.

</doc>
<doc id="31880" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31880" title="Juche">
Juche

Juche is the group of ideas developed by North Korean leaders Kim Il-Sung, Kim Jong-Il and Kim Jong-un. "Juche" means self-reliance. According to its supporters, the idea was developed from Marxism and Leninism. In many cases, it is noticeably different from both. At its base, the idea states that the interests of the people and their nation are more important than those of Leninism or Marxism. A strong leader is required to undertake the necessary reforms. The nation of (North) Korea is special, and should be the focus of interest. Every nation needs to drive forward its own revolution. Three things are necessary for this:
It is the role of the state to make sure these three things are there. According to the idea man himself is responsible for designing what the world should look like. The welfare of many people (which form the nation) is more important than the fate of the individual.
Juche also says that intellectuals are important.
Certain people have described these ideas as a philosophy, others see it as a religion.

</doc>
<doc id="31889" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31889" title="Kigali">
Kigali

Kigali (pronounced either as 'Kigali' or 'Chigali' or 'Cyigali') is the capital city of Rwanda. 

</doc>
<doc id="31890" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31890" title="Louis XVI of France">
Louis XVI of France

Louis XVI (August 23, 1754 - January 21, 1793) was King of France and Navarre from 1774 to 1791 and as King of the French from 1791 to 1792. Suspended and arrested during the Insurrection of 10 August 1792, he was tried by the National Convention, found guilty of treason, and executed by guillotine on 21 January 1793. He was the only king of France to be executed and the last French Monarch.
Louis XVI was born to Louis Ferdinand, Dauphin of France and grandson of Louis XV and his wife, Marie Josephe of Saxony, in 1754. His father died early in Louis's life and Louis XVI became the dauphin. His parents liked his older brother more than Louis and were upset when Louis's brother died at ten. Louis's parents turned against him and he became a shy boy. 
When Louis was 15, he married Marie Antoinette. At first, he and Marie did not consummate the marriage. At last, they did in 1773.
However, they failed to produce children for several years after that. This made the marriage strained. The situation was made worse when called "libelles" were published. These "libelles" mocked their failure to produce children. One questioned, "Can the King do it? Can't the King do it?" In the end, he and Marie Antoinette had four children:
At Versailles, King Louis XVI could scarcely believe the storming of Bastille, but the National Assembly took it in stride. It was a victory for the people, and bloodshed was natural in revolution. But this was an important turning point for France. There was no longer any possibility for reform—the movement had organically become a revolution. 
On October 5, 1789, an agitated assembly of women demanding bread marched to Versailles. They surged effortlessly past the palace guards and thundered into the queen's bedroom mere minutes after she fled. The mob wanted the royal family to come with them to Paris, and the ever-faltering Louis at last acquiesced to the people's demands. With a heavy heart, Louis added his signature to the Declaration of the Rights of Man and loaded his family into the royal carriage. As they rolled somberly alongside the crowd, the heads of their dead guards bobbed mockingly beside their windows.
But Louis wouldn't be content as puppet king for very long. Even though he was imprisoned by the people in the Tuileries Palace, he had allies beyond France's borders who wanted to see him regain the throne. They planned an escape and broke from the Tuileries on the night of June 21, 1791, under the guise of servants. The royal family was close to the Austrian border when its carriage was apprehended at the town of Varennes. When Louis and his family were brought back to their quarters at the Tuileries, they were kept under heavier watch. Suspicions against the royal family continued to mount, including founded or unfounded beliefs that Marie Antoinette was writing to her family about confidential military maneuvers. In an act of misguided duty to the monarchies of Europe, Prussia's Duke of Brunswick wrote “ We will destroy Paris into the ground if anything happens to our royal majesty, the king and queen.”
Louis' cousin, the Duke of Orleans was the one responsible for spreading rumors about Louis' wife which caused people to get very angry. Louis was officially arrested on 13 August and sent to the Temple, an ancient Paris fortress used as a prison. On September 21, the National Assembly declared France to be a republic and abolished the monarchy.
Louis was made to go on trial as an ordinary citizen, and he was quickly proclaimed guilty. Louis Capet had no allies in the Convention, but the Girondins at least wanted to spare his life. The Jacobins wouldn't hear of it; Louis must die. Robespierre convinced the people that the monarch must die for the republic to live. For the last time, he was reunited to his family and promised to come back the next morning but he did not. On his way to the guillotine, Louis Capet ominously prophesied, "I trust that my death will be for the happiness of my people, but I grieve for France, and I fear that she may suffer the anger of the Lord" but his speech was drowned out by a roll of drums. On January 20, 1793, the man they had once called “King” was no more. Marie Antoinette, the Queen, was executed months later.
Louisville, Kentucky is named for Louis XVI. In 1780, the Virginia General Assembly present this name in honor of the French king, whose soldiers were aiding the American side in the American Revolution. The Virginia General Assembly saw the King as a noble man, but many other continental delegates disagreed. 

</doc>
<doc id="31891" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31891" title="Paul Kagame">
Paul Kagame

Paul Kagame (born October 23, 1957) is the President of Rwanda. 
Though a member of the Tutsi ethnic group, he tends to downplay the importance of his ethnicity. He is responsible for ending the Rwandan Genocide. However, he is often seen as a dictator, and has a bad human rights record.

</doc>
<doc id="31892" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31892" title="Juche Tower">
Juche Tower

The Juche Tower is a monument in Pyongyang, North Korea. It was completed in 1982. It is on the eastern bank of the Taedong River, opposite the Kim Il-Sung Square. Its geographic coordinates are 39°1′3.52″N, 125°45′48.05″E. It was made to celebrate the anniversary of Kim Il-Sung's 70th birthday. It is claimed that it was designed by Kim Jong-il.
The 170 meter (560') structure contains 25,550 blocks (365 × 70, one for each day of Kim Il Sung's life, excluding remainder days), dressed in white stone with seventy dividers and capped with a 20 meter high, 45 ton, shining torch allegedly made out of 'special materials'. It is possible to go to the top of the tower. It is said that the tower was built in 35 days and was dressed in 76 days.
In front of the tower is a 30 meter high statue consisting of three figures — one with a hammer, one with a sickle and one with a writing brush (an idealised worker, a peasant and a "working intellectual"). Also close to the tower is a wall of 82 friendship plaques, apparently from foreign supporters. Around the tower there are also pavilions and water features. It is claimed that the tower has become a popular place for North Koreans.
The tower is named after the principle of Juche, developed by Kim Il-Sung. The name of the tower is sometimes translated as the Tower of the Juche Idea or Juche Ideology Tower.

</doc>
<doc id="31894" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31894" title="Space exploration">
Space exploration

Space exploration is a term which describes searching outer space. There are many reasons for space exploration. The most important reasons are scientific research and the interest of humans to learn more about outer space. For centuries, humans had dreamt of reaching outer space. Better rockets made it possible in the 20th century. On October 4, 1957, the former Soviet Union launched the Sputnik I, which was the first artificial satellite. This started the Space Race and people later went into orbit and Americans visited the Moon in Project Apollo. Many space probes have gone to the various planets and other places in the solar system to send back information about them.

</doc>
<doc id="31902" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31902" title="Vietnamese language">
Vietnamese language

Vietnamese is the official language of Vietnam.
Like many languages from Asia the Vietnamese language is a tonal language. It has been strongly changed by Chinese languages. The Vietnamese language has shared history with other languages such as Khmer. Today, it uses a Latin alphabet based on the French alphabet. The Vietnamese alphabet was once based on Chinese characters. It is called Chữ Nôm. Fewer people know Chữ Nôm today. Most Chinese speakers who live in Vietnam now use regular Chinese script for calligraphy. Some traditional calligraphy artists can still be found. For example, Ho Chi Minh City has a district famous for its popular Chinatown.
In modern times Vietnamese adds new words that are needed. With more engineering, science, and academics many words are taken from these professions. Also there has been an increase in media use. Some social words taken from media are now accepted as common.
The spoken language of Vietnam changes between each province. The greater the distance between provinces the stronger the difference. The difference between Hanoian and the Mekong is called a dialect difference. Nowadays, the national education for all of Vietnam includes the Hanoian dialect. 
However, each ethnic tribe may still use a different dialect, language, or vocabulary.
There are speaking programs that use the Vietnamese language. A computer add-on for the Firefox web browser can read text with the 'vietnamization' that is needed. It's called Vietnamese TTS (Text to Speech). 
Audio libraries are available to reproduce the Vietnamese language. Google translate uses a TTS reader and sound library to read Vietnamese in simple sentences. Portable electronic translators are also very popular. Kim Tu Dien makes the most common portable dictionary for the Vietnamese market.
The Vietnamese alphabet (In Vietnamese: "Chữ Quốc ngữ", means "The National Scripts").
The combination of two vowels makes a diphthong. The dipthongs used in the Vietnamese language have some rules when used. For example, one rule states where the singular tone for both letters must be placed.
There are more triphthongs in Vietnamese than English. 'uye' is included.
The syllables refers to the Chinese use of two characters as syllables. So, Hong is one and Kong the other. 
Vietnamese also uses one syllable as a word. In the same way as English, people can say just 'go'. For more emphasis (in Vietnamese) it could be said twice. The use of the syllable twice is from the history of languages for Asia. Some Australian Aboriginal languages are known do the same thing. So, 'go - go' () means "go now", in a higher strength. But also, 'go' is enough in Vietnamese. 
Many single syllables are used by the Vietnamese language. They can form sentences without pairing with other syllables as they do in Chinese. Readers (and speakers) still notice that many syllables, in most sentences, are paired.
Many words from around the world were needed in Vietnamese. Sushi is a common word used by most languages. When a word is vietnamized, it is changed to sound Vietnamese. China uses the same idea: Ao-day-lia in Pinyin means Australia.
The first rule for vietnamization is that 'no Vietnamese word/syllable is broken by a consonant'. E.g. (Việt Nam).
An example of how to break a foreign word into two syllables is mô tô which is used for motorbike. It's not the most common word for motorbike, but it is accepted. This word is a vietnamized version of 'motor' and 'auto'(ô tô). However, the rule is not always right, e.g. lôgic. 
When introducing a common foreign word, people 'vietnamize' the word in at least one spoken demonstration for Vietnamese listeners.
The second (softer) rule for vietnamization is that the sound of each syllable must be made 'a little closer to Viet sounds'.
The second rule is made to work by adding the tone marks for vowel letters.
For example: lôgic is an alteration of 'logic'. It would be needed to teach a couple of school and science subjects. Computer science uses this word.
Any word can be made an exception to vietnamization. Names like Barack Obama, or Bill Clinton might be attempted by all Vietnamese speakers. In writing, these foreign names will mostly stay together (intact). Names like David are easy for Vietnamese people to say, and have become very popular in English-class writing.
Exclamations words are very popular in Vietnamese. People can use exclamations as an introduction to more things to be said. Or people can pass a comment (after saying something) with a quick exclamation. The exclamation word may express a feeling or just be an expression.
Conjunctions are used in Vietnamese.

</doc>
<doc id="31903" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31903" title="Valmiki">
Valmiki

Maharishi Valmiki (, "vālmīki") (during Lord Rama's time) is celebrated as the poet harbinger in Sanskrit literature. He is the author of the epic "Ramayana", based on the attribution in the text of the epic itself. He is revered as the "Adi Kavi," which means "First Poet," for he discovered the first "śloka" i.e. first "verse", which set the base and defined the form to Sanskrit poetry. 
At least by the 1st century AD, Valmiki's reputation as the father of Sanskrit classical poetry seems to have been legendary.

</doc>
<doc id="31905" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31905" title="Kali">
Kali

Kali is one of the goddesses in Hinduism. Kali is the goddess of death and destruction. She is commonly presented as dark and violent. Various Shakta Hindu cosmologies, as well as Shakta Tantric beliefs, worship her as the ultimate reality or Brahman.
Kali is represented as the consort of Lord Shiva, on whose body she is often seen standing. She is associated with many other Hindu goddesses like Durga, Bhadrakali, Sati, Rudrani, Parvati and Chamunda. She is the foremost among the Dasa Mahavidyas, ten fierce Tantric goddesses.
The name Kali comes from kāla (meaning black, time, death, lord of death, Shiva). Kālī is the feminine of kāla ("black, dark coloured"). Kāla primarily means "black," but also means "time." Kālī means "the black one" and also "time" or "beyond time." Kali means "the black one". Since Shiva is called Kāla - the eternal time, Kālī, his consort, also means "the Time" or "Death". Hence, Kali is considered the goddess of time and change.
She has many names like Kālarātri ("black night"), Kālikā ("relating to time"), or Bhadrakali ("a gentle form of Kali").

</doc>
<doc id="31908" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31908" title="Petr Čech">
Petr Čech

Petr Čech (born 20 May 1982) is a Czech football player. He currently plays for Chelsea in English Football Premiership. Before playing for Chelsea, he played in Ligue 1. He became a player for Chelsea in June 2004.
Čech is thought to be one of the best goalkeeper in the Premier League. He had the record of the least losses in his first season playing for Chelsea. That season he helped Chelsea to win the title of Premier League. He also helped Chelsea to win the same title the next year. 
In June of 2015, Čech agreed to sign for Arsenal, ending his 11 year career at Chelsea Football Club.
54||0||||||||||||||54||0
70||0||||||||||||||70||0
150||0||13||0||8||0||47||0||218||0
274||0||13||0||8||0||47||0||372||0
!Total||72||0
Čech holds three records: 

</doc>
<doc id="31913" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31913" title="Mustafa Kemal Atatürk">
Mustafa Kemal Atatürk

Mustafa Kemal Atatürk was the first President of Turkey until his death in 1938. He is known for being a leader of Turkey who freed the country from being controlled by other countries, and later for starting changes that made Turkey more modern and similar to Western civilization, mainly Europe and the United States.
Mustafa Kemal Atatürk was born under the name Ali Rıza oğlu Mustafa in 1881. His birth place was in Salonika, Greece (now Thessaloniki). Salonika was part of the Ottoman Empire at that time. He took the name "Kemal" as a schoolboy and Atatürk (which means Father of All Turks) when he was president. His father's name was Ali Rıza Efendi. His mother's name was Zübeyde Hanım. He also had a sister whose name was Makbule (Atadan). He became an army officer and the most successful general officer of the empire in World War I, fighting in Gallipoli.
When the Ottoman Empire was ended after the war, Atatürk organized a nationalist movement that created the new, secular, Republic of Turkey. This meant that the country's government was no longer led by hereditary or religious leaders. Visitors to Turkey are often surprised by the importance given to Atatürk in present-day Turkey.
Few countries have such a person in their history. He was a successful military commander, and later established a democratic constitution and put in place changes that set Turkey on the road to becoming a new and developing nation. He inspired many later leaders, like Gamal Abdel Nasser and Mohammad Ali Jinnah.
His six principles still serve today as a sign post for establishing a democratic government:

</doc>
<doc id="31915" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31915" title="Morumbi Stadium">
Morumbi Stadium

Morumbi Stadium or Estádio do Morumbi is the biggest stadium in São Paulo, Brazil. It used to have 120,000 seats available, but now its maximum capacity is 81,000 seats for safety reasons. It is the home ground of São Paulo Futebol Clube and its formal name honors Cícero Pompeu de Toledo, who was São Paulo FC's chairman during most of the stadium construction.

</doc>
<doc id="31919" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31919" title="Bail">
Bail

Bail is money given to the court to guarantee that someone will go to their trial. If the person does not show up for their trial, the government gets to keep the money.

</doc>
<doc id="31920" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31920" title="Initialism">
Initialism

An initialism is a word made from the first letters of each word in a phrase. Unlike acronyms, initialisms cannot be spoken as words: they are spoken letter by letter. Examples of initialisms are:

</doc>
<doc id="31922" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31922" title="Soufflé">
Soufflé

A soufflé is a light fluffy dessert food.
It is a lightly baked cake. It can be served as a savoury main dish, but usually it is sweetened as a dessert. It is made with egg yolks and beaten egg whites. The egg whites are beaten to a soft peak meringue.
The dish puffs up in the oven.

</doc>
<doc id="31923" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31923" title="Blossom">
Blossom

A blossom is a flower that grows on stone fruit trees and other plants including oranges, cherries, plums, apples and almonds

</doc>
<doc id="31924" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31924" title="Marmalade">
Marmalade

Marmalade is a topping, like a jam or jelly, that is usually made with oranges. Marmalade can also be made from lemons, limes, grapefruits, or a combination of citrus fruits.
The word Marmalade comes from the Galician word "marmelada" meaning 
"quince jam".

</doc>
<doc id="31926" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31926" title="1697">
1697


</doc>
<doc id="31928" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31928" title="Thomas Hardy">
Thomas Hardy

Thomas Hardy OM (2 June 1840 – 11 January 1928) was an English novelist and poet. In the United Kingdom, Hardy is generally thought to be one of the greatest figures in English literature.
Thomas Hardy was born in Upper Bockhampton near Dorchester, Dorset. His father was a stonemason. His mother was ambitious and had read a lot. She added to his formal education. Hardy trained as an architect in Dorchester before moving to London to get a job. He won prizes from the Royal Institute of British Architects and the Architectural Association. 
Hardy wrote a small number of novels which earned him a high reputation in his lifetime. These include "Tess of the Durbervilles", "The Mayor of Casterbridge" and "Far from the Madding Crowd". After the publication of "Jude the Obscure" in 1895 Hardy gave up novel writing but continued to write poetry including an epic poem called "The Dynasts". Hardy set his novels in South West England, calling it Wessex, and inventing names for individual towns, e.g. Casterbridge is Dorchester in Dorset. Hardy died in Dorchester. His ashes are buried in Westminster Abbey.

</doc>
<doc id="31929" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31929" title="Manhole">
Manhole

A manhole (also called a utility hole, cable chamber, maintenance hole , inspection chamber, access chamber or confined space) is a hole for a person to go into to fix underground services. Some examples of these are sewers, telephone, electricity, storm drains and gas. 
The opening is protected by a manhole cover. A manhole cover can also be called a "biscuit". It is designed to stop people falling down the hole and to stop people going underground if they are not allowed to. Manholes usually have metal or polypropylene steps on the wall to make it easier to get into the manhole.
Manholes are usually found in urban areas, in streets and sometimes under sidewalks. They are usually circular to stop the manhole cover from falling into the hole.
In urban areas, electricity being in places it is not supposed to be (stray voltage) has become a big concern. In 2004, Jodie S. Lane was electrocuted after stepping on a metal manhole cover. She was walking her dog in New York City when it happened.

</doc>
<doc id="31930" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31930" title="Sewer">
Sewer

Sewers are underground pipes that take away dirty water and human waste from homes, offices and many other places. The sewers lead to treatment plants that remove the harmful and unwanted parts, returning clean water to the environment. Things like chemicals, bacteria, and ultraviolet light help clean the sewage. Many rules and regulations exist for how clean the final discharge (effluent) must be. These rules can be at the national, state, and regional level.
Cleaning crews use special trucks and tools to help keep the sewers clear of grease, tree roots, and other blockages. More rural areas may have septic systems where sewers do not yet exist.

</doc>
<doc id="31931" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31931" title="Pajamas">
Pajamas

Pajamas (pyjamas in the United Kingdom) are loose clothes that people wear while they are sleeping. Pyjamas usually include trousers and a shirt. Pyjamas are often made of cotton. They are usually worn without underwear. The word comes from , Pajāmā; .

</doc>
<doc id="31935" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31935" title="Barter">
Barter

Barter is trading one thing for another without using money. Usually the things that are traded are worth the same amount of money, but no money is used in the trade.
Barter is useful when two people each have something the other wants, so they agree on an amount of stuff and then swap it. This can also happen with services, for example a plumber can fix a tap in a winery and be given a crate of wine.
The problem with barter is one person may not want what the other person has. For instance, Bob needs a new pair of shoes and John has those shoes. But Bob has eggs and John needs milk. This is where money becomes useful because anything can be traded for a set amount of money. Bob could pay John for the shoes and John could go to the store and buy some milk.

</doc>
<doc id="31936" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31936" title="Carlisle United F.C.">
Carlisle United F.C.

Carlsile United F.C. is an English football team in Football League One. Neil McDonald is the manager.

</doc>
<doc id="31947" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31947" title="Baroque pop">
Baroque pop

Baroque pop is a rock music subgenre that mixes both rock and classical music. It was created by musicians in the 1960s by adding classical instruments like harpsichord, French horns, oboes, and string sections. It became popular with both teenagers and adults at the time. Examples can be found on The Beach Boys' "Pet Sounds" and recordings made by Phil Spector. It is also referred to as chamber pop, among other names.
Some baroque pop musicians:

</doc>
<doc id="31948" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31948" title="290s">
290s


</doc>
<doc id="31949" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31949" title="Leica Camera">
Leica Camera

Leica is a camera company in Wetzlar, Germany.

</doc>
<doc id="31950" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31950" title="2011">
2011

2011 (MMXI) was a common year starting on Saturday in the Gregorian calendar.
According to the North Korean Juche calendar, this was Juche year 100. This year was also the 100th of the Republic of China (Taiwan) Era year (民國100年).
The United Nations designated 2011 the International Year of Forests and International Year of Chemistry.

</doc>
<doc id="31951" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31951" title="Tiến Quân Ca">
Tiến Quân Ca

"", meaning "Army March" is the national anthem (song) of Vietnam. It was created in 1944 by Nguyễn Văn Cao, the famous Vietnamese composer (person who writes music).
Verse 1
Verse 2
Verse 1
Verse 2

</doc>
<doc id="31953" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31953" title="North American blizzard of 2003">
North American blizzard of 2003

The Blizzard of 2003, also called the Presidents' Day Storm of 2003, or Presidents' Day Storm II, was a very big snowstorm on the East Coast of the United States and Canada, which started on February 15 and ended on February 18, 2003. Lots of snow fell in the big cities in the Northeast US, making it the biggest snowstorm of the snowy winter of 2002-2003. All cities from Washington DC to Boston were covered in a lot of snow, and people could not go around because of the bad weather. In Baltimore and Boston, this was the biggest snowstorm ever recorded.
The storm started in the southern Rockies on February 14, and moved to southern Missouri and the Lower Tennessee Valley in a few days. It brought heavy rain and bad weather to the Deep South, including the nation's first tornado of 2003. In the north, snow and ice affected the Midwest. Southern Iowa and eastern Illinois also got lots of snow, with 11 inches (28 cm) in Des Moines. In Kentucky this was mostly an ice storm, with some places getting up to 3/4" (2 cm) of ice. At the same time, Washington, D.C. and Baltimore got a little bit of snow on February 15. The weather was very cold, and the storm moved very slowly.
But early on February 16, lots of snow started falling in those two cities, and the snow started in Philadelphia. Heavy snow kept coming, falling very fast. It was also very cold, so the snow kept piling up. The heavy snow continued all day, and it reached New York City in the evening. At about the same time, the snow changed to sleet in Washington, D.C., and that's why the city got less snow than other cities. In the rest of the Northeast, however, the snow stayed for much of the night. The sleet changed back to snow by the next morning in Washington, D.C., and soon ended. Blizzard Warnings were given in New York City and Boston, and the snow began in Boston that day. In the evening, the heavy snow ended in New York City, and it ended in Boston on the morning of February 18. After that, the storm weakened and brought a few inches of snow to other parts of New England.
This snowstorm slowed down much of the East Coast with its heavy snow. Washington's Reagan National Airport, Baltimore-Washington International Airport, Philadelphia International Airport, and LaGuardia Airport in New York were closed, and Dulles Airport had one runway open. With snow falling, driving was almost impossible. In Baltimore, the roof of the historic B&O Railroad Museum broke, destroying many valuable engines, railroad cars and train souvenirs.

</doc>
<doc id="31955" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31955" title="Organization of American States">
Organization of American States

The Organization of American States (OAS in English; OEA in the other three official languages) is an international organization based in Washington, D.C. It has all thirty-five independent nations of the Americas as its members.
For its work Organization of American States (OAS) uses four languages: English language, French language, Portuguese language, and Spanish language.
Many people and politicians of different countries of North America and South America had thought of an organization of their countries. These countries have also formed different organizations from time to time. Beginning from 1889-1890, these countries held meetings known as the International Conference of American States. At its first conference, 18 countries formed the International Union of American Republics.
In 1910, these countries held the Fourth International Conference of American States at Buenos Aires. They changed the name of the International Union of American Republics to the Union of American Republics. These countries held the ninth International Conference of American States between March and May 1948 at Bogotá. On 30th April 1948, 21 countries signed an agreement. They called this agreement the Charter of the Organization of American States. This was the beginning of the Organization of American States (OAS). OAS started functioning from December 1951.
The Charter of the OAS states the goals for forming the OAS. There are many goals. Some important goals relate to peace and security for these countries; development of democratic governments; and economic cooperation.
All 35 independent nations of America are members of the OAS. Upon foundation on 5 May 1948 there were 21 members:
The later expansion of the OAS included the newly independent nations of the Caribbean (most of whom gained independence only after World War II) and Canada. Members with later admission dates (sorted chronologically):

</doc>
<doc id="31957" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31957" title="Gustav Holst">
Gustav Holst

Gustav Holst (21 September 1874 - 25 May 1934) was a famous English composer. He was born in Cheltenham, Gloucestershire. He studied composition at the Royal College of Music in London. He also learned to play the trombone. He became Director of Music at St Paul’s Girls’ School, Hammersmith, (London). Some of his music was written for the pupils at this school: for example, the popular "St Paul’s Suite" (1912-1913) for string orchestra. His most famous work is "The Planets" (1918). This is a suite of seven movements for orchestra, each about a different planet (the Earth is not included, and Pluto had not yet been discovered). The music does not really describe the planets, it describes the Roman gods after which the planets are named. Mars, for example, is the “Bringer of War”. It has a very exciting rhythm with five beats in a bar. Jupiter has a tune which has become famous as the hymn “I Vow to Thee, My Country”. He died of heart failure in London.

</doc>
<doc id="31960" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31960" title="Nelson's Column">
Nelson's Column

Nelson's Column is a national monument of the United Kingdom based in Trafalgar Square, London, England. The column was built between 1840 and 1843 to commemorate Admiral Horatio Nelson's death at the Battle of Trafalgar in 1805.

</doc>
<doc id="31962" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31962" title="Cousin">
Cousin

In genealogy, a cousin is a relative, other than an ancestor or descendant, who shares a common ancestor. The word cousin is often used to refer to a person's first cousin - the child of someone's aunt or uncle.
etc.
A first cousin once removed can be either:
A second cousin once removed can be either:
If you have a first cousin once removed, then you are also the first cousin once removed of that person.
If you have a second cousin once removed, then you are also the second cousin once removed of that person.
Your second cousin's children are the third cousins of your children.
Each time it is removed once, that person will go one generation down or up.
Each time it is removed twice, that person will go two generations down or up.

</doc>
<doc id="31963" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31963" title="900">
900


</doc>
<doc id="31964" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31964" title="996">
996


</doc>
<doc id="31965" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31965" title="1288">
1288


</doc>
<doc id="31967" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31967" title="1345">
1345


</doc>
<doc id="31968" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31968" title="1347">
1347


</doc>
<doc id="31971" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31971" title="1565">
1565


</doc>
<doc id="31976" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31976" title="Livestock">
Livestock

Livestock are domestic animals that are kept by people for food, milk, leather, or wool.
Some types of livestock are: cattle, pigs, sheep, goats, and chickens. The group is mostly thought to be cows and bulls. Chickens produce eggs, pigs produce ham, bulls make leather for their pelts, goats and cows create milk, and sheep create wool.

</doc>
<doc id="31977" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31977" title="Breed">
Breed

A breed is a domesticated race or type of an animal. The term may also be used as a verb. In this way, to "breed" an animal is to make sure that it has offspring that improves the next generation’s qualities. This is also often referred to as "breeding." A "breeder" is a person who maintains and creates different breeds of animals or plants.

</doc>
<doc id="31979" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31979" title="Storm">
Storm

Storm means violent weather, usually heavy rain and wind. 
Hurricanes, typhoons, and tornadoes are, often, called storms too but they have special names because they are very, very strong. Storms are studied by scientists called meteorologists. The idea of shipping forecasts started with a concern to save ships from unexpected storms in the North Atlantic. A storm is associated with severe weather and may be marked by strong wind, thunder, lightning and heavy precipitation such as ice. Therefore, the knowledge of the weather condition is extremely important.
There are many varieties and names for storms: "icestorm", "blizzard", "snowstorm", "oceanstorm", "firestorm", etc. The storms called thunderstorms develop in hot, humid tropical areas like India very frequently. The rising temperatures produce strong upward rising winds. These winds carry water droplets upwards, where they freeze, and fall down again. The swift movement of the falling water droplets along with the rising air create "lighting" and sound. 

</doc>
<doc id="31981" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31981" title="Hemisphere">
Hemisphere

Hemisphere means half (hemi) of the Earth (sphere).

</doc>
<doc id="31982" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31982" title="Pressure">
Pressure

Pressure means how much something is pushing on something else.
It is expressed as force per unit area: P=F/A 
In technology, pressure is often specified in multiples of atmospheric pressure.
It can also be defined as the thrust [compressive force acting perpendicularly to the surface of a body] acting per unit area.
Since pressure depends on both force and area, the same amount of force applied by a hand will make less pressure than when applied by something smaller, like a finger. 
Pressure is also related to density. By the ideal gas law, for example, doubling the pressure can put twice as much gas in a bottle.
To measure the amount of pressure people use these units:

</doc>
<doc id="32000" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32000" title="Alligator">
Alligator

Alligator is a genus in the order Crocodilia. There are two living species: the American alligator and the smaller Chinese alligator. Together with the caimans, the gharials, and the crocodiles, they make up the order Crocodilia.
The first alligators existed about 37 million years ago. However, older species of alligators have become extinct.
An average adult American alligator weighs and is long. However, they can grow to long and weigh over . 
The largest alligator ever recorded, found in Louisiana, was long. 
The Chinese alligator is smaller. It is rarely longer than . In addition, it weighs considerably less than the American alligator. Male Chinese alligators rarely weigh over .
Nobody knows how long alligators live, on average. An 80-year-old alligator named Muja, living in the Belgrade Zoo in Serbia, is thought to be the oldest alligator living in captivity.
Although the alligator often moves slowly, it can run very fast for short times, especially in very short lunges. Usually, alligators' main prey are smaller animals they can kill and eat with a single bite. If the prey is not big enough to eat in one bite, they may drag the animal into the water to drown. They may also bite they prey and then spin or wildly until bite-sized chunks are torn off. This is called a "death roll".
Alligators are generally timid towards humans and tend to walk or swim away if a human comes near them. However, they will attack humans to protect their nests. In Florida, feeding wild alligators at any time is illegal. If fed, the alligators will eventually lose their fear of humans and will learn to associate humans with food, thereby becoming both a greater danger to people, and at greater risk from them.
Alligators are native only to the United States and China.
American alligators live mostly in the southeast United States. According to the 2012 Scholastic Book of World Records, Louisiana has the largest alligator population, with about two million. Most American alligators live in Louisiana or Florida, which is home to about 1.3 million alligators. Southern Florida is the only place where both alligators and crocodiles live side by side.
American alligators cannot live in saltwater very long because they do not have salt glands. Because of this, they live in freshwater environments, such as ponds, marshes, wetlands, rivers, lakes, and swamps, as well as in brackish environments. 
The Chinese alligator currently is found only in Eastern China, in a small area in the Yangtze River basin (along the coastline of the Atlantic Ocean.
The Chinese alligator is extremely endangered. Scientists believe that only a few dozen Chinese alligators are left in the wild. Indeed, far more Chinese alligators live in zoos around the world than in the wild. Rockefeller Wildlife Refuge in southern Louisiana has several in captivity in an attempt to preserve the species. Miami MetroZoo in Florida also has a breeding pair of Chinese alligators.
American alligators were once an endangered species in the United States. By the 1950s, there were less alligators in the United States than ever before. This happened because of alligator hunting and because people were building over alligators' habitats.
In 1967, the United States government listed the alligator as endangered. This meant the alligator was in danger of becoming extinct.
However, according to the United States Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS):
Today, the American alligator is no longer endangered, but it is still a "protected species." It is protected because the alligator looks like some species of crocodiles and caimans, which are still endangered. Because of this, the Fish and Wildlife Service categorizes the American alligator as “threatened due to similarity of appearance.” Their goal is to prevent people from killing endangered crocodiles and caimans because they have mistaken an alligator for a crocodile or caiman. Because of this, killing alligators, and trading in products made from alligator meat or skin, are all regulated by the Fish and Wildlife Service.
Alligators and crocodiles are different in many ways. For example, in general:

</doc>
<doc id="32001" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32001" title="Curitiba">
Curitiba

Curitiba (pron. or ) is one of the most important cities in the southern part of Brazil. Curitiba is the capital of the state of Paraná. The city has more than 1,800,000 people living in it. It covers an area of 430.9 km². It is the 7th largest Brazilian city and 4th largest in the Southern Cone (the south part of South America). The city has the largest population and the largest economy in Southern Brazil. The urban area of Curitiba is looked after by 26 local governments and has 3,335,588 people living there.
Curitiba started in 1693 as a small village. It became an important trading stop because a road was opened. The road joined the southeast area to Southern Brazil. In 1853, it became the capital of the newly made province of Paraná. Since then, the city has seen a lot of urban growth. During the 19th century, many European people arrived, including Germans, Poles, Ukrainians and Italians. They added to the cultural mix that still is there. The city made plans and laws to slow the growth of the city and that led to the city being famous for its new ideas and connection to the environment. Most of the new ideas had to do with the public transport system. Today, the city has a sense of cosmopolitan life and is said to be the safest city in Brazil. It is the Brazilian capital with the best quality of life and is a diversified industrial center that gives Curitiba the rank of 4th largest economy in Brazil; the largest in the southern region. The city is said to be one of the five best cities to invest in Latin America and the 49th city with the greatest influence in the world.
Large companies have moved their headquarters to the city because of Curitiba's structure, its international airport, which serves the whole southern region (the Afonso Pena International Airport), its access to the Port of Paranaguá, and the junction of highways and railroads linking the south region directly to the southeast of the country. Many automotive (car) companies are in Greater Curitiba, which makes Curitiba the second largest automotive center in the country. Curitiba is an important cultural, political, and economic center in the country. 
Curitiba has high rates of education and is home to the oldest Brazilian university, the Federal University of Paraná. People from Curitiba are called "curitibanos" in Portuguese, and "Curitibans" in English.
It has recently started a campaign to help keep the city clean. It will come into action in March 2017.
The name "Curitiba" comes from the large number of Brazilian "Pines", commonly called "Parana Pine" ("Araucaria angustifolia") which grew in the region before the city was built. There are two reasons for the name: the Indians of the Tupi nation, namely the Jê and the Guarani, used the word "corae" ("pine seed") "atuba" ("a lot"). It may also come from joining the words "kurit" ("pine tree") and "yba" ("large amount"), also from the Tupi language, together. So, "Curitiba" means something like "Land of Abundant Pines".
Curitiba is known for the urban differentiated solutions, notably for the integrated (connected) system of transport of people, together with the regular transit routes, has served, especially from the 1970s, to encourage urban development.
The public transport system in Curitiba features large passenger terminals connected by roads used only by the buses "Vermelhos" ("Red Buses"), the "Expressos" ("Express Buses"), "Articulados" ("Articulated buses"), and "Biarticulados" ("Biarticulated buses"). The biarticulated bus travels on long trips, stopping only on the tube-station stops to pick up or drop off people. Each biarticulated bus can carry 270 people - and complemented with the speedy silver "Ligeirinho" (literally, "speedy"), with an modern design, has fewer stops, therefore shortening distances – when compared to the "Linha Direta" ("Direct Line") – due to saved time, and feeders marked by their own colors. 
This model has inspired similar tests in cities of other countries, such as Los Angeles and New York City, where, in the 1990s, the installation of an experimental line of "ligeirinho" in the city connected it to the World Trade Center. The system is the source of inspiration for the TransMilenio in Bogotá, Colombia, Metrovia in Guayaquil, Ecuador,as well as the Orange Line of Los Angeles, California, and for a future transportation system in Panama City, Panama.
Around the city and commonly joined with the terminals of buses, are the "Ruas da Cidadania" ("Streets of Citizenship"), which are municipal centers that bring together municipal departments and public agencies, state and federal, points of trade, services, free Internet access and equipment, and leisure, such as playgrounds and space for all kinds of sports. 
Recent measurements indicate that the green area of Curitiba is of 51.5 metres per capita - about three times the minimum area recommended by the UN - one of the highest in Brazil and higher than cities such as London or Paris. These areas are made mostly by municipal parks and forests to protect the forests' gallery of local rivers. There are also a variety of city squares and public grounds, usually associated with public and wooden roads.
The urban zoning of the city and the integrated transport system has allowed a development of urban architecture, taken by some analysts as strong and balanced without the main problems of large modern cities. Curitiba was recently recommended by UNESCO as one of the city-models for the reconstruction of the cities of Afghanistan, after the military action that happened in that country in 2001.
Curitiba was the inspiration for Francis Ford Coppola, In the 20th century when he was looking for the "perfect city" in order to create the New York "Megalopolis" (a huge city "which is good for its citizens" for his movie). The director lived in Curitiba for a few weeks and praised the city in many of his lectures around the world, as the only Brazilian city praised by this famous producer of movies. He did not make the movie, however.
In the 1990s, the city won the United Nations Environment Program prize - UNEP, from the UN, said to be the top prize of the environment in the world. In June 1996, the chairman of the Habitat II summit of mayors and urban planners in Istanbul said Curitiba was "the most innovative city in the world." In 2003, the city received the title of Capital of Culture of the Americas by the organization CAC-ACC. In 2006, Curitiba hosted the event COP8/COP-MOP3 the UN. Today, Curitiba is considered one of the best examples of urban planning worldwide. 
In 1991, the city asked the French oceanographer Jacques Cousteau to open the Free University of the Environment, being an place for learning about the environment and ecology for the population. Since was created, the UNILIVRE is a reference about studies in economically sustainable care of ecosystems, serving as a model for other similar institutions in various parts of the world, as in Cordoba in (Argentina), Río Grande in (Patagonia), Seoul in (Korea), Guadalajara in (Mexico), and in many other Brazilian cities.
The capital of the state of Paraná was the only Brazilian city to enter the 21st century as a reference for national and international urban planning and quality of life; a search by the American magazine Reader's Digest found that it was the Brazilian city better placed in the ranking of the best cities in the world to live in. In March 2001, a poll sponsored by the UN pointed Curitiba as the best capital of Brazil by the Index of Living Conditions (ILC) and second best among the HDI of Brazilian capitals. The city is the gateway to entering the Mercosur (the southern zone common market of Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, and Uruguay).
The city recently was identified as the Brazilian capital with the lowest rate of illiteracy, and also indicated as number 1 in the national education between the Brazilian capitals, and one of the five best cities for investment in Latin America.
According study of the "América Economia" magazine, published in the "Special Edition Cities 2006", which has the title "The City Innovative", Curitiba is ahead of important capitals as Mexico City, Buenos Aires and Brasilia, occupying fifth place. The magazine considered the main Latin American economies or those that have relevance to the business conducted on the continent. In front of the Paraná state capital are just São Paulo, Brazil, first in the ranking; Santiago, Chile; Monterrey, Mexico; and Miami, USA. In 2009, it was one of the three "smartest" cities in the world according to Forbes magazine. The criteria were caring about the environment, quality of life, urban planning, good infrastructure and a strong economy.
The city was the first in Brazil to introduce the separation of domestic garbage on a wide-scale basis. The acclaimed program "Lixo que não é Lixo" (literally, "Garbage that isn’t Garbage"; a successful recycling program) created in 1989 has become an ideal model of caring for the environment. Actually, Curitiba is the Brazilian city that recycles garbage more often: currently, 22% of all the waste produced - about 450 tons each day - are recycled.
In 2007, the city was the third place in a list of "15 Green Cities" in the world, according the American website "Grist". In the same year, the city was featured in the American newspaper "The New York Times"; the news report, with 8 pages, features many changes made in the city, saying that Curitiba remains a destination for urban planners from various parts of the world, fascinated with the public transport system, program for recycling of garbage and the group of parks in the city.
The MasterCard Emerging Markets Index 2008, created to evaluate and compare the performance of cities in different functions that connect markets and commerce worldwide, shows Curitiba as the safest city in Brazil - considering details such as freedom of expression, risk of natural disasters and personal security - in addition to being in 49th position among the cities with the greatest influence in the world.
Curitiba won the "Globe Award Sustainable City 2010" and was chosen by the committee. At the same year, Curitiba was elected by the "América Economía" Magazine as one of the best cities for doing business in Latin America.
Curitiba used to be a forest where the tribe Tingüi used to live. During the 16th century, Europeans began to go to war with this tribe.
Curitiba is on the first plateau of Paraná, in the most flat area, also called plateau curitibano. It covers a geographical area of 432.17 km², located at 25º25'40"S latitude and 49º16'23"W longitude. The coastline of the state (the Atlantic Ocean) is 70 km away from the city. The capital has a length of 35 km from north to south, and 20 km from east to west.
Distance from Curitiba to some cities of Brazil and Mercosur: 
The city has surface area of 432.17 km² in the First Plateau of Paraná. The terrain of Curitiba is a little wavy. The average altitude of the city is 934.6 m above sea level, ranging between minimum and maximum values of 900 and 1,000 meters, approximately.
Curitiba has a wavy topography of smooth rounded hills, an terrain a little wavy, giving a relatively regular appearance.
The municipality of Curitiba has an average altitude of 934.6 m above sea level, where the highest point is to the north (1,021.0 m). To the south is the situation of lower altitude (864.9 m).
There are mountain ranges and sets of rocky elevations in almost all around the city, being the most remarkable and impressive of the "Serra do Mar" (Portuguese for "Mountain Range of the Sea"), in the east that separates the plateau from the coast of Paraná.
Curitiba's climate is usually mild all year round though locals complain that the weather can change at anytime. It can be hot in the winter and cold in the summer. Even in one day, there can be great differences.
The flat terrain, lakes and marshland help its mild damp winters, with an average temperature of 13 °C (57 °F), but it can fall a bit below 0 °C (32 °F) on the coldest days. During summer, the average temperature is around 21 °C (70 °F), but sometimes gets around 32 °C (90 °F) on hot days.
Curitiba is a humid city in the subtropical zone in southern Brazil. It is the coldest of Brazil's twenty-six state capitals, because of the altitude. The city is on a plateau 932 m (3107 ft) above sea level. The city is in the Atlantic Rainforest region with the higher peaks of a mountain range making a barrier that separate it from the Atlantic Ocean just 105 km (65 miles) away.
The catchment area of Curitiba consists of several rivers and streams that cross the city in different directions, grouped in six river basins. The main rivers that form the watershed of the city are: Atuba River, Belém River, Barigüi River, Passaúna River, Ribeirão dos Padilhas and the Iguaçu River, all with characteristics of dendritic drainage. Since the 1970s, Curitiba has working on alternatives to minimize the negative impacts of on rivers. An example of this was the construction of parks along the rivers with artificial lakes, which retain the water for longer periods of time, minimizing floods. Currently, after many studies about the local water passages, almost all the rivers are in canalization process. Other alternatives developed to minimize the effects of urbanization are the implementation of the programs for environmental education, inspection and monitoring, elaboration and application of legislation and infrastructure works.
The index reaches 1,500 mm rainfall on average per year, because the rain is constant in the climate of the city. It happens, among other reasons, because of the large deforestation of the Mountain Range of the Sea ("Serra do Mar"), a natural barrier to moisture.
Curitiba is in the area of vegetation called Araucaria moist forests, composed of steppes, Araucaria forest and other formations.
In the local vegetation still appear remnants of the parana pine ("Araucaria angustifolia"), which resisted the action of modern civilization. The parana pines are in private and public areas, now protected by environmental legislation which prevents it from being overturned. The Municipal Secretariat of the Environment maintains a botanical garden and three green houses for the annual production of 150,000 seedlings of native and exotic tree species, 16,000 seedlings of fruit trees, 260,000 seedlings of flowers, foliage and underbrush, on top of the total maintenance of 350,000 seedlings. The green area of the city is one of largest in Brazil.
The vegetation of Curitiba is also characterized by the existence of a large quantity of purple and yellow "ipês" (tabebuias), making a spectacle of beauty to the landscape of the city during the flowering in the end of winter. Currently, the yellow ipê is the most common tree in the city.
"Bairros" (neighbourhoods) of Curitiba are geographical divisions of the city. There is no delegation of administrative powers to neighborhoods, although there are several neighborhoods associations devoted to improve their own standards of living.
Curitiba is divided into 9 regional governments (boroughs), covering the 75 neighbourhoods of the city. All districts are served by the system of integrated urban transport.
In the second half of the 19th century many European immigrants formed colonial settlements. These settlements developed into the modern-day districts and neighbourhoods of Curitiba.
The centre ("Downtown" in American English or "CBD" - central business district - in other English use), is the place where the city was founded. It is the busiest area, most of the financial institutions of Curitiba are there.
The growth of urban population of Curitiba, that turned the city in an modern , has generated some social problems. Like other major Brazilian cities, Curitiba has seen the emergence of slums in some neighborhoods and around the city, and the growth of street inhabitants, that many times had been sent of other cities and States, and are dropped in the streets of the city. This fact has made a small growth of crime level, but is not comparable to other major Brazilian cities.
Moreover, many rivers contains levels of pollution; the landfill (deposit of garbage) is almost full; the public transport sometimes is not enough for the quantity of people (in the rush hour), and the Brazilian government does not yield funds for the construction of a subway in the city.
A variety of architectural styles, ancient and modern, make the urban landscape of Curitiba be very interesting and represent an enormous cultural heritage.
The architecture that is in Curitiba has a strong influence of the culture of immigrants, from various countries, mainly Europe.
Buildings in eclectic architecture, neoclassical, colonial, Byzantine, oriental, and styles inspired by the land of immigrants confirm the diversity and cultural richness of Curitiba. It is possible to find places that still keep lambrequins (short ornaments, typical of some European places in the past, on top of roofs or windows), palaces in the urban area, buildings made between the nature, and even the first rotating building in the world, who are harmoniously distributed in the city.
Also, buildings that are integrate with nature is a tendency in the 21st century and reflect an important style of Curitiba, as one can see in some famous places of the city.
Because it is a planned city, the administration uses a rigid plan for growth, aiming to facilitate the use of public transport. The idea was to organize the city along transport corridors. The buildings are close to major bus lines. The rule is simple: buildings with more than eight floors can only be built in the first block, near the corridor. Buildings with less than eight floors, in the second block, and in other, smaller buildings and houses. This encourages the system bus, that is widely used, reducing the number of cars.
In 2007, there were 1,797,408 people living in the city of Curitiba. In 2000, Curitiba was the seventh biggest city in Brazil. It is the biggest city in the southern part of the country, as big as second and third largest cities in the south together. In the same year, the city was the leader in longevity, with the life expectancy at birth at 71.6 years of age. 
In 2007, there were 3,230,000 people living in the urban areas around Curitiba. The population density was 4.159,4 inh./km². The census showed the numbers: 2,503,250 White people (77.4%), 584,000 Pardo people (18.2%), 93,000 Black people (2.9%), 45,000 Asian or Amerindian people (1.4%).
Curitiba is the economic center of the southern Brazil and is among the four largest GDP of the country. The city concentrates the largest portion of the structure of government and public services of the Paraná state and hosts major companies in the sectors of trade, services and financial things. The city has the strongest economy of the south of the country, because the work of export of more than 900 factories just in the "Cidade Industrial" neighborhood and major automobile industries which are in the Greater Curitiba. 
The city was elected several times as "The Best Brazilian City for Business", according to rankings done by the "Exame" magazine, in partnership with the consultancy Simonsen & Associates.
In July 2001, Curitiba has become the first city in the country to receive the prize "Pole of Information Technology", granted by "InfoExame" magazine, because the performance of their companies of technology. According to the magazine, the number of companies of "Technology and Information Technology" based in Curitiba submitted in 2001 a turnover of US$1.2 billion, representing a growth of 21% over the previous year. According to a study done by the International Congress & Convention Association (ICCA), Curitiba is the sixth Brazilian city with the largest number of international events.
In 2007, the respected "Veja" magazine indicates Curitiba as the best destination for business in Brazil. Ninety-four experts, chosen by the magazine, show the capital as the best Brazilian city for investment. The city is becoming one of the largest and most important centers of technology, attracting giants of the sector of information technology in the areas of software and hardware, becoming the national pole.
Analyzing the GDP of Curitiba, it appears that in the period from 1995 to 2000, the economy grew about 3% a year.
About the GDP per capita, in 2000, the city had an income 37% higher than Brazil. In the same year, the economic sector that compose most of GDP in Curitiba was the service sector with 38.8%, followed by the industrial sector with 36%.
Approximately 40% of GDP comes from the industry and the rest of activities related to the tertiary sector.
In the 1990s, the city started a project called "Faróis de Saber" ("Lighthouses of Knowledge"). These Lighthouses are free educational centers which include libraries, Internet access, and other cultural resources. This community libraries works with municipal schools, have a collection of approximately 5000 books, and be cultural reference and leisure for the community, and are designed to diversify the opportunities of access to knowledge, expanding the area of formal education.
In each quarter of the city, these "Lighthouses of Knowledge" have been implanted containing library and room of computer science, to public use, mainly by students; job training, social welfare and educational programs are coordinated, and often supply labor to improve the city's amenities or services, as well as education and income.
Among the Brazilian capitals, Curitiba has the lowest rate of illiteracy, and also number 1 in education between the Brazilian capitals.
Curitiba has many universities, being "Universidade Federal do Paraná" ("Federal University of Paraná") the most important of the region, and the oldest of Brazil.
Portuguese is the official national language, and is the primary language used in schools. But English and Spanish are part of the official high school curriculum.
Every year, tourism grows in Curitiba. To attend this demand, the "Linha Turismo" ("Tourism Line") started in 1994. It is a special city tour that visits the principal tourist attractions in Curitiba, featuring comfortable white buses with big windows and a shape similar to that of streetcars. The vehicles have a sound system that plays recorded messages describing sites in three different languages: Portuguese, English and Spanish. It is possible to visit the parks, squares and the rest of the city's tourist attractions. Considered one of the best in the country, the "Linha Turismo" is available every thirty minutes and has a two and a half-hour tour, which travels around forty-four kilometers. To go on the tour you must buy a ticket with five tickets that give you the right to get on and off bus four times. Users can therefore choose the touristic point where they want to stay longer. Then, they can embark again to complete the remaining part of the itinerary. Today the line goes to 25 key reference points in Curitiba, completing 44 km in 2 and ½ hours.
According to a study done by the International Congress & Convention Association (ICCA), Curitiba is the sixth Brazilian city with the largest number of international events and, according to the FIPE, is the third city to receive foreign tourists for business. In 2006, the city placed 6th among the best Brazilian cities to hold events and tourism business; in the same year, the flow of tourists outnumbered the number of inhabitants. Out of about the 2 million visitors, approximately half landed the business. To attend the growing demand, the number of hotels in the city has developed and is now considered the fourth largest in the country. Curitiba and its Metropolitan Area have a modern hotel infrastructure, with 150 hotels and service flats totaling 18 thousand beds (as per May, 2005). The good restaurants and customized services are approved by 92.4% of those who leave the city, according the Secretariat of State for Tourism of Paraná. In 2007, Curitiba was elected as one of the 4 best Brazilian cities for travel and tourism, according to a major Brazilian magazine about tourism. In 2008 another important magazine said that Curitiba is the best cultural destination and better cost-benefit to tourism in the South region of Brazil.
The pine nuts (seeds of Parana Pine) are probably the most unique elements in the gastronomy of Paraná and Curitiba; it is used not only as aperitif, but also with traditional recipes that pass from generation to generation. Among the ingredients used, the pine nuts is a major ingredient, not only in Midwinter party ("Festa Junina", the annual Brazilian celebration which take place in the beginning of the Brazilian winter), but also in daily diet. Pancakes, breads, cakes, soups and appetizers are just some of the recipes prepared with this seed. The colonization and migration contributed to the mixture of flavors and dishes in the state. Indigenous and even Brazilians from other states added its revenue in local cuisine.
In Curitiba, one can find restaurants of all kinds. There are options for all tastes and palates, the regional to international cuisine. The city has food establishments specializing in German, Polish, Chinese, Arabic, Japanese, Italian, Portuguese, Indian, Mexican, etc., and, of course, regional cuisines of Brazil. Santa Felicidade neighborhood is considered to have good Italian food; it is the place where some of the first Italian immigrants arriving in Paraná settled, where they dedicated themselves to the agricultural production, planting herbs, wine and cheese willow trees, the greatest attraction in Santa Felicidade is to be the gastronomic district of Curitiba, with a large number of restaurants offering typical food and wine from the colony. There are also wineries and wine bars, craft stores and willow furniture. According to the Guinness Book of World Records, the largest restaurant of the Americas is in this Curitiba neighborhood.
Every Sunday morning, in the Historic Area, in the old stoned streets at the "Largo da Ordem" and the pavement giving access to Garibaldi Square, with the Rosário Church, the Flowers Clock, the Memory Fountain and the Società Giuseppe Garibaldi make the space for the Crafts Fair, an exciting meeting point with live music. The Feira do Largo da Ordem ("Largo da Ordem's Street Fair") it is an open market, where you can find handicrafts, paintings, sculptures, typical foods, street artists, old car exhibition and a lot more. It is also possible to watch live small musical shows from local musicians or see some clowns doing humorous performances.
The Oficina de Música de Curitiba ("Music Workshop of Curitiba") was established in 1983, with the proposal to discover and train new talent. Nowadays its one of the biggest Brazilian events for training, retraining and improvement of musicians. Join the Workshop of Music, held every year in January, students and teachers from all over Brazil (about 2,000 students and more than 100 teachers); among students and teachers, the Office of Music had, over editions, with representatives from throughout Latin America (mainly from Argentina, Paraguay and Uruguay), United States, France, Switzerland, Holland, England, Germany, Norway, Spain, Italy, Portugal, China and Israel. The best instrumentalists, conductors and singers of Brazil, by classical music and popular, within the framework of teachers and directors of the workshop. Grand masters of other countries are special guests and, apart from giving lessons, make unprecedented concerts for the public of the city.
Curitiba has a strong relationship with the performing arts and theatre. Since 1992, the city hosts a major festival of theatre, the Festival de Teatro de Curitiba, composed of international attractions, large national attractions, local presentations, and alternative exhibitions, which each year attracts a large number of tourists and made an expressive cultural movement. Until 2007, were presented officially 1607 spectacles, to an audience estimated at 1.2 million people. The city has theatres with excellent techno-acoustic feedback, as the "Teatro Guaíra", one of the largest rooms in number of spectators by South America.
In November happens the Maratona Ecológica Internacional de Curitiba ("Curitiba International Ecological Marathon"). This marathon is known as the hardest in Brazil, because happens in the end of the year, when there usually is warm weather in the city (because it is summer in the Southern Hemisphere), and the hilly course, with many of the inclines being in the last 10 km. To compensate the hard course, runners count with good structure and enthusiastic fans cheering along the course.
In December, the city becomes the "Capital of Christmas", and can be one of the most popular tourist destinations at this time of year, because of the mild climate, and Curitiba has many free cultural attractions. The most traditional is the choir of the "Palácio Avenida": 160 poor children of charities institutes sing Christmas songs in windows of a historic building adorned with 90 thousand lamps, attracting thousands of spectators. It is probably the best known Christmas event in Brazil. Moreover, the entire city be decorated in two official events, the "Christmas of Light" and "Enchanted Christmas", where several tourist attractions are decorated for Christmas, as well as free theatre shows on public places and parks, bands and orchestras in public places showing traditional musics, many giant Christmas trees around the city, special fairs with Christmas things, prizes for the most lighted houses, etc.
Every year, the Crystal Fashion Week occurs in the city, together with the Fashion's Forum. It is the biggest event about fashion in the southern Brazil, and generally, the launching party occurs in the "Castelo do Batel" ("Batel Castle") (an old mansion from the beginning of the 20th century, launched in space for events), and the parades and presentations happen in the Shopping Crystal Plaza. Participants of the fashion week include national and international celebrities, fashion designers, fashion professionals and people interested in style, which has famous marks of clothing - and footwear stores and jewelry shops, as occurred in the XVIII edition of the event in 2008.
Every year, happens in Curitiba the largest Gay Pride Parade in Southern Brazil, called Parada da Diversidade ("Parade of Diversity"), covering not only the discussion of gender but also other social minorities historically discriminated. With a mix of celebration and political claim, it happens since 1995.
The city hosts the Casa Cor Paraná - an exhibition of decoration, architecture and ambiance; in 2008, the 15th edition of the event in the state of Paraná had the participation of 116 exhibitors, featuring new trends on architecture, decoration and design. In 2007, had the visitation of 30,000 people in five weeks.
Curitiba has several museums. Some of the most important are:
Many space for presentations in Curitiba are tourist attractions in themselves. The Parque das Pedreiras ("Quarries Park"), for example, which includes the area that was once a stone quarry and has now been named the Pedreira Paulo Leminski, as well as a theater called the Ópera de Arame ("Wire Opera House"), has already become a tourist point. The Pedreira Paulo Leminski is an open area where events can be held for large audiences, for it has a capacity of up to 30,000 people. The Wire Opera House was built in a record-breaking period of 75 days to host the first edition of the "Festival de Teatro de Curitiba". Its metallic structures, which look like wires, have become an architectural mark in the city and nationwide.
In 1971, was inaugurated the Teatro Paiol - a construction of 1874, which was used by the Brazilian Army as arsenal of gunpowder and ammunition, turned into a cultural and scenic area. The Guaíra Theater is one of the largest theaters in all of Latin America and a point in the itinerary of many large nationwide touring plays and performances. In the city’s historical sector, the Memorial of Curitiba is a new and modern site, which found its inspiration in the Parana Pine.
All the parks of the city have places for folklore and cultural presentations by various ethnic groups of Curitiba.
The first movie designed in Curitiba was in 1897, shortly after the invention of cinematograph by Lumière Brothers. Currently, the Cultural Foundation of Curitiba runs two movie theaters in the downtown area: the "Cine Luz" and the "Cinemateca" (for special movies), which offer many art movie programs at affordable prices. The "Cinema a Um Real" project ("Watch a movie for one Real") is available every Sunday, featuring movies targeted to a more popular taste with cheap prices (R$1,00 - around US$0,40), allowing citizens from low-income classes to go to the movies. Furthermore, the city runs the "Cinema nos Bairros" project ("A Movie Theater in Your Neighborhood"), which was designed to allow a larger portion of the population to get to know video productions. The project offers movie sessions for free and schedules weekly sessions at schools, "Ruas da Cidadania" ("Citizenship Streets"), parish halls, neighborhood associations as well as other institutions that take part in this partnership project. At these places children get a chance to see how movie projectors work and also have a better grasp of each movie, so that they become increasingly interested in the art of moviemaking.
Today, Curitiba has, approximately, 70 movie theatres, with daily programming, and is the first city in Brazil to have an IMAX cinema. It is in the Palladium Shopping Center, which is the biggest mall in Southern Brazil.
The city has many areas and buildings for sport. Even sports not very popular in Brazil (like American football or baseball, for example) are played in the city. Golf was introduced at around 1904 by English immigrants. Famous golfers in Curitiba include Walt Disney, who played a game in 1939.
Curitiba also houses the Training Center of the Brazil national gymnastics team.
Soccer is the most popular sport, with several clubs based in Curitiba, such as:
Curitiba is also one of the 18 cities to hold games of the 2014 FIFA World Cup to be held in Brazil.
The executive is currently exercised by the mayor Beto Richa (elected in 2004, reelected in 2008 and with a mandate until 2012), by the deputy mayor (vice mayor) Luciano Ducci and the municipal secretaries appointed by the mayor. The City Council of Curitiba was created in 1693, and has a total of 38 Councillors elected since 2004.
Curitiba is divided into nine regional governments (equivalent to subprefecture), who manage the 75 districts of the municipality. The "Rua da Cidadania" ("Street of Citizenship") is the symbol of administrative decentralization; it is a reference point and meeting place for the user of municipal utilities. In a regional context, taking into account the needs and rights of the citizen in trade, leisure and services, facilitating the access of the population for different services in the areas of health, justice, policing, education, sport, housing, environment, urban planning, social service and supply, etc. Several units work annexed to the terminals of public transport in Curitiba. Their nuclei offer services in the local, state and federal areas.
The official symbols of the city are the flag, the seal, and the hymn composed by Ciro Silva and Bento Mossurunga. In addition, through the municipal Law 10,236, was introduced as "place symbol of the city of Curitiba" the historic building of the Federal University of Paraná.
The Greater Curitiba is the 118th largest metropolitan area in the world. Estimates from the 2007 Census show that the Metropolitan Area of Curitiba have 3,172,357 inhabitants, the second most populated in the south of Brazil. Have an area of 15.418,543 km².
Created in 1973, the Metropolitan Area of Curitiba is currently composed of 26 municipalities, including the capital.
With an industrial park of 43 million square meters, the Metropolitan Area of Curitiba has attracted large companies such as Audi, VW, Nissan, Renault, New Holland, Volvo, Fiat, ExxonMobil, Sadia, Kraft Foods, Esso, HSBC and Siemens.
The Greater Curitiba is home to the Afonso Pena International Airport (in the city of São José dos Pinhais) and the motorsports circuit Autódromo Internacional de Curitiba (in the city of Pinhais).
The twin towns of Curitiba are:

</doc>
<doc id="32003" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32003" title="Crocodilia">
Crocodilia

The Order Crocodilia is a group of Archosaur reptiles. There are three living families.
Crocodiles are the nearest living relatives to birds, because they are both survivors of the Archosaurs.
Crocodiles are first found in the Upper Cretaceous period. They are descendents of a much wider group of Archosaurs called the Crocodylomorphs. These, in the Upper Triassic, were slender land-living forms, the sister group of the dinosaurs. 
The Crocodylomorphs, in turn, were part of an even larger group, the Crurotarsi, which are first seen early in the Triassic.

</doc>
<doc id="32009" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32009" title="Biometrics">
Biometrics

Biometrics is a field of study which aims to identify or recognise people based on traits they have. Given these traits, a system can be trained to recognise certain people, with a certain probability. Better training usually lowers the probability of falsely identifying someone. 
The traits used are of two types:
Most often, the two types are combined, as in voice or signature recognition. Most of these biometrics are seen as "behavioral", but some are linked to the physiology, e.g. of the vocal tract, or of the hand. 
A person may be identified by a fingerprint, or by letting the person sign a document. The data could then be kept. Someone who is checking can again take the fingerprint or the signature, and compare it to the old version.
When selecting features, those choosing must also look at social acceptance. Taking a fingerprint may be ok, taking a blood test may not be. Some biometric data is also easier to fake, e.g. signatures.
Also, when voice samples are taken, these may be distorted (worsened), because only a telephone line is available. Telephone lines cut off some bandwidth from the signal.
Other than for passports, biometric methods are also used in some banks.

</doc>
<doc id="32010" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32010" title="Bandwidth">
Bandwidth

In electronics, Bandwidth is used to measure electric communication. Bandwidth is shown as the difference between the electric signal having highest-frequency and the signal having the lowest-frequency.
In computer networks, bandwidth is often used as a term for the data transfer bit rate. More easily, the amount of data that is carried or passed from one point to another in a network, in a given time period (usually a second). In music industry, it is the measurement used to define bands.
Many systems work by means of continuous movements, or oscillations. Each complete "back and forth" it makes is called a cycle. The number of cycles every second is its frequency. Frequency is measured in cycles every second, most often called "Hertz", or "Hz" for short.
Systems have at least 1 frequency, and usually many different frequencies. For example, sound travels with vibrations. People can hear sound frequencies low as 20 Hz, and high as 20,000 Hz. A band of frequencies is a continuous range of frequencies; the band of frequencies people can hear is from 20 Hz to 20,000 Hz.
Bandwidth is the width of a frequency band; The width is the highest frequency minus the lowest frequency. In the hearing example, the bandwidth of a person's ears is about 20,000 Hz - 20 Hz = 19,980 Hz.
Bandwidth is used with electromagnetic spectrum (For example, radio waves, light waves and X-rays). Such waves are oscillations of electric and magnetic fields. For example, the lowest United States AM radio channel has the band of frequencies from 535,000 Hz to 545,000 Hz. It has a bandwidth of 10,000 Hz (545,000 - 535,000 = 10,000). All United States AM radio broadcasting stations have this bandwidth (But, the location of each band is distinct). The lowest United States FM radio channel has the band from 88,000,000 Hz (88 MHz) to 88,200,000 Hz (88.2 MHz). It has a bandwidth of 200 kHz. You can see that the width of an FM band is 20 times the width of an AM band.
The word "bandwidth" has been used incorrectly in digital data communication to mean "data carrying capacity". There is no such thing as "digital bandwidth"; the proper term for the data carrying capacity of a communication channel is channel capacity.
In general, the channel capacity of a system increases with the bandwidth used for communication. However, many other parts are also important. Therefore, in most systems, the channel capacity is different from the channel bandwidth.
Sometimes, the word "broadband" is used to mean "high-speed", especially with high-speed internet connections. "Broadband" means "wide band", and suggests high-speed. However, the term is not clear; "high-speed" is more clear. A dial-up telephone connection is most often thought to be low-speed, at less than 56,000 bit/s (bits per second). High-speed is usually 200,000 bit/s or faster. DSL (Digital Subscriber Line) or Cable modem connections are usually high-speed.

</doc>
<doc id="32011" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32011" title="Hertz">
Hertz

The hertz (symbol: Hz) is a unit derived from time which measures frequency. Frequency is how often something happens. A frequency of 1 hertz means that something happens once a second. The note Middle C (the C in the middle of the piano) is 262 Hz. This means there are 262 vibrations every second, which is heard as the note Middle C, when that piano key is played. Humans are able to hear sounds between 20-20 000 Hz. Owls are able to hear sounds between 200-12000 Hz.
The basic units is 1/seconds
The unit is named after Heinrich Rudolf Hertz.
1000 hertz is 1 kilohertz. 1000 kilohertz is 1 megahertz, 1000 megahertz is 1 gigahertz: (see table)

</doc>
<doc id="32023" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32023" title="Batman Returns">
Batman Returns

Batman Returns was the second (and last) Batman movie directed by Tim Burton. It was released on June 19, 1992 worldwide to critical and financial success although a backlash criticized the movie's dark and mature undertones.
A couple throws their child into the sewers because he is deformed. 33 years later, the child becomes the supervillain, Penguin. He kidnaps businessman Max Shreck, blackmailing him into helping him become a citizen of Gotham City using evidence of his corporate crimes. Meanwhile, Max finds out his secretary, Selina Kyle, has found out he is planning to build a power plant which will drain Gotham City of its electricity. Max pushes her out of a window, ensuring that she will not tell anyone. However, a flock of alley cats lick her semi-corpse, reviving her. She returns home, suffering a mental breakdown, becoming the supervillain, Catwoman. 
Penguin makes one of his costumed henchman to kidnap the mayor's baby while he "saves" him, becoming a hero in the eyes of the people however, billionaire Bruce Wayne is suspicious of the Penguin and finds out that he is the leader of the Red Triangle Circus Gang who commits crimes throughout Gotham. As Batman, Bruce decides to protect Gotham from the gang. After Penguin finds out his parents are dead and his name is Oswald Cobblepot, Max decides to make Penguin the mayor of Gotham City because the current mayor will not approve Max's power plant. 
To do this, Penguin makes the Red Triangle Circus Gang create a riot, making the people lose all faith in the mayor but Batman stops it. During the riot, Catwoman vandalizes Shreck's Department Store. When Batman and Penguin confront each other, she intervenes, saying "Meow" before the store blows up(she rigged it to blow). Penguin escapes but Catwoman fights Batman. Batman pushes her off a rooftop but a sandbox on a truck saves her. The next day, Penguin and Catwoman work together to destroy Batman. Bruce and Selina also have a romantic relationship. Penguin and Catwoman kidnap the Ice Princess, an actress chosen to turn on the Gotham City Christmas Tree Lights, framing Batman for it. Batman finds her but Catwoman takes her to a rooftop where Penguin releases a swarm of flying bats which make the Princess retreat backwards, falling off, making the people believe Batman killed her. Catwoman rejects Penguin's advances, prompting him to kill her, unsuccessfully though. Batman enters the Batmobile and finds out that Penguin has control over it. Penguin takes it on a devastating rampage but Batman regains control over it, escaping death.
During the rampage, Batman recorded Penguin's evil plans and plays it during Penguin's election speech, turning the people against him. Penguin goes mad with rage and kidnaps all the first-born sons of Gotham City and Max too. Batman saves all the babies and pushes Penguin into toxic liquid. Catwoman tries to kill Max but Batman stops her. Max shoots Batman, knocking him out and Catwoman claims that she has six of her nine lives left but Max shoots her four times, leaving her with two lives. Catwoman kisses Max with an electrical taser between their lips and connects it to a broken wire, creating an explosion which kills Max but Batman cannot find Selina's corpse. Penguin emerges from the water but the heat kills him.
Afterwards, Alfred, Bruce's butler, drives Bruce home. Suddenly, Bruce spots Selina's shadow in an alley. He investigates the area, only finding her black cat, Miss Kitty, taking her with him. He and Alfred exchange Christmas wishes. Finally, Batsignal lights up in the night sky and Catwoman rises up, staring at it, confirming that she is alive.
Tim Burton was not willing to direct a second Batman. However, when the studio told him if it was a Burton movie, not a Batman movie, it got his attention and he agreed to direct it. They cast Michael Keaton as Batman, Danny DeVito as Penguin and Annette Bening as Catwoman. However, Bening dropped out due to pregnancy and every actress from 20-45 on the plant wanted to be Catwoman. When Michelle Pfeiffer expressed an interest, something clicked to the producers thinking "You know, she's perfect. She also could be both Selina Kyle and Catwoman." The final shot of Catwoman staring at the Batsignal was shot during post-production and cost US$250 000.
The movie was released on June 19, 1992 worldwide. It received a score of 81% approval on Rotten Tomatoes and grossed $266,822,354 worldwide, being the sixth highest grossing film of 1992. It is then and now, the best reviewed Batman movie from the Burton/Schumacher movie series. 

</doc>
<doc id="32027" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32027" title="Ulster Scots">
Ulster Scots

Ulster Scots, sometimes called Ullans, is a dialect of Lowland Scots that is spoken in some of the northern parts of Ireland, across Ulster. It is closely related to the English language.

</doc>
<doc id="32030" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32030" title="Sara Cox">
Sara Cox

Sara Cox (born 13 December 1974) is an English broadcaster. She was born in Bolton, Greater Manchester. She presents shows for BBC Radio 1 and has hosted many television programmes.

</doc>
<doc id="32031" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32031" title="Star Trek: Deep Space Nine">
Star Trek: Deep Space Nine

Star Trek: Deep Space Nine (DS9) is the third "Star Trek" television series. Most of the series takes place on a space station called "Deep Space Nine". It was the first and so far only "Star Trek" show to be based on a space station rather than a starship.
On the space station Deep Space Nine, the crew gets sick with an aphasia virus, which makes them say random words in place of what they mean to say.

</doc>
<doc id="32032" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32032" title="Winx Club">
Winx Club

Winx Club is an Italian animated television series starring seven fictional fairies, Bloom, Stella, Flora, Musa, Tecna, Layla, and Roxy. Through the four seasons of the series, the girls have to fight lots of different enemies, such as witches and fairy hunters. Together with their school's principal, Miss Faragonda, they learn to tap into their magical abilities and defeat their enemies.
In the beginning of the season, Bloom, a normal girl from Earth, lives a normal life with her parents and pet bunny, Kiko. But one day she walks in on a fight between an ogre and a fairy. After she helps the fairy defeat the ogre, the fairy tells Bloom that her name is Stella. Bloom goes with Stella to the Alfea college for fairies in the enchanted realm of Magix. There, she meets three other fairies, Flora, Musa, and Tecna. The five girls form the Winx Club. Early in the season, they also meet four guys from another school, Redfountain. These guys, called Specialists, are named Sky, Brandon, Riven, and Timmy. They also meet their enemies of the season, Icy, Darcy, and Stormy, three witches who call themselves the Trix. The Trix go to a school for witches called Cloudtower. Late in the season, the Trix steal Bloom's power, the Dragon's Flame, and use it to summon the Army of Darkness. By the end of the season, Bloom gets her powers back and the Winx girls defeat the Trix, saving Magix.
In this season, the Winx Club fairies go back to Alfea college for their second year. A new fairy named Layla joins the team after escaping from Lord Darkar, the enemy of the season. Lord Darkar wants to find the four pieces of something called the Codex. The Codex can open the realm of Realix, where a large amount of power can be found. The Trix, now expelled from Cloudtower and stuck in the Fortress of Light, team up with Darkar. During the season, the Winx girls and Specialists try and fail to protect the four pieces of the Codex. Late in the season, Bloom gets turned evil by Darkar and exposes Alfea's piece of the Codex. During the season, the Winx also earn something called the Charmix, small pins and bags that increase a fairy's power greatly. In the final episode, the Winx and Specialists defeat Darkar and save Magix once again. New to the season are pixies, very small creatures that often bond with fairies. Helia also joins the Specialists and becomes Flora's boyfriend. By the end of the season, Bloom is Sky's girlfriend, Stella is Brandon's, and Tecna is Timmy's. Musa and Riven have also gotten closer.
The Winx return to Alfea for their third year of school, where they find out they must earn their Enchantix this year. The Trix are sent to the Omega Dimension for teaming up with Lord Darkar, but they escape with the help of Valtor. Valtor is a sorcerer who destroyed Bloom's planet, Domino, and got sent to the Omega Dimension for his crimes. Through the season, the Winx girls earn their Enchantix one by one, and Valtor grows more powerful as he steals spells from planets. Late in the season, Valtor releases the Spell of the Elements and almost destroys Magix and the three schools. Bloom manages to defeat Valtor from within, saving the universe.Icy do seem to have a crush on Valtor but she remains to keep that secret.
After they graduate, the Winx return to Alfea as teachers of a class called "Winxology." However, four men, Ogron, Anagan, Gantlos, and Duman, called the Wizards of the Black Circle show up and try to kidnap Bloom, thinking she is the last Earth fairy. They fail because, since Bloom is really from Domino, there is one last fairy on Earth. The Winx decide to go to Earth to find and protect the last fairy. Soon after they get to Earth, they open a fairy pet shop called Love&Pet, where they sell small magical pets with wings. Flora made the pets from stuffed animals. The Winx find the last fairy, Roxy, then earn their Believix after Roxy believed in fairies. Through the first half of the season, the Winx and Roxy battle against the Wizards. In episode 12, Roxy transforms into her fairy form after Gantlos insults her dog, Artu. In episode 13, so many humans begin believing in magic that the Winx become much more powerful and the Wizards are greatly weakened. In the second half of the season, the Winx go to an island called Tir Nan Og and release the Earth fairies trapped there. Once free, the Earth fairies turn on the humans and Wizards, wanting revenge. Through the second half of the season, the Winx have to face several major Earth fairies. Late in the season, they earn their Sophix and Lovix, two power-ups to Believix. In the final episode, the Winx, Roxy, and the Earth fairies join forces to defeat the Wizards, freezing them in a block of ice in the Omega Dimension. Near the end of the season, Roxy learns that Morgana, Queeen of the Earth fairies, is her mother.
The creators of Winx Club revealed that a fifth and sixth season will be coming in 2012. Nickelodeon bought the rights to "Winx Club" in the USA and will be making their own English dub, and will be airing the fourth season in 2011. Keke Palmer will be voicing Layla in this dub. They also get new transformations.
Bloom is the red-headed princess of Domino. She has the power of the dragon fire. She is the leader of the winx club and also the most powerful of them. Her boyfriend is Sky, prince of Eraklyon. Bloom is the last to get her Enchantix. Her pixie is Lockett, the Pixie of Mazes and Portals. Her normal outfit is a blue and white short sweater with 3pink hearts on it. A blue short skirt with blue and white striped socks with blue sandles. Her Winx outfit is 2 piece sparkly blue with a gold orb on the chest. Her enchantix is a crinkled short sparkly blue dress with sparkly light blue wings.
Stella is the blonde-haired crown princess of Solaria and the fairy of the Sun and the Moon. Her power is the Sun and she is the oldest of the Winx Club. She met Bloom when she was fighting a troll on Earth. Her boyfriend is Brandon and her pixie is Amore, the Pixie of Love. Stella knows fashion really well and she is the fasion adviser of the winx. Her birthday is on 18th August. She wears blue and pink stripped frock with a pink headband and star earings. Her winx outfit is orange top and shorts with high boots. She is one of the most powerful of the winx.
Flora is the fairy of nature. Her powers come from the plants, and she likes studying plants and flowers. Her planet is Linphea. She was born the 1st march and her fairy sign is Driade. Her boyfriend is Helia and her pixie is Chatta. Her best friends are Bloom and Stella. She´s the most intelligent winx and she´s very pretty. She has got long, brown hair and green eyes. She wears a light green t-shirt, a pink skirt with strawberries, yellow bracelets and earrings, and pink shoes. Her transformation dress is pink with glitters, and includes a green necklace with a pink flower in the middle. Her wings are green.
Aisha is the second oldest of the club. She can change water to any form she chooses called Morphix. She is the princess of Andros. She is an enriched tomboy who loves to dance and skate. She arrives in the Winx Club in season 2. Her pixie is Piff, the pixie of sweet dreams. Her normal outfit is a pink t-shirt and a navy green skirt with pink boot warmers and green boots. Her Winx outfit is sparkly dark and light green. Her enchantix has big jewerly sparkly like wings with a beaded wavy top and bottom.
Daphne is the newest character for Winx Club. She is the older sister of Bloom. She is crown princess of Domino and nymph of Domino. Her love interest (in season 6) is Thoren. Her fairy sign is also the dragon (considering she is also the fairy of dragon flame). Her civilian outfit is some pair of styled legging and an short dress with a belt on top. Her hair is an light blond gold unlike Stella's hair. Her fairy form is an sparkly light sea-green and medium blue. Her nymph form is an golden gown over flowing (she looks much taller in her nymph form) and an golden mask. Before season 5 episode 26, Daphne was a disembodied spirit caused by the three ancestral witches, but thanks to Bloom's sirenix wish (on season 5 episode 26) the curse of sirenix has been lifted.

</doc>
<doc id="32034" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32034" title="Jack o'lantern mushroom">
Jack o'lantern mushroom

The jack o'lantern mushroom is an orange- to yellow gilled mushroom. It looks like the chanterelle and emits light. Unlike the chanterelle, the jack o'lantern mushroom is very poisonous. While eating this mushroom will not kill you, it may cause cramps, vomiting, and diarrhea. This mushroom smells and looks very appealing, so there are reports of repeat poisonings from individuals who were tempted to try them a second time.
The Jack-o-Lantern mushroom's fruiting body (its stem and cap) is an orange color. It grows from late summer into November, in large clumps on or near tree stumps. However, it can also be found growing on the ground (along buried roots) nearby. Underneath the cap is its well-known glowing color, which glows in a lime green color. This mushroom is asexual.

</doc>
<doc id="32035" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32035" title="Norfolk County, Ontario">
Norfolk County, Ontario

Norfolk County is a city in Ontario, Canada that is largely agricultural. It has many primary schools and high schools and the majority of citizens are Christian. Its communities include:
The current mayor is Charlie Luke who was elected on November 13, 2014.

</doc>
<doc id="32036" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32036" title="Simcoe, Ontario">
Simcoe, Ontario

Simcoe is a small town in Norfolk County, Ontario, Canada.
People with autism or Down syndrome cannot go to store by themselves because Simcoe is a car-friendly neighborhood and most of them can't walk the street by themselves. They are usually seen with a parent, guardian, supervisor, or social worker.
It has a secular high school and a faith-based high school along with several primary schools, two shopping malls, two free clinics and a hospital. 
The Internet is available in Simcoe in both dial-up and broadband forms. Although there are 3 video stores in the city, some people prefer satellite television over cable television or rented DVDs. The satellite television is cheaper than the local cable in this town. Basic cable starts out at over $100/month while satellite can range in price from free-to-air to expensive (but with more channels than basic cable). A Wal-Mart that opened on January 23, 2008 at the northeast end of Simcoe. A Shoppers Drug Mart and a Boston Pizza are currently open.
During the summer, the town hosts the "Friendship Festival", which is famous all over Ontario. In the fall, the "Norfolk County Fair and Horse Show" brings carnival rides and midway attractions for 6 days. Simcoe is also a central area for migrant labour, to harvest tobacco, fruits and vegetables.
Winter time brings the Panorama and a selection of religious and Christian dioramas for the town to see.
For such a small town, Simcoe is famous for producing world class hockey talent. The town is famous for hockey players Rob Blake, Jassen Cullimore, Dwayne Roloson, Rick Wamsley, John Stevens (although not born in Simcoe, was product of Talbot Street arena hockey program), Geordie Kinnear, Ryan VandenBussche and more who play hockey in the "National Hockey League" in North America. Also it is the home of Red Kelly, who played in the NHL. The Stanley Cup was seen around Simcoe for 3 seasons in a row (over a 4 year period due to NHL Players strike that occurred). Barry Boughner was from local town Delhi, Ontario. Serious aspirational professional hockey player kids should strongly consider Simcoe as a starting point (in someone's opinion).

</doc>
<doc id="32037" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32037" title="Simcoe Composite School">
Simcoe Composite School

Simcoe Composite School is a high school in Simcoe, Ontario, Canada. It was established in the year 1898. There are lots of multicultural courses for students 14 to 21 years of age to study. The school is located near two parks, a busy downtown, fast food restaurants, and a post office. There is also a special education program for the mentally disabled to attend special courses and swimming on Wednesday afternoons at the local recreation centre. The school colors are blue and white.
English, French, and Spanish are the languages that are taught in Simcoe Composite School. There are also computer, music, drama, woodworking, and other classes. Simcoe is one of the oldest high schools in Norfolk County. Students from all over the county can attend this high school along with several others in the area.

</doc>
<doc id="32047" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32047" title="Liberal Party (Australia)">
Liberal Party (Australia)

The Liberal Party of Australia (Liberals, or LIB for short), in coalition with the National Party of Australia (Nationals, or NAT for short), is one of the two main political groups in Australian politics (the other being the Social Democratic Australian Labor Party (ALP). The Liberals/Nationals are the more conservative of the two main parties. It was founded by Sir Robert Menzies in 1944. They lost government to the ALP in the Australian federal election held on 24 November 2007. This was after 11 years in government under the previous Liberal leader, John Howard. The current Liberal leader is Malcolm Turnbull. The Liberal/National coalition is currently in control in the Federal Parliament of Australia after beating the ALP during an election on 7 September 2013. 
 
²In Queensland the Liberal and National parties merged into the Liberal National Party of Queensland
³In the Northern Territory the party is called the Country Liberal Party.

</doc>
<doc id="32048" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32048" title="Paul Keating">
Paul Keating

Paul John Keating (born 18 January 1944) was the 24th Prime Minister of Australia. He was from the Labor Party. He grew up in the city of Sydney and the suburb of Bankstown. He left De La Salle College at Bankstown at 14 years of age and worked as a clerk with the Sydney County Council doing this while juggling with studies and managed a rock band called the Ramrods. Annita van Iersel married Paul Keating in 1975. In 1998, the Keatings separated.
Keating was Treasurer from 1983 to 1991 and Deputy Prime Minister from 1990 to 1991. He challenged and beat Bob Hawke for the job of prime minister in 1991. He won one election in 1993 but was beaten by John Howard in 1996. As treasurer with Bob Hawke, he made lots of changes to the Australian economy and made it more modern. In the early 1990s, Australia had a really bad recession while he was treasurer, and when he became Prime Minister. As Prime Minister he tried to make Australia better friends with Asian countries and liked things like APEC. He also wanted Australia to become a republic and wanted the government to say it was "sorry" to Aboriginal people for the things that white Australians did long ago. 

</doc>
<doc id="32051" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32051" title="Liberal Party">
Liberal Party

Liberal Party is the name for several political parties. Most of these parties are liberal; they are either guided by social liberalism or by classical liberalism.
In particular, this applies to the following parties:

</doc>
<doc id="32060" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32060" title="Commonwealth of Independent States">
Commonwealth of Independent States

The Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) is the international organization, or alliance of countries that used to form the Soviet Union. 
On December 8 1991, leaders of Russia, Belarus, and Ukraine met at the nature reserve called Belovezhskaya Pushcha in Belarus. They discussed the creation of the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS). They reached an agreement about many points and signed a document creating the CIS. One of these points stated that the alliance would be open to all the republics of the Soviet Union. Other nations with similar goals could also join the CIS.
The Soviet Union had 15 republics: Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, Uzbekistan, Georgia, Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania. On 6th September 1991, the Soviet Union had recognized the independence of Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania. Out of the remaining 12 republics, all (except Georgia) joined the CIS. Before joining the CIS, on 21st December 1991, leaders of these 11 countries had met in Kazakhstan to accept the original CIS agreement of 8th December 1991. In December 1993, Georgia also joined the CIS. On 26th August 2006 Turkmenistan left the permanent membership, and became an associate member. On 15th August 2008 Georgia left the CIS membership, and Georgia's CIS membership officially ended on 17th August 2009.
Many people believed that with the creation of the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), the Soviet Union ceased to exist. For them, it was the dissolution of the Soviet Union. Many others consider that with CIS, Russia continues to have some control over the former republics of the Soviet Union. 
The CIS has its headquarters at Minsk, Belarus. An Executive Director heads the CIS. The CIS is not a successor country to the Soviet Union. The CIS is an organization or alliance of independent countries. It is more like the European Community. The member countries of the CIS had also signed many agreements for economic cooperation and defense cooperation. They have signed other agreements for cooperation in foreign policy and other matter. 

</doc>
<doc id="32061" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32061" title="Association of Southeast Asian Nations">
Association of Southeast Asian Nations

The Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) is an international organization. On 8th August 1967, Malaysia, Thailand, Indonesia, Singapore, and the Philippines formed the ASEAN. At that time, communism was growing in Vietnam, and these five countries were also facing problems inside their countries. In this background, these five countries created ASEAN as a show of common display of cooperation. In short, the purpose of the organization is political and economic cooperation.
There was an earlier organization. Its name was the Association of Southeast Asia (ASA). It was an international organization of Philippines, Malaysia, and Thailand. These three countries had formed ASA in 1961. It is named because all the countries in it are a part of Southeast Asia.
In 1976, ASEAN countries held a conference in Bali. After this, these countries started closer economic cooperation. But, by the mid-1980s, the activities of the ASEAN had slowed down. By 1991, Thailand proposed a free trade area. The ASEAN countries meet annually to discuss many matters.
Originally there were only five members of the ASEAN. Brunei joined the ASEAN on 8 January 1984. Vietnam joined the ASEAN on 28 July 1995. Laos and Myanmar joined the ASEAN on 23 July 1997. Cambodia became a member on 30th April 1999. Some other countries, such as East Timor may soon join ASEAN.
Some information about ASEAN countries is as follows:
The ASEAN countries had created an ASEAN Regional Forum (ARF). 27 countries are members of the ASEAN Regional Forum. The leaders of these countries meet and discuss various matters, especially security and economic cooperation. The current members in the ARF are: Malaysia, Thailand, Indonesia, Singapore, Philippines, Vietnam, Brunei, Laos, Myanmar, Cambodia, Australia, Canada, the People's Republic of China, the European Union, India, Japan, North Korea, South Korea, Mongolia, New Zealand, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Russia, Timor-Leste, United States, and Sri Lanka.
The ASEAN holds a meeting every year. The meeting lasts for 3 days, and the members discuss many things.
 Simple English Video about ASEAN

</doc>
<doc id="32062" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32062" title="Electric motor">
Electric motor

An electric motor changes electrical energy into mechanical movement. A dynamo or an electric generator does the reverse: it changes mechanical movement into electric energy. Most of the electric motors work by using the force of magnetism. But, an electric motor may work using different types of forces.
Let's start by looking at the overall plan of a simple two-pole DC electric motor. A simple motor has six parts: 
• Armature or rotor 
• Commutator 
• Brushes 
• Axle 
• Field magnet 
• DC power supply of some sort 
An electric motor is all about magnets and magnetism: A motor uses magnets to create motion. If you have ever played with magnets you know about the fundamental law of all magnets: Opposites attract and likes repel. So if you have two bar magnets with their ends marked "north" and "south," then the north end of one magnet will attract the south end of the other. On the other hand, the north end of one magnet will repel the north end of the other (and similarly, south will repel south). Inside an electric motor, these attracting and repelling forces create rotational motion.
To understand how electric motors work, the key is to understand how electromagnets work. An electromagnet is the basis of an electric motor.
Electric motors are boardly classified in to two different categories i.e. DC (direct current) and AC (Alternating current). With in these categories there are numerous types, each offering unique abilities that suit them well for best applications.
In 1821, Michael Faraday made the first electric motor. It worked using the force of magnetism.
He created a simple electromagnet by taking a nail and a wire, wrapping about 100 loops of wire around the nail and connected it to a battery. With this he had a simple electromagnet with north and south pole. In the middle of the nail he had made a hole and put a spindle into the hole so that the nail could rotate. He then took a horseshoe-shaped magnet and placed the wire wrapped nail in the middle.
He connected the wire of the north pole to the negative pole of the battery and the wire of the south pole to the positive pole. The basic law of magnetism told him what would happen: the north end of the electromagnet would repel the north end of the horseshoe-shaped magnet and would attract the south pole. The same happened on the other side of the nail, with the result that the nail turned. 
Faraday was not happy with the result of the electromotor, because the motor turned only once. He changed the polarity of the battery and the wire wrapped nail again turned just once. If he changed the polarity every time, when the north pole of the wire wrapped nail is opposite to the south pole of the horseshoe-shaped magnet, then he would have the result he was looking for. The wire wrapped nail would turn and turn around the spindle (as long as the battery is not empty).
Examples of electric motors include:
fans, washing machines, fridges, pool pumps, vacuum cleaners and fan ovens.
Stepper motor

</doc>
<doc id="32064" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32064" title="Explosive material">
Explosive material

Explosives are chemical compounds that cause explosions; they flare up and burst with a loud sound. Explosive material has many special characteristics: it is a chemically unstable material, it changes its form very fast and, while changing its form, it explodes by bursting and making loud sounds. 
There are two types of explosives: low explosives and high explosives. This classification depends on their rate of explosion. Low explosives "conflagrate" (= burn very fast). High explosives "detonate" (= explode with bursts). A low explosive is a material, which burns very fast, but does not explode generally. For exploding them, people mix them with high explosives. Sometimes, even a low explosive may detonate. A high explosive bursts and explodes very fast. High explosives produce more pressure than low explosives but low explosives are more safe to use. People use low explosives in fuses, rocket engines and fireworks, and high explosives in mining and demolition (destroying old bridges and buildings). Military weapons use high explosives. 
Gunpowder and ammonium nitrate are low explosives.
High explosives may belong to different groups: primary explosives and secondary explosives. Primary explosives are very unstable and rapidly react to shock, friction, and heat. Any shock, friction, or heat makes primary explosives to burn or blast fast. Secondary explosives are much more safe to use and do not react very fast to shock, friction, and heat. Any shock, friction, or heat may burn such explosives, but not make them to burst and blast. Some people call secondary explosives as base explosives. Some people also tell about another group of explosives. These are tertiary explosives. These explosives do not react to shock, friction, and heat. For explosion, tertiary explosives may need a mixture with secondary explosives. 
Primary explosives are used as "detonators": that is, to cause the secondary explosives to explode. Mercury fulminate, picric acid, lead azide, nitroglycerine and iodine nitride are examples of primary explosives. TNT, dynamite, hexogen, HMX and Torpex are examples of secondary explosives.
While sending explosives from one place to another, the packs containing different types of explosives may have different types of markings on the boxes. The United Nations has advised use of such markings. Some examples are:

</doc>
<doc id="32067" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32067" title="UNICEF">
UNICEF

The United Nations Children's Fund or UNICEF is an international organization. The United Nations established UNICEF on 11 December 1946. At that time, its name was United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund. Thus, UNICEF became its short name. In 1953, United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund dropped the words "Emergency "and "International" from its name. Its name became United Nations Children's Fund. But, in short, its name continued as UNICEF.
UNICEF has its headquarters in New York, United States of America. UNICEF provides many types of assistance and help to children and mothers. It receives money from different governments and private persons. It works in almost all countries of the world.
UNICEF has decided the following 5 areas as priority or main areas:
Some other priority areas are the child in the family, and sports for development.
UNICEF has been working for over 60 years in different countries all over the world. In 1965, this organization received the Nobel Peace Prize for its work. But, many people and governments have not always praised the work of the UNICEF. They have pointed out some defects in the way UNICEF works. Still, it is the world’s leading organization for the development of children. It operates in 190 countries around the world.

</doc>
<doc id="32070" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32070" title="German reunification">
German reunification

German reunification (German: "Deutsche Wiedervereinigung") is a term of history. Unification means making two or more parts as one. The German reunification is the unification of the two parts of Germany.
After the Second World War, Germany had been divided into two countries. One was the Federal Republic of Germany (FRG), also called "West Germany". The other part was the German Democratic Republic (GDR), which was also called "East Germany". The German reunification was on 3 October 1990, when the East German states became a part of the Federal Republic of Germany.
After World War II, Germany was divided into four occupation zones by the four Allies of World War II, France, Great Britain, The United States of America and The Soviet Union (Russia) in 1945. In 1949 the French, British and American zones were made joined into the "Federal Republic of Germany", also known as "West Germany", while the Soviet zone was made into a separate state known as the "German Democratic Republic", or "East Germany".
During the Cold War, West Germany was a democratic country (Politicians were elected in free elections), was allied with the United States of America and had a capitalist economic system (Businesses were owned by citizens). East Germany was a communist country, a one-party state. The communist party ruled all the time, elections were only for show, and all businesses were owned by the state. Like other states in the Soviet bloc, it was controlled by the Soviet Union.
After West Germany's economy began to grow faster and faster in the 1950s, while East Germany's economy was not doing so well, many people moved from East to West Germany. To stop this emigration, the border between East and West Germany was closed in 1961 by East German forces. This border was part of the Iron Curtain. Between 1961 and 1989, leaving East Germany was very hard and extremely dangerous. Officially leaving East Germany took years to be approved, and people who applied were often spied on by East German police. Many people who tried to flee over the border were shot and killed there.
In 1989, Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev started to open the Soviet Union to the west. Many of the communist countries followed his example. East Germany tried to ignore this trend, but during 1989, public protest grew inside the country. After some efforts to keep the country stable, the border was finally opened on 9 November 1989. Conversion of East Germany into a democratic country started almost immediately. During the following 11 months, the terms of unification were negotiated between East and West Germany, France, Great Britain, The United States of America and The Soviet Union, and the Treaty on the Final Settlement with Respect to Germany also called the Two Plus Four Treaty, signed by the two German states and the four wartime allies, opened the way towards reunification.
Two options for reunification were written in the West German constitution (the Grundgesetz):
The second option was chosen, and on 3 October 1990, at 00:01 the five new federal states of Brandenburg, Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, Saxony, Saxony-Anhalt, Thuringia and reunified Berlin officially joined the Federal Republic of Germany. The German Democratic Republic ceased to exist at this moment.

</doc>
<doc id="32071" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32071" title="Partitions of Poland">
Partitions of Poland

The Partitions of Poland or Partitions of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth is a term used in history. In the Polish language, the term for the Partitions of Poland is "Rozbiór Polski" or "Rozbiory Polski". In the Lithuanian language, the term for the partitions is "Padalijimas". The term describes partitions of the independent and sovereign country named the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. the neighboring countries of Prussia, Imperial Russia, and the Habsburg Monarchy divided the lands of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth among themselves. Three partitions of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth took place on the dates noted below:
The Partitions of Poland or Partitions of the Polish Lithuanian Commonwealth took place in the second half of the 18th century and ended the existence of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. The partitions were carried out by Prussia, Russia and Habsburg Austria dividing up the Commonwealth lands among themselves. Three partitions took place:
The less often used term "Fourth Partition of Poland" may refer to any subsequent division of Polish lands, specifically:
During the reign of Władysław IV (1632-48), the "liberum veto" had evolved. This policy of parliamentary procedure was based on the assumption of the political equality of every "gentleman", with the corollary that unanimous consent was required for all measures. A single MP's belief that a measure was injurious to his own constituency (usually simply his own estate), even after the act had already been approved, became sufficient to strike the act. It became increasingly difficult to get action taken. The "liberum veto" also provided openings for foreign diplomats to get their ways, through bribing nobles to exercise it. Thus one could characterise Poland-Lithuania in its final period (mid-18th century), prior to the partitions as already not a completely sovereign state: it could be seen almost as a vassal, or in modern terms, a Russian satellite state, with Russian tsars effectively choosing Polish kings. This applies particularly to the last Commonwealth King Stanisław August Poniatowski, who for some time had been a lover of Russian Empress Catherine the Great.
In 1730 Commonwealth's neighbours, namely Prussia, Austria and Russia, signed a secret agreement in order to maintain the "status quo": specifically, to ensure that the Commonwealth laws would not change. Their alliance later became known in Poland as the "Alliance of the Three Black Eagles" (or "Löwenwolde's Treaty"), because all three states used a black eagle as a state symbol (in contrast to the white eagle, a symbol of Poland). The Commonwealth had been forced to rely on Russia for protection against the rising Kingdom of Prussia, while Prussia was demanding a slice of the northwest in order to unite its Western and Eastern portions, although this would only leave the Commonwealth with a Baltic coast in Latvia and Lithuania. The Commonwealth could never be liquidated unless its longtime ally, Austria, allowed it, and first Catherine had to use diplomacy to win Austria to her side.
The Commonwealth had remained neutral in the Seven Years' War, though sympathizing with the alliance of France, Austria, and Russia, and allowing Russian troops access to its western lands as bases against Prussia. Frederick II of Prussia retaliated by ordering enough Polish currency counterfeited to severely affect the Polish economy.
Through the Polish nobles whom Russia controlled and the Russian Minister to Warsaw, ambassador and Prince Nicholas Repnin, Empress Catherine the Great forced a constitution on the Commonwealth at the so-called Repnin Sejm of 1767, named after ambassador Repnin. He dictated the terms of that Sejm and ordered the capture and exile of some vocal opponents of his policies to Kaluga in Russian Empire., including bishop Józef Andrzej Załuski and others. This new constitution undid the reforms made in 1764 under Stanisław II. The "liberum veto" and all the old abuses of the last one and a half centuries were guaranteed as unalterable parts of this new constitution (in the so-called "cardinal laws"). Repnin also demanded religious freedom for the Protestant and Orthodox Christians (those demands were the official "cover" for the pro-dependence "reforms"), and the resulting reaction among some of Poland's intolerant Roman Catholic, as well as the deep resentment of Russian intervention in the Commonwealth's domestic affairs, led to the War of the Confederation of Bar with Russia from 1768 to 1772.
The Poles tried to expel foreign forces in an uprising (the Confederation of Bar, 1768–1772), but the irregular and poorly commanded forces had litte chance in the face of the regular Russian army and suffered a defeat. Adding to the chaos was a Ukrainian peasant rebellion, the Koliyivschyna, which erupted in 1768 and resulted in massacres of noblemen (szlachta), Jews, Uniates, and Catholic priests before it was put down by Polish and Russian troops.
On February 19, 1772, the agreement of partition was signed in Vienna. A previous agreement between Prussia and Russia had been made in St. Petersburg on February 6, 1772. Early in August the Russian, Prussian and Austrian troops simultaneously entered the Commonwealth and occupied the provinces agreed upon among themselves. On August 5, 1772, the occupation manifesto was issued; much to the consternation of a country too exhausted by the endeavours of the Confederation of Bar to offer further resistance. Frederick II wrote about the participation of the (catholic) empress Maria Theresa in the first division of Poland in a letter: "The Empress Catherine and I are simple robbers. I just would like to know how the empress calmed down her father confessor? She cried, when she took; the more she cried, the more she took!?"
The regiments of the Confederation, whose executive board had been forced to leave Austria after that country joined the Prusso-Russian alliance, did not lay down their arms. Every fortress in their command held out as long as possible. Famous was the defence of Tyniec, which lasted until the end of March 1773, and also that of Częstochowa commanded by Pułaski. Kraków fell on April 28th, captured by the Russian general Suvorov who exiled the garrison to Siberia. Neither France nor Britain, upon whom hopes had been based, helped in a sufficient measure or protested when the partition was executed. So came to an end the ill-organized attempt of the Commonwealth to repulse the foreign aggression. It had cost about a hundred thousand men and once more laid the country to waste, although it was the first demonstration of the reviving national consciousness.
The partition treaty was ratified by its signatories on September 22, 1772. Frederick II of Prussia was elated with his success, and took great care for the welfare of his new Polish subjects, importing large numbers of Catholic schoolteachers (especially Jesuits whose order was suppressed at about that time) and making it mandatory for Prussian crown princes to learn Polish; Kaunitz of Austria was proud of wresting as large a share as he did, with the rich salt mines of Bochnia and Wieliczka; and Catherine of Russia was also very satisfied. By this "diplomatic document" Russia came into possession of that section of Livonia which had still remained in Commonwealth control, and of Belarus embracing the counties of Vitebsk, Polotsk and Mstislavl.
Prussia took Ermland (Warmia), Royal Prussia without the city of Danzig (Gdańsk) (which in 1773 became a new province called West Prussia), northern areas of Greater Poland along the Noteć River (the Netze District), and parts of Kuyavia (including the city of Thorn [Toruń]).
To Austria fell Zator and Auschwitz (Oświęcim), part of Little Poland embracing parts of the counties of Kraków and Sandomir and the whole of Galicia, less the City of Kraków. By this partition the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth lost about 30% of its territory, amounting at that time to about , with a population of four million people. The largest share of the spoils, as far as population and revenue were concerned, went to Austria.
After having occupied their respective territories, the three partitioning powers demanded that King Stanisław and the Sejm approve their action. The King appealed to the nations of Western Europe for help and tarried with the convocation of the Sejm. When no help was forthcoming and the armies of the combined nations occupied Warsaw to compel by force of arms the calling of the assembly, no alternative could be chosen save passive submission to their will. Those of the senators who advised against this step were arrested and exiled to Siberia by the representatives of Catherine. The local land assemblies (Sejmiks) refused to elect Deputies to the Sejm, and after great difficulties less than half of the regular number of representatives came to attend the session led by Marshal of the Sejm, Adam Poniński, the commander of the Malta Order, a cynic and notorious gambler. In order to prevent the disruption of the Sejm and the defeat of the purpose of the invaders he undertook to turn the regular Sejm into a Sejm of a Confederacy, where majority rule prevailed. In spite of the dramatic efforts of Tadeusz Rejtan, Samuel Korsak and Stanisław Bohuszewicz to prevent it, the deed was accomplished with the aid of Michał Radziwiłł and the Bishops Andrzej Młodziejowski, Ignacy Jakub Massalski, and Antoni Kazimierz Ostrowski (primate of Poland), who occupied high positions in the Senate of Poland. The so-called Partition Sejm elected a committee of thirty to deal with the various matters presented. On September 18, 1773, the Committee formally signed the treaty of cession, renouncing all claims of the Commonwealth to the occupied territories. On the other hand, that very Sejm, which continued its deliberations until 1775, shaken by the first partition, passed several important reforms, among them the creation of the Permanent Council and Commission for National Education.
By seizing northwestern Poland, Prussia instantly gained control over 80% of the Commonwealth's total foreign trade. Through levying enormous custom duties, Prussia accelerated the inevitable collapse of the Commonwealth (EB.)
By 1790, on the political front, the First Polish Republic had deteriorated into such a helpless condition that it was successfully forced into an unnatural and ultimately deadly alliance with its enemy, Prussia. The Polish-Prussian Pact of 1790 was signed. The conditions of the Pact were such that the succeeding and final two partitions of Poland were inevitable. The May Constitution of 1791 enfranchised the bourgeoisie, established the separation of the three branches of government, and eliminated the abuses of Repnin Sejm. Those reforms prompted aggressive actions on the part of its neighbours, wary of the potential renaissance of the Commonwealth. Once again Poland dared to reform and improve itself without Russia's permission, and once again the Empress was angered; arguing that Poland had fallen prey to the radical Jacobinism then at high tide in France, Russian forces invaded the Commonwealth in 1792 (EB.)
In the War in Defense of the Constitution, pro-Russian conservative Polish magnates, the Confederation of Targowica, fought against the Polish forces supporting the constitution, believing that Russians would help them restore the Golden Liberty. Abandoned by their Prussian allies, Polish pro-constitution forces, faced with Targowica units and the regular Russian army, were defeated. Prussia signed a treaty with Russia, agreeing that Polish reforms would be revoked and both countries would receive chunks of Commonwealth territory. In 1793, deputies to the Grodno Sejm in Grodno, last Sejm of the Commonwealth, in the presence of the Russian forces, agreed to Russian territorial demands. In the 2nd partition, Russia and Prussia helped themselves to enough more land so that only one-third of the 1772 population remained in Poland.
Targowica confederates, who did not expect another partition, and the king, Stanisław August Poniatowski, who joined them near the end, both lost much prestige and support. The reformers, on the other hand, were attracting increasing support, and in 1794 the Kościuszko Uprising begun.
Kosciuszko's ragtag insurgent armies won some initial successes, but they eventually fell before the superior forces of Russian Empire. The partitioning powers, seeing the increasing unrest in the remaining Commonwealth, decided to solve the problem by erasing any independent Polish state from the map. On 24 October 1795 their representatives signed a treaty, dividing the remaining territories of the Commonwealth between their three countries.
The Russian part included 120,000 km² and 1.2 million people with Wilno, the Prussian part 55,000 km² and 1 million people with Warsaw, and the Austrian 47,000 km² with 1.2 million and Lublin and Kraków.
Napoleon set up the Duchy of Warsaw in a smaller area of Poland, but after his defeat and the implementation of the Congress of Vienna programme, things became even worse for Poles than before. Russia gained a larger share of Poland and, after crushing an insurrection in 1831, the Congress Kingdom of Poland's autonomy was abolished and Poles faced confiscation of property, deportation, forced military service, and the closure of their own universities. After the rising of 1863, Russification of Polish secondary schools was imposed and literacy rate dropped dramatically. In the Austrian portion, Poles became the second nationality and were allowed representation in Parliament and to form their own universities, and Kraków and Lvov became centers of Polish education. Meanwhile, Prussia Germanized the entire school system of its Polish subjects and had no more respect for Polish culture and institutions than Russia had. It would take the World War I, with the Central Powers losing to the Western Allies, the chaos of the Russian Revolution and the Treaty of Versailles to restore Poland's independence after 123 years.
As a result of Partitions, Poles were forced to seek a change of status quo in Europe. Polish poets, politicians, noblemen, writers, artists, many of whom were forced to emigrate (thus the term Great Emigration) became the revolutionaries of 19th century, as desire for freedom and liberty became one of the defining parts of Polish romanticism. Polish revolutionaries participated in uprisings in Prussia, Austrian Empire and Imperial Russia Polish legions fought alongside Napoleon and under the slogan of "For our freedom and yours" participated widely in the Spring of Nations (particularly Hungarian Revolution (1848)).
The term "Fourth Partition of Poland" may refer to any subsequent division of Polish lands, specifically:
If one accepts more than one of those events as partitions, fifth and sixth partitions can be counted, but these terms are very rare.
As historian Norman Davies stated, because of the observance of the balance of power equilibrium, many contemporary observers accepted explanations of the "enlightened apologists" of the partitioning state. Some, particularly older historians from countries that carried out the partitions, such as 19th century Russian scholar Sergey Solovyov argued that partitions were justified, as the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth had degenerated to the point of being partitioned because of the counterproductive principle of "liberum veto" that made decision-making on divisive issues, such as a wide-scale social reform, virtually impossible. Solovyov specified the cultural, language and religious break between the supreme and lowest layers of the society in the east regions of the Commonwealth, where the Bielorussian and Ukrainian serf peasantry was Orthodox. Russian authors emphasized the historical connections between Belarus, Ukraine and Russia, as former parts of the medieval old Russian state where dynasty of Rurikids reigned (Kievan Rus). A new justification for partitions arose with the Russian Enlightenment, as Russian writers such as Gavrila Derzhavin, Denis Fonvizin, and Alexander Pushkin stressed degeneration of Catholic Poland and the need to "civilize" it by its neighbors. Nonetheless other 19th century contemporaries were much more sceptical; for example, British jurist Sir Robert Phillimore discussed the partition as a violation of international law; German jurist Heinrich Bernhard Oppenheim presented similar views. Other old historians who challenged such justifications for the Partitions included French historian Jules Michelet, British historian and politician Thomas Babington Macaulay, 1st Baron Macaulay, and Edmund Burke. More recent studies claim that partitions happened when Poland had been showing the beginning signs of a slow recovery and see the last two partitions as an answer to strengthening reforms in the Commonwealth and the potential threat they represented to its neighbours.

</doc>
<doc id="32072" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32072" title="Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth">
Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth

The Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth (or Union, after 1791 the Commonwealth of Poland) was a state of Poland and Lithuania ruled by a common monarch. The Commonwealth was an extension of the Polish-Lithuanian Union, a personal union between those two states that had existed from 1386. It was the largest and one of the most populous countries of 16th- and 17th-century Europe. The Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth covered more lands than the present lands of Poland and Lithuania. The lands of the Commonwealth also covered all the lands of present-day Belarus; a large part of Ukraine and Latvia; and western part of present-day Russia.
The Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth had high levels of ethnic diversity and by religious tolerance. The amount of religious freedom varied over time.
After several decades of prosperity, it entered a period of political, military and economic decline. It ended with the final Partitions of Poland in 1795. Its growing weakness led to it being divided by its more powerful neighbors, Austria, Prussia and the Russian Empire.

</doc>
<doc id="32073" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32073" title="Unification of Germany">
Unification of Germany

The process of the Unification of Germany occurred in the nineteenth century (1800–1900). Prior to unification, there were many states in Central Europe. Some of them were very small, possibly no more than from one border to the other. Many Germans wanted a nation that was united, powerful, and influential. 
Unification took place on 18 January 1871. At the conclusion of the Franco-Prussian War, the German princes proclaimed the German nation in Versailles, France, at the Hall of Mirrors. Unification joined together the many independent German states. These states became the German Empire. 
The unification of Germany began many years earlier, during the Napoleonic Wars. At the Battle of Leipzig in 1813, which is also called the Battle of Nations, many of the German states joined with Russia, Sweden, and Austria to defeat Napoleon's army. In the subsequent Peace of Vienna in 1815, which ended the Napoleonic Wars, Austria remained the most powerful of the German states, in terms of political power. Prussia emerged as Austria's political and diplomatic rival.
There were many problems in unifying the German states. Not all politicians were in favor of unification. Some feared that unification would give Austria and Prussia too much power among the many states. There were also problems in deciding who would collect taxes, and how much tax would be paid. 

</doc>
<doc id="32074" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32074" title="OPEC">
OPEC

OPEC, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries is an international organization. Since 1965, the headquarters of OPEC is in Vienna, Austria. OPEC was established in Baghdad, Iraq on 10–14 September 1960. 
Its work is to "coordinate and unify the petroleum policies" of its members. Also to "ensure the stabilization of oil markets in order to secure an efficient, economic and regular supply of petroleum to consumers, a steady income to producers, and a fair return on capital for those investing in the petroleum industry". 
According to the United States Department of Energy Energy Information Administration (EIA), OPEC crude oil production is an important factor affecting global oil prices. OPEC sets production targets for its member nations and generally, when OPEC production targets are reduced, oil prices increase. Projections of changes in Saudi production result in changes in the price of crude oil. 
OPEC was formed in 1960 when the international oil market was largely dominated by multinational companies known as the 'seven sisters'. The formation of OPEC was a turning point in state control over natural resources. In the 1960s OPEC made sure that oil companies could not unilaterally cut prices. In December 2014, OPEC and the oil men were named in the top 10 most influential people in the shipping industry by Lloyds.
13 countries are members of OPEC. The names of these countries are: 
Member countries of the OPEC came together to form this international organization with several aims. Some of the aims are:
However, OPEC has not always been able to achieve all these aims.

</doc>
<doc id="32075" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32075" title="Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development">
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development

The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) is an international organization of thirty four countries. Member countries of OECD all have a democratic system of government. They also accept the principle of a free economy. A country has a free economy, when its government does not control the economic activities of its citizens and companies. 
The OECD started 1948 as the Organisation for European Economic Co-operation (OEEC). The Second World War had just ended three years before in 1945. Some countries of Europe came together to form OEEC to help each other re-build their industry and other things destroyed in the Second World War. Later on, some non-European countries also joined this organization. In 1960, OEEC changed its name, and it became OECD: the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development.
The OECD's headquarters are at the Château de la Muette in Paris.
Right now, OECD has thirty four countries as its members. Twenty countries became members of OECD in 1960. These countries are:
14 countries joined OECD after 1960. The names of these countries (with the year they joined in brackets), are: 

</doc>
<doc id="32076" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32076" title="1973 oil crisis">
1973 oil crisis

The 1973 oil crisis started on October 17, 1973. when the members of Organization of Arab Petroleum Exporting Countries (OAPEC) said, because of the Yom Kippur War, that they would no longer ship petroleum to nations that had supported Israel in its conflict with Syria and Egypt (The United States, its allies in Western Europe, and Japan). The embargo was lifted in March of 1974.
About the same time, OPEC members agreed to raise world oil prices, after attempts at negotiation with the "Seven Sisters" oil company earlier in the month failed. Due to the dependence of the industrialized world on crude oil and the role of OPEC as a major supplier, these price increases hurt the economies of the targeted countries, while at the same time limiting economic activity. The targeted countries responded with new, and mostly permanent, attempts to limit any more dependency.
During this time, many other problems arose. These problems badly affected the economy of the world. The problems continued even after 10 years until the early 1980s. The higher oil prices continued until 1986. Japan did well soon after the 1973 oil crisis. For example, Japanese companies started manufacturing automobiles that used less oil to run. Soon many other automobile companies in different countries also started to manufacture automobiles that used less oil to run. The Japanese also began focusing on producing electronics such as transistor radios and televisions. This production is what helped the Japanese economy to bounce back after the shock of the oil crisis.

</doc>
<doc id="32077" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32077" title="Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe">
Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe

Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) is an international organization for peace and human rights. Presently, it has 57 countries as its members. Most of the member countries of the OSCE are from Europe, the Caucasus, Central Asia and North America. 
The headquarters of OSCE are in Vienna, Austria. There are more than 3,500 persons who work for OSCE. Most of the persons who work for OSCE work at different places, and only about 10% of them work at its headquarters. 
Since the end of the Second World War, many countries of the Europe wanted to have an organization to discuss various matters, especially security. Such discussion had continued since 1950s. Many years after, 
in November 1972, leaders of 35 countries met in Helsinki. In 1973, these countries set up the Conference for Security and Co-operation in Europe (CSCE). By the end of 1990s, communist governments in many countries had changed. In this situation, the role of CSCE was also changing. The leaders from member countries of CSCE met in Paris. On 21st November 1990, they signed an agreement. This changed the name of Conference for Security and Co-operation in Europe (CSCE) to Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE). This international organization continues to function. 

</doc>
<doc id="32078" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32078" title="Franco-Prussian War">
Franco-Prussian War

The Franco-Prussian War was a war between France and Prussia. Some German allies of Prussia also joined. This war was 'designed' by Otto von Bismarck , the Prussian Chancellor. He wanted to unite Germans by making them fight together against a common enemy. Bismarck did this by irritating the Emperor of France, Louis-Napoléon Bonaparte (Napoleon III). The war started when France declared war on 19 July 1870. It ended on 10 May 1871. Prussia won this war.
The causes of the Franco-Prussian War are mostly due to France being nervous of a Protestant country on their border. While France had helped Prussia beat Austria in the Austro-Prussian War (1866), France would not let the North and South German states unify. In 1869, the throne of Spain was offered to a prince of the Catholic branch of the Prussian Hohenzollern royal family. 
France found out about the offer, and demanded that Prussia reject it, since France did not want two Prussia-friendly states on both their land borders. The prince said no, but the French wanted Prussia to say no also. The Prussian King Wilhelm I sent the Ems telegram assuring the French Emperor, Napoleon III, that the prince would not become king of Spain. Otto von Bismarck, the Chancellor of Prussia, publicly released a version that he edited or doctored to make it seem that his king had insulted the emperor's ambassador. This was part of his plan to unify the German states. The two sides exchanged angry words, France declared war, and in July 1870 the war started with Prussia fully supported by the South German states.
With her German allies and universal conscription, Prussia was able to bring together a bigger army than the French. The Prussian army's weapons, training and leadership were better, too. For example, the Prussian General Staff were very well organized and the army had modern equipment like the Dreyse needle gun and Krupp artillery (heavy-duty guns). They won the war. Notable victories include Sedan, Mars-la-Tour, Gravellote, and Metz. They captured Napoleon, and French Republicans overthrew the Second French Empire and made peace. 
After this war, France had to give Prussia some mainly German speaking regions previously under French control. These were the provinces of Alsace and Lorraine. Prussia took steps to unite the independent German states into one country, the German Empire". The historical term for this is the "Unification of Germany".

</doc>
<doc id="32080" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32080" title="Kaohsiung City">
Kaohsiung City

Kaohsiung City (Traditional Chinese: 高雄市, Hanyu Pinyin: Gāoxióng, Tongyong Pinyin: Gaosyóng, POJ: Ko-hiông; coordinates 22°38'N, 120°16'E) is the second largest city of Taiwan and the main city in Southern Taiwan.
Kaohsiung is divided into 11 districts:
Two islands in the South China Sea are governed by Kaohsiung City and is a part of Cijin District:

</doc>
<doc id="32081" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32081" title="Fernando Alonso">
Fernando Alonso

Fernando Alonso Díaz (born July 29, 1981 in Oviedo, Spain) is a racing driver in Formula One. He is from Spain. He won his first F1 title in 2005 and then became the youngest ever Formula 1 World Champion at the age of 24.
Alonso drove until 2006 in Formula 1 for the Renault F1-Team, with which he achieved the driver world championship in the year 2005 and had a major part to play in the Renault F1 Team winning the constructor championship in the same year. 
The Drivers' Championship was won again by Fernando with Renault F1 for the second year in a row in 2006 (interestingly, had Alonso not become the youngest World Champion in 2005, he would have still achieved this feat with his 2006 victory) edging out Michael Schumacher of Scuderia Ferrari by 13 points. Renault also retained the Constructor's Championship, beating Ferrari by only five points.
In 2007 Alonso joined Team Vodafone McLaren-Mercedes and entered a four way battle for the World Championship with his team-mate, the rookie Lewis Hamilton, and Ferrari drivers Kimi Räikkönen and Felipe Massa. Halfway through the season, with wins in Sepang and Monaco, Alonso trails his rookie team-mate by 14 points. The second half of the season should prove interesting.
In the second part Alonso won at Europe and Italy but missed the title by 1 point.
 Season in progress.
 Season in progress.

</doc>
<doc id="32083" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32083" title="Peter Crouch">
Peter Crouch

Peter James Crouch (born 30 January 1981) is an English footballer. He was born in Macclesfield and was raised in Singapore and Ealing, west London. At 6 feet, 7 inches (201 cm), he is one of the tallest people to ever play in the Premier League. Crouch played for Liverpool and England. He was the first player to score 10 goals for England in a single year. He is known for his famous robotic dance celebration, which he first performed after his goal against Hungary in May 2006. 
276||84||19||11||12||2||38||16||341||113
8||3||colspan="2"|-||colspan="2"|-||0||0||8||3
284||87||19||11||12||2||38||16||349||116
!Total||36||18

</doc>
<doc id="32085" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32085" title="Delhi, Ontario">
Delhi, Ontario

Delhi is a tobacco town in Norfolk County, Ontario, Canada that has fewer than 5000 people. It has a public library, a convience store, a cemetery, a funeral home, various other stores, and a tobacco museum.
The town also has a high school that has been threatened with closure numerous times by the school board for lack of attendance. Children from this town participate in little league baseball, ice hockey, and competitive swimming.

</doc>
<doc id="32088" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32088" title="Bishkek">
Bishkek

Bishkek (Бишкек) is the capital city of Kyrgyzstan. It has a population of 900,000 (2005). Originally founded in 1878 as the Russian fortress of Pishpek (Пишпек), between 1926 and 1991 it was known as Frunze (Фрунзе), after the Bolshevik military leader Mikhail Frunze. In Kyrgyz, a Bishkek is a churn used to make stirred horse milk (kumis), the Kyrgyz national drink.

</doc>
<doc id="32089" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32089" title="Dushanbe">
Dushanbe

Dushanbe (, ) is the capital city of Tajikistan. About 562,000 people live in Dushnabe as of 2000. The name is borrowed from the Persian word for "Monday" (du "two" + shamba or shanbe "day", lit. "day two") and refers to the fact that it was a popular "Monday" market place.

</doc>
<doc id="32090" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32090" title="Taiwan Strait">
Taiwan Strait

The Taiwan Strait or Formosa Strait is a 180 km-wide strait between mainland China and the island of Taiwan. The strait is part of the South China Sea and attaches to East China Sea to the northeast. The thinest part is 131 km wide. The Taiwan Strait is often incorrectly called the "Taiwan Straits". 
The Strait has been the theatre for several military confrontations between the People's Republic of China and the Republic of China since the last days of the Chinese Civil War in 1949 when the Kuomintang forces led by Chiang Kai-shek retreated across the Strait and relocated its government on its final stronghold of Taiwan.

</doc>
<doc id="32091" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32091" title="Character">
Character

Character could mean:
In symbols:
In accounting and mathematics:
In entertainment:
In biology:

</doc>
<doc id="32092" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32092" title="Tashkent">
Tashkent

Tashkent (, ; its name translates from Uzbek to "Stone City" in English) is the capital city of Uzbekistan. It is also the capital of "Tashkent Province". The population of the city was 1,967,879 at the 2006 census.

</doc>
<doc id="32094" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32094" title="Aşgabat">
Aşgabat

Aşgabat (; , UniPers: Ešq-âbâd; - Ashkhabád) is the capital city of Turkmenistan. It also spelled as Ashgabat, Ashkabat, Ashkhabad, Ashgabad, a former Soviet republic. Aşgabat has a population of 695,300 (2001) and is between the Kara Kum desert and the Kopet Dag mountain range. The name is believed to borrow from the Persian Ashk-abad meaning "the City of Arsaces". Another explanation is that the name is a corruption of the Persian Eshq (Love) + abad (natured place or city), and therefore loosely translates as "The city built by/from love". Aşgabat is at 37°58′N 58°20′E (37.9667, 58.333). Aşgabat's ethnic groups are: Turkmen, Russians, Armenians, and Azeris. Arsaces is a word that appear between 3 and 4 times in the Bible and has unknown meanings.

</doc>
<doc id="32097" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32097" title="Wedge">
Wedge

The term wedge may mean many things. Some of them are as noted below:

</doc>
<doc id="32098" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32098" title="Crew">
Crew

A crew usually is a group of people that work within a common organisation, and that have some activities in common. The usual place where crews can be found are ships and airplanes. On such ships and aircraft, some functions some people perform are very special. It is therefore common that crews are organised in a hierarchy. Every person, except the captain, at the top, has a person above them. They will report to that person. 
Teams who work backstage in theaters, on movie sets, and in television studios are also called crews. Such crews are distinct from the cast.

</doc>
<doc id="32099" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32099" title="Cargo">
Cargo

Cargo or freight means goods which people transport, often using a vehicle made for that purpose rather than for passenger service. The vehicle is usually a truck or freighter or cargo aircraft or freight train. 
The noun is used as not countable; people will talk about "some" freight. Today, goods other than bulk cargo are usually packed in shipping containers, which are carried. A place which loads or unloads cargo is usually called a "cargo terminal".

</doc>
<doc id="32100" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32100" title="Ransom">
Ransom

Ransom can mean two things:
If people talk about that they need to pay money to the state or the police, to get free, the correct legal term used is usually bail.
Often in piracy, pirates would steal something or someone important and demand a ransom payment.

</doc>
<doc id="32102" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32102" title="Paraphilia">
Paraphilia

Paraphilia is a word used in sociology and medicine. It is like many other medical terms because it comes from Greek. It means that someone is sexually aroused by people (or by things) that are unable to return their affection. The word can also be used to refer to sexual practices which are bad for the mind or body and are mental disorders.
When doctors talk about "paraphilia", they usually mean one of the following, among other things:
The respective behaviour is only classified as "paraphilia" if it is the only means for the person involved to get sexually aroused, for a considerable time.
When normal people talk about paraphilia, they usually mean non-mainstream sexual behaviour.
Homosexuality used to be considered a paraphilia, but this is no longer the case in most of the world. 

</doc>
<doc id="32104" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32104" title="Belo Horizonte">
Belo Horizonte

Belo Horizonte is a Brazilian city, capital of the state of Minas Gerais. It has, approximately, 2.4 million inhabitants and an area of 330.9 km². It is the third largest metropolitan area in the country. 

</doc>
<doc id="32108" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32108" title="Bohemia">
Bohemia

Bohemia is one of the regions of the Czech Republic. Poland is to the north, Germany to the west, Austria to the south, and the Czech province of Moravia to the East. The capital city of Prague lies in Bohemia. 
Bohemia is well known for its glasswares (and other handicrafts), its beer, but also its cuisine.

</doc>
<doc id="32109" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32109" title="Rhododendron">
Rhododendron

Rhododendron is a large genus of flowering plants. It includes 1,024 species of woody plants in the heath family (Ericaceae). Some are evergreen, and some are deciduous. They are found mainly in Asia. 
Most of them have quite showy flowers. What gardeners know as Azalea is in fact a kind of rhododendron. Many people have rhododendrons in their garden or flower pot. It is the national flower of Nepal. One rhododendron, "Rhododendron ponticum", has become an Invasive species in North America.

</doc>
<doc id="32110" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32110" title="Jasmine">
Jasmine

Jasmine is a genus of plants. They are shrubs or vines that grow in moderately warm climates. There are about 200 different species of Jasmine. They are also quite liked in gardens. Tea can be made from the flowers. Some species are used to make special oil, perfumes or incense. Women, especially from Asia sometimes wear jasmine flowers in their hair.
Jasmine flowers are white or yellow in colour, although in rare instances they can be slightly reddish. Jasmine flowers are well known for their lovely smell.

</doc>
<doc id="32112" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32112" title="Article">
Article

The word article can mean several things:

</doc>
<doc id="32113" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32113" title="Yaren">
Yaren

Yaren is the largest settlement on the island country Nauru. Nauru has no official capital, but many government buildings can be found in Yaren, so some people call it the capital. In 2003, 1100 people lived there.

</doc>
<doc id="32114" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32114" title="Nupedia">
Nupedia

Nupedia was an English-language online encyclopedia. Its articles were written by experts, and they were licensed as free content. It was founded by Jimmy Wales and Larry Sanger. Nupedia was online from March 2000 until September 2003. It is mostly known as the website which came before Wikipedia.
Unlike Wikipedia, Nupedia was not a wiki. It also had a long peer-review process for all of its articles. This was supposed to make its articles as good as professional encyclopedias. Nupedia wanted scholars to help build it. Before it shut down, Nupedia had 25 articles that completed its review process.
In June 2008, CNET said that Nupedia was one of the greatest closed websites in Internet history.
In late 1999, Jimmy Wales began thinking about an online encyclopedia built by volunteers. In January 2000, he hired Larry Sanger to manage it. The project went online on March 9, 2000.
By November 2000, only two full articles had been published.
From when it started, Nupedia was a free content encyclopedia. Bomis, Jimmy Wales' company, was going to get money from adverts on the Nupedia website. At first, the project used a license that was made up by Wales and Sanger. Later, it began using the Nupedia Open Content License. In January 2001, it switched to the GNU Free Documentation License. This was because Richard Stallman and the Free Software Foundation said they should.
Also in January 2001, Nupedia started Wikipedia. At first, it was not meant to be an encyclopedia. Instead, it was meant as a side-project to allow people to work on articles for Nupedia before they were peer reviewed. As Wikipedia got bigger and attracted new users, it began to run without Nupedia. However, Larry Sanger first led activity on Wikipedia. This was because he was the chief editor on Nupedia.
Wikipedia led to the gradual shutdown of Nupedia. Jimmy Wales decided to stop paying Sanger in December 2001. Sanger then left both Nupedia and Wikipedia. After Sanger left, Nupedia became even less noticed than Wikipedia. As Nupedia was used less and less, the idea of changing its articles into Wikipedia articles was sometimes proposed. However, it was never done. After it closed down, Nupedia's articles were moved in to Wikipedia.
Nupedia's articles were all peer reviewed. These were the steps they had to follow:
People who wrote for Nupedia were supposed to be experts in what they wrote about. However, some articles could be written by a good writer, rather than an expert. People who "changed" content on Nupedia were expected to be "true experts in their fields and (with few exceptions) possess PhDs", which means that they should be experts in what they are changing and (generally) have PhDs.

</doc>
<doc id="32115" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32115" title="Article (grammar)">
Article (grammar)

An article is a word that comes before a noun. There are two kinds of articles: definite articles and indefinite articles.
In English there is just one definite article: "the". There are two indefinite articles: "a" and "an". The word "an" is used before a word starting with a vowel sound: we say "a horse", "a child", "a European" (Euro has a "Y" sound), "a university", but "an orange", "an elephant". 
Some languages have more than one word for "the". In some languages, this is because each noun is either masculine or feminine or, in some languages it can be masculine, feminine or neuter. For example: in French "le" is used for masculine nouns ("le jardin" - "the garden") and "la" for feminine nouns ("la table" - "the table"). "The" becomes "les" in front of plural nouns. The indefinite articles in French are "un" (masculine) and "une" (feminine). German, Dutch and Ancient Greek have masculine, feminine and neuter nouns, but in the case of Dutch the word for "the" is the same for masculine and feminine ("de") so you do not need to know which it is. The Māori language uses one word for "the" for when the subject or object to which the "the" refers is one in number, and uses another word for "the" when the subject or object to which the "the" refers numbers more than one.
Some languages (for example: Russian and Japanese) do not have articles. When speakers of these languages are learning English, it is often difficult to explain to them what an article is. English speakers use them automatically.
In general: "the" in English is used for something you have already been talking about. The word "a" is used when introducing a new idea:
"The tired woman was looking for her cat. Suddenly she saw "the" cat up "a" tree". (We are already talking about the cat. The tree is a new idea).
"The tired woman was walking along when she suddenly saw "a" cat up "a" tree". (She had not been thinking about cats until then).
Sometimes we do not need an article, for example when talking about something in general:
"The dogs do not bite" (meaning: dogs that you are thinking about).
"Barking dogs do not bite" (barking dogs in general).

</doc>
<doc id="32116" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32116" title="Waterfront">
Waterfront

Waterfront is the land by the side of a body of water (E.g. Lake or Ocean).

</doc>
<doc id="32118" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32118" title="East Asia">
East Asia

East Asia or Eastern Asia is part of the continent Asia. East Asia covers about , or 15% of the continent. 
These are the countries and territories in East Asia:
About 1,575,784,500 people live in East Asia ().

</doc>
<doc id="32120" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32120" title="List of counties of the Republic of China">
List of counties of the Republic of China

Taiwan Province is divided into 13 counties (縣; hsien) and 3 provincial cities (市; shih):
"Note":The cities of Taipei and Kaohsiung are managed directly by the central government and are not part of Taiwan province, though the counties of the same name all around these cities are part of the province. The People's Republic of China, which does not control Taiwan Province, does not recognize Taipei and Kaohsiung as central cities and lists them as provincial cities.

</doc>
<doc id="32121" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32121" title="Tbilisi">
Tbilisi

Tbilisi is the capital, and the largest city in Georgia. It was founded in the 5th century by the Georgian king, Vakhtang Gorgasali. When he was hunting, he killed a pheasant which dropped into hot water. Gorgasali discovered there were a lot of hot springs in this place, which he called Tbilisi as "tbili" means hot in Georgian.

</doc>
<doc id="32130" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32130" title="Robot">
Robot

A robot is an artificial agent, meaning it acts as a substitute for a person, doing things it is designed for.
Robots are usually machines controlled by a computer program or electronic circuitry. They may be directly controlled by humans. They may be designed to look like humans, in which case their behaviour may suggest intelligence or thought. Most robots do a specific job, and they do not look like humans. They can come in many forms.
In fiction, however, robots usually look like people, and seem to have a life of their own. There are many books, movies, and video games with robots in them. Isaac Asimov's "I, Robot" is perhaps the most famous.
People have been interested in building machines to do work for us for a long time. But it takes time and money to build just one machine, so early ideas stayed ideas, or were built to make rich people laugh.
Leonardo da Vinci designed a man-shaped machine to look like a knight in 1464. It would be controlled with ropes and wheels.
Other engineers and dreamers drew mechanical men. In1920, Karel Čapek wrote a story about them, and he used a word from Czech that is connected with 'work': robot.
The most successful robot designs in the 20th century were not made to look like people. They were designed for use. George Devol made the first of these, the Unimate, in 1954, with one arm and one hand. General Motors bought it in 1960. The next year, it started work in a factory in New Jersey, lifting and stacking pieces of metal that were too hot for people to touch. The engineers could program it, and reprogram it if they had to.
Robots have many uses. Many factories use robots to do hard work quickly and without many mistakes. These are 'industrial' robots. 
Some robots find and get rid of bombs. If someone makes a mistake, the robot is damaged or destroyed, which is better than a person being killed. 
There are also robots that help at home, to vacuum or run a lawn mower, for example. Such robots must learn about the area of work.
A few robots do surgery in places where a human had is too big. 
Planet rovers are robots for exploring distant planets. Because it takes a long time to send a radio signal from Earth to another planet, the robots do much of their work alone, without commands from Earth.
People still think of robots as having a shape like a person—two legs, two arms, and a head. ASIMO is one robot that is helping scientists learn how to design and program robots. It can walk, which is not easy to program.
Roughly half of all the robots in the world are in Asia, 32% in Europe, and 16% in North America, 1% in Australasia and 1% in Africa. 30% of all the robots in the world are in Japan. Japan has the most robots of any country in the world, and is the leader in the world robotics industry. Japan is actually said to be the robotic capital of the world.
In Japan and South Korea, ideas of future robots have been mainly positive. The positive reception of robots there may be partly because of the famous cartoon robot, 'Astroboy'. China expressed views on robotics that are similar to those of Japan and South Korea, but China is behind both America and Europe in robotic development. The East Asian view is that robots should be roughly equal to humans. They feel robots could care for old people, teach children, or serve as assistants. The popular opinion of East Asia is that it would be good for robots to become more popular and more advanced. This view is opposite to the popular Western view.
"This is the opening of an era in which human beings and robots can co-exist," says Japanese firm Mitsubishi about one of the many human-like robots in Japan. The South Korean Ministry of Information and Communication has predicted that every South Korean household will have a robot by between 2015 and 2020.
Western societies are more likely to be against, or even fear the development of robots. Science fiction movies and other stories often show them as dangerous rebels against humanity.
The West regards robots as a 'threat' to the future of humans, which is much due to religious influence of the Abrahamic religions, in which creating machines that can think for themselves would almost be playing God. Obviously, these boundaries are not clear, but there is a significant difference between the two ideologies.
The writer Isaac Asimov told many stories about robots who had the three laws of robotics to keep humans safe from them.
These were not used in real life when he invented them. However, in today's world robots are more complicated, and one day real laws may be needed, much like Isaac Asimov's original three laws.
These laws are talked about in the Megaman video games.
South Korea was the first country in the world to have laws about robots.

</doc>
<doc id="32136" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32136" title="Habemus Papam">
Habemus Papam

Habemus Papam refers to the announcement given in Latin by the Senior Cardinal Deacon when a new Pope has been chosen.
The announcement is given from the central balcony of St. Peter's Basilica in the Vatican. After the announcement, the new pope meets the people and he gives his first Urbi et Orbi blessing to the crowd.
The format for the announcement is:
This, in English, means:
In the Habemus Papam given by Jorge Cardinal Medina Estévez on 19 April 2005 upon the election of Pope Benedict XVI, the announcement was made after a greeting ("Dear Brothers and Sisters") in several languages (Italian, Spanish, French, German, and English).

</doc>
<doc id="32151" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32151" title="Xabi Alonso">
Xabi Alonso

Xabi Alonso (born 25 November 1981) is a Spanish football player, plays for Real Madrid. He used to play in the Spanish League for a club called Real Sociedad.
133||9||2||0||colspan="2"|-||8||1||147||10
141||15||10||2||4||0||48||2||203||19
274||24||12||2||4||0||56||2||350||29
!Total||114||16

</doc>
<doc id="32156" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32156" title="Porto Alegre">
Porto Alegre

Porto Alegre is a Brazilian city, capital of the state of Rio Grande do Sul. It has, approximately 1.4 million inhabitants and an area of 496.8 km².
Its main famous park is the 'Parque Dos Expedicionários' also known as 'Parque da Redenção' (Redemption Park, in English).
Porto Alegre became known all over the world by The Social World Forum. Also known worldwide by the hottest city in the world at February, 2009.

</doc>
<doc id="32157" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32157" title="Salvador, Bahia">
Salvador, Bahia

Salvador is a Brazilian city, capital of the state of Bahia. It has about 2.7 million inhabitants and an area of .
In 2010, the city of Salvador had the 3rd most people in Brazil, after São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. 
Salvador is the second most popular tourism destination in Brazil, after Rio de Janeiro. Among the points of interest are its famous "Pelourinho" (named after the colonial pillories that once stood there) district, its historic churches, and its beaches. 
In 1985 the Historic Centre of Salvador was made a World Heritage Site by UNESCO. 
According to the Guinness Book of Records, the carnival or "Carnaval" of Salvador da Bahia is the biggest party on the planet. For an entire week, almost 4 million people celebrate throughout of streets, avenues and squares. It takes about 100 thousand people to organize the event. Salvador has about 800 thousand visitors for this event.
The first books that arrived in Salvador were brought by the Jesuits. The first libraries or bookstores that appeared were under the control of the religious missionaries. They mostly had books on religion.
Salvador has many sport activities. The Fonte Nova Stadium, also known as Estádio Octávio Mangabeira is a football stadium started on January 28, 1951. It can hold 66,080 people. The stadium is owned by the Bahia government, and is the home ground of Esporte Clube Bahia. Its formal name honors Octávio Cavalcanti Mangabeira, a civil engineer, journalist, and former Bahia state governor from 1947 to 1954. The stadium is nicknamed Fonte Nova, because it is at Ladeira das Fontes das Pedras. The stadium was closed in 2007 due to an accident. The E.C. Bahia home matches now happen in another stadium, in Pituaçu.
Esporte Clube Bahia and Esporte Clube Vitória are Salvador's main football teams. Bahia has won 2 national titles, Brazil Trophy in 1959 and the Brazilian League in 1988. Vitória was a runner up in the Brazilian league in 1993 and Brazil Cup in 2010.
Salvador has two large green areas for the practice of golf. Cajazeiras Golf and Country Club has a 18-hole course. Itapuã Golf Club has a 9-hole course. Tennis is very popular among Salvador's elites. Brasil Open, the country’s most important tournament, happens every year in Bahia.
During the last decades, volleyball has grown steadily in Salvador. It became popular after the gold medal won by Brazil in the 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona. The most important tournaments in Bahia are the State Championship, the State League tournament and the Primavera Games. There are also beach volleyball events. Salvador has had many international tournaments. Bowling is practiced both by teenagers and adults in Salvador. 
Bahia's basketball league has competed since 1993. They have 57 teams. The sport is very popular in the city of Salvador, especially among students. 
Todos os Santos Bay and Salvador's climatic conditions are ideal for competition and recreational sailing. Salvador has a national racing schedule with dozens of events, also receiving the Mini Transat 6.50 and Les Illes du Soleil races.
Rowing boat races started in the city more than a hundred years ago. It was first practiced by young men from traditional families, who spent their summer vacations there. With the recent fixing of the Dique do Tororó area, Salvador received new lanes for the practice of the sport.

</doc>
<doc id="32158" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32158" title="Goiânia">
Goiânia

Goiânia is a Brazilian city, capital of the state of Goiás. It has about 1.2 million inhabitants and an area of .

</doc>
<doc id="32159" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32159" title="1610">
1610


</doc>
<doc id="32160" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32160" title="1677">
1677


</doc>
<doc id="32162" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32162" title="1508">
1508


</doc>
<doc id="32165" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32165" title="Campo Grande">
Campo Grande

Campo Grande is a city in Brazil. Campo Grande is the capital of Mato Grosso do Sul State of Brazil. Campo Grande means, "Great Field" in Portuguese, the language of Brazil. Campo Grande is home to the official headquarters of the Western Brazilian Army. Campo Grande's nickname is "Brown City," for it's brown colored soil.
Until the 1970s, Mato Grosso do Sul was part of Mato Grosso State. Even when Mato Grosso do Sul was part of Mato Grosso, Campo Grande had more people than the capital of Mato Groso, Cuiabá. When Mato Grosso do Sul left Mato Grosso and became its own Brazilian state, Campo Grande became the new capital.
Campo Grande International Airport serves Campo Grande and all of Mato Grosso do Sul State and the Federal University of Mato Grosso do Sul is in Campo Grande.

</doc>
<doc id="32166" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32166" title="Cuiabá">
Cuiabá

Cuiabá is a Brazilian city. It is the capital of the state of Mato Grosso. About 535,000 people live here. Cuiabá has an area of 3,538 km². 

</doc>
<doc id="32171" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32171" title="Vitória, Espírito Santo">
Vitória, Espírito Santo

Vitória is a Brazilian city, capital of the state of Espírito Santo. It has about 315,000 inhabitants and an area of 93 km². 

</doc>
<doc id="32181" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32181" title="Fortaleza">
Fortaleza

Fortaleza is a city in Brazil. It is the capital of the state of Ceará. The city has a population of about 3 million people. It has an area of . The people who live in the city are known as "Fortalezenses". The current mayor is Roberto Claúdio. 
The Pinto Martins International Airport connects Fortaleza with the major Brazilian cities. It also operates international flights. The Federal University of Ceará is located in Fortaleza.
Fortaleza is located in the northeastern part of Brazil. It borders the Atlantic Ocean to the north and the east. To the south of the city are the cities of Pacatuba, Eusébio, Maracanaú and Itaitinga. To the east is the county of Aquiraz and the Atlantic Ocean. The city of Caucaia is west of Fortaleza. 
Things to do in Fortaleza includes bars, discos and restaurants. The area also has comedy shows with nationally famous people. An off-season carnival, "Fortal", happens in Fortaleza, in July. Changes were made to the carnival in 2008. It now has parking lots, bleachers, and a food court. The event lasts four days. About 1.5 million people enjoy the nationally famous axé music bands. Fortaleza also has music festivals, for example Ceará Music. This event happens every year and lasts for three days. It includes local musicians and international pop rock musicians. Around twenty-five thousand people enjoy the concerts, electronic music tents, and fashion shows.

</doc>
<doc id="32188" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32188" title="São Luís, Maranhão">
São Luís, Maranhão

São Luiz is a Brazilian city, capital of the state of Maranhão. It has about 980,000 inhabitants and an area of 827 km².

</doc>
<doc id="32194" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32194" title="João Pessoa">
João Pessoa

João Pessoa () is a Brazilian city, capital of the state of Paraíba. It has about 660,000 inhabitants and an area of 210.45 km².

</doc>
<doc id="32197" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32197" title="Teresina">
Teresina

Teresina is a Brazilian city, capital of the state of Piauí. It has about 900,000 habitants and an area of 1,680 km².

</doc>
<doc id="32201" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32201" title="Natal, Rio Grande do Norte">
Natal, Rio Grande do Norte

Natal is a Brazilian city, capital of the state of Rio Grande do Norte. It has about 780,000 inhabitants and an area of 170 km².

</doc>
<doc id="32202" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32202" title="Rio Branco">
Rio Branco

Rio Branco is a Brazilian city and capital of the state of Acre. About 306,000 people live there. It had an area of 9,223 km².

</doc>
<doc id="32209" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32209" title="Council of Europe">
Council of Europe

The Council of Europe (, ) is an international organization of 47 member states in the European region. One of its first successes was the European Convention on Human Rights in 1950, which serves as the basis for the European Court of Human Rights.
The seat of the Council of Europe is in Strasbourg on the Franco-German border. The original meeting place was in the city's University Palace. The Palais de l'Europe, about two kilometres from city centre, has taken its place. Membership is open to all European democracies which accept the principle of the rule of law and guarantee fundamental human rights, civil rights and freedoms to their citizens and respect of rights of minority groups.
The Council of Europe is not to be confused with the Council of the European Union or the European Council, as it is a separate organisation and not part of the European Union. But all member states of European Union are also the member states of Council of Europe.

</doc>
<doc id="32214" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32214" title="Palmas, Tocantins">
Palmas, Tocantins

Palmas is a Brazilian city, capital of the state of Tocantins. It has about 208,000 inhabitants and an area of 2,218.9 km².

</doc>
<doc id="32215" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32215" title="Macapá">
Macapá

Macapá is a Brazilian city, capital of the state of Amapá. It has about 355,000 inhabitants and an area of 6,563 km².

</doc>
<doc id="32216" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32216" title="Belém">
Belém

Belém is a Brazilian city, capital of the state of Pará. It has about 1.4 million inhabitants and an area of 1.070 km². 

</doc>
<doc id="32217" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32217" title="Florianópolis">
Florianópolis

Florianópolis is a Brazilian city. It is the capital of the state of Santa Catarina. It has about 400,000 people. It has an area of . It is mostly on Santa Catarina Island.

</doc>
<doc id="32219" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32219" title="Porto Velho">
Porto Velho

Porto Velho is a Brazilian city, capital of the state of Rondônia. It has about 374,000 inhabitants and an area of 34,082 km².

</doc>
<doc id="32220" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32220" title="Boa Vista">
Boa Vista

Boa Vista is a Brazilian city, capital of the state of Roraima. It has 249.655 inhabitants (estimative IBGE 2006) and an area of 5,687 km².

</doc>
<doc id="32222" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32222" title="Recife">
Recife

Recife is a Brazilian city, capital of the state of Pernambuco. It has about 1.4 million inhabitants and an area of 218 km². 

</doc>
<doc id="32224" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32224" title="Recognition">
Recognition

Recognition, or recognize, is when humans or animals know something about the surrounding objects or beings. For example, an animal might recognize another animal as an enemy or friend, dangerous or harmless. These cognitive acts relate to the beings' perception, memory, learning, and experience.
In computer programs, pattern recognition tries to teach computers to perceive and recognize things as accurately as possible, how people do it or better. Pattern recognition by computers distinguishs objects, images, fingerprints, writing, audio, faces and other things automatically.
When a country recognizes another country, it means that the first country believes that the second country is legal and has a right to be a country. 
Countries that recognize each other have diplomatic relations. That means they send diplomats to each other, and make different kinds of agreements, about trade, international laws and other things.

</doc>
<doc id="32229" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32229" title="Cystic fibrosis">
Cystic fibrosis

Cystic fibrosis (also known as mucoviscidosis, CF, and 65 roses) is a condition a person may get from their parents. It causes the body to make thick, sticky mucus, which builds up in the lungs, the digestive system and other parts of the body. If both parents have the cystic-fibrosis gene, and pass it onto their child, the child will get cystic fibrosis. A cystic-fibrosis gene is needed from each parent. The parent might not have cystic fibrosis but still might have the gene. A person with cystic fibrosis is not contagious (they can't give it to anyone else). There is no cure for cystic fibrosis but there are a lot of medications that help keep people healthy.
Cystic fibrosis affects the entire body. Overall the body has trouble moving salt to the parts of the body that need it. Since the body has trouble moving salt, it piles up in places it is not supposed to like the lungs, stomach and intestines.
In the lungs when salt gets stuck it causes there to be less water which makes mucus to become very thick. It becomes very hard to breathe. The treatment for this is breathing medicine to help add water to the lungs to keep the mucus thinner so it is easier to cough up. When there is thinner and less mucus it is easier to breathe.
There is no cure for cystic fibrosis. Although, people can do things to stay healthy. Healthy habits keep the person from getting more sick. People can stay clean. People can stay away from germs. They can drink water to help the mucus go away. Taking enzymes help digest food if there is mucus in the stomach. 
Exercise clears mucus. It builds strong muscles and bones and strengthens the lungs. Taking vitamins helps the body fight off the infection. It also helps the body grow and function well.
"65 roses" is how some children refer to their condition since cystic fibrosis is difficult for a young child to say. '65 Roses' is also a trademarked phrase by the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation to help control its use. It is a very helpful way for young children to understand. When spoken aloud, it sounds similar to cystic fibrosis.

</doc>
<doc id="32231" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32231" title="IEEE 1394">
IEEE 1394

IEEE 1394 is the name for a set of standards. The standards specify a serial bus which can be used to transfer information. Other names for the standards include Firewire, i.Link and Lynx. The standard is often used to connect a computer to an external device, like a hard drive or digital camcorder. It also has uses to transfer data in cars and airplanes.
It is similar to USB. Firewire replaced SCSI for many applications: Making a device understand Firewire is easier than having it understand SCSI; handling Firewire cables is also much easier than SCSI cabling. 
"FireWire" is popular in industrial systems for machine vision and professional audio systems. It is preferred over the more common USB because of its greater effective speed and power distribution capabilities, and because it does not need a computer host. Perhaps more importantly, "FireWire" makes full use of all SCSI (older connecting possibility) capabilities. Compared to USB 2.0, it usually has higher data transfer rates. This feature is important for audio and video editors.
Also many computers intended for home or professional audio/video use have built-in "FireWire" ports, including all Apple Inc. and Sony laptop computers and most Dell and Hewlett-Packard models currently produced. It is available to general public on retail motherboards for do-it-yourself PCs, alongside USB.
FireWire is produced in wireless, optical fiber, and coaxial cable versions. 
However, the copyright fees demanded from users of FireWire and the more expensive hardware needed to implement it has prevented FireWire from displacing USB in mass-market, where cost of product is crucial.
FireWire is Apple Inc.'s name for the IEEE 1394 High Speed Serial Bus. Apple intended FireWire to be a serial replacement for the parallel SCSI (Small Computer System Interface) bus while also providing connectivity for digital audio and video equipment. 
Apple's development of the original IEEE 1394 was completed in 1995.It was followed by several modifications: The IEEE Std. 1394a-2000, the IEEE Std. 1394b-2002, and the IEEE Std. 1394c-2006 amendment. The aim of current work is to incorporate all four of these documents into new revision of the 1394 standard.
Sony's version of the system is known as i.LINK, and uses only the four signal pins, omitting the two pins which provide power to the device because of a separate power connector on Sony's i.LINK products
FireWire 400 can transfer data between devices at 100, 200, or 400 Mbit/s data rates. The 6-pin connector is commonly found on desktop computers, and can supply the connected device with power.
Typically a device can pull about 7 to 8 watts from the port; However, the voltage varies significantly from different devices.
Modification IEEE 1394a was released in 2000. It standardized the 4 pin connector already widely in use. The 4-pin version is used on many consumer devices such as camcorders, some laptops and other small "FireWire" devices. It is fully data compatible with 6-pin interfaces.
9-pin FireWire 800 was introduced commercially by Apple Inc. in 2003. This newer specification (1394b) and corresponding products allow a transfer rate of 786.432 Mbit/s. It is backwards compatibility to the slower rates and 6-pin connectors of FireWire 400. However, while the IEEE 1394a and IEEE 1394b standards are compatible, connectors are different, making the cables used by previous versions incompatible.
In December 2007, the 1394 Trade Association announced the products will soon be available using S3200 mode. It will use the same 9-pin connectors as the existing FireWire 800 and will be fully compatible with existing S400 and S800 devices. The future products are intended to compete with the USB 3.0.
The numbers given after the "FireWire", or the "S" give the approximate speed in MBit/s, rouded up to the next 100. The very first version can transfer 98.304.000 Bits/s, or 12.288.000 Bytes/s. The versions that came afterwards can do this speed, and multiples of it. Using the SI prefix, this is exactly 98.304 kBit/s, using the binary prefix, it is 96.000 kiBit/s. To avoid confusion, it is rounded to the next closest 100. That way, S3200 does not transfer 3.200 MBit/s, nor 3.200 MiBit/s, but 3.145,728 Mbit/s, or 3.000 MiBit/s. This is approximately 2,93 Gibit/s.
Unlike with USB, there is no one device that manages the bus all the time. Each device is able to manage the bus. When a new device is connected, there will be negotiations between the devices which of them does the management. 
Addresses have a length of 64 Bits. Of these, 10 are used to identify "segments" (as part of the network), 6 are used for nodes, and 48 are freely available. The standard used to connect several segments has not yet been ratified. For this reason, all Firewire networks currently only use one segment.
Devices on a FireWire bus can communicate by direct memory access. With Direct Memory access (DMA) a device can use hardware to map internal memory to FireWire's "Physical Memory Space". The SBP-2 (Serial Bus Protocol 2) used by FireWire disk drives uses this capability to minimize interrupts and buffer copies. In SBP-2, the initiator (controlling device) sends a request by remotely writing a command into a specified area of the target's FireWire address space. This command usually includes buffer addresses in the initiator's FireWire "Physical Address Space". The target is supposed to use this space to move I/O data to and from the initiator.
Many implementations use hardware to do the mapping between the FireWire "Physical Memory Space" and device physical memory. Among these, are those used by PCs and Macs, especially those using OHCI. In this case, the operating system is not involved in the transfer. This allows for high speed transfers with a low latency and avoids that the data is copied around unnecessarily. It can however be a security risk if devices that are not trusted are connected to the bus. Installations where security is a concern will therefore either use newer hardware, which use virtual memory to map the Firewire Physical memory space, or disable the mapping the OHCI does. They might also disable the whole Firewire subsystem, or not provide Firewire at all.
This feature can also be useful, for example to debug a machine where the operating system has crashed. Some systems can use it to provide a remote console. On FreeBSD, the dcons driver provides both, using gdb as debugger. Under Linux, firescope and fireproxy exist.

</doc>
<doc id="32234" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32234" title="De facto">
De facto

De facto is a phrase from the Latin language that means "in fact" or "in practice". It is often used in contrast to "de jure" (which means "by law") when talking about law, governance, or technique. When talking about law, ""de jure"" is used to describe what the law says, and ""de facto"" is used to describe what actually happens.
"De facto" is sometimes also used when there is no appropriate law or standard, but a common practice, that may not necessarily be widely accepted, exists. For example, the "de jure" name of Bill Clinton is William Jefferson Clinton. This is his name according to official records. His "de facto" name is Bill Clinton because this is what he is usually called.

</doc>
<doc id="32235" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32235" title="Househusband">
Househusband

A  man who considers himself married and manages the household as his main occupation and whose spouse/partner usually earns the family income. Often looking after the children because the wife earns a better living. 

</doc>
<doc id="32236" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32236" title="Port Dover, Ontario">
Port Dover, Ontario

Port Dover is a small fishing town in Ontario, Canada. During Friday the 13th, motorcycle fans dominate the town. There is also the famous "Arbor Restaurant" stand in the southern part of town where "Cherry Glows" are served instead of soft drinks and the bees frequent the outdoor place as much as the local customers and tourists do.
There was a public high school in the town where students aged 14 to 21 years of age study to earn their "Ontario High School Diploma"; it closed at the end of the 2013-14 school year. Port Dover is also the home to Ms. Carrie Sinkowski, a leader for rural equality, and a former candidate for the Canadian House of Commons. Live theatre is also done here as well as a miniature golf course, a beach, and a thriving seaport just to name a few attractions that Port Dover has to offer.
The town is dominated with little shops, with very few franchised businesses in the town; which sells irregular consumer items like British merchandise, local souvenirs and T-shirts that appeal to young tourists. Notable exceptions include Tim Hortons and Giant Tiger department store. On Friday the 13th, motorcycle people come to town in order to drink beer. However, they must be at least 19 years of age to perform this activity. While some violence has resulted in previous years, the 2007 running of the PD13 event was peaceful.

</doc>
<doc id="32238" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32238" title="Julius Nyerere">
Julius Nyerere

Julius Kambarage Nyerere (April 13, 1922 - October 14, 1999), also known as Mwalimu (teacher), was President of Tanzania from 1964 to 1985. He was born in Butiama, Tanganyika. He used political repression against opponents. His attempt at using his socialist ideas of Ujamaa failed, making Tanzania very poor and caused widespread starvation. He led the overthrow of Idi Amin's regime in Uganda. He died of leukemia in London, England.

</doc>
<doc id="32239" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32239" title="Interahamwe">
Interahamwe

The Interahamwe (pronounced Een-hair-ah-hahm-way, with the 't' pronounced as an 'h') was the main mob army that started the Rwandan Genocide in 1994. In this mass murder, about one million Hutu and Tutsi people were killed. 
The Interahamwe usually used machetes ('mupanga') to do the killing, but guns, grenades and primitive tools like nail-studded clubs and hoes were also used.
About a half an hour after the President of Rwanda, Juvénal Habyarimana, was killed on the night of April 6, 1994, Interahamwe roadblocks were put up all over the city of Kigali, the capital of Rwanda. The violence that followed would last about 100 days. This resulted in at least 500,000 deaths, but some say even up to 800,000-1,000,000 deaths.

</doc>
<doc id="32243" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32243" title="Democratic Kampuchea">
Democratic Kampuchea

Democratic Kampuchea was the official name of Cambodia/Kampuchea from 1976 to January 1979, during the Khmer Rouge Years, though the international community recognized it for ten more years. Its leader was Pol Pot, and its national anthem (song) was Dap Prampi Mesa Chokchey. It was succeeded by the People's Republic of Kampuchea upon the Vietnamese invasion in 1979. While Democratic Kampuchea existed, about 20% of its population died either because of starvation, brutality, or execution. The four-year period saw the deaths of approximately two million Cambodians through the combined result of political executions, starvation, and forced labour. Due to the large numbers, the deaths during the rule of the Khmer Rouge are often considered a genocide, and commonly known as the Cambodian Holocaust or Cambodian Genocide.
The Khmer Rouge period ended with the invasion of Cambodia by neighbour and former ally Vietnam in the Cambodian–Vietnamese War, which left Cambodia under Vietnamese occupation for a decade.

</doc>
<doc id="32246" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32246" title="Lindsborg, Kansas">
Lindsborg, Kansas

Lindsborg is an American city in the state of Kansas. It is called "Little Sweden" and is located in McPherson County. Lindsborg is home to Bethany College.

</doc>
<doc id="32248" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32248" title="Pie">
Pie

A pie is a baked food. It has a pastry crust with or without a pastry top. The filling of a pie is either savoury (with meat and/or vegetables) or sweet. Pies often have a round or oval shape. 
A pie is cooked beforehand: this is the main idea. It can be cooked days before it is eaten. The crust keeps it in good condition if the pie is kept in a cool place. The pie can be eaten warm or cold.
Pies can be either:
Pies are baked with a shell or crust, which is usually made of pastry. The filling may be fruit, meat, fish, vegetables, cheeses, creams, chocolate, custards, nuts, or other sweet or savoury ingredients.
Some of these pies are pies in name only. An example is the Boston cream pie, which is a cake. Many fruit and berry pies are very similar, with the only difference being the fruit used in filling.
There are many different kinds of pie. People from different countries often have their own different type of pie.
Meat pies with fillings such as steak and cheese, steak and kidney, minced beef or chicken and mushroom are popular in the United Kingdom, Australia and New Zealand as take-away snacks. They are also served with chips as an alternative to fish and chips at British chip shops. A "Wigan kebab" is a pie, put between halves of a flour-covered bap (bun). This is called a barm cake. The combination of pie and mash is associated with London. Shepherd's pie (which does not involve pastry) is a favourite with people in Britain.
Most meat pies are served hot. Pork pies usually have a very high fat content and may be served cold. These meat pies contain beef and gravy in a shortcrust piecase, often with a flaky top. Many bakeries and specialty shops sell gourmet pies. Adelaide (a city in Australia) has the "pie floater", where a meat pie is floated in a plate of thick green pea soup.
Pot pies with a flaky crust and bottom are a popular American dish. They usually have a filling of meat (often beef, chicken or turkey), gravy, and mixed vegetables (potatoes, carrots and peas). Frozen pot pies are often sold in individual serving size.
Fruit pies may be served with a scoop of ice cream, a style known in North America as "à la mode". Apple pie is a traditional choice. This combination, and possibly the name as well, is thought to have been popularized in the mid-1890s in the United States.
A tourtière is a meat pie. It was first created in Quebec, Canada. It is usually made with ground pork, veal, or beef.
Many countries have their own style of pie. For example:
Cream filled or topped pies are favourite props for humour, particularly when aimed at people who are too serious. Throwing a pie in a person's face has been a staple of movie comedy since the early days of the movies. It is often associated with clowns in popular culture.
Pranksters have taken to targeting politicians and celebrities with their pies, an act called "pieing". Activists sometimes engage in the pieing of political and social targets as well. "Pieing" can result in injury to people and pie throwers can face assault or more serious charges.

</doc>
<doc id="32249" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32249" title="Customer service">
Customer service

Customer service is the giving of labor and other resources to satisfy a customer's needs. This is often helpful if a purchase is broken or not working properly. In these situations, the event is usually covered by a customer service policy. Many stores will have a special desk or area where people can take their complaints.
Customer service is a service which helps customers to get over their bad experience within a shop or business.

</doc>
<doc id="32250" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32250" title="Busan">
Busan

Busan (formerly written as Pusan) is the largest port city and second-largest city in South Korea. It lies on the southeast tip of the Korean Peninsula. It is important for transport and shipping. It is best known for Busan Port and Haeundae Beach. The port takes many ships and accommodate trades among other countries. In 2012, according to the census, the population was about 3,439,000.
During the Korean War, Busan had an important role because it was one of two cites which were not invaded by North Korea. The city was the capital for a short time.
Busan has hosted the Asian Games in 2002 and APEC summit it 2005. It bid to host the 2018 Winter Olympics and the 2024 Summer Olympics. It is also the home city of the Lotte Giants, a professional baseball team in the Korea Baseball Organization league. 
The city was originally called Busanpo. It was named after the shape of the mountain behind Busan Port. Korean "bu" (hangul: 부, hanja: 釜) means a "cauldron", "san" (hangul: 산, hanja: 山) means a "mountain", and "po" (hangul: 포, hanja: 浦) means a "harbor". It may be said that a harbor is located at the foot of a mountain resembling a cauldron. Since the late 15th century, the current name Busan (hangul: 부산, hanja: 釜山) has been widely used.
Busan is on the southern east coast of South Korea. The southern part of Busan is surrounded by the Yellow Sea, and the east of Busan is surrounded by the South Sea, so it is a port city. The city covers about 767.35 km2 (296.28 sq mi).
In Busan, there are many objects that show ancestors’ lives when Korean used stones for hunting. Most of remains are from beginning of the period of the rock Age and there are piles of shells around rivers or the ocean Dongsam-dong, Yeongseon-dong, Dadae-dong, Amnam-dong, Geumgok-dong and Beombang. However, people probably lived in late Stone Age. In the Bronze Age, people lived in some places such as Sajik-dong and Nampo-dong in this city because there are a lot of remains comparing to those of in the Stone Age. Bronze Age affected making Yayoi culture in Japan. People also used iron in the Iron Age here because much iron was made in Busan. Silla Kingdom controlled the area of Busan, Busan was named as Geochilsanguk, Geochilsangun, and changed to Dongnaehyeon. Dongnae is still used as name of area in Busan.
In the Goryeo Dynasty ruled southern part of Korea, Busan was controlled by the system of Sillla. 
In Joseon Dynasty, Busan Port was opened in 1407 and was an important city because it is close to Japan. The Korean government allowed Japanese to live in Busan because Busan was open to the trade between Korea and Japan since the 15th century and Japanese built houses and buildings. When the Imjin War occurred, Japanese people under the control of Toyotomi Hideyoshi invaded Korea in 1592, after Joseon Dynasty did not lead Japan to Min dynasty, Japan said that they needed the way to go to China and to conquer the Ming dynasty in China, but Japan changed its words and attacked Korea. At that time, Joseon Dynasty was not prepared for the war. Therefore, since Korea and the Ming dynasty had a good relationship with China, the Ming dynasty helped Joseon fight back Japan. When Toyotomi Hideyoshi died, Japanese solders went their county because they lost their hero and could not fight with both Korea and China.
Since Busan is a port city, the trade between Korea and Japan occurred in Busan until 1876 when Busan-Po (Port) opened with the treaty of Kanghwa. At that time, Busan was the first international port. Later, the other ports were used for trade because Japan wanted to sell goods and food through trade by an unfair agreement on trade.
Japan invaded again and colonized Korea from 1910 to 1945. Then, Japan controlled Korea, including Busan. After World War 2 ended, Korea was divided into North Korea which was controlled by Russia and South Korean which was governed by the United State of America. During the Korean War, Busan was the temporary capital of South Korea from 1950 to 1953 and one of cities that were not conquered by North Korea when Korean War occurred. Therefore, many South Korean moved to Busan from other places. At that time, UN troops landed on Busan and surrounded Busan to protect Koreans from communists and to defeat North Korea and other allied communists on June 30 in 1950. South Korean and UN Soldiers started to fight with North Korean and communists in Korea. The Korean War occurred when the Korean government was made into Republic of Korea and Democratic People’s Republic of Korea because of political ideology after Pacific War and World War 2. IN 1995, the name of city was changed from Busan City (Jikhalsi) to Busan Metropolitan City.
East-Busan Tourism Complex is planned to be built from 2005 to 2017 in Gijang-eup, Gijan-gun and its size is about 3,638, 310 m2. This future facility will have theme parks, resorts, and marine view facilities. 

</doc>
<doc id="32252" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32252" title="Sarcasm">
Sarcasm

Sarcasm is when someone says something, but means something else. They mean either the opposite of what they said, or that they disagree with what they just said. 
Sarcasm is different from lying because when a person is being sarcastic, the person listening is supposed to understand that the person speaking does not mean what they just said. If someone says something sarcastic, it is usually said in a tone of voice that tells the person listening that they are being sarcastic. Perhaps the person listening knows the person talking well enough to understand that the person talking is being sarcastic. 
Sarcasm can be used to criticize someone. It can be unkind.
Sarcasm can also be used to be funny. If the person's tone of voice is normal when they say something sarcastic, this is called "deadpan" or "dry humor".

</doc>
<doc id="32253" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32253" title="Lie">
Lie

A lie is something that someone says that is not true. People that are lying often want others to believe that the lie is the truth. People can have many reasons for lying, such as if they are hiding something, if they want something from you, or white lies. Some people are pathological liars.
Different kinds of lies:
Lying can only be done on purpose. If a person says something that is not true and does not know that it is not true, that person is making a mistake and not lying.

</doc>
<doc id="32255" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32255" title="Germ-X">
Germ-X

Germ-X is a brand of washless hand sanitizer. It comes in different scents and sizes. There are also pocket-sized Germ-X bottles so children who worry about germs so much wonuld not have to run to the restroom to wash their hands frequently. Germ-X was made by the scientists of Vi-Jon Laboratories. Germ-X is made by the Blue Sun Corporation.

</doc>
<doc id="32256" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32256" title="Brand">
Brand

Brand might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="32258" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32258" title="Scratch and sniff">
Scratch and sniff

Scratch and sniff refers to paper that produces an odor when it is scratched. Scratch and sniff is mostly used on stickers. Scratch and sniff stickers are frequently given to children as a reward for doing well in school.
Scratch and sniff is created by covering the odor in a covering that breaks easily when it is scratched. Because the odor is covered, it can be kept for a very long time.

</doc>
<doc id="32262" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32262" title="Rose">
Rose

The rose is a type of flowering shrub. Its name comes from the Latin word "Rosa". The flowers of the rose grow in many different colors, from the well-known red rose to yellow roses and sometimes white or purple roses. Roses belong to the family of plants called Rosaceae. All roses were originally wild and they come from several parts of the world, North America, Europe, northwest Africa and many parts of Asia and Oceania. There are over 100 different species of roses. The wild rose species can be grown in gardens, but most garden roses are cultivars, which have been chosen by people.
Over hundreds of years they have been specially bred to produce a wide variety of growing habits and a broad range of colours from dark red to white including as well yellow and a bluish/lilac colour. Many roses have a strong, pleasant scent. Most roses have prickles (incorrectly called thorns) on their stems. Rose bushes are able to tolerate a wide variety of growing conditions. The fruit of the rose is called a hip. Some roses have decorative hips.
Roses are widely used across the world as symbols of love, sympathy or sorrow.
Rose is widely used as a girl's name.
Also, roses protect themselves from other predators trying to hunt them with thorns, a widely known defense system.
The rose was sacred to Venus (mythology). Venus was the Roman goddess of love and beauty. It was also linked with Cupid (son of Venus). He was the Roman god of desire – in one myth, he dropped nectar and the nectar bubbled up from the ground as roses. The rose was also sacred to Bacchus. He was the Roman god of wine.
Rich Romans would lie on couches with roses laid on them. They would wear roses tied onto string around their neck. Anything which was said "under the rose" was considered to be a secret. Cleopatra VII of Egypt was said to have had a floor of her palace covered in roses before her lover Mark Antony visited her.
The rose has been used as a symbol of love for hundreds of years.
The flower of the rose plant can be different sizes. It may be as small as 1/2 inch across to a diameter of almost 7 inches.
Also, roses can be used for good scent. The scent of the rose comes from tiny perfume glands on the petals, which can be seen through a powerful microscope. Sometimes rose petals are dried and packed so that you can use them for decoration or for scent.
Roses can be seen very much in gardens. Sometimes they can be in vineyards as well. In a big vineyard, a bush of roses are planted at the end of each row of vines. As long as the roses stay healthy, the vine growers can see that their vines are healthy as well.
There are thousands of rose cultivars that people grow in gardens and on farms. The names used to describe the different types often refer to one species that is the main ancestor of that group, for example, Gallica roses are mostly descended from "Rosa gallica". Other groups have several different species among their ancestors. Hybrid Tea roses, Floribunda roses, and English roses are the most common in gardens today. They are of so many colours like red, yellow, orange, pink, purple and so on
Different colored roses have different meanings.

</doc>
<doc id="32265" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32265" title="Mud pie">
Mud pie

Mud pie might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="32267" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32267" title="Apple pie">
Apple pie

An apple pie is a pie or tart filled with apples. Sometimes it has whipped cream or ice cream on top. It is a common type of pie. It is commonly associated with American culture, e.g. the expression 'As American as apple pie'.

</doc>
<doc id="32269" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32269" title="Pumpkin">
Pumpkin

A pumpkin is a gourd. They are usually orange, but they can also be white. Pumpkins are spheres or stretched-out spheres.
People can eat pumpkins. Often people make pumpkins into pies. People can eat and cook pumpkin seeds. People also use pumpkins for decoration, for example when people make jack-o-lanterns at Halloween.
It also has a few noted medicinal use, which are traditionally used in India.

</doc>
<doc id="32281" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32281" title="Ribeirão Preto">
Ribeirão Preto

Ribeirão Preto is a Brazilian city in the state of São Paulo. Its population, in 2005, was 551,312 inhabitants and its area is 652.2 km². Its name means Black Creek in Portuguese.

</doc>
<doc id="32284" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32284" title="Guarulhos">
Guarulhos

Guarulhos is a Brazilian city in the state of São Paulo. Its population was 1,251,179 inhabitants in 2005 and its area is 317.1 km².

</doc>
<doc id="32288" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32288" title="Santos, São Paulo">
Santos, São Paulo

Santos is a Brazilian city in the state of São Paulo. Its population was 418,316 inhabitants . Its area is .

</doc>
<doc id="32307" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32307" title="São José dos Campos">
São José dos Campos

São José dos Campos is a Brazilian city in the state of São Paulo. Its population in 2005 was 600,049 inhabitants. It is located about 100 km (63 miles) from the city of São Paulo and has a area of 1,100 km² (424.7 mi²).

</doc>
<doc id="32313" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32313" title="São Bernardo do Campo">
São Bernardo do Campo

São Bernardo do Campo () is a Brazilian city in the ABC Region, state of São Paulo. Its population in 2003 was 745,161 inhabitants. Its area is 406 km².
The city was founded in 1553, one of the first cities in Brazil.
São Bernardo do Campo is very known because of the automobiles industries that came in 1950s, like: Volkswagen, Mercedes-Benz, Daimler Chrysler and Ford.

</doc>
<doc id="32314" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32314" title="Santo André">
Santo André

Santo André is a Brazilian city in ABC Region, state of São Paulo. Its population in 2007 was 667,891. Its area is .

</doc>
<doc id="32315" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32315" title="Osasco">
Osasco

Osasco is a Brazilian city in the state of São Paulo. Its population in 2009 was 718.646 inhabitants. Its area is 65 km².

</doc>
<doc id="32316" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32316" title="Sorocaba">
Sorocaba

Sorocaba is a Brazilian city in the state of São Paulo. Its population in 2005 was 565.180 inhabitants and its area is 449 km².

</doc>
<doc id="32321" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32321" title="Google Earth">
Google Earth

Google Earth is a virtual globe program that was first called Earth Viewer and was created by Keyhole, Inc. It maps the surface of the earth by combining pictures taken by satellites and airplanes. There are also three-dimensional maps where you can look at the area from different angles. It is kind of like Google Maps.
Google Earth is interactive, and lets the user direct the whole globe, look at satellite imagery with overlays of roads, buildings, geographic features, and more. 
Teachers can use it to evaluate and strengthen students' visual literacy. Students can use it to develop a background for three-dimensional and cultural differences globally.

</doc>
<doc id="32326" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32326" title="Google Maps">
Google Maps

Google Maps is a free Earth mapping service application and technology from Google. It provides satellite pictures and road maps for anywhere in the world, and can generate driving directions given a start and end street address. Maps can be embedded on other websites via the Google Maps API. It has a feature called Google Street View, which provides photos of streets in some places.

</doc>
<doc id="32328" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32328" title="Google Videos">
Google Videos

Google Video is a free video sharing and video search engine service from Google that allows anyone to upload video clips to Google<nowiki>'</nowiki>s web servers as well as make their own media available free of charge. Some videos are also offered for sale through the Google Video Store.

</doc>
<doc id="32329" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32329" title="Zane Lowe">
Zane Lowe

Alexander Zane Reid Lowe (born 7 August 1973) is a New Zealand radio disc jockey in the United Kingdom. He presents an early evening show on the British music radio station BBC Radio 1 on Mondays to Thursdays. Lowe also presented shows on the music television station MTV2.

</doc>
<doc id="32330" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32330" title="Islamic Revolution">
Islamic Revolution

The Islamic Revolution occurred in 1979, in the Muslim country Iran. The reason for the revolution (a violent overthrow of a government) was that many Iranians disliked the Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi. 
Ayatollah Khomeini organized protests to overthrow the government and all of its after decendants. Khomeini became the new leader of Iran. The government was made a republic and a theocracy. Also religious officials held power. 
Shortly after the revolution, Iraq invaded Iran. This war ended in 1988. Since 1988 Iran is officially known as the Islamic Republic of Iran. Supporters of the revolution are still the leaders of the country.
The Islamic Revolution impacted other Islamic countries by showing how to fight against modernization. The revolution caused some people to leave Iran and feel ashamed of their culture. Nearly 60,000 protesters and revolutionaries died during the war.

</doc>
<doc id="32347" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32347" title="Tentacle">
Tentacle

A tentacle is a part of the body of an animal or plant that can move freely. They are like arms. Some invertebrates, like squid, sea anemones or hydras have them. They use the tentacles to catch food, or to grip the sourroundings. Some carnivorous plants, such as the Drosera, also may have tentacles.

</doc>
<doc id="32348" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32348" title="Javelin">
Javelin

A javelin is a light spear designed to be thrown. Historically it was a weapon, but from the Ancient Greeks to today it was used for sport. The javelin is almost always thrown by hand.
The javelin throw is a sports event, one of the field events which survive from the original Olympic Games. The athlete holds the javelin in one arm and, while running, throws it as far as possible. It is an official Olympic sport.
Unlike other throwing events, javelin allows the competitor to build speed over a considerable distance. As a result, a javelin can reach speeds approaching 113 km/h and to cover the distance of 104.80 m.

</doc>
<doc id="32350" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32350" title="Sea anemone">
Sea anemone

Sea anemones are Cnidarian animals that live in the sea. They are polyps, one of the basic forms of the phylum. They are predatory animals, which paralyse their prey with stinging nematocysts which fire a harpoon-like structure which delivers a dose of neurotoxins. To eat the fish, or crustacean, they move the prey into their stomach. Anemones are sessile (stay in one spot), but they can move if necessary.
The anemones have an oral disk on the top of its body. The sea anemone’s head is in the middle of the oral disk. The tentacles surround the oral disk. The pedal disc is on the bottom of the sea anemone.
Some sea anemones live in symbiosis with other animals. Clownfish, Bucchich's goby, and Sipder crabs find shelter among the tentacles of the anemone. Hermit crabs often have sea anemones on the shell they inhabit.

</doc>
<doc id="32352" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32352" title="Polyp">
Polyp

Polyps are one of two forms of the cnidarians. Polyps may be sexual or asexual. The other body form is the medusa. When medusae mate, the result may be polyps, when polyps replicate, the result may be medusae. The details vary between species. Certain animal species are polyps all the time. Jellyfish polyps turn into 10–15 jellyfish and die.
In many cases the asexual buds formed do not separate from the parent but remain, thus forming colonies or 'stocks'. These may reach a great size, and contain a vast number of individuals. Slight differences in the method of budding produce great variations in the form of the colonies. The reef-building corals are polyp-colonies, strengthened by the formation of a firm skeleton.

</doc>
<doc id="32365" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32365" title="Dravidian languages">
Dravidian languages

The Dravidian languages are a language family spoken by Dravidian peoples. The languages are mainly spoken in South India, western Bangladesh, northern Sri Lanka and southern Pakistan. There are about 26 languages in this family.
There are about 30 more Dravidian languages spoken, with far fewer speakers. Brahui, with 2,200,000 speakers, is a Pakistani Dravidian language.

</doc>
<doc id="32401" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32401" title="East-West Schism">
East-West Schism

The East-West Schism (sometimes also called Great Schism) is a word that is used to describe how Christianity developed into two big branches in the Middle Ages. The Western part later became the Roman Catholic Church. The Eastern part is known as the Eastern Orthodox Church. During the centuries views on politics and theology developed differently in several ways.
During the 5th and 6th Centuries the East and West became isolated from each other due to the invasions of the Balkan peninsula. They also had different languages. Latin was the most important language in the West. The East mainly spoke the Greek language. Because of this, talking to each other was difficult. The West came under Frankish influence (as opposed to Byzantine) in the 700s.
These were just some of the issues plaguing the Eastern and Western Christians that led to the Great Schism. It seems that even after 1054 relations between the east and west were not completely unfriendly, and the common peasant was probably not immediately affected by the schism.
To understand the meaning of East-West Schism, it is useful to understand the meaning of schism. In very simple words, when differences arise among one group of persons or organizations and they divide themselves into two or more groups, this is schism.
The term East-West Schism describes the division which happened in Christianity. The Christian church became divided into two major groups: Roman Catholicism and Eastern Orthodoxy. Most people accept that it happened in 1054. However, this separation was the result of differences that had begun many years before. One difference was the "filioque clause" in the Nicene Creed. This stated that the Holy Spirit came from the Father and the Son, although the original creed declared that It came from just the Father. One major reason for the division concerned the authority of the pope. The Eastern Orthodox group was of the opinion that the pope's authority over them was only honorary, and the pope had real authority only over the western Christians.
However instances of open division on doctrinal questions as well as daily matters had occurred long before the Great Schism of 1054. Leading up to the schism, Pope Leo IX (1002-1054) sent forth a party led by Cardinal Humbert of Silva Candida to talk through the obvious problems between the papacy and Constantinople. Michael Cerularius, the Patriarch of Constantinople, rejected the claims put forward by the papal committee. Those from the western side of the church accused Constantinople of having altered the Nicene Creed, and those from the eastern side accused the western church of altering the creed. This in turn led to Cardinal Humbert putting forward a Bull of Excommunication against Michael Cerularius on the altar of the Hagia Sophia, and the Great Schism became official.
The Roman Catholic Church changed the Nicene creed. It inserted a passage that is known as the Filioque. The Creed in its original form reads In the West, the Creed was changed to read 
There were many bishops in the church, and in the East the Pope was considered the "first among equals", but Rome claimed that the Pope was the primary Apostolic see, being that of Peter. At first the Eastern Orthodox did not mind the Pope's claim for power over the West - as long as his power stayed in the West. But it came to pass that the Pope decided he also had power over Eastern Christendom as well and he tried to enforce his power on the eastern Patriarchates. A letter written in 865 by Pope Nicholas claims the Pope's power extends "over all the earth, that is, over every church". Pope Nicholas also went beyond his powers as stated in Canon 111 of the Council of Sardica (343) when he overturned a verdict and ordered a retrial on a matter concerning Photius and St. Ignatius, two Patriarchs of Constantinople. This was as a result of petitions to Rome by backers of Ignatius. However, it should be noted that not all the Popes after Nicholas were as extreme - that is, until Pope Leo IX. When, in 1053 Cerularius attempted friendly relations with Pope Leo IX after a disagreement, a bull (religious legal document) of excommunication (expulsion from the Church) was brought to Constantinople. Each Church excommunicated the other.

</doc>
<doc id="32411" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32411" title="William III of England">
William III of England

William III (14 November 1650 – 8 March 1702) was King of England and King of Ireland from 13 February 1689, and King of Scots from 11 April 1689. He remained the king until his death on 8 March 1702.
William was born in the Netherlands as Prince William Henry of Orange. His mother was Mary Stuart. Mary was the sister of the King of England, James II, so King James was William's uncle. The people of England did not like King James, and he was overthrown in the "Glorious Revolution" of 1688. King James escaped to France. William became the new King of England and married James' daughter, making her Mary II of England.
William's enemy was the King of France, Louis XIV, who protected and supported King James in his efforts to return.

</doc>
<doc id="32415" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32415" title="Abigail Fillmore">
Abigail Fillmore

Abigail Powers Fillmore (March 13, 1798 - March 30, 1853), was the wife of Millard Fillmore, the President of the United States. She acted as the First Lady of the United States from 1850 to 1853.
She was born in Saratoga County, New York. Her father’s name was Lemuel Powers. Her father died shortly after her birth. After this, her mother moved away westward to less settled area. Abigail Powers had a brother also. Their mother gave them a good education with the help of her husband’s library. 
When Abigail Powers was around 19 years old and a student at an academy at New Hope, New York, she met Millard Fillmore. He was also studying in the same academy. They married in February 1826. In 1828, she had a son, named Millard Powers Fillmore. After few years, Fillmore bought a home in Buffalo, New York where she had a daughter, Mary Abigail. During the next few years, her husband was elected to the U.S. Congress. Her husband became a state comptroller. In 1849, her husband became the Vice President of the United States. The couple moved to the Washington, D.C.. After 16 months, President Zachary Taylor died. Millard Fillmore became the President and they moved into the White House.
During last several years, Abigail Powers had learnt to move in the high society. She did a fine role as the First Lady. 
She had a permanently injured ankle. This made standing difficult to greet guests. But, she still continued to act as the first lady. Later on, due to her bad health, she gave many routine duties of the First Lady to her daughter, "Abby." 
Abigail Powers could get a special sanction of money from the government. With this, she bought many books for the library at the White House. After her husband’s retirement, she attended the inauguration of President Franklin Pierce. She returned to her hotel room. Due to very chill weather, she became sick with pneumonia. On 30th March, 1853, she died of pneumonia. In her respect, the United States Congress adjourned (that is, stopped working) for that day, and government offices remained closed. She was buried at Buffalo. 
After about five years of her death, her husband married a widow named Caroline Fillmore of Buffalo, New York. Millard died on 8th March 1874. 

</doc>
<doc id="32423" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32423" title="Myocardial infarction">
Myocardial infarction

An acute myocardial infarction, also called a heart attack, happens when a blood vessel in the heart suddenly becomes blocked. Blood vessels carry blood and oxygen. When a blood vessel in the heart gets blocked, blood cannot get to part of the heart. This part of the heart does not get enough oxygen. This is called ischemia. When the heart muscle becomes ischemic (does not get enough blood and oxygen), the ischemia often causes chest pain. This is called angina pectoris. If the ischemia lasts long enough, the heart muscle that is not getting enough oxygen dies. This is called an infarction. "Myocardial infarction" means "infarction (muscle death) in the heart muscle."
A heart attack is a medical emergency. The first few minutes are very important for keeping the person alive. Some of the damage from the heart attack can be repaired if the person gets treatment during the first hour of the attack.
Most heart attacks are caused by coronary artery disease (CAD). In coronary artery disease, a wax-like material called plaque builds up on the inside walls of arteries in the heart. This is called atherosclerosis. Plaque is made of cholesterol and other cells. The amount of plaque increases slowly. As more plaque builds up, the insides of the heart's blood vessels get narrower. This means that less blood can flow through the blood vessels. This can cause platelets (which make the blood clot) to build up in front of the plaque. This causes a blood clot in the blood vessel. If the clot breaks free and gets stuck in part of the blood vessel made narrower by the plaque, the plaque and the clot together block the blood vessel completely. This makes it impossible for blood to get to part of the heart, and causes a heart attack.
A person can lower their chances of getting coronary artery disease by eating healthy foods, exercising, not smoking cigarettes, and not drinking too much alcohol.
Signs that a person is having a heart attack show over several minutes, and rarely come immediately. Most people having a heart attack have chest pain. Sometimes, people also have pain in the left arm, the lower jaw, the neck, the right arm, the back, or in parts of the abdomen.
Many women have different symptoms than men. The most common symptoms include shortness of breath (trouble breathing), weakness, and feeling very tired. Some women feel tired, do not sleep properly, and have shortness of breath for up to a month before they have a heart attack. Women may also have nausea and stomach upset when having a heart attack.
Sometimes, people have "silent heart attacks." These are heart attacks that do not cause any pain. They are more common in elderly people, women, and people with diabetes. In these people, suddenly feeling very tired, or fainting, may be the only sign of a heart attack.
A heart attack is a medical emergency that needs treatment as quickly as possible. The most important thing is to save as much myocardium (heart muscle) as possible and prevent more complications. As time passes, the risk of damage to the heart muscle increases.
Doctors or paramedics usually start certain treatments as soon as a heart attack is suspected. These treatments include: 
Once doctors are sure that a person is having a heart attack, there are two main treatments: "clot-busting medicines" (thrombolytics) and percutaneous coronary intervention.
"Clot-busting medicines" (called thrombolytics) can dissolve blood clots that are blocking the blood vessels in the heart. This makes it possible for blood and oxygen to flow again to the part of the heart that was not getting enough blood and oxygen. The most common clot-busting medicine is called tissue plasminogen activator (tPA).
Clot-busters work best if patients get them within 30 minutes after getting to the hospital. However, if a patient gets a clot-busting medicine within 12 hours after the heart attack starts, they have a better chance of surviving.
Clot-busting medicines do have some risks. Sometimes they can thin the blood too much and cause bleeding.
Percutaneous coronary intervention is a way of opening blocked coronary arteries. Percutaneous means that the procedure is not done by cutting a person open in surgery. Coronary intervention means "way to help the heart". Percutaneous coronary intervention is also called "coronary angioplasty".
In a percutaneous coronary intervention, a doctor threads a flexible tube into one of the patient's blood vessels, usually one in the upper thigh. The doctor threads the tube up to the blocked blood vessels in the heart. On the end of the tube is a balloon. The doctor blows up the balloon, which pushes the plaque and blood clot against the side of the blocked blood vessel. This allows blood to flow through that blood vessel again. Sometimes, a doctor might also place a small mesh tube called a stent into the blood vessel. The stent will make sure the blood vessel stays open and does not get blocked again in the future.
As soon as a person thinks they may be having signs of a heart attack, they should call emergency service right away. (Emergency services can be reached dialling 911 in the US, and 112 in most of continental Europe) However, the average person waits about three hours before asking for help. When a person waits to get help, they are more likely to have more serious damage to their heart. The American Heart Association says "time is muscle": the more time a person waits to get treatment, the more heart muscle dies.
If a person is having trouble breathing, sitting straight up can help. The person should follow any instructions they get from the emergency operator or their doctor.

</doc>
<doc id="32431" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32431" title="Keith Richards">
Keith Richards

Keith Richards (born 18 December 1943) is an English guitarist best known as a founding member of The Rolling Stones. He is mostly famous for his rhythm guitar playing, but he can also play lead guitar quite well. He often likes to use a guitar with only 5 strings — the lowest-tuned string is removed. On a small number of Rolling Stones recordings, he plays bass guitar. And on rarer occasions, he has played a couple of other instruments too. He sings background vocals on most Rolling Stones songs. Occasionally, he also sings lead vocals, on songs like "Happy", "Little T & A", and "The Worst".
During the late 1960s and most of the 1970s, he had a serious addiction to heroin. However, he recovered and quit using it. Sometimes, in interviews, he talks about taking drugs in a way that seems humorous.
In 2003 he was ranked 10th on Rolling Stone Magazine's "100 Greatest Guitarists of All Time".
Richards has co-written and recorded hundreds of songs with his song writing partner Mick Jagger. Fourteen of their songs are listed by Rolling Stone Magazine in their "500 Greatest Songs of All Time" issue.

</doc>
<doc id="32434" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32434" title="Edward Elgar">
Edward Elgar

Sir Edward William Elgar, 1st Baronet OM, GCVO (2 June 1857 - 23 February 1934) was the most famous English composer of his time. He composed in the late romantic era.
Elgar was born in Broadheath, Worcestershire. His father owned a music shop. Apart from having violin lessons Elgar taught himself about music. He studied the printed music in his father’s shop and often travelled with him when he went on his rounds to tune pianos. He heard a lot of cathedral music and often practised the organ. He took over his father’s job as church organist and soon became conductor of local orchestras and bands.
Worcester was a small town but the music there was good. The Three Choirs Festival took place there every third year. In 1884 he was playing the violin in the orchestra when the great Czech composer Dvořák was conducting.
In 1889 Elgar married. His wife Caroline Alice Roberts came from a family who had more money than the Elgars, and she was 8 years older than he was. Many people did not approve of the marriage, but she was a good wife to him and encouraged him in his efforts to be a successful composer.
In 1899 Elgar wrote an orchestral piece called the "Enigma Variations". There is a main tune, and then a series of variations on the tune. Each variation describes one of his friends, but he did not say which friends they were: he only put their initials or nickname at the top of each variation. This is why the piece is an enigma (a “puzzle” or “secret”). People have managed to work out who each friend was, but the meaning of the main tune is still a puzzle. This music made Elgar very famous. 
The next work that he wrote is probably his greatest work: "The Dream of Gerontius" (1900). It is an oratorio. Gerontius is an old man who is dying and thinking about whether God will punish him for his sins or save him and take him to heaven. Elgar wrote two other oratorios: "The Apostles" and "The Kingdom". He wrote two symphonies, a violin concerto, a cello concerto, Introduction and Allegro for Strings, Sea Pictures (five songs for mezzo soprano and orchestra) and chamber music including a violin sonata, a string quartet and a piano quintet.
Throughout his life his wife helped him by ruling neat manuscript lines on plain paper so that he could write his music. After she died in 1920 Elgar was so sad that he stopped composing. He died of colorectal cancer in Worcester.
Elgar’s most popular piece is the first of his "Pomp and Circumstance Marches". It has the tune which is sung to the words “Land of Hope and Glory” and the audience always join in singing it at the Last Night of the Proms.

</doc>
<doc id="32435" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32435" title="Printing press">
Printing press

The printing press is a machine for printing. It makes many copies of identical pages. The printing press today is used to print books and newspapers. It had a great influence on society, especially western society. It was "one of the most potent agents... of western civilisation in bringing together the scattered ideas of thinkers".
Woodcut printing has been done for several centuries. That was whole pages cut into wood, words and pictures. In the 15th century Johannes Gutenberg improved the process. He used separate alloy letters screwed into a frame. This way a large set of letters could make almost any page for printing. This process was called typesetting. Each letter was in a block of metal, fixed in a frame. He could then move paper and ink over it, much like a stamp. This method was called letterpress. The letters would leave ink on the paper in the shape of the letters, creating text or illustrations. 
Bigger and much faster presses were invented in the industrial revolution. The main improvements were made in the 19th century. Two ideas altered the design of the printing press entirely. First was the use of steam power to run the machinery. Second was the replacement of the printing flatbed with the rotary motion of cylinders. Both were done by the German printer Friedrich Koenig between 1802 and 1818. Having moved to London in 1804, Koenig got financial support for his project in 1807. In 1810, Koenig patented a steam press "much like a hand press connected to a steam engine". 
Soon other inventions were added, such as the making of cheaper paper by using wood pulp instead of rags. Later in the 19th century came machines which speeded up typesetting, which was previously done by hand, letter by letter. A machine for hot metal typesetting was designed by Linotype Inc. It turned molten lead into type ready for printing.
Many further developments in printing happened in the 20th century. Today printing presses are controlled by special-purpose computers, and the material to be printed is prepared on computers. As a consequence of these inventions, the cost of printing has fallen significantly compared to other commodities. Now the price of a book or magazine is less determined by its production, and more by other factors, such as marketing.

</doc>
<doc id="32437" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32437" title="Mezzo-soprano">
Mezzo-soprano

A mezzo-soprano is a female singer whose voice is a little lower than that of a soprano but not low enough to be called a contralto. There are many roles in opera that need a mezzo-soprano voice, for example the role of Carmen in the opera "Carmen" by Georges Bizet or Cherubino in "Le Nozze di Figaro" by Mozart. Famous mezzo-sopranos include: Marilyn Horne and Dame Janet Baker who have both now retired. Alice Coote and Susan Graham are famous mezzo-sopranos today.

</doc>
<doc id="32440" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32440" title="Georges Bizet">
Georges Bizet

Georges Bizet (25 October 1838 – 3 June 1875) was a French composer of the Romantic period. He is best known for his opera Carmen, which is the best-known of all French operas.
Bizet was born in Paris and died in Bougival.

</doc>
<doc id="32452" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32452" title="Old age">
Old age

Old age is when a person is old and near the time when he or she dies. These people are usually retired from work and spend their time in other ways like helping take care of small children who are kin to them in some way. Often people of old age have wrinkly skin. They will move slower, and become constantly cold. 
Old people have more health problems than young adults, and many of them take medicine. The reason for this is that their bodies are slowly deteriorating, so they have more problems, especially with moving. Osteoporosis weakens the bones, and is one of the problems that become more common with age. Gerontology is the part of medicine that deals with these things.
Old people are also called "senior citizens" or "elders". Elders are considered to be wise because they have had much experience in their long lives. Many cultures view elders with respect and kindness, and depend upon them to pass down knowledge to the younger people.

</doc>
<doc id="32453" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32453" title="The Crystal Maze">
The Crystal Maze

The Crystal Maze is a British game show which ran from 1990-1995. A team of six players completed challenges to win crystals. It was presented by Richard O'Brien from series 1 to 4 and Ed Tudor-Pole in series 5 and 6.
It was made by Chadsworth Television as an English version of the French show Fort Boyard. There are four zones in the maze - Medieval, Aztec, future and Industrial. In each zone, players attempt challenges to earn a crystal. Each crystal gives them five seconds in the Crystal Dome. After a while, the Industrial zone was replaced by an Ocean zone.
The Crystal Dome is a large glass crystal where the players must go in at the end. Small golden and silver tickets are blown around the dome and they must try and catch as many as they can. For every gold token they put in the box, they get a point. For every silver token they put in the box, they lose a point.
If the team gets over 100 points, they win a big prize. If they do not win, they get a small crystal to take home with them.

</doc>
<doc id="32464" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32464" title="Counter-Reformation">
Counter-Reformation

The Counter-Reformation was a movement within the Roman Catholic Church. Its main aim was to reform and improve it. 
It started in the 1500s. Its first period is called the Catholic Reformation. It had many features. They covered the following five areas:
The Counter-Reformation began after Martin Luther's reformation, which made the many Protestant Churches. Its name was the Protestant Reformation. In reaction to it, the Catholics did two things. They doubled their efforts, and they also stressed some points of faith that the Protestants' objections had put in danger such as the reinforcement of the seven sacraments and their beliefs on transubstantiation.

</doc>
<doc id="32469" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32469" title="Decolonization">
Decolonization

Decolonization is when a colony of any country becomes independent. Thus, decolonization is opposite of colonization. Sometimes, a colony may not get full freedom, but may become part of other country or even the part of the country which colonized it. This is also decolonization. In some, decolonization may result after non-violent discussion. In a relatively small number of cases, decolonization happens only after armed struggle and revolt. Decolonization is different from the break-up of traditional empires like the Mongol Empire or the Ottoman Empire. Decolonization generally means independence from the European rule. Major decolonization occurred in the 20th century. It began with the independence of Pakistan and India in 1947 from the British Empire. Soon thereafter, many countries of Africa became independent from the rule of many countries of Europe.

</doc>
<doc id="32470" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32470" title="History of the Soviet Union (1985-1991)">
History of the Soviet Union (1985-1991)

The history of the Soviet Union from 1985 to 1991 covers the dissolution of the Soviet Union. Dissolution means ending or splitting up, and the dissolution of the Soviet Union describes its end as a separate country. 
The Soviet Union had many regions called "republics". They all belonged to the Russian Empire before 1917. All these "republics" were part of the Soviet Union, and the Soviet Union was one country. After its dissolution, all of the republics became independent countries. The names of these countries are: Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, Uzbekistan, Georgia, Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania. 
Russia is a special case, because it still has a number of former republics inside its borders. That is why the country is called the Russian Federation. There are eight Federal Districts and 83 so-called "Federal Subjects" of the Russian Federation. Siberia, for example, has two huge federal districts. 
The Soviet Union ended with the formation of the Commonwealth of Independent States. At the time of dissolution of the Soviet Union, Mikhail Gorbachev was the president of the Soviet Union. He was in this position for a little over a year but he was leader of the Soviet Union from March 11th 1985. On 25 December 1991, he quit the post of the president of the USSR. By 31 December 1991, all organizations and departments of the Soviet Union stopped working. On that date, the Soviet flag flew for the last time on the Kremlin.
During 1969 and 1982, very few changes took place in the politics and economy of the Soviet Union. With the beginning of the Soviet war in Afghanistan, its relationship with the United States also deteriorated. At that time Jimmy Carter, followed by Ronald Reagan was the President of the United States. Jimmy Carter ended the policy of Détente - ending of unfriendly relationship. Some historians believe that this may be one of the reasons for the Soviet Union to change its political and economic policies. 
In March 1985, Mikhail Gorbachev became the General Secretary of the CPSU. Under him, a new group of officials and leaders started a process of changes in the politics and economy of the Soviet Union. They also tried to improve relationships with Western countries like the US. 
At that time, the Soviet economy was doing okay but it was slower than its competitors' economies in the West. Also, the cost of maintaining the Soviet Union, as a superpower was huge. These costs included running a large military; running the KGB networks; and giving money to countries close to the Soviet Union. At the same time, the Soviet Union’s technological development had fallen behind. For example: many of its factories used out-of-date technologies and it had fallen behind in the use of information technology. 
In view of these and other reasons, Gorbachev and his team started three important policies:
Since the time of Vladimir Lenin in 1920s, the people of the Soviet Union did not have any right to own personal property and business. The government owned almost everything. In 1988, the government permitted the people to own some types of businesses in the service sector, manufacturing, and foreign trade. A system of cooperative restaurants, shops, and manufacturers came into existence.
Glasnost gave a greater freedom of speech to the citizens and allowed them to criticise the government - something they had never been allowed to do. The government reduced censorship and control on publication. The government set free many political prisoners. In January 1987, Gorbachev started a process of democratization of Soviet politics. In June 1988, Gorbachev started a process to reduce the control of the CPSU on the different parts of the government. 
In December 1988, the Supreme Soviet had approved the establishment of a Congress of People's Deputies, the Soviet Union's new legislative body. In March and April 1989, elections to the Congress of People’s Deputies took place. The members on 15th March 1990 elected Gorbachev as the first executive President of the Soviet Union. 
Many steps taken by Gorbachev gave results different than the intended results. Thus the "perestroika" and "glasnost" intended to make the Soviet economy stronger resulted into something very different. Many factors and events combined and finally they resulted into the dissolution of the Soviet Union. 
Under the policy of "glasnost" (political openness), the Soviet government and the Communist Party lost control over the media. A free media brought to notice of the public many bad aspects of the society and the economy of the Soviet Union. These bad aspects included poor housing, alcoholism, drug abuse, pollution, out-of-date technologies in many factories, and corruption. People also learnt of many crimes committed by Stalin. For example, they learnt about prisoners at Gulags, agreement with Adolf Hitler, and large numbers of killings of persons opposed to Stalin. Further, people also learnt details about such events as the ongoing Soviet war in Afghanistan and bad management of nuclear meltdown at Chernobyl (the Soviet Union didn't publicly admit to the meltdown until three days after it happened). In short, people learnt about the negative aspects of the Soviet life. People began to loose faith in their Soviet system and ideology of Communism.
By 1989, the Soviet government found it to be too difficult for the Soviet Union to keep its control over its Eastern European bloc and decided to let them choose their own futures. After the end of the Second World War, with the support of the Soviet Union, communist governments were ruling all these countries. The change in the policy of the Soviet Union resulted into fall of the communist governments in many such countries by 1990: in Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, East Germany, Hungary, Poland and Romania. 
Seeing all these developments, many "republics" of the Soviet Union wanted to become independent. The Glasnost policy also released long wanted nationalism in the "republics" that the Soviet government had supressed and covered up. Some republics tried to become independent. 
The leaders had thought that the policy of "perestroika" was a bold step to improve the economy. But, the steps were not very strong to improve the bad economic conditions of 1980s. Despite many changes, Gorbachev and his team had left many aspects of the Soviet economy unchanged. For example, price control, inconvertibility of the ruble, and government control over most means of production continued. By 1990 the economic situation had become worse. The examples include:
On 7th February 1990, the Central Committee of the CPSU was forced to loosen its control over power. At around the same time, different "republics" of the Soviet Union started to claim their right to become independent. They stopped following the laws of the central government of the Soviet Union. They also stopped paying taxes to the central authorities (of Moscow) of the Soviet Union. These weakened the Soviet authority and economy. 
During a 1990 visit of Gorbachev to Vilnius, capital of Lithuania, about 250,000 persons protested in a public meeting. On 11th March 1990, leaders of Lithuania declared its independence from the Soviet Union. However, the Soviet central-government demanded Lithuania to give up its independence and sent the Soviet Army continued to keep many troops in Lithuania. The government said that it would have to follow the Soviet constitution if it wanted to leave. The Soviet Union also did economic blockade of Lithuania. Estonia and Latvia were also illegally taken by the Soviet Union in 1940. On 30th March 1990, the leaders of Estonia declared that the control of their country by the Soviet Union from 1940 was illegal. They also declared independence. The leaders of Latvia also started process of independence on 4th May 1990. 
On 17th March 1991, people of the Soviet Union voted to keep the existing Soviet Union in a slightly changed form. The Baltic States (Lithuania, Estonia, Latvia), Armenia, Georgia and Moldova boycotted the voting. In each of the other nine "republics" of the Soviet Union, a majority of the voters supported the retention of the Soviet Union. In June 1991 an election took place in the Russian Republic of the Soviet Union. Boris Yeltsin got 57 % of the vote. He was a critic of Mikhail Gorbachev. Gorbachev’s preferred candidate, former Premier Nikolai Ryzhkov, got only 16 % of the vote.
The "republics" of the Soviet Union had agreed to sign on 20th August 1991, an agreement making them almost independent republics but part of a federation, with a common president, foreign policy and military. However, many persons disagreed, and they wanted a fast transition to market economy even if it meant dissolution of the Soviet Union. There were many others in the CPSU and the military of the Soviet Union who supported continuation of the Soviet Union. 
On 19th August 1991, some senior leaders of the Soviet Union formed a "State Committee on the State Emergency." They prevented signing of the above mentioned agreement on 20th August 1991. These leaders included Gorbachev’s vice president Gennadi Yanayev, prime minister Valentin Pavlov, defense minister Dmitriy Yazov, KGB chief Vladimir Kryuchkov, and many other senior officials. At that time Gorbachev was holidaying in Crimea). These officials put him under house arrest. They also issued orders banning all political activities and banned most newspapers. 
This was like a coup. The organizers had expected popular support for their action. But, the people did not support them. Instead, they supported "White House" (Yeltsin's office), then the symbolic seat of Russian sovereignty. The organizers of the coup tried but failed to arrest Boris Yeltsin. After three days, on August 21, the coup failed. The authorities detained the organizers. Gorbachev returned as president of the Soviet Union. However, Gorbachev's real powers had reduced. 
Through the autumn of 1991, the Russian government took over the union government, ministry by ministry. In November 1991, Yeltsin issued an order banning the CPSU throughout the Russian republic. As a result, many former CPSU personnel left CPSU to join the new positions in the new Russian government. 
After the failure of the coup, the republics of the Soviet Union increased their efforts to become independent. On 6th September 1991, the Soviet Union recognized the independence of Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania. On 1st December 1991, Ukraine declared its independence, after 90 % of the voters opted for an independent Ukraine; this really destroyed any hopes of keeping the Soviet Union together since Ukraine was the second most powerful "republic" after Russia. One by one, the remaining eleven "republics" of the Soviet Union also declared themselves as sovereign and independent states. 
As noted above, on 6th September 1991, the Soviet Union had recognized the independence of Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania. It may be note that twelve out of the fifteen republics of the Soviet Union had signed an international agreement (European Energy Charter) in the Hague on 17th December 1991. The signing had indicated that these republics had practically become independent and sovereign countries. 
Leaving apart already independent Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, the remaining 12 republics, all (except Georgia) joined the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS). In December 1993, Georgia also joined the CIS. On 26th August 2006 Turkmenistan left the permanent membership, and became an associate member.
Many persons believed that with the creation of the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), the Soviet Union ceased to exist. They believed that it was the dissolution of the Soviet Union. Many others think that with CIS, the Russia continues to have some control over the former republics of the Soviet Union. 
On December 25, 1991, Gorbachev resigned as president of the USSR. By December 31, 1991 all official Soviet institutions had stopped to function in different "republics" of the Soviet Union. The individual governments of these republics started functioning. The Soviet flag flew last time over the Kremlin.
The four principles had governed the Soviet Union: a chain of soviets; ethnic federation; state socialism; and supremacy of the Communist party. Gorbachev's policies of "perestroika" and "glasnost" created a situation which weakened all the above four principles. He repeatedly tried to form a circle of leaders to support his policies. He tried to do all these as he and his team saw that the Soviet Union was moving toward a long-term stagnation. 
Gorbachev’s policies made it possible for leaders of various Soviet republics to gain confidence and influence. At the same time, he faced opposition from many including the nationalist forces and the traditional communists. Some people accepted the reforms; some wanted the old system to continue; and some desired complete independence from the Soviet Union and central control. In the end, Gorbachev was unable to ensure any common view among these forces. Ultimately, this led to the collapse and dissolution of the Soviet Union. 
Immediately after the dissolution of the Soviet Union, Yeltsin’s took many steps to change the economy of the Soviet Union from a socialist economy to a capitalist economy. For example: he cut the payment of grants to money loosing farms and industries; he also removed control over prices; he took steps for convertibility of the Russian ruble. He also allowed many persons close to his circle and other business people to take possession of the businesses and industries earlier owned by the government, and to run them as private enterprises. The planners and economists had thought that these changes would lead to a faster economic development. However, nothing of this sort happened. 
Since the dissolution of the Soviet Union, Russia is facing many problems, including the following:
Many Russians of older generation believe that the earlier system was better. During 1990s, Russia faced many crises in political, social and economic matters. Many persons still believe that the situation still continues to be worse compared to earlier times. 

</doc>
<doc id="32471" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32471" title="Meiji Restoration">
Meiji Restoration

The Meiji Restoration was a time of great change in Japan. In the Japanese language, "Meiji-ishin" is the term for Meiji Restoration. The term describes a number of events that took place in the politics and society of Japan that changed the shape of Japan’s political and social systems. These changes took place mainly during three years - from 1866 to 1869.
At that time (1866), Tokugawa Shogunate was ruling Japan. In the year 1866, two leaders came together under an alliance. The name of this alliance was the Sat-cho Alliance. The name of the first leader was Saigo Takamori. He was the leader of the Satsuma Province. The second leader was Kido Takayoshi who was the leader of the Choshu and a person named Sakamoto Ryoma brought the two leaders together. These two leaders supported the Emperor of Japan who, at the time, did not have much power. With their support the emperor could regain much of his power. Tokugawa Shogunate’s rule ended on 9th November 1867, but they still retained some authority and power. In 1868, an army of forces from Satsuma Province and Choshu defeated the forces of Tokugawa Shogunate and with this the power of Tokugawa Shogunate ended completed. 
The leaders of the Meiji Restoration acted in the name of Japan’s emperor, to restore (that is, to return) the emperor’s powers. But, the leaders also kept to themselves a number of powers. In fact, even after Meiji Restoration, an oligarchy had the real power who ruled in the name of the emperor. In plain words, an oligarchy means a group of people who have the real powers. 
After the Meiji Restoration, Japan’s progress was fast. Its industry developed rapidly and within next three to four decades (by 1905) Japan had become a military power, comparable to any other of the time.

</doc>
<doc id="32472" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32472" title="European Convention on Human Rights">
European Convention on Human Rights

Countries, which are members of the Council of Europe agreed on certain points written in a document to ensure human rights written in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. These points became the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. In its shorter form it is European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR). The Convention also established the European Court of Human Rights (ECtHR), and the sentence of this Court has a force legal power by its Article 46. 
The ECHR has made many protocols, for example: protocol 2nd for right to education, 12th against all discrimination also by public authority and 13th for complete abolition of the death penalty. Protocols are set of rules. All member countries must follow these rules. 
The ECtHR can give decisions on complaints or cases which come to it. If a person thinks that a European country has abused his or her human rights, that person may take the matter to the judges of ECtHR. The judges will listen to the complaint and give their decisions. These decisions must be followed by the governments of the countries. 

</doc>
<doc id="32473" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32473" title="European Court of Human Rights">
European Court of Human Rights

The European Court of Human Rights (ECtHR) hears and decides particular type of complaints. These complaints relate to abuse of human rights. ECoHR’s other popular name is "Strasbourg Court". Member countries of the Council of Europe created ECoHR to arrange all such complaints, listen to the complaints, and to give decisions. European Convention on Human Rights tells about many human rights. ECoHR sees that people should enjoy all these human rights.
ECoHR' has a number of judges. The number of judges is seven normally but at the case of dealing a great issue, the number will be 21 and the judges are equally from member countries of the Council of Europe. At present, there are forty seven member countries of the Council of Europe. Each country may have one judge in the ECoHR. But, judges work independently for the ECoHR, and not for their country. 

</doc>
<doc id="32477" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32477" title="Ted Turner">
Ted Turner

Ted Turner (born November 19, 1938 in Cincinnati, Ohio) is an American businessman who is best known for being the founder of the television networks Turner Broadcasting Station(TBS) and Cable News Network(CNN). These were the first cable TV networks. He is also famous for being the founder of professional wrestling company World Championship Wrestling (WCW), as well as the Captain Planet and the Planeteers. 
He's made several war epics on the Civil War. Ted Turner is known for saving MGM's film library, though that forced him to sell his company. At one point, Turner gave a billion dollars to the United Nations. 
Ted Turner was once married to Jane Fonda. He was raised in Atlanta, Georgia and in Savannah, Georgia. Turner is the largest private landowner in the United States a total of 1.75 million acres.
Turner has bipolar disorder.
Turner's biggest ranch is Vermejo Park Ranch in New Mexico. At , it is the largest privately owned, piece of owned land in the United States. Turner supports the Public forum debate of the National Forensic League.
In a television interview with Piers Morgan on May 3, 2012, Turner said he had four girlfriends. He then said that it was complicated but yet easier than being married. One of Turner's children, Robert Edward "Teddy" Turner IV, announced on January 23, 2013, that he will run in the South Carolina Republican primary for the open Congressional seat.

</doc>
<doc id="32484" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32484" title="Taco Bell">
Taco Bell

Taco Bell is a fast food restaurant that started in the United States in 1958. There are restaurants now in certain parts of Canada, Asia, Europe and Australia. It serves Mexican-style food. It was founded by Glen Bell and is a division of Yum! Brands, Inc. Taco Bell's menu has items such as tacos, burritos, chalupas, gorditas, and nachos. There are 5,845 Taco Bells in the United States. Some Taco Bells are merged with KFCs.

</doc>
<doc id="32486" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32486" title="Żagań">
Żagań

Żagań is a town in the west part of Poland. 26,665 people lived there in 2004. It is the main town of part of Poland called Żagań County. 
It is now part of the in the Lubusz Voivodship (a Voivoidship is part of the way Poland is organised into areas), before it was in Zielona Gora Voivodship (1975-1998). There is a castle called Sagan in the middle of an area that is also called Sagan. The castle belonged to Wallenstein, a soldier and politician of the Thirty Years' War. Later, the castle belonged to the Bohemian family of Lobkowitz. In 1786, the Sagan area was bought by Peter Biron, duke of Courland. In 1843, it went to his daughter Dorothea, the wife of Edmond de Talleyrand.
An act of the king of Prussia on January 6, 1845 made her Duchess of Sagan. Napoleon III did the same in France, for her son Louis. The double title, both Prussian and French, meant that the duc de Sagan was a neutral party in the Second World War. His house (the Château de Valençay) was a safe place to keep pictures and other things from the Louvre when German soldiers were in France. 
In the Second World War, the well-known war prison Stalag Luft III was there.

</doc>
<doc id="32488" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32488" title="Palatine Hill">
Palatine Hill

Palatine Hill (Latin: "Palatium") also named the Sun Hill was the hill that Rome was built on. Rome later extended to include the seven hills:
According to Livy (59 BC – 17) the Palatine hill got its name from the Arcadian settlement of Pallantium. The term palace itself stems from "Palatium".

</doc>
<doc id="32493" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32493" title="Chupacabra">
Chupacabra

El Chupacabra (or El Chupacabras) is a cryptid said to live in Puerto Rico, Mexico, Chile, Brazil, Texas to Florida, Michigan, Maine and even Oregon. Its name comes from the Spanish translation of "goat sucker", because of its habit of attacking and drinking the blood of livestock, including goats. The legend was started in 1987 when there was a huge, gruesome massacre of livestock all over. All the animals had two puncture wounds on their neck in which the blood had been drained.

</doc>
<doc id="32499" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32499" title="Hydra (animal)">
Hydra (animal)

Hydras are simple invertebrates, with two layers of body cells. They live in the fresh water. Their body is radially symmetric. They have a central cavity that serves to both take in food and expel waste. Being Cnidarians they have stinging cells on their tentacles. They are hydrozoa, and belong to the same order as the polyps. Most hydras are microscopic in size. Hydras can be found in almost any unpolluted body of water. Hydras reproduce in an agamete way called budding. In budding, the offspring forms as a lump on the parent and eventually becomes big enough to break off and live by itself. They can move if they need to by a kind of slow somersaulting motion. 
Recent research has found they produce an antimicrobial protein "hydramacin", which protects their outer layer from bacterial infection.

</doc>
<doc id="32500" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32500" title="Clownfish">
Clownfish

The clown fish is a kind of fish. Clownfishes habitat usually is a coral reefs. Clownfish live in the Indian Ocean and the Pacific Ocean, from north west Australia, the coast of South East Asia as far north as Japan. Often, they live in a symbiosis with other animals, for instance the sea anemone. They live in anemones which are like plants under the sea. Anemones eat fish by killing them with their tentacles which are poisonous. Scientists believe that clown fish are protected from the poison because they are coated in a type of mucus.
Some kinds of clown fishes can grow up and reach 18 centimeters (7.1 inches). Sometimes clownfishes only grow 10 centimeters (3.9 inches). They can be orange, yellow or they may look a little red.
Clownfishes eat small invertebrates that are dangerous to the anemones. That helps the anemones and the clownfishes. This is called mutualism.
Many people like having clownfishes in their aquarium because they are some of the easiest salt water fish to keep and care.There are 28 species of Clownfish.Clownfish are born male but when they grow older some develop into females.

</doc>
<doc id="32505" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32505" title="Bruce Lee">
Bruce Lee

Bruce Lee (November 27, 1940 - July 20, 1973) was a Chinese American, Hong Kong actor, martial artist, martial arts instructor, philosopher, movie director, movie producer, screenwriter, and founder of the Jeet Kune Do martial arts movement.
Lee is famous for making martial arts popular in the United States in the 1970s, when he played in a series of movies. This included the first ever martial arts movie in the United States - called "Enter the Dragon." This was the most successful and famous, which was released after Bruce's death. He died in 1973 during the production of a movie called, "The Game of Death. "The movie was not finished, although some completed section were later released. Almost 20 years later his son, Brandon Lee would also die while making a movie. Lee also taught other people martial arts, including actors Huggo Chairres, Steve McQueen, James Coburn, and basketball player Kareem Abdul-Jabbar. He inspired many other actors who are famous for using martial arts in their movies including Jackie Chan, Jet Li, and Chuck Norris. Jackie Chan had a small part in 'Enter The Dragon' and Chuck Norris co-starred in "Way of The Dragon".
Lee starred in five movies, including "The Big Boss", "Fist of Fury" (also known as "The Chinese Connection" and "The Iron Hand"), "The Way of the Dragon" (also known as "Return of the Dragon"), "Enter the Dragon" and "The Game of Death".
He is noted for his major contributions to both the Hong Kong and American movie industry during the 1970s, his martial arts movement and innovative ideas (including Jeet Kune Do), his philosophy, and his physical fitness ability. He is considered to be a cultural icon and is considered to be one of the most influential martial artists ever by social critics and other martial artists alike.
On the night of July 20, 1973, Lee aged 32, died at his home from cerebral edema, which is a buildup of fluid around the brain. This is believed to have been caused by a reaction to painkillers he was taking for a back injury.

</doc>
<doc id="32506" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32506" title="George Martin">
George Martin

Sir George Martin (3 January 1926 – 8 March 2016) was a British record producer, composer and musical arranger. His most famous work was his recordings with The Beatles. These were made at Abbey Road Studios during the 1960s.
Martin grew up playing piano with only a few music lessons. He began to compose music in his teens. Martin played with his own band called the Four Tune-Tellers. He dreamed of one day making soundtrack music for movies.
After serving in the Royal Air Force during World War II, Martin went to music school. After he graduated, he worked for the BBC in London. He began working for EMI in 1950. Martin became an assistant at Parlophone Records, a small record label. Parlophone mostly recorded classical music and original cast recordings of popular stage shows and plays.
Martin later became the chief of Parlophone Records. He was also its staff producer. Martin was in charge of recording sessions and chose songs for Parlophone artists to record. He made comedy records (often working with Peter Sellers and Spike Milligan) along with his usual jobs, to help promote the label. When rock and roll became popular in the mid-1950s, Martin began looking for rock groups or artists to join Parlophone. He recorded several such artists, but none of their records became big hits.
In 1962, Beatles manager Brian Epstein brought Martin a demo (demonstration record) of his band. Epstein had been trying for months to get the band a recording contract. Martin liked what he heard. He saw that the young band were willing to try different things, and gave them an audition (a studio tryout). All the Beatles passed their audition, except for their drummer, Pete Best. Martin was not happy with the skills Best showed. He wanted to replace Best on their recordings. When the band found out, they fired Best, replacing him with Ringo Starr. Starr had played with them before when Best could not be with them to play. Martin used a studio drummer on their first single, "Love Me Do". He did this because there was no time to audition Starr before the record had to be made, but he never did so again.
With Starr as their drummer, and Martin as their producer (who sometimes joined them in playing, to give the records a bigger sound), the Beatles became the most popular act in the history of show business. While Beatles John Lennon and Paul McCartney wrote most of the band's songs, they were musically untrained, as Martin had been earlier. Martin helped develop their musical ideas. He helped the band learn to talk to other musicians about the sounds they wanted to make, and added a classical touch to many of their songs. His work with them made Martin famous. He was able to leave EMI to become a "producer for hire". He started his own company, called Associated Independent Recording (AIR), with some other producers.
When the Beatles began to break up in 1969, Martin felt the tension between the band's members. He was sometimes for not being able to "fix things", or solve their problems. He began turning down sessions with the band. He let the recording engineer or the members themselves do his job. Martin returned to help make their last album (titled "Abbey Road" after the location of the studio), after all the Beatles promised to work with him "like the old days", and let Martin take charge of the sessions once more.
Paul McCartney, the most "conventional" (normal) Beatle, worked with Martin several times after the Beatles ended in 1970. John Lennon counted on Martin to turn his sometimes "way-out" ideas into finished records, but he did not always like the way Martin worked, and mostly produced his own solo recordings. George Harrison, the youngest Beatle, found many of his songs and ideas rejected by Martin. Martin later said "I was always rather beastly to George," in trying to make more hit records. Harrison also produced (or co-produced) most of his own solo work. He even built his own recording studio after years of making records at Abbey Road. Martin praised Ringo Starr's "super-steady beat", and the sound his drums gave the Beatles records, but each later worked with other people.
Even years after they broke up, Martin still worked with and for the Beatles and the music they had made together. He remixed many of their recordings for re-issues and compilation records. He made several records of his own with classical and orchestral versions of Beatles tunes, and was the music producer for "Sergeant Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band", a fantasy movie based on their songs, which starred the Bee Gees and Peter Frampton.
Besides the Beatles, Martin worked with other recording artists, including Shirley Bassey, Bernard Cribbins, America, Kenny Rogers, Dudley Moore, and Little River Band. He wrote a book, "All You Need is Ears", that told his life story and explained how many of his most famous recordings were made. During the 1990s, Martin was made a knight by the British government, for his work and his role in popular music.
Martin retired in 1999, and released an album titled "In My Life", which featured many different artists performing Beatles songs. The album included non-musicians like comedian Jim Carrey.
Martin died in his sleep on the night of 8 March 2016 at his house. He was aged 90. His death was announced by Ringo Starr on his Twitter account.

</doc>
<doc id="32507" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32507" title="Brian Epstein">
Brian Epstein

Brian Samuel Epstein (19 September 1934 - 27 August 1967) was an English businessman. Epstein was the manager of The Beatles, who became the most popular rock band in the world during the 1960s.
Epstein started out to become an actor, and went to school at RADA (the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art) with future movie stars Peter O'Toole and Susannah York. He was not happy at school, though, and quit to work in his family's furniture stores in Liverpool. He was a skillful salesman, and loved classical music. When his family opened a record department in one of their stores, Epstein was put in charge. The department was so successful that the family decided to open a whole store to sell music and records. This was named NEMS, for North End Music Stores, and Epstein became its boss. This store was also a big success.
Popular music, rock and roll especially, sold better than classical music, and Epstein wanted to sell what the public would buy most. He began to stock rock and roll records, and record buyers around England liked Epstein and his store. Some of his customers were members of bands, looking for new music to play or to pass the time, and came often to the store. Among those bands were the early Beatles.
Epstein was Jewish and homosexual.
Late in 1961, when a fan asked Epstein about a record the Beatles had made in Germany, Epstein was unable to find it through his sources. When he learned the band were playing at the Cavern Club not far away, Epstein visited them there, and was impressed by their act. He found out what he needed to know to get the record, so NEMS could sell copies. Epstein also discovered that the band had no manager, but they wanted one, and their main goal was to get a recording contract in England. Epstein became their manager.
Epstein used his sales ability to get the band more and better jobs playing music. He also used his position (as manager of one of the leading music stores in northern England) to make contact with different record labels, hoping to get the Beatles signed up. An audition with Decca Records on New Year's Day 1962 sounded hopeful, but Decca decided to turn the band down, as did most of the labels Epstein approached.
Decca gave Epstein a copy of the band's demo (demonstration) tape, which he used to promote them, but could not find anyone interested. He thought an actual record might work better than the tape, so he went to have a test record made. The recording engineer who made the record told Epstein about George Martin, who worked for EMI's Parlophone Records and had been looking for a rock band to record. Martin liked what he heard well enough to offer the band another audition.
The Beatles passed their EMI audition as a group, and signed a contract with Parlophone. Drummer Pete Best did not meet Martin's standards, though, and Martin planned to use a studio drummer instead on their records. When the band found out, they asked Epstein to fire Best, and they replaced him with Ringo Starr, who quit another band to join them.
Over the next year (1963), The Beatles became the most popular recording act in Britain and Europe, and then in America during 1964. Following their success, Epstein signed up other bands and singers, including Gerry and the Pacemakers, Cilla Black, Billy J. Kramer and the Remo Four. Each found success and hit records, but none became as popular as the Beatles. Epstein started a management company, NEMS Enterprises (named after the music store), who later signed up the Bee Gees, Jimi Hendrix, and Cream.
Like many pop stars, Epstein also had fans, and gave away signed photographs of himself. He published an autobiography (his life story) in 1964, with help from Derek Taylor, who was the Beatles's press agent. Epstein was still interested in theater, and he bought the Saville Theatre in London, which presented plays and rock concerts.
As time went on, Epstein felt more and more stress in his working and personal lives, and turned to drugs such as sleeping pills and sedatives, to help him cope. During 1967, he became afraid that the Beatles would not stay with him when their management contract expired (ended) that year, and his drug use increased. One weekend while the band was away in Wales, Epstein overdosed on pills, and died in his sleep.
An autopsy concluded that Epstein did not commit suicide, but accidentally took too many pills over a long period of time, without giving the drugs a chance to clear out of his body. The Beatles and all the artists he managed mourned his death. It was said later that losing him was the beginning of the Beatles breakup, which happened in 1970.

</doc>
<doc id="32509" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32509" title="Jurong">
Jurong

Jurong (裕廊) is a town in the western side of Singapore. It used to be a swamp until the 1960s, when Goh Keng Swee, a minister, together with the United Nations, cleared the swamps, making Jurong an industrial estate (a place where industries are built to make goods). Jurong is divided in Jurong East, where houses and shops are built and Jurong West, mainly an industrial estate. Jurong East is under the Jurong Group Representation Constituency or Jurong GRC, while Jurong West is under the West Coast Group Representation Constituency. Jurong is connected to Johor Bahru by the Second-Link at Tuas. Jurong has the Jurong Bird Park and Chinese Gardens.

</doc>
<doc id="32510" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32510" title="Plastic Ono Band">
Plastic Ono Band

The Plastic Ono Band was a rock and roll band formed by Yoko Ono with husband (and former Beatle) John Lennon. They were active from 1969 until 1974.
Lennon and Ono recorded their first single together, titled "Give Peace A Chance", in a Montreal hotel with a roomful of guests, including Tommy Smothers, Allen Ginsberg, Norman Mailer, Timothy Leary, and the local Hare Krishna chapter. The pair were in an auto accident before the single was to debut (be played in public for the first time), and they had to stay in the hospital. Not wanting to cancel the debut, they sent the first version of their "new band" – a set of plastic cases that held the sound equipment – which played in their place. It was a strange kind of debut for a new band, but the song (a protest against the Vietnam War) became a minor hit that year, in England and in the United States.
The second version of the Plastic Ono Band included Ono and Lennon in person, along with musicians Eric Clapton, Klaus Voormann and Alan White. They performed together at a rock concert in Toronto in September 1969, and it was the first time Lennon had played in public with a band other than the Beatles. The show went well, and helped Lennon decide to leave the Beatles, which he had thought about doing for some time. A second single, "Cold Turkey", was recorded with this lineup.
After the Beatles ended, Lennon decided he did not want to have another permanent band, and he and Ono used the Plastic Ono Band name to refer to any musicians who appeared on the records they made together. Even listeners were called a part of the band, especially when the band gave a concert. An advertisement for one of their records included a page from a telephone book, and the words "YOU are the Plastic Ono Band".
Ono and Lennon separated for a time during 1973 and 1974. Lennon still used forms of the band name on the two albums he released during their separation, while Ono's records of the time appeared under her name alone. When they got back together in 1975, Ono became pregnant, and both decided to retire from music to be parents. Their son Sean Lennon was born on October 9, 1975, which was Lennon's 35th birthday.
In 1980, Lennon and Ono decided to restart their music careers, but this time their records appeared under their own names, and the Plastic Ono Band name was retired.

</doc>
<doc id="32512" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32512" title="Olsztyn">
Olsztyn

Olsztyn is a city in northeast Poland, on the Łyna river. Olsztyn is the biggest city and the capital of the Warmian-Masurian Voivodeship.
The town is near a lake region of forests and plains. There are 13 lakes in the town and many more surrounding it: (Krzywe, Długie, Żbik, Redykajny and others).

</doc>
<doc id="32520" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32520" title="Lee Iacocca">
Lee Iacocca

Lido Anthony "Lee" Iacocca (born October 15, 1924 in Allentown, Pennsylvania, USA) created the Ford Mustang in 1964. He is best known for his time as chairman of the Chrysler Corporation.

</doc>
<doc id="32521" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32521" title="Standard">
Standard

A standard is a basis for comparison. Standards are made either by many people that agree on something, or if some organisation makes it so. There are many different standards in many fields of daily life. Standards are important so that correct comparisons can be produced.
Other standards make things work together. For example, rail cars with a standard gauge can run on tracks that follow the same standard.
The International System of Units is a standard that is agreed on by most countries. In it there is metre (or meter). It measures length. A rod (made from a special material) is in Paris. The length of the rod said, years ago, how long a meter is. When people wanted to measure something, they compared it to the length of the rod. For practical purposes, the length of the rod was divided by 10 (to get dezimeter), by 10 (to get centimeter), and so on.
The iridium rod as it is called is the original measure of meter. Now new ways of measuring the meter have been utilized such as the measuring the wavelength of radiation from a certain chemical element to determine an exact meter.
A standard in music is a song that remains popular, and is performed and recorded by many different artists. Such songs include "Yesterday" and "Something", written by members of The Beatles. Many of Hank Williams's songs have become standards in country music.

</doc>
<doc id="32522" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32522" title="Ginkgo">
Ginkgo

The ginkgo is a genus of trees. There is only one living species, "Ginkgo biloba". All the other known species are fossils. "Ginkgo biloba" is native to China. It is the National tree of China.

</doc>
<doc id="32523" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32523" title="Mean">
Mean

In mathematics and statistics, the mean is another name for the average.
The mean is calculated by adding all of the values together, then dividing by the number of values.
Example: 1, 2, 2, 100, 100 is a set of numbers or scores. If we add all the numbers, the answer is 205. By dividing this number by the number of numbers, we discover that the mean is 41. The difficulty with this particular set of numbers is that no one in this group scored anything like a 41, and the mean does not tell us much about what kind of scores these numbers represent. 
To find the average of formula_1 numbers, the formula_1 numbers are added and the total is divided by formula_1.
In symbols, if the numbers are formula_4, formula_5, formula_6, ... formula_7, the total is:
The total is divided by formula_1 to make the average:
The idea behind the mean is to represent a number of measurements, or values, by one value only. But there are different ways to calculate such a representing value. 
If people do many different measurements, they will get many different results. Those results have a certain distribution, and they can also be centered around an "average" value. This average value is what mathematicians call arithmetic mean.
Mean can also stand for expected value.

</doc>
<doc id="32525" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32525" title="Detergent">
Detergent

A detergent is a chemical that helps people clean things. Many people use washing powder, which is a type of detergent, when they need to clean their clothes.It is also used to clean glasses etc..

</doc>
<doc id="32537" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32537" title="1329">
1329


</doc>
<doc id="32540" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32540" title="Klaus Voormann">
Klaus Voormann

Klaus Voormann (born April 29, 1942) is a German artist and musician. He was born and raised in Berlin. 
He was a friend of The Beatles. He met them when they played in Hamburg, where he was going to art school.
Voormann designed the cover of their "Revolver" album, and later did cover art for "The Beatles Anthology" and some of George Harrison's solo records. He also played bass guitar with Manfred Mann, and on records by John Lennon, George Harrison and Ringo Starr, and their friend Harry Nilsson.
He also became a record producer, and produced the band Trio, whose biggest hit was "Da Da Da", which was used later in a Volkswagen television commercial.

</doc>
<doc id="32542" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32542" title="Alan White">
Alan White

Alan White has been the name of several people, including:

</doc>
<doc id="32543" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32543" title="Alan White (Yes drummer)">
Alan White (Yes drummer)

Alan White (born June 14, 1949) is an English musician, best known as the drummer from the band Yes. He also played on records by former Beatles John Lennon and George Harrison.
Solo:
With White:
With Yes: "See infobox below"
With The Alan Price Set:
With John Lennon and The Plastic Ono Band:
Guest appearances/sessions:
and work with Rick Wakeman, Steve Howe, Billy Sherwood, Esquire and The Syn

</doc>
<doc id="32544" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32544" title="Stock market">
Stock market

A stock market is an institution where humans and computers buy and sell shares of companies. 
Shares are small pieces of a company. Shares can be bought by humans, companies, and mutual funds. When buying shares in a company, the buyer owns a small part of that company. The price of a share can be based on many different things. The main thing that affects the price is the balance between supply and demand. If many buyers want to buy a stock the price goes up. If there are more sellers than buyers, the price goes down.
Some buyers trade shares in stocks through a stockbroker. A stockbroker is a person who buys or sell stocks for their customers. A stockbroker can also help customers make choices in stocks. Their advice is based on public information about the companies. 
Stockbrokers advise their clients on how to manage their stocks. Some of the advice they give is:
Trading stocks online has become more popular. Stocks can be traded online. There is a fee or commission each time a position is opened.

</doc>
<doc id="32546" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32546" title="Allen Ginsberg">
Allen Ginsberg

Irwin Allen Ginsberg (June 3, 1926 – April 5, 1997) was an American poet and author, who was part of the Beat Generation movement of poets in the 1950s. He was a friend of writers Jack Kerouac and William S. Burroughs, and later made friends with musicians Bob Dylan, Donovan, John Lennon and Yoko Ono, and many other celebrities.
Ginsberg's most famous work was called "Howl", and was a long poem about the social conditions of the United States in the 1950s. It began with the words "I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness." It went on to describe the frustration felt by many Americans, young people and minorities in particular. There were problems in the country, such as prejudice and , that needed to be spoken about. Ginsberg published the poem, and also performed it at public poetry readings.
A few people did not like "Howl", or the language Ginsberg used. They tried to have "Howl" banned, and Ginsberg (given a court trial, then either fined or put in jail). Ginsberg went to trial, and the judge decided "Howl" was an important work, and told the truth about America at the time. The judge rejected the ban and cleared Ginsberg, who could then continue to publish and perform the poem.
Ginsberg became involved in social causes through his work, and through the famous people he met. He grew up in the Jewish faith, but later became a Buddhist. He was a homosexual, and his longtime partner was another poet, Peter Orlovsky. He also had a long relationship with Neal Cassady, who appeared as "N.C., secret hero of these poems" in "Howl". 
Ginsberg died in 1997 of liver cancer.

</doc>
<doc id="32556" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32556" title="Northwestern University">
Northwestern University

Northwestern University is a university in Evanston, Illinois, and Chicago, Illinois. It is very prestigious and selective. It has many people who learn and also people who teach. 
The university is known most for providing a strong education in economics (the study of the economy), linguistics (the study of language), political science (the study of politics), and mathematics (the study of numbers).
There is another university in Chicago, the University of Chicago.

</doc>
<doc id="32558" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32558" title="Door god">
Door god

A door god is a painting pasted on a door. These were used by the Chinese as good luck. Door gods can be seen on temples - places of religion - and other buildings. There is a belief that door gods stop evil spirits from going into the building.
Door gods are often in pairs, one for each side of the door. The first door gods may have been made for a Chinese Emperor, more than 1300 years ago. They showed his two best soldiers.

</doc>
<doc id="32559" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32559" title="Jack Kerouac">
Jack Kerouac

Jean-Louis Lebris de Kerouac (born March 12, 1922 – died October 21, 1969), better known as Jack Kerouac, was an American author and poet. He was part of the Beat Generation movement of writers and artists of the 1950s and 1960s, and gave the movement its name. His most famous work was a long novel titled "On the Road", which was published in 1957.
Kerouac was a friend of writers Allen Ginsberg, William S. Burroughs, Lawrence Ferlinghetti, and Gregory Corso, among many others. Nearly all of Kerouac's writings were directly based on his own life, but he mostly changed names and details, to protect everyone's privacy. The man he wrote about most was his friend Neal Cassady, who was called "Dean Moriarty" in "On the Road". Kerouac influenced many other writers and poets who came along later, and also many musicians of the 1960s, through his works. He also changed the way Americans saw themselves, and their country.
Kerouac was born in Lowell, Massachusetts to French-Canadian parents (named Leo and Gabrielle), and was the youngest of three children. He spoke only French until he started school. His family was Roman Catholic. His father was a printer, and Kerouac became interested in printed works. He liked to make his own handwritten newspapers and books. He enjoyed reading, and imitated the styles of writers he liked, such as Thomas Wolfe. He became an expert typist, and could type faster than 100 words per minute.
Kerouac was a good athlete, and earned a football scholarship to Columbia University. An injury during a practice game ended his football career. He dropped out of Columbia, and devoted himself to writing stories and plays. He met Allen Ginsberg at college. Their circle of friends included many future writers and artists, like William S. Burroughs, and Herbert Huncke.
During World War II, Kerouac served in the Merchant Marine, which made him a of the American military. He kept journals of his experiences, and he used them later to write other works. He was honorably discharged from military service in 1943 when he was diagnosed with schizoid personality disorder. He was able to get veteran's benefits later, such as medical help when he was sick with , and grant money to pay his bills while he wrote. Kerouac was proud to be an American, and always said good things about his country.
Kerouac's father died of stomach cancer in 1946. He made Kerouac promise to always work to support his mother. He tried to talk Kerouac out of becoming a writer, because he knew it was hard to succeed in such a career. Kerouac had a hard time staying with any other kind of work, though. He would become impatient or restless, or a disagreement with someone at work would turn into trouble. Kerouac did his best to earn enough money to pay for both his and his mother's living, but his mother also had to work. She was a nurse. She worked in a factory when there were no nursing jobs.
Kerouac published a few and reviews in New York magazines and newspapers in the 1940s. He worked briefly for his hometown newspaper, "The Lowell Sun". His first novel, "The Town and the City", was published in 1950. For his second novel, Kerouac wanted to write a book about road trips and hitchhiking. Hitchhiking was safer to do in the 1940s, in America, than it is today. Kerouac stopped and restarted writing this book several times. Kerouac did not want to just tell an ordinary story. He wanted to give an idea of how the people he met thought things through, and expressed this to each other, along with telling what they did and said. He also knew he needed more experiences, to tell a better story.
Many experiences came through Kerouac's friendship with Neal Cassady. Cassady was a handsome, bright young with a teenaged wife, named Luanne Henderson. Cassady and Luanne had a hard relationship, and broke up and got back together many times. He later married another woman named Carolyn Robinson, who was older than Luanne and understood him better, but Carolyn and Cassady also had troubles. Kerouac was briefly married, to girlfriend Edie Parker. They did not stay together long, and were soon divorced. Cassady taught Kerouac, who never had a , how to drive, while Kerouac taught Cassady about writing.
Neal Cassady traveled back and forth across the country, usually driving cars like Hudsons at high speed. he looked for jobs, fresh experiences, and new friends. Kerouac began to travel with him. They lived in and visited cities such as Denver, San Francisco, Monterey, and even Mexico City. They also looked sometimes for Cassady's father, who disappeared years earlier. Kerouac got sick in Mexico City, and Cassady left him behind at the hospital. Kerouac had to make his own way home. He took this very hard, and was angry with Cassady. He forgave him later, when they met again, and he made Cassady the central character of his new book. One job Kerouac could fall back on, thanks to Cassady, was as a railroad brakeman.
Many people in the 1940s and 1950s used drugs such as benzedrine, to help them stay alert. Jazz music was also popular, and some jazz musicians and listeners smoked marijuana. Kerouac was influenced by both drugs, and they changed the way he wrote. He began to write what he called " prose", jotting down words in much the same way a musician a solo in a song. (Kerouac played no musical instruments, but could well, and had many of the same instincts as a musician.) His new writing style was strange to many people, and even seen as bad by some older authors and critics. It was six years before Kerouac published his second novel.
The version of "On the Road" that finally satisfied Kerouac was written over three weeks in 1951. It was typed on a single roll of teletype paper. Kerouac liked to type on rolls of paper, because he did not have to stop to change pages. He had just gotten married for the second time, to Joan Haverty. The manuscript was Kerouac's way to explain his friendship with Neal Cassady to his new wife. The explanation made a fine rough draft for a novel, but it did not help his marriage. Joan felt that Kerouac's nonstop work on the manuscript was an , and she did not want to stay married to him after it was finished. They were soon divorced, as he was with his first wife.
The editor who worked on "The Town and the City" found the long, scroll-like manuscript hard to understand, and even harder to work with. Kerouac's publisher rejected the novel, as did every other publisher he went to. Nor was anyone interested in "The Subterraneans", a shorter novel he wrote in three nights, about his romance with an African-American woman. Such a relationship was taboo in America during the 1950s. Kerouac continued to write, from short stories and essays to long novels, and even poetry. He tried many different subjects, but had almost nothing published. He also worked different jobs, including brakeman and .
It turned out that Joan Haverty was pregnant by Kerouac, and she gave birth to a daughter, Jan-Michelle. Kerouac denied he was the father at first, but a blood test later proved it was likely. She also grew to look like him, and he accepted her as his child. Joan sued Kerouac for child support, but he was ill and could not work at the time, and she collected almost no money. Kerouac only saw Jan a few times, but talked to her more often by telephone. Joan mostly kept them apart.
Allen Ginsberg became well-known during the 1950s for his writings, in particular a poem called "Howl", whose title came from Kerouac's of it. Ginsberg mentioned his friends in some of his works, including Kerouac, and wanted the people who liked him to give them and their writings a chance. Finally Viking Press agreed to publish "On the Road", after many changes to the manuscript. The novel became a bestseller, and Kerouac was a celebrity after years of little success. Magazines began to request articles and essays from him. He appeared on many television programs, including "The Steve Allen Show". Steve Allen liked him, and they recorded an album together, with Kerouac reading aloud and Allen playing piano. He recorded another album later, with jazz musicians Al Cohn and Zoot Sims.
Kerouac wrote and published more novels, including "The Dharma Bums", "Doctor Sax", "Maggie Cassidy", "Visions of Gerard" (a of his older brother, who died in childhood), "Big Sur" (about the stresses brought on by fame, and how the people he knew saw him differently), "Desolation Angels", and "Book of Dreams" (a ). He studied Buddhism, and this also influenced his writing. He wrote "Some of the Dharma" as an introduction to Buddhism, though he remained a Catholic.
As Kerouac, Ginsberg, and their friends became famous, a trend among the group of writers and artists was noticed, and was written about in the mainstream media. Kerouac was asked to describe his generation. He explained that the pressures of 20th century living had 'beaten' normal ways of thinking and working out of them, and they preferred the beat of bebop and jazz to most other music, "so I guess you could say we're a "beat generation"."
"Beat Generation" became the name for the new sense of style coming from artists and writers in New York and San Francisco. Kerouac's circle of friends and acquaintances (and their imitators) were called the Beats, with Kerouac himself called "King of the Beats" by the media. (The term was later parodied as "", implying such people were Communists, and would hurt the country.) Kerouac narrated a movie, called "Pull My Daisy", about the Beat phenomenon.
An ongoing problem Kerouac had with fame was that people thought he did all the things he wrote about. Much of what he described (like Neal Cassady's lawless nature, , and drug use) was only what he saw in other people. Not everyone who read Kerouac's stories understood this. Some people wanted to blame him for doing bad things, or getting others to do them. Other people wanted to do those kinds of things with Kerouac. Shy by nature, Kerouac pulled away. He became almost a in the house he bought for his mother. He also began to abuse alcohol.
During the 1960s, American society went through many changes, in part because of the influence of the Beats. Many young people read "On the Road", and saw things they related to, and it made them want to experience more in their own lives. Other writers liked the looseness of Kerouac's style, and it made them think more about their own writing, how to study life, and how to better express themselves. Many musicians were affected by Kerouac's books, including Bob Dylan, Donovan, and The Doors.
Kerouac was more disappointed than happy to be famous. Even though he liked some of what he inspired, he felt that the public largely got the wrong message from his books. He saw many people take what the Beats wrote as a kind of permission to get into trouble, or abandon (give up) people and things they cared about. He felt for the , but disagreed with them on the Vietnam War, the role of government, and . He also lost some of his old friends, when their views differed.
Kerouac still abused alcohol and other drugs, and it harmed his health. He became bloated and irritable, and looked drunk on his last television appearance, on William F. Buckley's "Firing Line" in 1968. He married for the third time, to Stella Sampas, the sister of a boyhood friend. Stella looked after Kerouac and his mother, kept the public and others away, and tried to get him to stop drinking alcohol.
His daughter Jan-Michelle also began to write during her teen years. He gave her his , and told her "You can use my (last) name." She wrote under the name Jan Kerouac, and published novels and stories herself, from the 1970s to the 1990s. Kerouac's mother became sick, and he sometimes worked at her bedside on stories. She helped him work out the ending of "Pic", his novel about a young African-American.
Kerouac wrote and reworked new material until the last day of his life. He died in St. Petersburg, Florida during emergency surgery, to try to repair a caused by cirrhosis, due to his alcohol abuse. He was buried in his hometown, and was hardly remembered there at first. Even though he was world famous, Kerouac earned very little money as a writer. He died with only a few hundred dollars in the bank. It was years before his grave received a headstone.
Neal Cassady died more than a year before, of exposure, alongside a railroad track in Mexico. He set out to become a writer or musician, but he never got far with either. He only published one book, "The First Third", which was about his youth. Cassady earned most of his money from labor, and was often out of work and owed money. He spent a long time in jail after he was arrested for selling marijuana. Sometimes the fact that Cassady was well-known through Kerouac kept him from having the life he wanted. Cassady had a family with Carolyn, but she had to both work, and raise the children when her husband was away. Carolyn later wrote a memoir.
Kerouac's works, especially "On the Road", are now more popular than ever. Generations have discovered his works, as a means of learning about life and attitudes in America during his lifetime, as a way to measure their own sense of experience, or as examples of and in . 
Less than half of Kerouac's writings were published during his lifetime, but nearly all are now available. The ones published later drew hundreds of times more money than his most famous works, when they first appeared. His hometown Lowell remembers Kerouac today with a , and cultural events every year. His grave now has a headstone, which reads "He honored life". A street in Lowell was renamed "Jack Kerouac Alley" in his memory.
"The Subterraneans" was made into a movie by MGM in 1960, but the was almost completely different from the book. "On the Road" was considered many times to be made into a movie, once with actor Marlon Brando as Dean Moriarty and another time with Sean Penn, but this never got farther than . The movie rights were resold in the 1990s, for more than ten times Kerouac's lifetime earnings, and a movie of "On the Road" appeared in 2012, starring Sam Riley and Garrett Hedlund as Kerouac and Cassidy, with Kristen Stewart and Kirsten Dunst as LuAnne Henderson and Carolyn Cassady.
A movie, "Heart Beat", was made in 1980, about the relationship between Carolyn Robinson, Neal Cassady and Jack Kerouac. It starred Sissy Spacek, Nick Nolte, and John Heard.
Kerouac appears as "Hank" in William S. Burroughs's novel "Naked Lunch", and was played by Nicholas Campbell in the 1991 movie version.
He was also the subject of a song by 10,000 Maniacs, "Hey Jack Kerouac".
He and Neal Cassady are the subject of a song by Tom Waits, "Jack & Neal/California Here I Come". Waits also covered a song written by Kerouac, titled "On the Road", on his' album "Orphans".

</doc>
<doc id="32561" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32561" title="Himno Istmeño">
Himno Istmeño

Himno Istmeño is the anthem of Panama. It was written by Santos Jorge. It is known as the Isthmus Anthem.

</doc>
<doc id="32563" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32563" title="Jack Neo">
Jack Neo

Jack Neo (born Neo Chee Keong on 24 January 1956) is a Singaporean movie director at MediaCorp, a Singapore media company. He directed "I Not Stupid", "Money No Enough", "Ah Boys to Men" and "Ah Boys to Men 2", all of which were very popular. Neo was once a comedian.
Neo received the Best Director Award at the Silver Screen Awards in 1998. He was also awarded with the Lifetime Achievement Award in the following year for his contributions to Singapore's media industry. In 2004, Neo became the first moviemaker in Singapore to be honoured with the Public Service Award. He also received the Cultural Medallion on 21 October 2005 together with musician Dick Lee.
In 2008, Neo and Mark Lee bought the Singapore master franchise rights for Old Town White Coffee. It is a coffee retail store from Ipoh, Malaysia. Their first store at Big Splash opened on 30 March in 2008.
Neo married Irene Kng in 1988 and they have four children. It is his second marriage. He is a Christian and worships at City Harvest Church.
In March 2010, it was revealed Neo had an affair with model Wendy Chong. Later it was reported that Neo tried to have relations with up to 11 women.

</doc>
<doc id="32566" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32566" title="Fyodor Dostoyevsky">
Fyodor Dostoyevsky

Fyodor Mikhailovich Dostoyevsky (11 November 1821 – 9 February 1881) was a Russian novelist.
In his 20s he joined a group of radicals in St Petersburg They were into French socialist ideas. A police agent reported the group to the authorities. On 22 April 1849, Dostoyevsky was arrested and imprisoned with the other members. After months of questioning and investigation they were tried. They were found guilty of planning to distribute subversive propaganda and condemned to death by firing squad.
The punishment was changed to a sentence of exile and hard labour, but not before they were forced to go through a mock execution. In 1859 a new tsar allowed Dostoyevsky to end his Siberian exile. A year later he was back in St Petersburg. The experience had cost him ten years of his life. It is the root of all his writing.
Raised in an educated and religious family, Dostoyevsky's beliefs changed through his life. In prison, he focused intensely on the figure of Christ and on the "New Testament", the only book allowed in prison. In a letter to the woman who had sent him the "New Testament", Dostoyevsky wrote that he was a "child of unbelief and doubt up to this moment, and I am certain that I shall remain so to the grave". He also wrote that "even if someone were to prove to me that the truth lay outside Christ, I should choose to remain with Christ rather than with the truth".
From an analysis of religious ideas in "Crime and Punishment", "The Idiot", "Demons", and "The Brothers Karamazov", James Townsend thinks Dostoyevsky held orthodox Christian beliefs except for his view of salvation from sin. According to Townsend, "Dostoevsky almost seemed to embrace an in-this-life purgatory", in which people suffer to pay for their sins, rather than the Christian doctrine of salvation through Christ. Malcolm Jones sees elements of Islam and Buddhism in Dostoyevsky's religious convictions. Colin Wilson in "The Outsider" describes him as a "tormented half-atheist-half-Christian".
Many scholars see Dostoyevsky as one of the greatest psychologists in literature. His works have had a big effect on twentieth-century fiction. Very often, he wrote about characters who live in poor conditions. Those characters are sometimes in extreme states of mind. They might show both a strange grasp of human psychology as well as good analyses of the political, social and spiritual states of Russia of Dostoevsky's time. Many of his best-known works are prophetic. He is sometimes considered to be a founder of existentialism, most frequently for "Notes from Underground", which has been described as "the best overture for existentialism ever written". He is also famous for writing "The Brothers Karamazov", which many critics, such as Sigmund Freud, have said was one of the best novels ever written. 
His attack on nihilism is in his great novel "Demons", or "The Possessed". Published in 1872, it is a "dark comedy, cruelly funny in its depiction of high-minded intellectuals toying with revolutionary notions without understanding anything of what revolution means in practice".
The plot is a version of actual events at the time. A former teacher of divinity turned terrorist, Sergei Nechaev, had written a pamphlet, "The Catechism of a Revolutionary", which argued that any means (including blackmail and murder) could be used to advance the cause of revolution. Nechaev planned to kill a student who questioned his ideas.
One of the characters in "Demons" confesses: "I got entangled in my own data, and my conclusion contradicts the original idea from which I start. From unlimited freedom, I conclude with unlimited despotism". This suggests that the result of abandoning morality for the sake of an idea will be tyranny more extreme than any in the past.
English versions of titles come after the Russian title.
The last five stories (1873-1877) are included in "A Writer's Diary".

</doc>
<doc id="32575" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32575" title="Julia Grant">
Julia Grant

Julia Boggs Dent Grant (January 26, 1826 – December 14, 1902), was the wife of the 18th President of the United States, Ulysses S. Grant, and was First Lady of the United States from 1869 to 1877.
She was born at White Haven plantation west of St. Louis, Missouri. She was the daughter of Colonel Frederick Dent, a slaveholding planter and merchant, and Ellen Wrenshall-Dent.
After her schooling, she and Ulysses S. Grant got engaged in 1844. At that time, Ulysses S. Grant was a Lieutenant in the US Army. In the meanwhile, Mexican War began. Ulysses went to war. He returned from the war after many years. They married in 1848. 
The Grants had three sons and a daughter:
She entered the White House in 1869 to begin, in her words, "the happiest period" of her life. With Cabinet wives as her allies, she entertained extensively and lavishly. The social highlight of the Grant years was the White House wedding of their daughter in 1874. Contemporaries noted her finery, jewels, and silks and laces. After four years of war, an assassination, and an impeachment trial, Washington was ready for a little levity, and Julia obliged. She offered a full array of events and became a popular hostess. She planned lavish state dinners, where guests enjoyed expensive wines and liquors.
As First Lady it was suggested to her that she have an operation to correct her crossed eyes, but President Grant said that he liked her that way.
Upon leaving the White House in 1877, the Grants made a trip around the world. Julia proudly recalled details of hospitality and magnificent gifts they received. A highlight of the trip was an overnight stay and dinner hosted for them by Queen Victoria at Windsor Castle in England. They also enjoyed a swing through the Far East, being cordially received at the Imperial Palace in Tokyo by the Emperor and Empress of Japan.
In 1884 Grant suffered yet another business failure and they lost all they had. 
She became the first First Lady to write a memoir, though she was unable to find a publisher, and had been dead almost 75 years before "The Personal Memoirs of Julia Dent Grant (Mrs. Ulysses S. Grant)" was finally published in 1975.
She had attended in 1897 the dedication of Grant's monumental tomb overlooking the Hudson River in New York City. She was laid to rest in a sarcophagus beside her husband. She had ended her own chronicle of their years together with a firm declaration: "the light of his glorious fame still reaches out to me, falls upon me, and warms me."

</doc>
<doc id="32576" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32576" title="Jane Pierce">
Jane Pierce

Jane Means Appleton Pierce (March 12, 1806 – December 2, 1863), wife of U.S. President Franklin Pierce, was First Lady of the United States from 1853 to 1857.
Her father’s name was Jesse Appleton. When her father died, her mother moved with her to Amherst, New Hampshire.
How she met Pierce, a young lawyer with political ambitions, is unknown, but her brother-in-law Alpheus S. Packard was one of Pierce's instructors at Bowdoin. Franklin, almost 30, married Jane, 28, on November 19, 1834, at the bride's maternal grandparents' home in Amherst, New Hampshire. The Reverend Silas Aiken, Jane's brother-in-law, conducted the small ceremony. The couple honeymooned six days at the boardinghouse of Sophia Southurt near Washington, D.C.. 
Franklin Pierce was a member of the U.S. House of Representatives by the time they married and became a U.S. Senator in 1837. Jane hated life in Washington, D.C., and encouraged her husband to resign his Senate seat and return to New Hampshire, which he did in 1842. Service in the Mexican-American War brought him the rank of Brigadier General and local fame as a hero. He returned home safely, and for four more years the Pierces lived quietly at Concord, New Hampshire, in the happiest period of their lives, where they watched their son Benjamin "Benny" grow up. 

</doc>
<doc id="32577" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32577" title="Lucy Webb Hayes">
Lucy Webb Hayes

Lucy Ware Webb Hayes (August 28, 1831 – June 25, 1889) was a First Lady of the United States and the wife of President Rutherford B. Hayes.
Lucy was nicknamed "Lemonade Lucy." She did not serve alcohol in the White House.
She was born in Chillicothe, Ohio. She was the daughter of James Webb, a doctor, and Maria Cook-Webb. Lucy was descended from seven veterans of the American Revolution. Her father died when she was a child. With her mother, she moved to Delaware, Ohio where in 1847 she met Rutherford B. Hayes. 
Lucy Hayes studied at Ohio Wesleyan University. She was the first First Lady to graduate from college.
As First Lady, Hayes supported her husband's ban of alcoholic beverages at state functions, excepting only the reception for Grand Duke Alexei Alexandrovich of Russia in 1877, at which wine was served. She also instituted the custom of conducting an Easter egg roll on the White House lawn. A devout Methodist, she joined the president in saying prayers after breakfast and conducting group hymn sings with the cabinet and congressmen on Sunday evenings.
The Hayes had four sons and a daughter to live to their adulthood:
She died of a stroke on June 25, 1889. When she died, people in the United States lowered the flag to half-mast. 

</doc>
<doc id="32578" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32578" title="Caroline Harrison">
Caroline Harrison

Caroline Lavinia Scott Harrison (October 1, 1832 - October 25, 1892) was the wife of Benjamin Harrison. She was the First Lady of the United States from 1889 until her death. 
Her birthplace was Oxford, Ohio. Her parents were Mary Potts Neal and Dr. John W. Scott. She met the young Ben when he was a student at Miami University. They married on 20th October 1853. They had three children. Their first child was Russell Benjamin (1854-1936). Their second child was Mary Scott (1856-1930). Their third child was a daughter, born in 1861. In the same year, their third child died. 
When her husband became the President of the United States in 1889, they both moved to the White House. Caroline gave stylish parties. She became sick with tuberculosis. She could not participate in social functions after that. She died of tuberculosis on 25th October 1892. 

</doc>
<doc id="32579" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32579" title="Helen Herron Taft">
Helen Herron Taft

Helen Louise Herron "Nellie" Taft (June 2, 1861 – May 22, 1943) was the wife of William Howard Taft and First Lady of the United States from 1909 to 1913.
Her parents were Harriet Collins and John W. Herron. She was their fourth child. She spent her childhood in Cincinnati, Ohio. 
When Helen Herron was 18 years old, she met Will Taft. They married in 1886. William Howard Taft and Helen Herron Taft had three children:
She was a part of her husband’s rise in administration and politics. When her husband became the president, she gave special attention to the social life at the White House. When she suffered from stroke, her daughter Helen Taft Manning left college for a year to look after the social life at the White House. 
During their stay at the White House, the couple celebrated their silver wedding anniversary in 1911. People celebrate a silver anniversary after 25 years of any occasion. She had also written a book named "Recollections of Full Years". The book tells about her work and life. Her husband died in 1930. She continued to live in Washington D.C. after the death of her husband. She died on May 22, 1943.

</doc>
<doc id="32580" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32580" title="Mary McElroy">
Mary McElroy

Mary Arthur McElroy (July 5, 1841 – January 8, 1917) was the sister of the 21st President of the United States, Chester A. Arthur, and served as a hostess for his administration (1881–1885). She assumed the role because Arthur's wife, Ellen Lewis Herndon Arthur, had died only a year and a half earlier.
She was born in Greenwich, New York. Her parents were William and Malvina S. Arthur. Her parents had nine children, Mary being the last. In 1880, her brother Chester Arthur, became the Vice President of the United States. In July 1881, after the assassination of the President, James Garfield, Chester A. Arthur became the president of the United States and he requested his sister to become "First Lady" during his term in office. 
In November 1880, McElroy's brother Chester Arthur was elected vice president. In July 1881, President James Garfield was fatally wounded and died on September 19, 1881. Arthur succeeded him, and asked McElroy to care for his young daughter Ellen and act as "Mistress of the White House." Because she had her own family in Albany, McElroy lived in Washington, D.C. only during the busy winter social season. Although Arthur never officially granted her the protocol of a formal position, she proved to be a popular and competent hostess. The procedures she and her brother developed for the social functions were used by future First Ladies for decades.
McElroy presided over a number of events and honored former First Ladies Julia Gardiner Tyler and Harriet Lane, James Buchanan's niece and social hostess, by asking them to help her receive guests at the White House. McElroy's oldest daughter May and Arthur's daughter Nell often assisted. Her final reception took place on February 28, 1885, one week before the end of the Arthur administration: 3,000 people attended (including Adolphus Greely) and 48 daughters of officials and of the social elite assisted her.
When her brother retired as the President, Mary went to live in Albany, New York.
She died on January 8, 1917 at the age of 75 in Albany, New York.

</doc>
<doc id="32581" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32581" title="Frances Folsom Cleveland">
Frances Folsom Cleveland

Frances Clara Folsom Cleveland Preston (July 21, 1864 – October 29, 1947) was the wife of the President of the United States Grover Cleveland and the 27th First Lady of the United States from 1886 to 1889 and again from 1893 to 1897. 
She was born in Buffalo, New York. Her birth name was Frances Clara Folsom. Her parents were Emma C. Harmon and Oscar Folsom. Her father later became a law partner of Grover Cleveland. All of her ancestors were from England. Cleveland was a family friend to Oscar's family. After Oscar’s death, Cleveland looked after the family. He arranged for education of Frances Folsom. She studied at Wells College. Cleveland and Frances Folsom sent letters to each other.
In 1885, Frances Folsom and her mother came to White House to meet Cleveland. Cleveland and Frances Folsom became close to each other, despite being around 27 years younger than Cleveland. On 2 June 1886, they married. This was the first and only couple to wed in the White House. When Frances Folsom became Mrs. Cleveland, she took the role of the First Lady. She gave two receptions every week. She became very popular. 
In 1888, Cleveland lost the election. The couple lived in New York City. There their first child Ruth was born. In 1886, Cleveland again became the president. Frances Folsom again became active as the First Lady. In 1893, she gave birth to a second child, Esther. In 1895, she bore a third child, named Marion. By the time Cleveland had retired, Frances Folsom had become a very popular First Lady. 
The couple retired to live in Princeton, New Jersey. During this time, they had two sons. She was by her husband’s side when he died in 1908. In 1913, Frances re-married. Her second husband was Thomas J. Preston, Jr., a professor of archeology.
Frances Folsom lived until the age of 83, and had become well known in the Princeton University community.

</doc>
<doc id="32582" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32582" title="Betty Ford">
Betty Ford

Elizabeth Ann Bloomer Warren Ford (April 8, 1918 — July 8, 2011) was the widow of Gerald R. Ford, the 38th President of the United States. She was the First Lady of the United States from 1974 to 1977.
She was born in Chicago, Illinois. Her birth name was Betty Bloomer. Her parents were Hortense Neahr and William Stephenson Bloomer. She was the third child of her parents. She had two older brothers named Robert and William, Jr. She spent her childhood in Grand Rapids, Michigan and graduated from school there. In 1935, she graduated in dance from the Calla Travis Dance Studio. She gave dance lessons to earn money during the Great Depression. 
Betty Bloomer married William G. (Bill) Warren, a furniture salesman. But the marriage did not last long. They divorced in 1947. 
After that she started dating Gerald Ford. Ford was a good football player at his college, and a graduate of the University of Michigan and Yale Law School. They married on October 15, 1948. The Fords have three sons and one daughter:
As of 2005, the Fords have seven grandchildren.
In 1974, President Richard Nixon resigned. Nixon had named Gerald Ford as the Vice President of the United States. After Nixon's resignation, Ford became the 38th President of the United States. Betty Ford became the First Lady.
As the First Lady, Betty Ford played an active role. She spoke on many issues. She spoke on political and many other things. She had an open mind, and spoke honestly about benefit of mild psychiatric treatment. She also talked about marijuana use and premarital sex. She always supported women's rights. Her surgery for breast cancer made the public more aware of this disease. 
In 1987, Betty Ford found a place into the Michigan Women's Hall of Fame. In 1978, she published her autobiography "The Times of My Life". In 1999, President Gerald Ford and Betty Ford jointly got the Congressional Gold Medal, "in recognition of their dedicated public service and outstanding humanitarian contributions to the people of the United States of America."
In 2003, Betty Ford published "Healing and Hope: Six Women from the Betty Ford Center Share Their Powerful Journeys of Addiction and Recovery".
She was the active Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Betty Ford Center, until 2005, when she gave that position to her daughter, Susan.
Betty Ford died on July 8, 2011 with her family by her bed.

</doc>
<doc id="32583" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32583" title="Edith Roosevelt">
Edith Roosevelt

Edith Kermit Carow Roosevelt (August 6, 1861 - September 30, 1948), was the second wife of Theodore Roosevelt, the President of the United States. She acted as the First Lady of the United States from 1901 to 1909.
She was born in Norwich, Connecticut. Her parents were Charles (1825-1883) and Gertrude Tyler Carow (1836-1895). She spent her childhood in old New York City. As small children, Edith Kermit Carow and Corinne Roosevelt Robinson (younger sister of Theodore Roosevelt) played together. During childhood, she and "Teedie" (nickname of Theodore Roosevelt) were in and out of each other's houses.
Edith went to Roosevelt's wedding with Alice Hathaway Lee Roosevelt in 1880. Soon Alice Hathaway died. In 1885, Rooservelt married Edith. 
Theodore Roosevelt and Edith were married in London in December 1886. They settled down in a house on Sagamore Hill, at Oyster Bay, headquarters for a family that added five children in ten years: Theodore Jr., Kermit, Ethel Carow, Archibald Bulloch, and Quentin. Throughout Roosevelt's intensely active career, family life remained close and entirely delightful.
After assassination of President William McKinley, Theodore Roosevelt became the President. Mrs. Roosevelt became the First Lady. She guarded the privacy of her family. Still she was an active First Lady. The White House became a social center of that time. 
After her husband’s death in 1919, she spent more or less a retired life. She also traveled outside the USA. But, she always came back to Sagamore Hill as her home. In 1932, she briefly came out of her retirement. She gave a speech in support of Herbert Hoover’s re-election for the presidency of the United States. At that time, her nephew-in-law Franklin Delano Roosevelt was also a candidate for the post of the president of the United States. She died at her Oyster Bay home in New York on September 30, 1948, at the age of 87. 

</doc>
<doc id="32584" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32584" title="Lucretia Garfield">
Lucretia Garfield

Lucretia Rudolph-Garfield (April 19, 1832 – March 14, 1918), wife of James A. Garfield, was First Lady of the United States in 1881.
She was born in Garrettsville, Ohio. Her father was Zeb Rudolph, a farmer and co-founder of the Eclectic Institute at Hiram, and her mother was Arabella Mason-Rudolph. Lucretia "Crete" Rudolph was a devout member of the Churches of Christ. She was of German, Welsh, English and Irish ancestry. Lucretia Garfield's paternal great-grandfather immigrated to Pennsylvania (in a part that is now Delaware) from Württemberg, Germany.
She first met James A. Garfield while both were attending a school. They renewed their friendship in 1851 as students of the Western Reserve Eclectic Institute. They got married on November 11, 1858.
In 1881, Garfield became the President of the United States. The family moved into the White House. Even at the age of 49, she was slim and looked lovely. She was not very much interested in her role as the First Lady. But, she was a charming lady and hosted parties at the White House. In May 1881, she fell ill and was suffering from malaria. She was resting at Long Branch, New Jersey, and was yet to become fit. At that time, she heard the news that someone had shot President Garfield, her husband. She rushed to Washington by train. On its way, the train met with an accident. She did not suffer any injury. When she reached Washington, she remained by the side of her husband. He could not remain alive and died after about three months. 
After his death, she left for Ohio. There she lived for 36 years, and spend her time in arranging and caring for the records of her husband’s career. A part of her home became a library for presidential library of her husband’s papers. 
She died at her home in South Pasadena, California on March 4, 1918. Her casket was placed above ground beside the coffin of her husband in the lower level crypt of the presidential tomb at Lake View Cemetery in Cleveland, Ohio.

</doc>
<doc id="32585" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32585" title="Biotechnology">
Biotechnology

Biotechnology is a technology that involves the use of living organisms. Biotechnology is mainly used in agriculture, food science, and medicine. In biotechnology, living organisms are used to make useful chemicals and products or to perform an industrial task.
An example of biotechnology is the use of the fermentation reaction in yeast to make beer and other alcoholic drinks. Another example is the use of carbon dioxide produced by yeast to make bread rise.
Biotechnology is often used to refer to genetic engineering technology of the 21st century. However, the term is used for many ways of modifying biological organisms for the needs of humanity. It started with modifications of native plants into improved food crops through artificial selection and hybridization. Bioengineering is the science upon which all biotechnological applications are based. With the development of new approaches and modern techniques, traditional biotechnology industries are also acquiring new horizons enabling them to improve the quality of their products and increase the productivity of their systems.
Biotechnology has also made cloning (the process duplicating organisms) possible. A lot of people think that this is morally wrong while others think it could solve many diseases.
Biotechnology can be used to solve a great number of problems, ranging from product efficiency to reducing global warming.

</doc>
<doc id="32589" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32589" title="Ida Saxton McKinley">
Ida Saxton McKinley

Ida Saxton McKinley (June 8, 1847 – May 26, 1907), wife of William McKinley, was First Lady of the United States from 1897 to 1901.
She was born in Canton, Ohio. Her father was James A. Saxton, who was a famous banker. He educated Ida and their sister well. After their schooling, they went to Europe on a tour. 
She started to work as a cashier in a bank. In 1867, Major William McKinley came to Canton to start his work as a lawyer. Ida and William McKinley came to know each other, and they fell in love. They married each other. While her husband devoted time to his work and career, Ida devoted time to her home and husband. 
She had a daughter on the Christmas Day of 1871. They named their daughter Katherine. She bore a second daughter in April 1873. At that time Ida was very weak and ill. The second daughter dies in August. Their first daughter also died in 1876. By this time, Ida had become very weak and an invalid. 
In the meanwhile, her husband has become a Congressman. He them became a governor of Ohio. He always paid his attention to his wife and cared for her. She spent most of her time in a small Victorian rocking chair. This chair was with her since her childhood.
When they entered the White House, Ida’s health was very weak. She took the role of the First Lady, but while seated in a blue velvet chair. She sat by the side of her husband during official dinners. The President kept a careful watch on her condition. At that time, very few people know of her bad physical condition. Only in recent years, people came to know of her bad physical condition. 
Just after his second term as the President of the United States, an assassin shot William McKinley. McKinley at that time also remembered his wife’s weak condition. He told his secretary: “My wife…be careful, how you tell her; oh, be careful.” 
After her husband’s death, Ida Saxton McKinley returned to Canton. Her younger sister cared for her. She visited her husband’s grave almost daily. She died in 1907. She lies buried by the side of her husband and their two daughters in Canton’s McKinley Memorial Mausoleum.

</doc>
<doc id="32591" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32591" title="Edith Bolling Wilson">
Edith Bolling Wilson

Edith White Bolling Galt Wilson (October 15, 1872 — December 28, 1961), second wife of U.S. President Woodrow Wilson, was First Lady of the United States from 1915 to 1921. She met the President in March 1915 and they married nine months later. 
Her husband had suffered a long illness. There were many things which the President was needed to do which he could not do. She helped him. Because of this, some people had called her "the Secret President" and "the first woman to run the government".
Wilson was born in Wytheville, Virginia. Her parents were Sallie White and Judge William Holcombe Bolling. She was their seventh child, out of the total eleven children. Through her grandmother, she was a direct descendant of Pocahontas. 
When she was 15 years old, she attended Martha Washington College to study music. She attended the second year at a smaller school in Richmond, Virginia.
Once when she was visiting her married sister in Washington, DC, Edith met Norman Galt. Norman Galt was a rich jeweler. She married him in 1896. For 12 years, she lived a good life in Washington D. C. But, she also faced some tragedies. In 1903, she gave birth to a son. The child only lived for a few days. The problem birth made her unable to have any more children. In 1908, her husband died. Edith Galt picked a manager to run the family’s jewelry business. The business continued to earn money. 
In 1915, President Wilson and Edith Galt met each other. President Wilson liked her and asked her to marry him. They married on 18th December 1915. While asking her to marry him, President Wilson had said like a poet: "in this place time is not measured by weeks, or months, or years, but by deep human experiences..." 
Their love and romance also created a lot of talks in the social circle. Once an article in a Washington newspaper was about the Wilson couple. It talked of the couple while they were seeing a play in a theater before their marriage. The article stated: "rather than paying attention to the play the President spent the evening entertaining Mrs. Galt." But, a printing error made it read like this: "rather than paying attention to the play the President spent the evening entering Mrs. Galt." The publishers called back the newspapers with the printing error. Still a few copies could not be called back. These copies are now very wanted items. 
Mrs. Wilson had all the qualifications to act as the First Lady. She began her role as the First lady. During this time, World War I started. This limited the social activities at the White House. In 1917, the United States also joined the war. Mrs. Wilson started helping her husband who was under a lot of pressure because of the war. She also went with him to Europe during the process of peace. 
President Wilson returned from Europe. He spent much of his time trying to get the Senate’s approval for the peace treaty. He was also trying to get approval for an agreement to create the League of Nations. In the meantime, his health was getting bad. In September 1919, he suffered a stroke. He became partially paralyzed. Edith Wilson always stayed with him. She took over many common duties of the government and helped her husband in many official matters. At the same time, she sent many other official matters to the heads of departments or allowed them to remain undone. 
She also wrote a book. The name of the book is "My Memoir". Its year of publication is 1939. In this book, she said that her husband’s doctors had asked her to take up many responsibilities of her husband. Many historians do not agree with her views. Phyllis Levin, a historian had described her as "a woman of narrow views and formidable determination". He blamed her for many failures of the policies of the United States after the First World War.
In 1921, the Wilson couple retired to live in Washington. After three years her husband, Woodrow Wilson, died. She continued to live in Washington. People liked her, and she became a respected figure in the high society of the capital. Some people say that she liked and admired younger men. She lived a long life and lived to see President John F. Kennedy's inaugural parade. She died on December 28, 1961, the 105th anniversary of her second husband's birth. At the time of her death, she was 89 years. This made her the third longest-lived First Lady after Bess Truman and Lady Bird Johnson, respectively.

</doc>
<doc id="32592" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32592" title="Florence Harding">
Florence Harding

Florence "Flossie" Mabel Kling Harding, previously DeWolfe (August 15, 1860 – November 21, 1924), wife of President Warren G. Harding, was the First Lady of the United States from 1921 to 1923.
Her birthplace is Marion, Ohio. Her birth name was Florence (Flossie) Mabel Kling. Her father’s name was Amos Kling. He was a rich and successful businessman. She was of German descent and French Huguenot ancestry. She did a course in music. 
When she was 19 years old, she ran away from her home along with her childhood friend named Henry De Wolfe. No document is available to prove their legal marriage. But, the “common law” of Ohio covered such marriages. De Wolfe turned out to be a heavy drinker and he spent a lot of money. Florence bore a son to him. The son’s name was Marshall Eugene De Wolfe, also known as Marshall Eugene Kling. Soon after the birth of her son, she divorced De Wolfe in 1886. She returned to Marion, and started living there. She also started using her maiden name, that is, the name before her marriage. De Wolfe died when he was 35 years old. 
She started to give piano lessons and started earning. However, her father did not like her daughter working and earning in this way. It was difficult for her to watch her son, and to give piano lessons. So she agreed to a proposal of his father. He gave her son to her parents to raise him. But, she continued to give piano lessons. 
Charity (Chat) Harding was one of her students. She was the eldest sister of Warren G. Harding. Harding was the young publisher of the town’s only newspaper named Marion Daily Star. Now, this paper’s name is the Marion Star. Florence became closer to Warren G. Harding. The two married in 1891. The couple did not get any children of their own. But, Florence’s son Marshall Eugene De Wolfe sometimes lived with them. 
Florence started to help her husband and his newspaper. Once she told: "I have only one real hobby - my husband." The newspaper’s circulation grew. Harding was also rising in politics of Ohio. He became a senator of the United States. In 1920, he won the US presidential elections. 
When the Harding couple moved into the White House, she opened the grounds to the public. Earlier, due to the illness of President Woodrow Wilson the grounds and the mansion had been closed. In 1920, she suffered kidney problems. But, still she continued as an active First lady. 
In the summer of 1923, the Harding couple started on their nationwide "Voyage of Understanding". During this journey, the President died in San Francisco, California in August 1923. 
After the death of her husband, she tried to make a new life for her. She wanted to live in Washington for some time. However, her kidney problems increased. She returned to Marion for treatment and recovery. The treatment continued for months but could not save her life. She died on 21st November 1924.
She lies buried along side her husband in the Harding Memorial in Marion, Ohio. Many historians think this be the most beautiful of Presidential Tombs in the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="32593" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32593" title="Lou Henry Hoover">
Lou Henry Hoover

Louise "Lou" Henry Hoover (March 29, 1874 - January 7, 1944) was the wife of Herbert Hoover, the President of the United States. As the wife of the president, she acted as the First Lady of the United States from 1929 to 1933.
Her birthplace is Waterloo, Iowa. Her parents were Charles D. Henry and Florence. She spent her first ten years of her life at Iowa. Then, her father thought that the climate of southern California would be good for the health of Florence, his wife. The family came to live in Whittier, California. The place was later the childhood home of President Richard Nixon.
Her father, Charles Henry took her on camping trips. She became a very good horsewoman. She also hunted. She also developed interest for rocks, mineral, and mining.
She studied in two schools and got a certificate in teaching. Then she came to study at the Stanford University in 1894. She completed her course and became the first woman in Stanford's geology department. There she had met in a laboratory Herbert Hoover, her senior at the University. 
Lou and Herbert Hoover married in 1899. Once Herbert Hoover said that her blue eyes and broad grins had attracted him. 
The newlywed couple went to China where her husband became famous as a mining engineer. He also worked in many other countries and places of the world: for examples, in places in Ceylon, Burma, Siberia, Australia, Egypt, Japan, and Europe. 
She had two sons: Herbert Charles Hoover (August 4, 1903 - July 9, 1969) and Allan Hoover (July 17, 1907 - November 4, 1993).
Her husband, Herbert Hoover earned a lot of fame after the First World War. He became famous for his good work in managing emergency relief programs. She lived with him, but sometimes spent time with her two sons in California. In 1919, the couple started constructing a house at Palo Alto, California. By this time, her husband became United States Secretary of Commerce. The couple lived in Washington for eight years. She did well socially as a wife of the Cabinet Secretary. She also took an active role in the Girl Scouts of the USA. She also served as the president of the Girl Scouts of the USA.
In 1929, the Hoover couple came to live into the White House. Lou Henry Hoover had a long experience as wife of a famous man who had worked in the United States and in many foreign countries. She started her role as the First Lady. She was charming and dressed handsomely. She did it very well all through the term of her husband as the President. However, during this period, the Hoovers broke a tradition. On the New Year’s Day of 1933, they were away from the White House. Thus, they were not present to greet the public personally. Their absence ended the tradition of the President and the First Lady greeting the public on the New Year’s Day. 
In 1933, the Hoovers couple retired to Palo Alto. But, they also kept an apartment in New York. Mrs. Hoover died on 7th January 1944 at the age of 69. She died of a heart attack. After her death, Mr. Hoover came to know of many gifts given by his wife. She had helped many boys and girls to get education. Mr. Hoover described her as: "a symbol of everything wholesome in American life."
Now, their house in Palo Alto is the official residence of the President of Stanford University. The house is one of the National Historic Landmarks. Lou Henry Hoover Elementary School in Whittier (built in 1938) bears her name in her honor. Her statue stands at the place where her childhood home was at Waterloo, Iowa. 

</doc>
<doc id="32594" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32594" title="Eleanor Roosevelt">
Eleanor Roosevelt

Anna Eleanor Roosevelt (October 11, 1884 − November 7, 1962) was the longest-serving First Lady of the United States, holding the post from 1933 to 1945 during her husband President Franklin D. Roosevelt's four terms in office.
She was also a political leader in her own right. She supported the American civil rights movement. After the death of her husband in 1945, she started her career, as an author, speaker and spokesperson for human rights. She became a new role model for First Lady. President Harry S. Truman called her the "First Lady of the World", in honor of her many travels to help promote human rights.
Roosevelt received 35 honorary degrees during her life. She had a relationship with an Associated Press journalist and was a bisexual.
Her birthplace is 56 West 37th Street, New York City, New York. Her parents were Elliott Roosevelt I and Anna Hall Roosevelt. Two brothers followed young Anna Roosevelt. The Roosevelt family was completed with the addition of Elliott Jr. (1889-1893) and Hall Roosevelt (1891-1941). She is a fifth-cousin, once removed of Franklin Roosevelt, who later became her husband.
She was a favorite niece of Theodore Roosevelt, one of the Presidents of the United States. 
Her family was a descendant of Claes Martenszen van Rosenvelt. He had came to New Amsterdam, Manhattan from the Netherlands in the 1640s. His grandsons, Johannes and Jacobus, began two branches of the Roosevelt family. Descendants of Johannes were Roosevelt family of the Oyster Bay, New York. Descendants of Jacobus were Roosevelt family of Hyde Park, New York. Eleanor was a descendant of the Johannes branch. Her future husband, Franklin was descended from the Jacobus branch. 
Theodore Roosevelt, one of the Presidents of the United States, was her uncle. He was like a father to Eleanor, the future First Lady. Anna Eleanor liked to use the name Eleanor, using her name as Anna Eleanor only in official papers and for signing bank checks. From her mother side, she was a descendent of William Livingston, a signer of the U.S. Constitution.
Her parents died early. After this, her maternal grandmother, Marry Ludlow Hall (1843-1919) raised her. She spent her childhood in Tivoli, New York. Most of her mother’s family members tended to look down at her, perhaps because of her plain looks and six-foot tall frame. Even her Hyde Park Roosevelts, including her future mother-in-law, Sara Delano Roosevelt, would remark to her about the Manhattan Roosevelts: "we got all the looks and the money." 
In recent times, allegations have surfaced that in her maternal grandmother’s home, she felt insecure. Many male members used to consume a lot of drinks. Once when she was visiting her aunt Bamie Roosevelt (sister of Theodore Roosevelt), she broke down and in tears exclaimed, "I have no real home." 
Aunt Bamie was very helpful. She tried to find better educational opportunities for her. She arranged that Eleanor go to England for education, and Eleanor readily agreed.
Eleanor received encouragement from Bamie Roosevelt, sister of Theodore Roosevelt, to get a good education. She went to London, and started her studies in a girls’ boarding school at Allenswood, outside London. She studied there from 1899 to 1902. Mademoiselle Marie Souvestre was her headmistress. Later Eleanor would recall that Souvestre was one of the three main persons to influence her life. 
During summers, Eleanor visited Europe along with her headmistress, Souvestre. She also studied history, language and literature. She became interested in social justice, and her studies gave her knowledge and confidence to present her views on many issues. One of her great moments at her school at Allenswood was when she made the field hockey team. She was one of the favorite students of the school, and when she returned to the USA, the school missed her.
In 1902 Eleanor and Franklin Delano Roosevelt (FDR) met when he was a student at Harvard. They dated and got engaged in November 1903. However, FDR’s mother was against their marriage. She even sent FDR on a long tour to delay the marriage, and change FDR’s mind. However, on St. Patrick’s Day (March 17, 1905) FDR and Eleanor married. President Theodore Roosevelt took the ceremonial role of giving the bride away. After the marriage, Eleanor’s mother-in-law, continued to advise (and perhaps interfere) in the young couple’s life. 
After her husband’s death in 1945, Eleanor Roosevelt continued to live on the Hyde Park Estate in a stone cottage near the main house. The structure originated as a small furniture factory Val-Kill Industries, and was converted to a cottage used by Eleanor and her close friends. The cottage afforded Eleanor a level of privacy that she had wanted for many years, and she considered it her first true home. The cottage is now called the Eleanor Roosevelt Center and hosts many programs that continue her legacy.
She started her role as the First Lady from 1933 with the beginning of her husband’s first term as the President of the United States. Eleanor was an active First Lady with her own ideology on many issues. 
She supported the American Civil Rights Movement (1896-1954) and rights of the African-American. However, her husband needed the support of Democrats of southern states of the USA. Therefore, he was not vocal about the American Civil Rights Movement. Eleanor became his connection to the African-American population instead, helping Franklin Roosevelt to win a lot of votes.
In 1939, the African-American opera singer Marian Anderson was denied permission by the Daughters of the American Revolution to perform at Constitution Hall in Washington because of her race. Eleanor arranged for Anderson to perform on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial, on Easter Sunday, to a live audience of 70,000. Millions of people also listened to the performance on the radio.
During the Second World War, Eleanor Roosevelt remained very active. Once she also co-chaired a committee on civil defense. She visited many places, both civilian and military, to boost war morale. She especially supported African Americans and women. 
During the Second War, her husband, as the President of the United States, signed an order named Executive Order 9066. This order confined in special camps about 110,000 American citizens of Japanese descent. Eleanor opposed her husband's decision to sign this order. 
For some period, she was earning $1,000 a week for advertising for the Pan-American Coffee Bureau. Eight foreign governments used to support and fund the Bureau. The US State Department tried to cancel the deal, but could not do so.
After the Second World War, she along with René Cassin, John Peters Humphrey and others, drafted a declaration for the United Nations: UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. She also served as the first chairman of the U.N. Human Rights Commission. On 10th December 1948, the United Nations General Assembly adopted the declaration. This made her very famous, and was a great achievement for her. 
For about four decades, beginning from 1920s until her death in 1962, Eleanor continued her association with political matters. She opposed the Equal Rights Amendment. She thought that this amendment would prevent the US Congress from passing other rules for protection of women workers. 
Roosevelt was an accomplished archer, and one of the first modern women to participate in the sport of bow hunting. She even wrote using a male name “Chuck Painton” about her hunting experiences in a popular hunting magazine of that time, "Ye Sylvan Archer". One of Roosevelt's prized hunting trophies had adorned her husband library. It is now a part of the Community Forum Collection of the Smithsonian Institution.
In July 1949, her unsure attitude toward American Catholics caused a public debate with Francis Cardinal Spellman, the Catholic Archbishop of New York. Eleanor had written against certain proposals like funding of certain (nonreligious) activities, such as bus transportation for students, of Catholic schools. Spellman pointed out that the Supreme Court had recently upheld such provisions. He also accused her of anti-Catholicism. Most Democrats rallied behind Eleanor Roosevelt and supported her. Spellman came to Eleanor's Hyde Park home to bridge their differences. 
In any case, Eleanor was never as popular among Catholics as her husband. They were also not happy at Eleanor’s support birth control movement. They had also resented her prewar (before the Second World War) sponsorship of the American Youth Congress, in which the Communists had been heavily represented, but Catholic youth groups were not represented.
In 1954, Carmine DeSapio campaigned against Eleanor's son, Franklin D. Roosevelt, Jr., during the New York Attorney General elections. Franklin (Jr.) lost. Eleanor held DeSapio responsible for her son's defeat. She became disgusted with the political conduct of DeSapio through the rest of 1950s. She, joined with her old friends like Herbert Lehman and Thomas Finletter, succeeded in removing DeSapio from power in 1961. 
Eleanor Roosevelt was a close friend of Adlai Stevenson. She supported his candidacies in the 1952 and 1956 presidential elections. She backed Stevenson once again in 1960 but John F. Kennedy received the presidential nomination.
In 1964, Eleanor Roosevelt helped in founding of the 2,800 acre Roosevelt Campobello International Park on Campobello Island, New Brunswick. This followed a gift of the Roosevelt summer estate to the Canadian and American governments.
Sara Delano Roosevelt was her mother-in-law. Even before Eleanor married FDR, She did not have a good relationship with Sara Delano. Biographers and historians still continue to discuss the issue and the reasons for their difficult relationship. However, in early years of her marriage, Eleanor valued suggestions from her mother-in-law until she herself could develop confidence in domestic matters. 
Perhaps Sara wanted great success for her son, FDR, in all matters of life, including marriage. She had always given her affection to FDR to the extent of spoiling him. She even gave costly gifts to FDR and Eleanor’s children. Sometimes, Eleanor had problems, which came with such costly gifts of her mother-in-law.
Eleanor always enjoyed the good graces of her uncle Theodore Roosevelt, the main figure of the Oyster Bay Roosevelts. However, she found herself at odds with her cousin Alice Roosevelt. Alice was a daughter of Theodore Roosevelt. Uncle Theodore felt Eleanor's conduct more responsible, socially acceptable and cooperative than his own daughter Alice. Alice was beautiful and highly photogenic, but a rebellious person. Sometimes Theodore Roosevelt would tell her, "Why cannot you be more like 'cousin Eleanor'?" These experiences laid a life-long unhappy relationship between two high profile cousins. 
With the rise in the political career of FDR, relationships between Eleanor and Oyster Bay Roosevelts became worse. There were comments by "cousin Alice," such as her description of FDR as "two-thirds mush and one-third Eleanor". However, at FDR’s presidential inauguration in 1933, invitations went to Alice to attend along with her brothers Kermit Roosevelt and Archibald Roosevelt, with whom Eleanor was close.
In 1961, all volumes of her autobiography were compiled into "The Autobiography of Eleanor Roosevelt". However, it will be printed some 45 years later. 
Eleanor Roosevelt survived her husband by nearly 20 years. From 1919, she had suffered from bone marrow tuberculosis. It had recurred from time to time. 
She died on the evening of November 7, 1962 at her apartment in Manhattan, New York City from tuberculosis. At the time of her death, she was 78 years old. She lies buried next to her husband, Franklin D. Roosevelt in Hyde Park, New York. People liked her so much that a commemorative cartoon published at the time simply showed two angels looking down towards an opening in the clouds with the caption "She's here", since no introduction was needed and people could understand that “she” meant Eleanor Roosevelt. 
Eleanor Roosevelt kept a life long strong loyalty with Theodore Roosevelt ("Uncle Ted"). Her belongings included her membership card for the Theodore Roosevelt Association.
In 1968 she received the United Nations Prize in the Field of Human Rights. After her death, there was an unsuccessful move to award her Nobel Peace Prize.

</doc>
<doc id="32595" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32595" title="Mamie Eisenhower">
Mamie Eisenhower

Mamie Geneva Doud Eisenhower (November 14, 1896 – November 1, 1979) was the wife of United States President Dwight D. Eisenhower, and First Lady of the United States from 1953 to 1961. 
She was born in Boone, Iowa. Her father was John Sheldon Doud. He became very rich after earning much money in meatpacking industry. For sometime, Doud family lived in Pueblo, Colorado. Then the family settled Denver, Colorado. There Mamie and her three sisters grew in a big house. The family had many servants. Her mother was a daughter of Swedish immigrants.
In 1915, Mamie met Dwight D. Eisenhower. At that time, he was a young second lieutenant. On Valentine's Day in 1916 he gave her a ring as token of their engagement. On July 1, 1916, they married.
Their first son, Doud Dwight, was born in 1917. He died in 1921 of scarlet fever. A second son, John Eisenhower was born in 1922. He became an author, and also served as a U.S. ambassador to Belgium.
Their life was like any other family of army officers – moving from one place to another. Mamie once estimated that in 37 years, they shifted to at least 27 places. They lived in many places in the United States. They also lived near Panama Canal; in France; and in Philippines.
During the Second World War, “Ike” continued to rise in the army. She lived in Washington DC. After the Second World War, her husband became president of the Colombia University. They bought a farm at Gettysburg, Pennsylvania. It was the first home they had ever bought. Before becoming President of the United States, her husband also served as the commander of the of North Atlantic Treaty Organization
Mamie Eisenhower was the First Lady for eight years, from 1953 to 1961. She was a popular First Lady. She was a charming lady. She wore pretty dresses and jewelry. Many leaders from different countries came to the White House. They received a very good welcome.
Her recipe for "Mamie's million dollar fudge" was cooked by homemakers all over the country after it was printed in the news.
After retirement of her husband as the President of the United States, Mamie and her husband returned to Gettysburg. They lived there eight years retirement together. In 1969, her husband died. Mamie continued to live on the farm. She died on 1st November 1979. At the time of her death she was 82 years old. Her grave lies by the side of her husband’s grave in a small chapel. The chapel is a part of the Eisenhower Library in Abilene, Kansas.
A park in southeast Denver, Colorado bears her name.

</doc>
<doc id="32596" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32596" title="Lady Bird Johnson">
Lady Bird Johnson

Lady Bird Johnson, (December 22, 1912 – July 11, 2007) was First Lady of the United States (1963–69) during the presidency of her husband Lyndon B. Johnson. Before becoming First Lady, she was Second Lady of the United States from 1961 to 1963.
Johnson was born Claudia Alta Taylor in Karnack, Texas. Her parents were Minnie Patillo-Taylor (1868-1918) and T.J. Taylor. There is a story about her nickname, Lady Bird. Once a nursemaid said about her, "She's as purty as a ladybird.” This nickname continued, and people called her ladybird. She was of Danish, English, Scottish, and Welsh ancestry.
She completed her schooling from Marshall Senior High School in Marshall, Texas. After schooling, she studied journalism and art at the University of Texas at Austin.
On November 17, 1934, she married Lyndon Baines Johnson in San Antonio, Texas. They had two daughters. The names of her daughters are Lynda Bird Johnson and Luci Baines Johnson. 
When she was a child, she developed love for the nature. Because of her efforts, the government of Texas agreed to plant wildflowers on the sides of the roads in Texas.
In 1963, a person shot John F. Kennedy, the President of the United States. Kennedy died after he was shot. At that time, Lady Bird Johnson’s husband, Lyndon B. Johnson, was the Vice President of the United States. Johnson became the President of the United States. Along with this, Lady Bird Johnson became the First Lady. She continued as the First Lady until 1969 till her husband retired as the President. 
She was an active First Lady. She was the first First Lady to have a press secretary. Liz Carpenter, her fellow from the University of Texas, served as Lady Bird’s press secretary from 1963 until 1969. Carpenter also served as Lady Bird’s staff director. 
As the First Lady, Lady Bird Johnson used her influence to achieve some new things for the society. Two important things were:
Even after retiring as the First Lady, Lady Bird Johnson continued to live an active life. She gave her time to programs that were for nature. She founded a non-profit organization. The name of the organization is Lady Bird Johnson Wildflower Center. The Center develops native plants of Americas and uses the same for cleaning up areas.
During 1970s, 1980s, and the early 1990s, Lady Bird Johnson was the most active presidential widow. During these years, Jacqueline Kennedy did not attend many functions, as she wanted to protect her privacy. However, with growing age, Lady Bird Johnson’s health became weak. She suffered two strokes: first one in August 1993, and the second one in May 2002. Her eyesight failed, and she could not speak. In February 2006, her daughter Lynda Johnson Robb informed people that her mother is now totally blind and that she "is not in very good health". Mrs. Robb said that she and her sister Luci Johnson Nugent still read to their mother and talk to her.
She was the only living Presidential widow from May 19, 1994 to June 5, 2004. This was the period between the death of Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis and the day when Nancy Reagan was widowed. Lady Bird Johnson died on July 11, 2007. Lady Bird Johnson was 94 years old. She was the oldest First Lady alive until her death. She had even outlived Pat Nixon, who was First Lady after Johnson. Only one First Lady had lived longer: Bess Truman. Bess Truman had lived up to 97 years of age. Lady Bird Johnson, Bess Truman, and Betty Ford are the only three First Ladies to have lived over 90 years or more. The United States Secret Service continued to protect her until she died.
Many places and characters are named after Lady Bird Johnson: 

</doc>
<doc id="32597" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32597" title="Pat Nixon">
Pat Nixon

Patricia Ryan Nixon (March 16, 1912 – June 22, 1993) was the wife of Richard Nixon and served as the First Lady of the United States from 1969 to 1974 and Second Lady of the United States from 1953 to 1961.
Her birthplace was Ely, Nevada. Her birth name was Thelma Catherine Ryan. Her father’s name was William M. Ryan. Her mother’s name was Katherine "Kate" Halberstadt Ryan. Her ancestors from her father’s side were from Ireland. Her ancestors from her mother’s side were from Germany. Her mother was born in 1879 near Frankfurt, Germany. 
Their family was not Catholic. But her father had got baptized as a Catholic, and perhaps returned to it shortly before her death. After her birth, her family moved near Los Angeles, California. They settled on a small truck farm in the city of Dairy Valley. Presently, the name of this place is Cerritos, California. 
When Thelma grew and entered college, she legally changed her name to Patricia. 
Pat's mother died in 1925. At that time, Pat was only 13 years old. She took over all the household duties for her father and two older brothers. In 1930, after months of illness, her father also died. At that time, Pat was only 18 years old. 
During all these years, she worked on the family farm. She also worked in a local bank as a janitor and bookkeeper.
In 1929, she graduated from Excelsior High School. For some time, she attended Fullerton Junior College. She worked in many jobs. Some of the jobs were the job of a driver, a X-ray technician, a pharmacy manager and a typist. 
She had a will to continue her education. She studied at the University of Southern California. During her studies in the University, she did part-time jobs on campus. She also worked as a sales clerk in a fashionable department store and as an extra in the film industry. She can be seen in a brief walk-on in the 1935 movie Becky Sharp. Pat's efforts became successful. She graduated from the University of Southern California cum laude in 1937. 
Patricia worked as a high school teacher in Whittier, California. Later, during World War II, she worked as a government economist.
Many persons have said about her: "Few, if any First Ladies worked as consistently before their marriage as did Pat Nixon." Once she had herself said: "I do or I die, but I never cancel out". 
In Whittier, Pat Ryan met a young lawyer named Richard Nixon. He had just graduated from Duke University. The two became known to each other at a acting group. They also acted together in a play. They became closer and married on 21st June 1940 at in Riverside, California.
Richard Nixon served in the U.S. Navy during World War II. After the war, in 1946 Richard Nixon entered politics. He successfully ran for the Congress of the United States. 
In 1946, she gave birth to a daughter Tricia Nixon Cox, called Tricia. In 1948, she gave birth to her second baby, Julie Nixon Eisenhower. The Nixon couple gave a lot of time and all the affection to their daughters despite official and other engagements. 
Her husband, Richard Nixon rose very fast during next six years. He became a member of the United States House of Representatives, then a member of the United States Senate. Thereafter, he became the Vice President of the United States while Dwight D. Eisenhower became the President of the United States. 
Pat went abroad along with her husband when he was the Vice President. On a trip to Venezuela, some people threw stones at their car and spat on the car. 
The Nixon couple came to the White House in 1969. They started a tradition of inviting families to Sunday church services in the East Room of the White House. The President later discontinued these services due to concerns over the separation of Church and State. In short, separation of Church and the State says that religion and the government should remain separate from each other. 
As the First Lady, she herself answered all her letters. Like Jacqueline Kennedy, she had an interest in adding artifacts to the White House. Her efforts brought about 600 paintings and furnishings into the White House Collection. Mrs. Nixon also arranged for a series of performances by artists at the White House. Among the guests were The Carpenters in 1972. 
Pat Nixon went along with her husband to several other countries. Most important of such visits were to the People's Republic of China in 1972 and the summit meetings in the Soviet Union. 
She went to Peru with materials to help the victims of an earthquake. She also went to Africa and South America as the Personal Representative of the president of the United States. 
Pat Nixon had several other personal interests. She was an avid fan of soap operas, and 'Search for Tomorrow' was her favorite. 
In August 1974, her husband resigned as the President of the United States. People say that while her husband was making his resignation speech, Mrs. Nixon was packing their things for moving out of the White House. They left the White House on 9th August 1974. They shifted to San Clemente, California to live.
Her husband resigned as the President of the United States. With this, her public and social life ended. She did not appear in public often. She was a lifelong heavy smoker in private. Her heath became very weak. In 1976, and again in 1982, she suffered a stroke. Richard Nixon said that she read a book about Watergate and became so upset that she had a stroke the next day. She also got mouth cancer and problems in her spinal cord. In December 1992, when she was in a hospital with emphysema, physicians found that she also had lung cancer.
She died of lung cancer at 5:45 am on June 22, 1993 at age 81. Her husband and daughters were by her side. Her husband died about ten months later. She and President Nixon lie buried at the Richard Nixon Library and Birthplace in Yorba Linda, California. Her epitaph reads: "Even when people cannot speak your language, they can tell if you have love in your heart".

</doc>
<doc id="32598" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32598" title="Nancy Reagan">
Nancy Reagan

Nancy Davis Reagan (born Anne Frances Robbins; July 6, 1921 – March 6, 2016) was the widow of Ronald Reagan, the 40th President of the United States and was First Lady of the United States from 1981 to 1989. 
Reagan was born in Manhattan, New York City. Her parents divorced soon after her birth. She grew up in Maryland. In Maryland, she lived with an aunt and uncle while her mother looked for acting jobs. She was an actress in Hollywood during the 1940s and 1950s. She starred in movies such as, "Donovan's Brain", "Night Into Morning" and "Hellcats of the Navy". 
In 1952, she married Ronald Reagan who was then president of the Screen Actors Guild. They had two children, Ron and Patti. Reagan was the First Lady of California when her husband was Governor from 1967 to 1975. She became part of the Foster Grandparents Program. 
Nancy Reagan became First Lady of the United States in January 1981 after her husband's election. She was criticized in his first term due to her decision to replace the White House china. Her interest in high-end fashion had much attention and criticism. She created the anti-drug campaign, "Just Say No" during her husband's presidency. 
She always protected her husband and controversy occurred when it was revealed in 1988 that she had hired an astrologer to assist in planning the president's schedule after the 1981 assassination attempt on her husband. She had a strong influence on her husband. She played a role in a few of his personnel and diplomatic decisions.
The Reagans left the White House in 1989. Nancy devoted most of her time to caring for her ill husband who was diagnosed in 1994 with Alzheimer's disease until his death in 2004. Nancy Reagan remained active within the Reagan Library and in politics. Until her death, Reagan supported and advocated stem cell research.
She was born in Manhattan, New York City. Her birthname was Anne Frances Robbins. The names of her parents were Kenneth Seymour Robbins and Edith Luckett. Edith Luckett was an actress. When Nancy was six years old, her mother married Dr. Loyal Davis. Dr. Loyal Davis was a neurosurgeon. Dr. Davis adopted Nancy as his daughter when she was 16 years old. She changed her name to Nancy Davis because this. She spent her childhood in Chicago, Illinois. She was also goddaughter of Russian-born silent movie star Alla Nazimova. Nancy studied at Girls' Latin School and at Smith College in Massachusetts. From Smith College, she was good in theater.
After her graduation, she became an actress. She acted in many plays and movies. One of them was the hit musical "Lute Song". She became famous as Nancy Davis. She had roles in eleven movies from 1949 to 1956. In a movie named Hellcats of the Navy (1957), she played a role. In the movie she co-starred along with her husband Ronald Reagan. Her last movie was 1958's "Crash Landing". After this, she appeared in television dramas until 1962. After 1962, she retired as an actress.
She met Ronald Reagan in 1951. At that time Reagan was the president of the Screen Actors Guild (SAG). Another actress with the same name (of Nancy) had appeared in a Hollywood blacklist. This name confusion had created problems for Nancy. Anyone with his or her name in the Hollywood blacklist was unable to get any work in any movie. As she would not get any roles due to the name in the Hollywood blacklist, she met Reagan to clear this issue. Over a period of time, they came closer to each other. They married on March 4, 1952 in Los Angeles, California. Nancy once remembered: "My life really began when I married my husband." 
The Reagans had two children. She gave birth to a daughter Patti Davis on October 21, 1952, seven months after the couple's wedding. She gave birth to a son named Ron Reagan on May 20, 1958. Nancy Reagan is also stepmother to Michael Reagan and the late Maureen Reagan. Michael and Maureen were the children of Ronald Reagan's first marriage to actress Jane Wyman.
Ronald Reagan was governor of California for two terms, from 1967 to 1975. During this period, Nancy Reagan was the First Lady of California.
The officials of the fire department had described official residence of the Governor in Sacramento, California as a “firetrap”. She then made Reagan and the whole family move to a wealthy suburb. Some people thought moving the governor's mansion was a bad idea.
She was very active as the First lady of California. She visited war veterans, the elderly people, and the handicapped people. She also worked with many groups working for charity. One such program was the Foster Grandparent Program. She continued her part with the Foster grandparent program when she came to Washington, D.C. as the First Lady of the United States.
When Ronald Reagan became President of the United States in 1981, Nancy Reagan began her role actively as the First Lady.
In her early years as the First Lady, a private foundation purchased new dishware for the White House. The cost was $ 200,000. This attracted bad publicity, as the US economy was facing recession at that time. She also used expensive fashion. This also attracted bad publicity sometimes. However, once in 1982 at Gridiron Club, she dressed in ragged clothes and sang "Second-Hand Rose". This made Nancy more popular.
Nancy Reagan took close interest in the affairs of the White House. Some people believe that she helped her husband make major decisions at the White House. People also remember her for conservative fashions. Her fashion was copied by many women of her time. She was also against use of drugs by young persons.
She also got interested in astrology as the First Lady. She used the services of Joan Quigley who was an astrologer. In 1981, her husband faced an assassination attempt. This made Nancy rely on astrology. She tried to influence appointments and movements of her husband based on astrology. At that time the White House Chief of Staff was Donald Regan. He did not find this very useful. There was a struggle between Donald Regan and the First Lady. Donald Regan resigned in 1987 because of this.
In October 1987, physicians found that Nancy Reagan had breast cancer. She underwent an operation, mastectomy.
In 1983 Reagan, Henry Kissinger (former Secretary of State) and philanthropists Barbara and Marvin Davis, appeared in an episode of the very popular soap opera Dynasty (TV series). In addition, Reagan appeared as herself in an episode of the popular sitcom "Diff'rent Strokes". She appeared on Diff'rent Strokes for her support for her "Just Say No" anti-drug campaign which she created.
Nancy Reagan lived in Bel Air, Los Angeles, California. 
In 1991, Kitty Kelley wrote a book about her. The book’s name is "Nancy Reagan: The Unauthorized Biography". The book became very famous and sold many copies. The book gives certain details like the former First Lady's association with astrology. It also talked about her White House meetings with Frank Sinatra.
She spent much of her time caring for her husband who was suffering from Alzheimer's disease. Ronald Reagan died in their Bel Air home on June 5, 2004. She asked President George W. Bush to support research in the hopes that such research would lead to a cure for Alzheimer's disease.
In 2004, Bob Colacello wrote a book "Ronnie and Nancy: Their Path to the White House, 1911-1980", published by Warner Books.
In 2005 she had gone to London to visit Margaret Thatcher and Charles, Prince of Wales. There she slipped over in her hotel room and had to undergo treatment in a hospital.
Following her husband's diagnosis and death, Nancy became a stem-cell research advocate. She urged Congress and President George W. Bush to support federal funding for embryonic stem cell research. President Bush opposed the idea. In 2009, she praised President Barack Obama for lifting restrictions on such research. Mrs. Reagan has said that she believes that it could lead to a cure for Alzheimer's.
Reagan died on March 6, 2016 in her home in Bel Air, Los Angeles. She died of congestive heart failure. Reagan was aged 94. She was buried next to her husband at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library on March 11.

</doc>
<doc id="32599" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32599" title="Furniture">
Furniture

Furniture is the word that means all the things like chairs, tables and cupboards. 
In other words, furniture are all the things that are in the house and that people can use to sit, to lie on or that are supposed to contain smaller things like cloths or cups. Furniture is made of wood, particle boards, leather, screws etc.
Bedroom furniture is the objects in the bedroom. The bed is covered by sheets, a bedspread and maybe a blanket. There is also a pillow on the bed. Next to the bed is the nightstand. It is also called the night table. A lamp may be on the nightstand. The dresser has drawers for clothes. On top of a dresser may be a mirror.
<br>

</doc>
<doc id="32601" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32601" title="Rhythm">
Rhythm

Rhythm refers to the length of time between each major "beat", or accent, such as in a piece of music. It is the sequence of sounds and silences which make up the rhythm. The first beat of a group of regular, evenly spaced beats usually feels stronger than the others. When we write music down, we put each group in bars (or “measures”). 
Rhythms can have different patterns which can be clapped or tapped. In Western music, these patterns are common: 
A conductor will beat time. The rhythm will fit in to this regular beat.
All musicians have to have a good sense of rhythm. To play or sing rhythmically they must keep a steady beat in their head (if playing alone), listen to the others players (if playing in groups) or watch the conductor (if there is one).
People who are playing on their own can practise with a metronome to help them to play to a steady beat. However, musicians also use rubato (rhythmic freedom), especially when playing music of a romantic nature. One has to learn to let the music “breathe” in the right way. This is not the same as playing unrhythmically (badly). It is something one learns with experience.
Feeling the rhythm in music is basically human. A person who has a stroke may lose language, but not the sense of rhythm. Neurologist Oliver Sacks says that chimpanzees and other animals do not have a sense of rhythm.
The word "rhythm" is used in other topics than music. The heart usually beats rhythmically, and when it does not, that is a sign of a health problem. Rhythms may be about much longer time periods than a bar of music. Everything living is rhythmic relating to the 24-hour light-dark cycle on earth. The moon has its rhythms and the tides have theirs.
Sometimes the word rhythm is used in a more general sense to mean the general flow of music or of life in general ("the rhythm of life").

</doc>
<doc id="32617" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32617" title="Necessary">
Necessary

If something is necessary, it is very important, otherwise something will be impossible, or it will not work as it should do. The opposite is unnecessary.
Something that is necessary is a necessity.
The "bare necessities of life" are things like food, clothes and shelter (things you need to keep alive).

</doc>
<doc id="32618" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32618" title="Inheritance">
Inheritance

Inheritance is the practice of passing on property, titles, debts, and duties when someone dies. Those things usually go to family members. Inheritance has been very important in human society for a long time.
If only sons and other male family members get the inheritance, it is called patrilineal succession. If only daughters and other female family members get the inheritance, it is called matrilineal succession.
Cultural inheritance is called legacy. Genetic inheritance is called heredity.
The person who gets the property and other things when someone dies is called the heir (male) or heiress (female).

</doc>
<doc id="32619" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32619" title="Consonant">
Consonant

All the letters in the alphabet are either consonants or vowels. A consonant is a speech sound in which the air is at least partly blocked, and any letter which represents this. Consonants may come singly or in clusters, but must be connected to a vowel to form a syllable.
Consonants have friction when they are spoken, mostly using the position of the tongue against the lips, teeth and roof of the mouth. "b" and "p" are "plosives", using the lips to produce a tiny sharp sound. Phonetics texts give more details, with diagrams. Consonants may be voiced or unvoiced. The th in "the" is voiced, but in "breath" is not.

</doc>
<doc id="32620" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32620" title="Vowel">
Vowel

A vowel is a speech sound made by the vocal cords. It is also a type of letter in the alphabet.
The letters of the English alphabet are either vowels or consonants or both. A vowel sound comes from the lungs, through the vocal cords, and is not blocked, so there is no friction. All English words have vowels.
These letters are vowels in English:
The letter Y can be a vowel (as in the words "cry", "sky", "fly" or "why"), or it can be a consonant (as in "yellow", "yacht", "yam" or "yesterday").
These five or six letters stand for about 20 vowel sounds in most English accents. This important fact helps to explain why pronunciation can be difficult for both native speakers and learners of English.

</doc>
<doc id="32627" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32627" title="F.C. United of Manchester">
F.C. United of Manchester

FC United are an English football team. They are from Manchester and were formed in 2005 by fans when Malcolm Glazer bought Manchester United.
FC United of Manchester play their home matches at Broadhurst Park, Moston, Manchester. They play in the National League North. They have a First team, Reserve team, Under-18s team, and Women's team.

</doc>
<doc id="32628" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32628" title="Metronome">
Metronome

A metronome is a small object that can be used by people who are practising instruments to help them to play in time. It is also something a composer can use to show the performer what speed to play.
A traditional metronome works by clockwork. It has a pendulum which makes a loud tick as it goes to and fro, like the pendulum of a grandfather clock. It has to be wound up after a few minutes of ticking. There is a weight on the pendulum which can be slid up or down and set to a particular speed. There are numbers on the metronome to which you can set it. These numbers mean the number of ticks per minutes. A speed of 60 will make it tick 60 times a minute (i.e. every second). The numbers usually go from 40 (slow) to 208 (very fast). Nowadays many people use electronic metronomes. These are very accurate, do not need to be wound and often have other helpful things like an A to tune to (see musical tuning). Some of them are hardly bigger than a credit card.
The metronome was invented by Dietrich Nikolaus Winkel in Amsterdam in 1812. A man called Johann Maelzel copied Winkel’s ideas and improved them. He made a small, portable metronome which was patented in 1816. 
The metronome made it possible for a composer to show the performer what speed he wanted. If the composer writes at the top of his music: Crotchet (quarter note) = 76, for example, then the metronome can be set at 76 and it will tick at the right speed for that piece of music. Sometimes they write "MM76". The "MM" stands for "Maelzel's Metronome". Beethoven was the first composer to use metronome markings, but he often gave very fast speed indications, and some people wonder whether he made mistakes or whether his metronome worked properly.

</doc>
<doc id="32635" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32635" title="Lübeck">
Lübeck

Lübeck is a city in the North of Germany, in the state of Schleswig-Holstein.
It has about 210,000 inhabitants and a university.
The city's full name is "Hansestadt Lübeck" (Hanseatic city of Lubeck) in memory of its history. It was an important part in the Hanseatic League. The architecture of the city and the region as well is influenced by this historic period. As the "Free City of Lübeck", the city was a state of the Weimar Republic. Other Hanseatic cities today are: Hamburg, Rostock, Wismar, Stralsund, Bremen, Greifswald and Demmin.
The most famous citizen is the author Günter Grass. He won the Nobel Prize for literature.
Luebeck has an oceanic climate ("Cfb" in the Koeppen climate classification).

</doc>
<doc id="32636" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32636" title="Weimar">
Weimar

Weimar is a city in the middle of Germany, in the state of Thuringa.
It has about 60,000 inhabitants and a university.
Most famous citizens in the past were the German poets Johann Wolfgang von Goethe and Friedrich Schiller.
The city is well known for the Weimar Republic, too. It was founded in Weimar in 1919.

</doc>
<doc id="32637" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32637" title="Augsburg">
Augsburg

Augsburg is a city in the South of Germany, in the state of Bavaria.
It has about 272,000 inhabitants and a university.
It was founded in the Roman age. In the time of Renaissance (after the Middle Ages) a family of bankers, the Fuggers, became very rich and powerful in Augsburg.
In 1555, a peace agreement called The Peace of Augsburg, between Catholics and Protestants was signed in Augsburg.
Augsburg has a humid continental climate ("Dfb" in the Köppen climate classification).

</doc>
<doc id="32638" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32638" title="Münster">
Münster

Münster is the historical capital of Westphalia and belongs now to the state of North Rhine-Westphalia.
It has about 270,000 inhabitants, an airport and a university.
Münster was very powerful in the Middle Ages and the Renaissance.
The Westphalian Peace was signed in Münster.

</doc>
