<doc id="77826" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77826" title="Natalee Holloway">
Natalee Holloway

Natalee Holloway (born October 21, 1986), from Mountain Brook, Alabama, United States, disappeared on May 30, 2005 during a graduation trip in Aruba. Holloway remains officially missing to this day, although according to Aruban authorities, she is most likely dead. The disappearance generated a media sensation in both the U.S. and Aruba and sparked considerable interest in the Netherlands.
Holloway was scheduled to fly home later on May 30, but failed to appear for her flight. She was last seen by her classmates outside Carlos'n Charlie's, a Caribbean chain restaurant and nightclub in Oranjestad, in a car with locals Joran van der Sloot and brothers Deepak and Satish Kalpoe. When questioned, the three men said they dropped her off at her hotel and denied knowing what became of Holloway. Upon further investigation by authorities, Van der Sloot was arrested twice on suspicion of involvement in her disappearance and the Kalpoes were each arrested three times. Due to lack of evidence the three men were released without charge after each arrest.
Natalee Ann Holloway was born October 21, 1986, in Clinton, Mississippi, the daughter of David Edward Holloway and Elizabeth Ann ("Beth") Holloway. Her parents divorced in 1993, and she and her younger brother Matthew were raised by their mother. In 2000, Elizabeth Holloway married George "Jug" Twitty, a prominent Alabama businessman, and Natalee moved with her family to Mountain Brook, Alabama. Holloway graduated with honors from Mountain Brook High School. She was also a member of the National Honor Society, her school Dance squad, and was a participant in other extracurricular activities.
On Thursday, May 26, 2005, Holloway and 124 fellow graduates of Mountain Brook High School, located in a wealthy suburb of Birmingham, Alabama, arrived in Aruba for a five-day, unofficial graduation trip. The graduates were accompanied by seven chaperones. According to teacher and chaperone Bob Plummer, the chaperones met with the students each day to ensure nothing was wrong. However, Jodi Bearman—the chaperone who organized the trip—has stated, "the chaperones were not supposed to keep up with their every move".
Police Commissioner Gerold Dompig, who would head the investigation from mid-2005 until 2006, described the behavior of the Mountain Brook students, stating there was "wild partying, a lot of drinking, lots of room switching every night. We know the Holiday Inn told them they weren't welcome next year. Natalee, we know, she drank all day every day.
Holloway was last seen by her classmates leaving the Aruban bar and night club Carlos'n Charlie's around 1:30 a.m. on Monday, May 30. Holloway left with 17-year-old Joran van der Sloot, a Dutch honors student living in Aruba and attending the Aruba International School, and his two Surinamese friends, 21-year-old Deepak Kalpoe and 18-year-old Satish Kalpoe, in Deepak Kalpoe's car. Holloway, who had been scheduled to fly home later on May 30, did not appear for her return flight. 
On May 30, 2005, immediately following Holloway's missed flight, Jug and Beth Twitty traveled to Aruba with friends by private jet. Within four hours of landing in Aruba, the Twittys presented the Aruban police with the name and address of Van der Sloot as the person with whom Holloway left the nightclub. Beth Twitty has stated that Van der Sloot's full name was given to her by the night manager at the Holiday Inn, who supposedly recognized him on a videotape. The Twittys and their friends, with two Aruban policemen, went to the Van der Sloot home looking for Holloway. Van der Sloot initially denied knowing Holloway's name, but he then told the following story, with which Deepak Kalpoe, who was present, agreed. Van der Sloot related that they drove Holloway to the California Lighthouse area of Arashi Beach because Holloway wanted to see sharks, before dropping Holloway off at her hotel around 2:00 a.m. According to Van der Sloot, Holloway fell down as she exited the car but refused Van der Sloot's help. He stated that she was then approached by a dark man in a black shirt similar to those worn by security guards as the young men drove away.
The search for physical evidence was extensive and, on occasion, subject to false leads; for example, a possible blood sample taken from Deepak Kalpoe's car was tested but determined not to be blood.
On June 9, 2005, Van der Sloot and the Kalpoe brothers were arrested on suspicion of kidnapping and murdering Holloway. Aruban law allows for arrest on serious suspicion from investigators; to continue holding the suspect in custody, an increasing evidentiary burden must be met at periodic reviews. According to Dompig, the focus was on these three suspects from the "get-go". Dompig stated that surveillance of the three began three days after Holloway was reported missing, and included surveillance, telephone wire taps, and even monitoring of their e-mail. Dompig indicated pressure from Holloway's family caused them to stop their surveillance prematurely and to detain the three suspects. On Monday, July 4, following hearings before a judge, Deepak and Satish Kalpoe were released, but Joran van der Sloot was detained for an additional sixty days.
On April 15, 2006 Geoffrey von Cromvoirt was arrested by Aruban authorities on suspicion of criminal offenses related to dealing in illegal narcotics that, according to the prosecutor, might have been related to the disappearance of Holloway. At his first court appearance, his detention was extended for eight days. However, Von Cromvoirt was released on April 25, 2006. In addition, another individual with initials "A.B." was arrested on April 22, 2006, but was released the same day.
On May 17, 2006 another suspect Guido Wever the son of a former Aruban politician, was detained in the Netherlands on suspicion of assisting in the abducting, battering, and killing of Holloway. Wever was questioned for six days in Utrecht. While initially Aruban prosecutors sought his transfer to the island, he was instead released by agreement between the prosecutor and Wever's attorney.
With Aruban investigators citing what was described as newly discovered evidence, Joran van der Sloot and Satish and Deepak Kalpoe were rearrested November 21, 2007, on suspicion of involvement in "manslaughter and causing serious bodily harm that resulted in the death of Holloway". Van der Sloot was detained by Dutch authorities in the Netherlands, while the Kalpoe brothers were both detained in Aruba. Van der Sloot subsequently returned to Aruba and was incarcerated.
In November 2007, Dave Holloway announced a new search for his daughter, probing the sea beyond the original depths in which earlier searches had taken place. That search, involving a vessel called the "Persistence", was abandoned due to lack of funds at the end of February 2008 with nothing of significance found.
On November 30, 2007, a judge ordered the release of Satish and Deepak Kalpoe, despite attempts by the prosecution to extend their detention. The two brothers were released on the following day. The prosecution appealed the Kalpoes' release. That appeal was denied on December 5, 2007, with the court writing, "Notwithstanding expensive and lengthy investigations on her disappearance and on people who could be involved, the file against the suspect does not contain direct indications that Natalee passed away due to a violent crime". Van der Sloot was released without charge on December 7, 2007, due to lack of evidence implicating him as well as a lack of evidence that Holloway died as the result of a violent crime. The prosecution indicated it would not appeal.
On December 18, 2007, prosecutor Hans Mos officially declared the case closed, and that no charges would be filed due to lack of evidence. The prosecution indicated a continuing interest in the Kalpoes and Joran van der Sloot (though they are now no longer legally suspects), and alleged that one of the three, in a chat room message, had stated that Holloway was dead. This was hotly contested by Deepak Kalpoe's attorney, who stated that the prosecution, in translating from Papiamento to Dutch, had misconstrued a reference to a teacher who had drowned as one to Holloway. Attorney Ronald Wix also stated, "Unless (Mos) finds a body in the bathroom of one of these kids, there's no way in hell they can arrest them anymore".
On January 31, 2008, Dutch crime reporter Peter R. de Vries claimed that he had solved the Holloway case. De Vries stated that he would tell all on a special television program on Dutch TV on February 3. Beth Twitty's attorney, John Q. Kelly, told ABC News that he had little faith that the supposed evidence would prove pivotal to the case and suggested that it would be quickly debunked.
The broadcast aired February 3, 2008. The broadcast included excerpts from footage recorded from hidden cameras and microphones in the vehicle of Patrick van der Eem, a Dutch businessman and ex-con, who gained Van der Sloot's confidence. Van der Sloot was seen smoking marijuana and stating that he was with Holloway when she began convulsively shaking, then became unresponsive. Van der Sloot stated that he attempted to revive her, without success. He said that he called a friend, who told Van der Sloot to go home and who disposed of the body. An individual reputed to be this friend, identified in the broadcast as Daury, has subsequently denied Van der Sloot's account, indicating that he was then in Rotterdam at school.
On February 8, 2008, Van der Sloot met with Aruban investigators in the Netherlands. Van der Sloot denied that what he said on the tape was true, stating that he was under the influence of marijuana at the time. Van der Sloot indicated that he still maintains that he left Holloway behind on the beach.
On March 20, 2009, Dave Holloway flew a search dog to Aruba to search a small reservoir in northern Aruba, previously identified by a supposed witness as a possible location of Natalee's remains. Aruban authorities indicated that they had no new information in the case, but that Holloway had been given permission to conduct the search.
On February 23, 2010, it was reported that Joran van der Sloot had stated in an interview (first offered to RTL Group in 2009) that he had disposed of Holloway's body in a marsh on Aruba. New chief prosecutor Peter Blanken indicated that authorities had investigated the latest story, and had dismissed it. Blanken stated that "The locations, names, and times he gave just did not make sense".
An underwater photograph taken by an American tourist while snorkeling in October 2009 was publicized in March 2010 after the photographer stated that the image depicted something on the sea bed which resembled human remains. Aruban authorities indicated that they would send a dive team to examine the site.
Beth Twitty alleged in televised interviews that Joran van der Sloot and the Kalpoe brothers know more than they have told, and that at least one of them sexually assaulted or raped her daughter. Twitty has stated that she has received copies of police statements stating that Joran van der Sloot admitted having sex with Holloway at his home and described intimate details of her. She has never released copies of the alleged statement, though she characterizes them as admissions of "sexual assault" and Vinda de Sousa, former Holloway–Twitty family Aruban attorney, has indicated that no such admission was made. In addition, Dompig has denied that any such statement was made, stating that Van der Sloot and the Kalpoe brothers consistently denied having sex with Holloway. 
Twitty has been criticized for her focus on Joran van der Sloot and the Kalpoe brothers, to the exclusion of any other theory as to what happened to Holloway. According to the lawsuit filed by the Kalpoe brothers, she has (on various television programs) repeatedly accused them, and Joran van der Sloot, of "sexual assault" and "gang rape" of her daughter. 
Following the airing of the De Vries program, Beth Twitty, adhering to the position that the tapes represent the way events transpired, told the "New York Post" that she believes her daughter might still be alive if Van der Sloot had called for help. She contends that Van der Sloot dumped Holloway's body, possibly alive, into the Caribbean. Twitty also alleges that the individual Joran van der Sloot supposedly called that evening was his father, Paulus, who, according to Twitty, "orchestrated what to do next". She, and Dave Holloway, alleged that Joran van der Sloot was receiving "special legal favors". After the court decision not to rearrest Van der Sloot was affirmed, Twitty stated, "I think that what I do take comfort in, his life is a living hell", later adding, "I'd be good with a "Midnight Express" prison anywhere for Joran.
Twitty's book "Loving Natalee: A Mother's Testament of Hope and Faith",written under the name "Beth Holloway", which she has resumed following her divorce from Jug Twitty, was released on October 2, 2007. The release was accompanied by a number of TV appearances, including a full hour on "On the Record". A television movie, titled "Natalee Holloway", based in part on Beth Twitty's book, was made by LMN (formerly the Lifetime Movie Network). Twitty continues to make television appearances when there are new developments in the case.
In October 2008, the Lifetime Movie Network (LMN) announced plans to create a television movie, "The Natalee Holloway Story", based on Beth Twitty's book "Loving Natalee: A Mother's Testament of Hope and Faith". The senior vice president of original movies, Tanya Lopez, stated in the announcement that the network was "pleased to be working closely with Natalee's mother" and that they intended to tell the story of Holloway's disappearance "sensitively and accurately". The movie was expected to focus on Beth Twitty's involvement in the search for Holloway. The movie, which aired April 19, 2009, under the title "Natalee Holloway", stars Tracy Pollan as Beth Holloway, Grant Show as George "Jug" Twitty, and Amy Gumenick as Natalee Holloway. The movie brought in the highest television ratings in Lifetime's 11 year history, with average viewership of 3.2 million people and more than 1 million women in the 18-49 age bracket. Although the movie set ratings records for Lifetime, the movie was not received well by critic Alec Harvey of "The Birmingham News". Harvey called the movie "sloppy and uneven, a forgettable look at the tragedy that consumed the nation's attention for months".
U.S. television networks devoted much air time to the search for Holloway, the investigation of her disappearance, and rumors surrounding the case. Greta Van Susteren, host of Fox News' "On The Record", and Nancy Grace on CNN's "Headline News" were among the most prominent television personalities to devote time to the incident. Van Susteren's almost continuous coverage of the story caused "On The Record" to get its best ratings to date, while Grace's show became the cornerstone of the new "Headline Prime" block on Headline News, which ran two episodes (a live show and a repeat) every night during prime-time. As the case wore on, much of the attention was given to Beth Twitty and her statements. Aruban government spokesman Ruben Trapenberg stated, "The case is under a microscope, and the world is watching". Locally, the Aruban press published extensive news on the story in Dutch, English, and Papiamento.
The saturation of coverage triggered a backlash among some critics who argued that such extensive media attention validates the "missing white woman syndrome" theory, which argues that missing-person cases involving white skinned women and girls receive disproportionate attention in the media compared with cases involving white males or people of color. CNN ran a segment criticizing the amount of coverage their competitors gave to the story despite what they characterized as a lack of new items to report, with CNN news anchor Anderson Cooper calling the coverage "downright ridiculous".
Early in the case, political commentator and columnist Arianna Huffington wrote, "If you were to get your news only from television, you'd think the top issue facing our country right now is an 18-year-old girl named Natalee who went missing in Aruba. Every time one of these stories comes up, like, say, Michael Jackson, when it's finally over I think, what a relief, now we can get back to real news. But we never do".
In March 2008, "El Diario" commented, "But if doubts persist about cases involving missing Latinas, there are reasons why. These cases rarely receive the attention and resources we see given to other missing persons. The English-language media, for example, appear to be focused on the stories of missing white women, such as with the disappearance of Natalee Holloway in Aruba. Cases of missing Latina and African American women often remain faceless, when they are even covered".

</doc>
<doc id="77829" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77829" title="Australosphenida">
Australosphenida

Australophenida are a clade of mammals which has nearly entirely died out. Today, living specimen exist only in Australia and New Guinea with only five surviving species species, but fossils have been in Madagascar and Argentina. Species consist are of the platypus and echidnas.
This grouping includes the following animals:

</doc>
<doc id="77830" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77830" title="Steropodontidae">
Steropodontidae

Steropodontidae was a family of monotremes that are known fossils from the Early Cretaceous in Australia.

</doc>
<doc id="77831" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77831" title="Steropodon">
Steropodon

Steropodon galmanii was a prehistoric species of monotreme, or a egg-laying mammal, that lived during the Mesozoic, in the Lower Cretaceous period. It is the second-earliest known relative of the platypus: the earlist is called "Teinolophos".

</doc>
<doc id="77832" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77832" title="Kollikodon">
Kollikodon

Kollikodon ritchiei is a fossil monotreme species. It is known from an opalised teeth frgament, with one premolar and two molars in situ. The fossil was found al Lightning Ridge, New South Wales, Australia.

</doc>
<doc id="77833" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77833" title="Teinolophos">
Teinolophos

Teinolophos trusleri was a prehistoric species of monotreme, or egg-laying mammal. It is known from a lower jawbone found in Flat Rocks, Victoria, Australia. It lived during the Lower Cretaceous, about 123 million years ago (mya).

</doc>
<doc id="77838" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77838" title="Obdurodon">
Obdurodon

Obdurodon is a extinct monotreme genus. "Obdurodon" differed from modern Platypuses in that it still had teeth (except for juveniles, the modern platypus does not have teeth).

</doc>
<doc id="77849" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77849" title="Mario (disambiguation)">
Mario (disambiguation)

Mario is a Nintendo video game character. It may also mean:

</doc>
<doc id="77861" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77861" title="Curtiss P-40 Warhawk">
Curtiss P-40 Warhawk

The Curtiss P-40 (also called the Tomahawk, Warhawk, and Kittyhawk) was a fighter aircraft that could also be used for attacking things on the ground. It was made by Curtiss. It first flew in 1938 and saw combat during World War II. It was not as fast high up as the German Luftwaffe fighters, but was used a lot in other places. It was used not only the United States Army Air Force, but also a mercenary air force called the "Flying Tigers." They put the mouth of a shark on their P-40s. It could fly to 360 miles per hour. In 1948, the United States Air Force stopped using it.

</doc>
<doc id="77869" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77869" title="Flying Tigers">
Flying Tigers

The Flying Tigers was a group of American fighter pilots from the United States Army Air Force, the United States Navy, and the United States Marine Corps. Claire Lee Chennault commanded it.
During 1937, Claire Lee Chennault retired from the American military and became the military advisor to China. He to looked at their air force. It was bad, and could not fight their enemy, Japan. In 1938, Chennault was going to make the Flying Tigers. In late 1941, after Pearl Harbor, the Flying Tigers started fighting the Japanese.
The airplane they used was the Curtiss P-40 Warhawk. There were about 100 of the fighter aircraft. They could not turn with the Japanese fighters, such as the A6M Zero, Ki-43 Oscar, and Ki-27 Nate, but the P-40 was tough, had more guns, and was faster in a dive.
The Flying Tigers stayed in World War II for the whole time.
The Flying Tigers are well known for things. One thing was their airplane paint, which had a shark face on the sides. They were also known for fighting hard during the war. Franklin D. Roosevelt had said they were good.
The following are flying aces from the Flying Tigers, with their air-to-air victory credits: (In alphabetical order).

</doc>
<doc id="77870" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77870" title="Shusha">
Shusha

Shusha also known as Shushi () is a town in the region of Nagorno-Karabakh, in self-proclaimed Nagorno-Karabakh Republic. The city was also a major center of Armenian cultural and economic life until the World War I. Along with Tbilisi; it was one of the two main Armenian cities of the Transcaucasus and the center of a self-governing Armenian principality in the 1720s. It also had religious and strategic importance to the Armenians, housing the Ghazanchetsots Cathedral, the church of Kanach Zham and serving (along with Lachin district to the west) as a land link to Armenia. 
After serving as a town and an "ancient" fortress in the Armenian Principality of Varanda, Shusha was turned into the capital of the Karabakh khanate. According to other sources, Shusha was founded in 1750-1752 (according to other sources, 1756-1757) by Panah-Ali khan Javanshir (r. 1748-1763), the founder and the first ruler of the independent. The first capital of the Karabakh khanate was castle of Bayat, built in 1748 in the district of Kebirli. However, soon afterwards Panah Ali khan realized that in order to secure himself and his newly-established khanate from external threats, and especially from the invasions from Iran, he needed to build a new more reliable castle. Shusha was a popular mountainous-climatic recreation resort in the Soviet Union. After the anti-Armenian Shushi Massacres in 1920 it became the only large settlement in the Soviet autonomy of Nagorno-Karabakh (1921-1991) with predominantly non-Armenian population. On May 8-9, 1992 the city was captured by Armenian armed forces.

</doc>
<doc id="77874" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77874" title="Doritos">
Doritos

Doritos is a brand of flavored corn (maize) tortilla chip snack. They have been made by the American food company Frito-Lay since 1966. They come in different flavors, including Nacho Cheese and Cool Ranch. They may be eaten with a dip such as salsa.

</doc>
<doc id="77880" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77880" title="Mount Silverthrone">
Mount Silverthrone

Mount Silverthrone is a 20 km wide, deeply dissected caldera complex in southwestern British Columbia, Canada. Most of its eruptions occurred during the last ice age. The products have since been heavily eroded. It is the highest peak in the Ha-Iltzuk Icefield, the largest icefield in the Coast Mountains south of the Alaska Panhandle.

</doc>
<doc id="77881" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77881" title="AIM-9 Sidewinder">
AIM-9 Sidewinder

The AIM-9 Sidewinder is a short-range air-to-air missile, which means it is shot from an aircraft and is supposed to hit an aircraft. It is heat seeking, which means it locks on to heat. It first flew in 1953, and went into air forces in 1956. It was used during the Vietnam War along with the AIM-7 Sparrow, but was not good. At the time, it would hit only 10-20% of the time, and could be fooled. Sometimes it could lock on to the sun or other bogus heat source and not an enemy airplane.
The problems were later fixed, and the new Sidewinders have a good hitting rate. It is in a lot of air forces. The missile can hit from 11 miles. It is used a lot.

</doc>
<doc id="77882" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77882" title="X-intercept">
X-intercept

The x-intercept of a line on a graph is where the line touches (intercepts) the x-axis.

</doc>
<doc id="77886" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77886" title="Liberty">
Liberty

Liberty means the condition in which an individual has the ability to act following his or her own will and alternatively, achieve their potential, within the context of other words like political freedom. It is term that has contested meanings.
Communism and socialism can be defined as liberty because of their social equality ideals
Classical liberalism conceptions of liberty conceive mainly of the freedom of the individual from outside compulsion in terms of freedom from restraint and social liberalist perspective, on the other hand, highlights the need for social and economic equality, as in the power and resources to fulfill one's potential. As such, a social liberalist connects liberty (i.e. freedom) to the equal distribution of political power (i.e. democracy) in the sense of positive liberty. They argue that liberty without equality means the domination of the most powerful. Thus, freedom and democracy are seen as connected and ultimately, antagonistic.
John Stuart Mill, in his work, "On Liberty", was the first to recognize the difference between liberty as the freedom to act and liberty as the absence of coercion (being forced to do something). Mill also sought to define the "nature and limits of the power which can be legitimately exercised by society over the individual” and as such, he describes an inherent and continuous antagonism between liberty and authority and thus, the prevailing question becomes "how to make the fitting adjustment between individual independence and social control".
Some of the main types of human freedom are: freedom to life, freedom of association, freedom of belief, freedom of speech, freedom to express oneself, freedom of the press, freedom to choose one's state in life. However, the civil constitutions of each country have different definitions of the freedoms allowed to the citizens. It has been argued that any law limits freedom, since it sets limits on what people may do.

</doc>
<doc id="77888" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77888" title="Liberty (disambiguation)">
Liberty (disambiguation)

Liberty generally means the condition in which an individual has the ability to act following his or her own will.
Liberty may also refer to:
Liberty is the name of a number of places in the United States:

</doc>
<doc id="77889" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77889" title="Dignity">
Dignity

Dignity in humans involves the earning or the expectation of personal respect or esteem.
"All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. They are endowed with reason and conscience and should act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood".
Article 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
It is easy to show that many societies do not agree with this in practice. The civilised Greeks and Romans regarded other races as barbarians. A shocking example was Aristotle's advice to Alexander to be 'a leader to the Greeks and a despot to the barbarians, to look after the former as after friends and relatives, and to deal with the latter as with beasts or plants'. Many societies based on religion have treated persons of other religions harshly, with little dignity. And sometimes political movements have deliberately and openly talked about and treated some groups as not having human dignity. Nazi treatment of the Jews came after a long period of propaganda against their humanity and dignity.

</doc>
<doc id="77890" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77890" title="Dignity (disambiguation)">
Dignity (disambiguation)

Dignity in humans involves the earning or the expectation of personal respect or of esteem.
Dignity could also mean:
In music:
Concepts:
Relating to non-governmental organisations:
Political Parties:
Dignity may also refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="77891" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77891" title="Association">
Association

Association can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="77892" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77892" title="Voluntary association">
Voluntary association

A voluntary association or union is a group of individuals who enter into an agreement to form a body (or organization) to work together for a purpose.
In most of the cases no formalities are necessary to start an association. But in some jurisdictions, there is a minimum for the number of persons starting an association, in others the association must register with the police or other official body to inform the public of the association's existence. This is not necessarily a tool of political control but much more a way of protecting the economy from fraud.
An unincorporated association has been defined as existing:
In most countries, an unincorporated association does not have separate legal personality, and nor do members of the association usually enjoy limited liability. However, in some countries they are treated as having separate legal personality for tax purposes.
Associations that are organized for profit or financial gain are usually called partnerships. A special kind of partnership is a co-operative which is usually founded on one man–one vote principle and distributes its profits according to the amount of goods produced or bought by the member. Associations may take the form of a non-profit organization or they may be not-for-profit corporations; this does not mean that the association cannot make benefits from its activity, but all the benefits must be reinvested. Most associations have some kind of document or documents that regulate the way in which the body meets and operates. Such an instrument is often called the organization's bylaws, regulations, or agreement of association.
The freedom of association stands in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights:

</doc>
<doc id="77918" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77918" title="Helen Keller">
Helen Keller

Helen Keller was an American writer and speaker. She was born in Tuscumbia, Alabama in 1880. When she was nineteen months old she became sick and lost her eyesight and hearing. The doctor didn't know what it was, so he called it a "congestion of the stomach and brain." Some people say that it was scarlet fever or meningitis. She was an obedient and good girl .
When Helen was seven years old, her family decided to find a teacher for her. They wrote to Michael Anagnos, who was the director of the Perkins Institute and Asylum for the Blind. They asked him to help them find a teacher for their daughter. He wrote to them and told them that he knew a young teacher and her name was Anne Sullivan. She had been blind, but a series of operations helped restore her eyesight. Anne traveled to Alabama to live with Helen’s family and to teach her. Anne went to live with the Keller family in March, 1887.
Anne helped Helen to learn how to communicate with other people. She taught her the names of things by writing the words on Helen’s hand. Helen's first word was "water". She learned this word when Anne put Helen's hand under some water and wrote W,A,T,E,R on her hand. Then she learnt the words with this method. In 1890, Helen’s family sent her to the Perkins Institute to learn how to speak and communicate. When she was nineteen years old, Helen went to Radcliffe College in Massachusetts. She graduated from Radcliffe in 1904. She was the first deaf and blind person to earn a Bachelor of Arts degree.
In 1903, Helen wrote a book about her life. It was called "The Story of My Life". The movie "The Miracle Worker", made in 1962, was based on Helen's book. She also wrote a book about Anne Sullivan called "Teacher". She wrote twelve other books.
Helen tried to help poor people and other blind people during her life. She traveled to over 39 countries with Anne to talk about her life and experiences. When Helen was in Japan, she met Hachiko, a famous Akita dog. She decided to adopt an Akita, and was the first person to bring an Akita to America.
Helen Keller wanted to get married. She fell in love with her secretary, but her mother didn't allow Helen to marry him. At that time, disabled people often could not marry. Helen Keller died in her sleep on June 1, 1968, at Arcan Ridge in Connecticut.

</doc>
<doc id="77919" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77919" title="Pausanias (geographer)">
Pausanias (geographer)

Pausanias (Greek: ) was a Greek traveller and geographer of the 2nd century A.D., who lived in the times of Hadrian, Antoninus Pius and Marcus Aurelius. He is famous for his "Description of Greece" (), a lengthy work that describes ancient Greece from firsthand observations. He is a crucial link between classical literature and modern archaeology. 
Pausanias was probably a native of Lydia; he was certainly familiar with the western coast of Asia Minor, but his travels extended far beyond the limits of Ionia. Before visiting Greece he had been to Antioch, Joppa and Jerusalem, and to the banks of the River Jordan. In Egypt he had seen the Pyramids, while at the temple of Ammon he had been shown the hymn once sent to that shrine by Pindar. In Macedonia he had almost certainly viewed the traditional tomb of Orpheus. Crossing over to Italy, he had seen something of the cities of Campania and of the wonders of Rome. He was one of the first to write of seeing the ruins of Troy, Alexandria Troas, and Mycenae.
Pausanias' "Description of Greece" takes the form of a tour in Ionia on the coast of Asia Minor and in the Peloponnese and part of northern Greece. He constantly describes ceremonial rites or superstitious customs. He frequently introduces narratives from the domain of history and of legend and folklore, and it is only rarely that he allows the reader to see something of the scenery. 

</doc>
<doc id="77929" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77929" title="Dignitas">
Dignitas

In Ancient Rome, Dignitas was regarded as the sum of the personal influence that a male citizen acquired throughout his life. It included personal reputation, moral standing, and ethical worth and the man's entitlement to respect and proper treatment as well.
The word does not have a direct connotation or translation in English. Some interpretations include dignity (merely a derivation) and prestige. The Oxford Latin Dictionary defines the expression as fitness, suitability, worthiness, visual impressiveness or distinction, dignity of style and gesture, rank, status, position, standing, esteem, importance, and honor.
Authors who had used "dignitas" extensively in their writings and oratories include M. Tullius Cicero, Julius Caesar, Cornelius Tacitus, and T. Livius (Livy). The most prolific user was Cicero, who initially related it to the established term auctoritas. These two words were highly associated, auctoritas was thought to be the expression of a man’s "dignitas".
Over the course of Ancient Roman history, "dignitas" took on different meanings over time, adjusting for the gradually changing viewpoints of society, politicians, and the various authors.
Years after Caesar's death, his heir Augustus rejected the contemporary meaning of "dignitas". Augustus found the related term "auctoritas" to be a suitable alternative.

</doc>
<doc id="77930" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77930" title="Tacitus">
Tacitus

Publius (or Gaius) Cornelius Tacitus (ca. 56 – ca. 117) was a senator and a historian of the Roman Empire. The surviving parts of his two major works—the "Annals" and the "Histories"—report about the reigns of the Roman Emperors Tiberius, Claudius, Nero, Galba, Otho, Vitellius, and Vespasian. 
Experts believe Tacitus wrote these five works that have survived. The dates are approximate:

</doc>
<doc id="77931" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77931" title="Tacitus (disambiguation)">
Tacitus (disambiguation)

Tacitus was a Roman historian. Other people and things named "Tacitus" include:

</doc>
<doc id="77934" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77934" title="Connotation">
Connotation

Connotation is a meaning that is suggested or implied, as opposed to a denotation, or literal definition. 
Today the word has different meanings, but it is always used for the contrast of a word or phrase with its primary, literal meaning (known as a denotation). That can be an implied value judgement or feelings.

</doc>
<doc id="77935" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77935" title="Margrave">
Margrave

A Margrave () is a German nobleman. 
Originally the Holy Roman Emperor would give a Markgraf an area of the borders (the Marches or ) to look after. The Margrave would have to protect the people in the area from invaders, and at the same time protect the empire. 
A Markgraf ranked higher than a count or earl (), but lower than a duke. The Margraves of Brandenburg were in control of such an important area that they were made Electors of the Holy Roman Empire, which was the highest honour in the Imperial Parliament. There were no Kings in the Empire, so when the Margraves of Brandenburg took control of some territory outside the empire as well, they could call themselves King in Prussia.
As the Middle Ages ended and Europe and the Holy Roman Empire became more secure the military importance of the Margraves became less. At the end of the German Empire in 1918, there were no Markgrafs left. All had been given higher title, but may have kept the Markgraf title as an extra. The Kings of Prussia, for example, always kept the lower title Margraves of Brandenburg.

</doc>
<doc id="77943" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77943" title="Meppel">
Meppel

Meppel is a town and a municipality in the north east of the Netherlands (in the province Drenthe). On January 1, 2007 it had about 31,063 inhabitants. It has a density of 558/km² (1,445.2/sq mi). The timezone in Meppel is CET.
Meppel received city rights in 1644. It is the oldest town of Drenthe.
In the World War II almost all the Jews of Meppel were killed. 232 of the 250 were killed, so 18 survived it. Now there is a monument in Meppel for all those who died.
These are the cities in the municipality of Meppel.

</doc>
<doc id="77944" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77944" title="Diego Velázquez de Cuéllar">
Diego Velázquez de Cuéllar

Diego Velázquez de Cuéllar (1465 - 1524) was a Spanish soldier and colonial administrator (a "Conquistador").He conquered and governed Cuba for Spain. He is often called "Diego de Velázquez" by Dominican historians (that is the name used in the Appleton's Cyclopedia).
He was born in Cuéllar, near Segovia, Spain. He came to America in the second voyage of Christopher Columbus in 1493. He spent 17 years in the Hispaniola, living most of the time in the southwestern region of the island.
He worked together with the Spanish governor Nicolás de Ovando in the fight against the Taíno Indians of the region. He founded and governed several towns: Azua de Compostela (1504), San Juan de la Maguana (1503), Bánica (1504), Salvatierra de la Sabana (1504, now Les Cayes, Haiti), Santa María de la Verapaz (near the present Port-au-Prince, Haiti), Villanueva de Yáquimo (now Jacmel, Haiti).
In 1511, he left from Salvatierra de la Sabana with 300 men and three or four ships to the island of Cuba to conquer that island. He was the first governor of the island and he founded several cities, Nuestra Señora de la Asunción de Baracoa (the first European city in Cuba and its first capital) in 1511, San Salvador del Bayamo (1513), Santiago de Cuba in 1514 and Havana in 1515.
In 1517 he sent Juan de Grijalva to explore the coast of Mexico and in 1518 he sent Francisco Hernández de Córdoba to explore the coast of Yucatán. Then in 1519 he sent his secretary, Hernán Cortés, to conquer Mexico with about 450 soldiers but when Cortés got to México (in Veracruz), he broke all relations with Velázquez.
Diego Velázquez de Cuéllar died in Santiago de Cuba in 1524.

</doc>
<doc id="77948" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77948" title="Denotation">
Denotation

In order to understand fully the difference between denotation and connotation in the media studies and semiotics uses it is necessary to become familiar with some examples:
Several parts of meaning may be called denotation. That depends on the contrast being drawn.
In logic and semantics, denotational always attracts the extension meaning "in the pair", but the other element genuinely varies. See intension for some more discussion.
A denotation is the strict, literal, dictionary definition of a word, devoid of any emotion, attitude, or colour. 
Denotation often links with symbolism, as the denotation of a particular media text often represents something further; a hidden meaning (or an Engima Code) is often encoded into a media text (such as the images below).

</doc>
<doc id="77973" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77973" title="Victoria Silvstedt">
Victoria Silvstedt


</doc>
<doc id="77982" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77982" title="Doner kebab">
Doner kebab

The doner kebab (or donner kebab, but seldom "döner") kebab with salad and sauce is a very popular food.
Kebab shops offer hot chili sauce and garlic yoghurt-style sauce. Barbecue sauce, burger sauce, lemon juice, or a mint sauce similar to raita are also popular.
Kebabs are often eaten as take-away food on the way home after a night out. There are several common ways in which doner kebabs are served.
Kebabs are very much part of the Friday and Saturday night culture in the UK rather than breakfast or lunchtime food. UK "doner kebab" often uses a different mixture of spices, because immigrants from Cyprus run many of the shops. They may offer doner, shish (lamb and chicken) and kofte kebabs, with a 'special' including some of each with bread and chips.

</doc>
<doc id="77992" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77992" title="Murder of Meredith Kercher">
Murder of Meredith Kercher

The murder of Meredith Kercher happened on the night of 1 November 2007. Meredith Kercher was born in London on 28 December 1985 and was 21 years old at the time of her death. She was a student at Leeds University in England but moved to Italy in August 2007. Meredith went to a university in Perugia, Italy as part of her course of study. She lived in a house, upstairs, with three other female students. Police investigators concluded that Kercher had been killed with a knife, and locked in her bedroom.
An American student called Amanda Knox who lived in the house with Kercher, came home the next day. At 12:07 pm, she called Kercher's local Italian mobile phone, but it rang without being answered for 16 seconds. Then she called another roommate, Filomena R., and said that there were drops of blood in the house and that Kercher did not answer her phone. Knox then tried calling Kercher again two times but there was still no answer on either her local Italian phone or her UK phone. Immediately, Filomena called back to Knox to say she was coming home, and Knox then announced that Filomena's window had been broken, with glass all over her clothes and the computer on the floor.
After Filomena had called Knox again, two police officers came to the house because two mobile phones had been found in gardens about one kilometer (0.6 mile) from the house. When Knox had called Kercher (at 12:07 pm), her phone was found ringing in some garden bushes. It was found by a neighbour who then called the communications police.
Entering the house, the police noted all the drops of blood that Knox showed them, and they confirmed that Kercher's bedroom door was locked. A friend of Filomena's broke the door to open it. The police looked in the bedroom and found Kercher's body under a duvet (quilt). She was naked except for her T-shirts pulled up to her shoulders. There was a lot of blood on her body and around the room. Someone had stabbed her neck with a knife. Her clothes were laying scattered towards the door. Two credit cards, 300 euros (about US$420), and her house keys were missing.
The next day, the police arrested three people. They arrested Knox, her 2-week boyfriend (an Italian student) Raffaele Sollecito. They also arrested Knox's boss at a local pub where she worked but later released him. Sollecito was Knox's new boyfriend and she had met him just eight days before the murder. Weeks later, police arrested another person called Rudy Guede. Originally from the Ivory Coast, Guede later acquired dual citizenship in Italy. After the murder, he went by train to Germany. Police in Germany caught him and took him back to Italy.
Guede was put on trial in Italy in October 2008. He was found guilty and sent to prison for 30 years.
Knox and Sollecito were also put on trial. Sollecito was sent to prison for 25 years, and Knox for 26 years. They both appealed their sentences.
The prosecutors said that Guede, Knox and Sollecito killed Kercher together. The lawyers of Knox and Sollecito said that Guede killed her alone, and undressed and moved the body hours later. In June-November 2009, their lawyers presented evidence and witnesses to support a "lone-wolf" theory, that Guede killed Kercher and later undressed and moved her body away from the window of her bedroom in the house where she lived with Knox.
Guede had claimed that he had been invited to her house, as a date planned with Kercher on Halloween. While in her house, he claimed he became sick, and while in the bathroom, he heard a loud scream. In his story, Guede claimed that he saw a brown-haired Italian man holding a knife, over Kercher on the floor of her room. He then claimed that the man fought him, and ran from the house, saying in perfect Italian, ""Trovato negro, trovato colpevole"" ("found black, found guilty"). Guede said that he tried to help Kercher, as she was bleeding quickly, but he became scared and ran from the house, without calling the police or anyone for help. Guede had told officials that Kercher was fully dressed when she was stabbed, and he left her with the bed quilt and pillow on her bed. However, witnesses and CSI experts, from the Forensic Police in Rome, presented evidence that contradicted Guede's story about that night:
At Guede's trial, the judge and jury did not believe Guede's claims, and they convicted him of the murder. He had been caught because his palm-print on the pillow matched his police file, including the Milan school incident, when Milan police had released him just 5 days before the murder. Guede was sentenced to 30 years in prison, but that was reduced to 16 years after his first appeal trial.
In a separate trial, both Knox and Sollecito were tried for the murder, but the evidence was much less than with Guede. No witnesses testified that they had seen or heard Knox or Sollecito enter or leave the house that night. Also, the small amounts of DNA connecting them to the murder were in such low amounts that it could be considered contamination, and such small amounts of DNA are inadmissible during trials in British or U.S. criminal courts. Although numerous shoe prints had been found matching Guede's Nike shoe, there were no shoe prints matching any of the shoes which police had taken from the houses of Knox and Sollecito. The main issues about them were that they said things that seemed suspicious:
Because no other witnesses could confirm the couple stayed in his house, during the murder at Knox's house, they were both sent to trial. The evidence against them was very limited:
When Knox was convicted in the first trial, the verdict was questioned by some as "anti-Americanism", but Sollecito was also convicted at the same time.
Guede appealed against his sentence, and it was changed from 30 to 16 years in prison. He still says that he did not kill Kercher. His second appeal trial ended in December 2010 with upholding the verdict of guilty.
Knox and Sollecito filed the proper legal documents to appeal their convictions, and they were still considered "presumed innocent" as if the previous trial verdicts were suspended. Their appeal trial began in November 2010, with a new judge who ruled to re-examine DNA evidence against them. The judge also granted a re-questioning of witness Antonio C. about which days he saw what.
On 3 October 2011, murder convictions against Amanda Knox and Raffaele Sollecito were overturned and they were both set free that same night.
Italy's supreme court ordered a re-trial. The case was heard in Florence, and ended on 30 January 2014. Both Knox and Sollecito were found guilty of murder. They were sentenced to 28 (Knox) and 26 (Sollecito) years in prison.

</doc>
<doc id="77994" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77994" title="Meredith Monroe">
Meredith Monroe

Meredith Monroe (born December 30, 1968) is an American actress. She is best known for her role as Andie McPhee on Dawson's Creek from 1998 to 2000. She was a series regular in Seasons 2-3, appearing in several episodes at the beginning and end of season 4, and was a special guest star in the final series episode in Season 6, though these scenes were cut from the televised episode.

</doc>
<doc id="77995" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77995" title="Michelle Williams (actress)">
Michelle Williams (actress)

Michelle Williams (born September 9, 1980) is an Academy Award-nominated American actress. Williams first appeared in the teen series "Dawson's Creek" and later acted in full length movies, such as "Brokeback Mountain", for which she was nominated for an Oscar as Best Supporting Actress.
She was nominated for the Orange Rising Star Award in 2006.

</doc>
<doc id="77996" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77996" title="Pernilla Wiberg">
Pernilla Wiberg

Pernilla Wiberg (born October 15 1970 in Norrköping) is one of the most successful Swedish alpine skiers. She won the giant slalom in the 1992 Winter Olympics in Albertville and the Alpine combination at the 1994 Winter Olympics in Lillehammer as well as 24 wins in the Alpine skiing World Cup between 1991 and 1999. She was elected a member of the International Olympic Committee in 2002. In club competitions, she represented Norrköpings SK.

</doc>
<doc id="77997" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77997" title="Ebba von Sydow">
Ebba von Sydow

Ebba von Sydow (born February 18, 1981 in Gothenburg, Sweden) is a Swedish journalist and author. She is the great-granddaughter of Swedish prime minister Oscar von Sydow, and also related to actor Max von Sydow and politician Björn von Sydow.

</doc>
<doc id="78007" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78007" title="Lulu (opera)">
Lulu (opera)

Lulu is an opera by the composer Alban Berg. Berg took the story from two plays called "Erdgeist" and "Die Büchse des Pandora" by the German playwright Frank Wedekind. Berg wrote the libretto (the words for the opera) himself.
Many people found "Lulu" very shocking because the story is very decadent. There is a lot of blood, murder, sex and violence in it. Also: Berg’s music was quite difficult to understand. He uses twelve tone music, which is not in any particular key, although he uses it to make a style of music which is often very Romantic and expressive.
Berg started to write the opera in 1929, but then he stopped working on it to write his Violin Concerto. When Berg died, he had not finished the last act of the opera, he had only sketched it. Schoenberg was asked whether he would finish the opera, but he thought it would be too much work. When the opera was first performed in 1937 there were only two acts: the opera was unfinished. Berg’s widow, Helene, said that nobody was allowed to finish it and that it should stay unfinished. For more than 40 years, that is how the opera was performed.
When Helene died in 1976, a man called Friedrich Cerha finished the opera, guessing what Berg might have written. This completed version was performed in 1979 at the Opera Garnier, conducted by Pierre Boulez.
Famous sopranos who have sung the main part of Lulu include Teresa Stratas, Anja Silja and Christine Schäfer.
Prologue: A circus ringmaster introduces all his animals. The last one is Lulu herself, who is carried on stage and introduced as a snake.
Scene 1: Lulu, the wife of Dr. Goll, an old doctor, is having her portrait painted. Dr. Schön, a newspaper editor who rescued Lulu when she was living in the streets, is now having a love affair with her. Dr. Schön’s son Alwa arrives, excuses himself, and he and Dr. Schön leave. The Painter wants to make love to Lulu. Dr. Goll unexpectedly walks in, sees that the two of them are alone, collapses and dies of a heart attack.
Scene 2: Lulu has now married the Painter. She gets a telegram which says that Dr. Schön is engaged to be married. Schigolch, a tramp, visits her. He seems to have had something to do with her in the past. Dr. Schön arrives. He talks as if Schigolch is Lulu's father. He has come to ask Lulu to stay out of his life from now on. She takes no notice and leaves after her husband, the Painter, arrives. Dr. Schön tells the Painter about their affair, and says he must talk to his wife about it. The Painter leaves, but instead of going to talk to Lulu he cuts his own throat and dies. Lulu does not seem to care and simply tells Dr. Schön "You'll marry me all the same."
Scene 3: Lulu, working as a dancer, is sitting in her dressing room with Alwa. They talk about a Prince who is in love with Lulu and who wants to marry her. Lulu leaves to go on stage, but refuses to go on because Dr. Schön and his fiancée are in the audience. Dr. Schön comes in to try to persuade her to perform. When the two are left alone, she tells Schön that she is thinking of leaving with the Prince to go to Africa. Dr. Schön realises that he cannot live without her, and Lulu makes him write a letter to his fiancée saying that he does not want to marry her. Lulu carries on with the show.
Scene 1: Lulu has now married Dr. Schön, who is full of because so many men and one woman seem to love Lulu. One of them, the lesbian Countess Geschwitz, visits her to invite her to a ball, but leaves when Dr. Schön disapproves. When the two go out, the Countess returns and hides. Two other admirers, the Acrobat and the Schoolboy, also enter, and all begin to talk to Lulu when she returns. Alwa arrives, and the admirers hide as Alwa tells Lulu he loves her. Dr. Schön returns, sees the Acrobat, and begins a long argument with Lulu. Gradually he finds the other people who are hiding. He gives Lulu a revolver, and tells her to kill herself, but she shoots Schön instead. The police arrive to arrest Lulu for the murder.
Interlude: during the music of the interlude a silent movie is shown. In it, we see Lulu being taken by the police, tried in court, and put into prison. Then we see her deliberately getting the illness cholera and being taken to hospital. The Countess Geschwitz visits her, and gives her own clothes, so that Lulu can escape disguised as the Countess.
Scene 2: The Countess Geschwitz, Alwa and the Acrobat are in the same room as Act II, Scene 1. They are waiting for Schigolch, who is to take the Countess to the hospital. She is going to give up her own freedom by taking Lulu's place so that nobody will discover she has escaped until it is too late. The Acrobat says he is going to marry Lulu and move with her to Paris where the two will work in an act together. Schigolch leaves with the countess, then returns with Lulu, who is so ill from her disease that the Acrobat does not follow his plan, but goes off to get the police instead. Schigolch is sent off to buy train tickets, and, left alone, Alwa and Lulu say they love each other and agree to go away together.
Scene 1: Lulu and Alwa are now living in Paris. The scene is a party in a casino. Lulu is being forced by blackmail to work in a Cairo brothel by the Acrobat and a pimp. The police still want her for Dr. Schön's murder and the Acrobat and the pimp say to her that they will take her to the police if she does not do as they say. Schigolch arrives, asking for money. She is persuaded to lure the Acrobat away to a hotel and murder him. After they have gone, news arrives that the railway company has run out of money. The guests have all got money in the company. The party quickly breaks up, and in the confusion, Lulu manages to change clothes with a young man. She escapes with Alwa just before the police arrive to catch her.
Scene 2: Lulu and Alwa are now living with Schigolch. They are poor are in London so that the police cannot find them. Lulu is working as a prostitute. She arrives with a client, a professor (played by the same actor as Dr. Goll, Lulu's first husband). The Countess Geschwitz then arrives with a portrait of Lulu which she has brought from Paris. Alwa hangs it on the wall. Lulu goes out, and returns with another client, the Negro (played by the same actor as the Painter, Lulu's second husband). He refuses to pay before making love, and kills Alwa in a struggle. Schigolch takes the body away while Geschwitz thinks about killing herself, but then gives up the idea when she realises that Lulu does not care. Eventually, Lulu goes out and comes back with a third client (played by the same actor as Dr. Schön, Lulu's third husband). He argues over the price, and is about to leave when Lulu decides she will sleep with him for less than her usual fee. This client, who is actually Jack the Ripper, murders Lulu, and then on his way out kills the Countess as well, who swears her love to Lulu as the curtain comes down.
The shape of the whole opera is often said to be like a mirror – Lulu's popularity in the first act is mirrored by the poverty she lives in during Act III. Also, Lulu's husbands in Act I are played by the same singers as her clients in Act III. In the middle of the opera is the movie. Even some of the music is a palindrome (it reads the same forwards as backwards).
Some of the characters have their own music which, in each case, is a theme made of twelve notes. This is the twelve-tone system which was invented by Berg’s teacher Arnold Schoenberg. By giving each character a theme, he is using the idea of a leitmotif, which was used a lot by Wagner.

</doc>
<doc id="78014" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78014" title="Howard University">
Howard University

Howard University is an African-American college in Washington, D.C. It was started in 1867.

</doc>
<doc id="78017" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78017" title="Seth MacFarlane">
Seth MacFarlane

Seth Woodbury MacFarlane (born October 26, 1973) is an American actor, comedian, and voice actor. He is best known for creating adult cartoon television series. These series include "Family Guy", "American Dad!" and "The Cleveland Show".
MacFarlane went to Rhode Island School of Design (RISD), a school in Rhode Island where he studied animation. He made a short cartoon movie named, "The Life of Larry" during his senior year. He worked at Hanna-Barbera writing and making episodes of "Johnny Bravo". FOX, a media network, saw "The Life of Larry" and offered him $50,000 to make a pilot.
MacFarlane is a supporter for the Democratic Party. In 2015, MacFarlane revealed support for Bernie Sanders on the 2016 U.S. presidential election, and he introduced Sanders on a Los Angeles rally.
On the morning of September 11, 2001, MacFarlane was scheduled to return to Los Angeles on American Airlines Flight 11 from Boston. After having a hangover from last night's celebrations, and after getting his departure time incorrectly (8:15 a.m. instead of 7:45 a.m.) from his travel agent, he arrived at Logan International Airport about ten minutes too late to board the flight as the gates had been closed. Fifteen minutes after departure, American Airlines Flight 11 was hijacked, and at 8:46 a.m. it was flown into the North Tower of the World Trade Center, destroying the airplane, and killing everyone on board.
In August 2011, Fox ordered a 13-part updated series of "". MacFarlane will co-produce with Anne Druyan and Steven Soter. It will be hosted by Neil deGrasse Tyson. The series will be broadcast on Fox in 2013.
Seth MacFarlane is working on his fifth animated series with Alex Borstein and Gary Janetti. No broadcast date has been given. It will show a family and will have a female lead role.

</doc>
<doc id="78018" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78018" title="Taylor Horn">
Taylor Horn

Taylor Ashley Horn (born 1992) is an American pop singer-songwriter and actress. To date, she has released two albums, one EP and a single. She has worked with Grammy Award winning songwriter Don Rollins on her third album "Changes" and was a subject of interest in the British documentary, "Britney's Redneck Roots" about fellow pop singer and Kentwood, Louisiana resident, Britney Spears. She also played Lilly Rose Walker in a made-for-television movie for PBS titled "Artists in the Forest" in 2004, although the movie never aired.

</doc>
<doc id="78019" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78019" title="Tanuki">
Tanuki

Tanuki is a word for the Raccoon Dog in Japanese. Tanukis are in Japanese folk tales. In Japan, it is said that tanukis deceive a person, and that the ability is superior to a fox.

</doc>
<doc id="78022" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78022" title="Megalibgwilia">
Megalibgwilia

Megalibgwilia is a genus of echidna only known from fossils from Australia, it contains the oldest known echidna species.

</doc>
<doc id="78026" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78026" title="Mantle">
Mantle

Mantle is a word with various meanings:

</doc>
<doc id="78029" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78029" title="Ajax the Great">
Ajax the Great

Ajax the Great or Aias (ancient Greek: Αἴας) son of Telamon, was a well-known hero from the Trojan War. He was the cousin of Achilles. Ajax died by committing suicide. This happened after Achilles died and he was in a contest with Odysseus to see who would receive Achilles's armour: he lost.

</doc>
<doc id="78032" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78032" title="Phoenicia">
Phoenicia

Phoenicia was a civilization in the north part of Canaan, the holy land for Christians and Jews. Phoenicia existed from 1200 BCE to 900BCE. People from Phoenicia had their own language called the Phoenician language, which is important to very many modern languages.

</doc>
<doc id="78034" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78034" title="Seattle Seahawks">
Seattle Seahawks

The Seattle Seahawks are a professional American football team from Seattle, Washington, USA. They started playing football in 1976. They are currently members of the Western Division of the National Football Conference (NFC) in the National Football League (NFL). The Seahawks played football in Super Bowl XL in 2005, but lost to the Pittsburgh Steelers. The Seahawks have stopped using two jersey numbers, #80 belonging to Steve Largent and #12, which represents the fan base, as they are referred to the 12th man at home games. The Seahawks play at CenturyLink Field (formerly known as Seahawks Stadium and Qwest Field).

</doc>
<doc id="78035" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78035" title="Salisbury">
Salisbury

Salisbury is a city in Wiltshire, South West England. It is the only city in Wiltshire and is its second largest settlement. It sits at the joining of five rivers: the Nadder, Ebble, Wylye, and Bourne are tributary to the Hampshire Avon, which flows to the south coast and into the sea at Christchurch in Dorset.
To the north of Salisbury is an old settlement surrounded by mounds and ditches for protection. It is called Old Sarum. Today there are only a few ruined stone foundations. This was the original town that was first occupied about 5,000 years ago. Experts think it was built there because it was close to the River Avon for water and it was near major trackways across the country.
Salisbury Cathedral has a copy of the Magna Carta. 
Salisbury has 45,000 people. Salisbury is about 15 kilometers (9.5 miles) from Stonehenge.

</doc>
<doc id="78036" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78036" title="Jan Ullrich">
Jan Ullrich

Jan Ullrich (born on 2 December 1973 in Rostock, Germany) is a retired German bicycle rider. He was very good in riding in the mountains. In Individual time trials he was one of the best cyclists at his time. He won the Tour de France in 1997. Jan Ullrich is the only German athlete who has won this event. 
Jan Ullrich started cycling early. When he was ten years old, he won his first race. After Germany's reunification he went to a club in Hamburg. In 1993, when Ullrich was 19 years old, he won the World Amateur Road Race championship in Oslo, Norway. In this year Lance Armstrong won the Professional World Race championchip. The year after, he became third in the Individual Time Race championchip. After this succes he became a professional member of the German Team "Team-Telekom".
Jan Ullrich first rode the Tour de France in 1996. There he won a stage and became overall second, after his team mate Bjarne Riis. Some experts say, Jan Ullrich could have won the Tour the France that year, but he did not because he helped his team-mate over the Tour.
In 2007 Bjarne Riis said that he used drugs to win the 1996 Tour. In 1997 Jan Ullrich won the Tour the France, when he was 23 years old (fourth youngest winner of the Tour since 1947). During this year he won the Tour de Suisse, German-Tour and HEW-Cyclassics. At the end of the year, he was elected as the "sports person of the year" in Germany.
Many of Jan Ullrichs Team-members said, he was taking drugs in the 90. In 2002 he tested positive for amphetamine. He said he took pills in a disco, without knowing that they were an illegal substance. He was suspended for 6 months. In 2006 Ullrich was suspected to be a client of Fuentes. In 2007 a DNA-test gave the evidence that he was one, and that he was planning to use the illegal blood doping. Ullrich denied using drugs for a long time. In 2013, Ullrich decided to tell the truth. He admitted he used illegal substances during his career.

</doc>
<doc id="78038" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78038" title="Lincoln, England">
Lincoln, England

Lincoln is an old city in Lincolnshire, England. Lincoln has a cathedral that is one of the biggest in the world. Lincoln has a population of 101,000 people.

</doc>
<doc id="78039" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78039" title="Burj el-Barajneh">
Burj el-Barajneh

Burj el-Barajneh is a settlement in Beirut, Lebanon. It was set up as a Palestine refugee camp in 1948. It was laid siege to by the Israeli army and local Christian Phalangists during 1982, after Israel invaded Lebanon earlier that year.

</doc>
<doc id="78043" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78043" title="Coelacanth">
Coelacanth

A coelacanth is a type of fish in the Sarcopterygii, the lobe-finned fishes. They are a sister group to those fish which evolved into tetrapods. Their fossil record goes back 400 million years, before any land vertebrates had evolved.
Coelacanths were thought to have been extinct for 80 million years, but in fact two species survived, living in the Indian Ocean. The first to be discovered was caught alive off the east African coast in 1938. 
The coelacanths are the closest link between fish and the first amphibians which made the transition from sea to land in the Devonian period (408–362 million years ago). Whereas the fishapods lived near the shore in muddy water, the coelacanths lived in open water. The modern species are predators live in the deep ocean.
"Latimeria" is the only living genus of the otherwise fossil coelacanth fish. It is probably the best-known Lazarus taxon. That such a creature could have been unrecorded for so long is rare, but perhaps the cold depths of the West Indian ocean (in which the Coelacanth lives), and the few predators it has, may have helped the species survive. Its disgusting taste means that fishermen did not deliberately try to catch it, that is, before scientists started offering rewards.
The population living off Tanzania is threatened by Japanese trawlers, but the fish is not edible. They are simply caught in trawls by accident. More than 20 have died this way, and their total numbers cannot be large.
"Latimeria" was first discovered in 1938 by Marjorie Courtenay Latimer, the curator of a small museum in the South African port town of East London, as she was visiting a fisherman who would let her search through his boat's catch for interesting specimens. The second species was found off the Comoros islands in the Indonesian archipelago in 1952. The largest specimen was about 1.8 metres (~6 ft). 

</doc>
<doc id="78044" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78044" title="Tent city">
Tent city

The term tent city is used to describe a variety of temporary housing facilities made using tents. Informal tent cities may be set up without authorization by homeless people or protesters. As well, state governments or military organizations set up tent cities to house refugees, evacuees, or soldiers. Tent cities set up by homeless people may be similar to shanty towns, which are informal settlements in which the buildings are made from of scrap building materials.
Since Hurricane Katrina made landfall in August of 2005, the term has been used to describe temporary housing sites set up for Gulf Coast residents who were left homeless by the storm. Some of the tents that were built by Seabees and funded by FEMA are wooden structures covered by tents. With the exception of indoor plumbing, most of the tents have heat, air, and lights. The tent city can hold as many as 250 occupants. Displaced residents are only expected to stay for three to six months. In late December 2006, the St. Vincent de Paul Society in Saint Petersburg, Florida established an encampment on their property when dozens of homeless moved off of public land across the street from the society. In early January 2007, city officials noted city codes that prohibit living in tents and gave the society one week to evict the occupants of the tent city. 
Every year, the Saudi Arabian government's Ministry of Hajj sets up a tent city to support Muslim pilgrims in the village of Mina, where the ritual Stoning of the Devil takes place as part of the overall Hajj pilgrimage to Mecca. A tent city is also established annually at Mount Arafat, another essential stop during the Hajj. Because up to four million pilgrims may be performing the Hajj annually, the tent cities are densely inhabited with 20-40 people per tent. As such, fire and disease outbreaks are constant concerns. Since the late 1990s, Saudi authorities have started using fireproof tents to reduce the risks of a major fire.
In the military, the term "tent city" usually refers to temporary living quarters erected on deployed military bases, such as those found in Bosnia or Iraq. Depending on the branch of service and the length the tent city has been in place, the living space may have most modern amenities. For sanitary reasons, military tent cities place toilet, shower, and laundry facilities at least 50 feet (15m) from living quarters. Also, tents are typically divided into clusters of 8-10 to prevent the rapid spread of fire, which is of utmost concern because of the tent and bedding materials.

</doc>
<doc id="78048" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78048" title="Norwegian Refugee Council">
Norwegian Refugee Council

The Norwegian Refugee Council (NRC) (Norwegian: "Flyktninghjelpen") is an independent, non-governmental organisation in Norway which helps refugees and internally displaced persons around the world.
The NRC protects the rights of people who have been forced to leave their countries, or their homes within their countries. It is the only Norwegian group that specialises in international efforts for these types of people. 
The NRC was established in 1946 with the name "Aid to Europe", to help refugees in Europe after World War II. Today, the NRC is an independent, private organisation. It works closely with the United Nations and other organisations around the world, as well as in Norway.
The group focuses on five main activities:

</doc>
<doc id="78064" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78064" title="Euphemism">
Euphemism

Euphemism is the use of a word (or phrase) that replaces another one that one thinks to be too offensive or vulgar.
It also may be a replacement of a name or a word, that could reveal a secret or holy and sacred names to the uninitiated. It may also be used to obscure the identity of the subject of a conversation from potential . A well known example for many is the replacement of "Lord Voldemort's" name by "You-Know-Who" or "He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named" in Harry Potter. Some euphemisms are intended to be humorous.
When a phrase is used as a euphemism, it often becomes a metaphor whose literal meaning is dropped. Euphemisms may be used to hide unpleasant or disturbing ideas, even when the literal term for them is not necessarily offensive. This type of euphemism is used in politics.
Examples for euphemisms are: 

</doc>
<doc id="78069" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78069" title="List of German Presidents and Chancellors by age">
List of German Presidents and Chancellors by age

This is a list of German Presidents (since 1919) and Chancellors (since 1871) by age at death.
Where the person in question is still alive, the age is worked out up to .

</doc>
<doc id="78084" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78084" title="Boscobel House">
Boscobel House

Boscobel House is a house on the Shropshire/Staffordshire border, near Wolverhamptonand Albrighton, England. It was built around 1632 when landowner John Gifford of White Ladies Priory turned a farmhouse into a hunting lodge. Charles II famously hid in a tree at the Boscobel House to escape discovery by Parliamentary soldiers after the Battle of Worcester in 1651. The tree became known as the Royal Oak
42 days after the Battle of Worcester, Charles escaped to France on a coal ship called "Surprise". Nine years later, Charles ll was invited back to England to become king. In 1660, he came back to England to be the king and Charles named that day "Oak apple day".

</doc>
<doc id="78089" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78089" title="Wismar">
Wismar

Wismar is a small town in northern Germany on the Baltic Sea, in the state of Mecklenburg-Vorpommern,
about 45 km due east of Lübeck, and 30 km due north of Schwerin. It has a university and a harbour.

</doc>
<doc id="78090" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78090" title="Dysphemism">
Dysphemism

Dysphemism means using of an harsh or rude word or phrase instead of a polite one. It is more or less the opposite of euphemism.
Examples of dysphemism are “dead tree edition” for the paper version of an online magazine, or the American soldiers calling their common breakfast of creamed chipped beef on toast “shit on a shingle”.

</doc>
<doc id="78094" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78094" title="Christian worship">
Christian worship

In Christianity, worship has been thought as by most Christians to be the central act of Christian identity throughout history. Many Christian theologians have called humanity "homo adorans", which means "worshipping man," and so the worship of God is at the very centre of what it means to be human. 
Throughout most centuries of Church history, Christian worship has been primarily liturgical, symbolised by prayers and hymns, whose texts were closely related to, the Scripture. Set times for prayer during the day were made (based mostly on Jewish models), and a festal cycle throughout the Church year pointed out the celebration of feasts and holy days relating to the events in the life of Jesus, the lives of the saints, and features of the Church's view of God. 
A large amount of importance was placed on the forms of worship, as they were seen in terms of the Latin phrase "lex orandi, lex credendi" (""the rule of prayer is the rule of belief"") — that is, the details of someone's worship show, teach, and govern the principle beliefs of the community. To change the patterns and content of worship were to change the faith itself. So even though there was always a certain amount of variety in the early Church's liturgical worship, there was also a great deal of unity. Each time a heresy appeared in the Church, it normally came by a shift in worship for the heretical group. Orthodoxy in faith also meant orthodoxy in worship, and vice versa.
The very early development of Christian worship is lost in history, but Christian worship is, normally, fixed in the worship of Judaism. The Gospels and the Acts of the Apostles present the very early Christians as visiting both the Temple and synagogues, as well as worshipping in private homes, frequently to "break bread," a term which signifies both the sharing of a meal and, when used in that context, celebrating the Eucharist. Acts 2:42 shows the very early Church of Jerusalem as "continuing in the Apostles' teaching and fellowship [or communion], the breaking of bread, and the prayers."
In general, worship for the Eastern churches and for the Catholic and Anglican churches in the West is centered in regular celebration of the Lord's Supper, celebrated by a priest with more or less participation from the whole body of believers that are there. This tradition, variously known as the Mass, Divine Liturgy, Eucharist or Communion, continues in the Anglican church and among some Protestants. A worship service in these traditions is centered on the sharing of bread (or bread and wine) although it also includes prayer, the reading of Scripture, and usually singing and some form of teaching or sermon.
In many Protestant traditions, however, Communion is celebrated rarely or not at all, and corporate worship is centered on a formal sermon, which may resemble a lecture. Worship in such a context also generally is described by spoken prayer, Scripture, and music, mainly hymns.
In virtually all Christian traditions, this regular public worship is accompanied by other forms of worship, such as prayer and study, small group prayer (often linked with Bible study), and formal ceremonies on special occasions, including weddings, funerals and events of Church or state.
The most popular religious holidays in the Christian calendar are Christmas, which is after the Advent season, and Easter, which is after Lent and Holy Week. While Christmas is very popular, especially in Western countries, Easter is liturgically by far the most important celebration.

</doc>
<doc id="78105" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78105" title="Prose">
Prose

Prose is the ordinary form of the written (or spoken) language. It is not poetry. It does not use any special format such as lists or tables. In writing, it is without special rhythm. It is similar to everyday communication. That is what makes the most important distinction with poetry, and with theatrical works such as plays.
The word prose comes from the Latin "prosa", meaning straightforward, hence the term "prosaic". Prose writing is usually adopted for the description of facts or the discussion of whatever one's thoughts are, incorporated in free flowing speech. It may be used for newspapers, novels, magazines, encyclopedias, broadcast media, letters, stories, history, philosophy, biography, and many other forms of media.
Prose generally has no formal structure, like meter or rhyme, that is often found in poetry. Therefore, it is used to describe literature which is non-poetic, and non-theatrical. There is, however, a blend of the two forms of literature known as "prose poetry". 

</doc>
<doc id="78108" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78108" title="Caper story">
Caper story

The caper story is a special sort of crime story. In the typical caper story, one or more crimes happen (especially thefts, swindles, or occasionally kidnappings) in full view of the reader. The actions of the police or detectives may also be told, but are not that important for the story.
The typical elements of caper stories are humor, adventure, or unusual cleverness or audacity. 
The "Dortmunder" stories of "Donald E. Westlake" are very funny tales where unusual thefts happen; in another story, Dortmunder's gang steals the same gem several times, steals an entire branch bank, and kidnaps someone from an asylum by driving a stolen train onto the property. 

</doc>
<doc id="78115" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78115" title="14 BC">
14 BC

Year 14 BC was either a common year starting on Thursday or Friday or a leap year starting on Wednesday, Thursday or Friday of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Crassus and Lentulus.

</doc>
<doc id="78118" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78118" title="Death of Tina Watson">
Death of Tina Watson

Christina Mae "Tina" Thomas Watson (13 February 1977 – 22 October 2003), was a 26-year-old American from Helena, Alabama. She died on her honeymoon on the Great Barrier Reef in Queensland, Australia in 2003. She had only been married to her husband, David Gabriel "Gabe" Watson, for 11 days when she died. The doctor who performed the autopsy said she drowned in a scuba diving accident. 
Six years later, Gabe Watson was charged for murder and manslaughter. He pleaded guilty to manslaughter and was sent to prison for a year by an Australian court. Six months were added to the prison sentence after an appeal that took place just six weeks later. The appeal was held as soon after the trial as possible because of concerns raised by Tina's father with the trial itself. However, the appeal judges agreed with the trial judge on most of the issues except the six month increase in the prison sentence.
Tina was a Southern Baptist and a graduate of the University of Alabama at Birmingham (UAB). She worked as a departmental manager at the small Southern department store chain, Parisian. She was buried at the Southern Heritage Cemetery, in Pelham, Alabama, USA.
While scuba diving at the site of the SS Yongala, a passenger ship that sank in 1911 in the main southern shipping channel to the Australian port of Townsville, Tina Watson either lost consciousness or died and then sank 24 meters to the sea floor below. Tina's death of accidental drowning was not a criminal investigation in itself in Australia. It was a coronial enquiry. Mr Watson gave evidence to the Coronial Inquiry through his lawyers. He returned to Australia voluntarily and spoke to investigators on a number of occasions. Some of these interviews are available on the Internet. At trial, prosecutors said that Mr Watson had made a mistake in not trying to rescue his wife. They said that mistake was the same as manslaughter (see Court of Appeal Judgement). Tina's father that, immediately before their wedding, Gabe had asked Tina to increase her life insurance policy to the maximum possible and make him the sole beneficiary.
After hearing that flowers and gifts left for Tina at her grave were being destroyed or were disappearing, even when held down by a chain, Sergeant Flynn investigated it. On a hidden videotape, he saw Gabe Watson taking them away with bolt cutters and then throwing them in the trash angrily. Gabe then married Kim Lewis on August 15, 2008.
Gabe Watson was tried for the murder of his wife, Christina, in the Queensland Supreme Court at Brisbane on 5 June 2009. He said he was "not guilty" of murdering his wife. To the charge of manslaughter, accidental killing, he said he was guilty. The trial judge said the murder charges made against him were not true and sentenced him to one year in prison, with a further three and a half years suspended. This sentence resulted into Tina's father calling the Australian justice system a "sham". He also said one of Australia's most senior government lawyers, Mr Tony Moynihan, had been misleading the public.
The reason Gabe received the one year in prison, was explained by the judge. He said that Gabe had been accused of things of which he had not been guilty, had suffered considerably since Tina's death, and had co-operated with the Court. He said the media reporting had been unfair. The judge said Gabe had come back to Australia of his own free will in May of 2009 and given himself up. The judge said Gabe loved his wife, deeply regretted her death and felt guilty because he had been unable to save her. He said that Gabe had not caused the accident, but had failed to save Tina when she ran into difficulty with her breathing while underwater.
Three judges heard an appeal started by the State of Queensland on 17 July, 2009. The state wanted Gabe to serve two and a half years in prison. Gabe's Australian lawyers said the extra time was unfair because of the history of the case. The judges published their decision on 18 September, 2009.
To understand the outcome of the appeal, it is necessary to understand a little of the legal process and thinking that lawyers put into an appeal. On one side we have the State of Queensland, Australia. In Australia, as in England and countries such as Canada and New Zealand, the State is usually called the "Crown" in court proceedings. In the US, the State is usually referred to as "The People" or simply the "State". The appeal was heard before three judges of the Queensland Court of Appeal, which is the State's highest court.
The Crown had said that Gabe's sentence should be increased because it believed the sentence was wrong. Gabe's lawyers replied this was not the case. They said that Gabe had never done anything wrong in the past and he was a good person. The death of Tina resulted from an error or mistake, and the short prison sentence was a fair in his lawyers' opinions.
The Court of Appeal judges also said that the murder claim was not true. The judges were in agreement about most of the trial. However they did not agree about the prison sentence. On one hand, Justice Muir said the appeal court should not change the decision of the trial judge. On the other, Chief Justice De Jersey said prison time should be increased to two and a half years. In the third opinion, Justice Chesterman said it ought to be increased from twelve months to eighteen months. To reach agreement, the Chief Justice went with Chesterman's opinion.
With the agreement of two of the three judges, the sentence was increased to eighteen months. Each judge carefully explained their view. Finally, Chesterman said of Gabe Watson, ""That the respondent himself promptly provided the information which proved the case against him and that for years he has borne the unjust charge, made very public, of murder are factors requiring substantial amelioration in sentence."" (Gabe Watson gave the information which showed he had killed his wife accidentally. Because he was for many years unfairly blamed and unfairly accused for her murder, he should have his prison sentence shortened.)
For four years, no one took much notice of the death, as there is a drowning in the Australian state of Queensland about once a week. Tina's parents however, set out to get the attention of the media and by 2007 had succeeded. Other people were diving near Gabe and Tina when Tina died. One diver photographed Tina, lying on the ocean floor, while taking a picture of another diver on holiday. This picture was not known until a couple of weeks later when the pictures were developed. Investigators are uncertain if Tina was already dead in the picture or if she was unconscious. The picture gives no clues as to what made Tina sink to the bottom.
After being informed by Tina Watson's family that flowers and gifts were repeatedly being vandalized or disappearing from the grave site, even when chained down, Sergeant Flinn investigated. On hidden surveillance videos, he saw Gabe Watson removing them with bolt cutters and putting them into the trash, which Flinn then showed to media.
Tina Watson's father told the media in November 2009, two months after the appeal decision, that he thinks Gabe is a copycat killer. He might have got the idea for the murder by a copying the way another, almost successful, murder was done in the British Virgin Islands.
The death of Tina Watson was shown in a 90-minute account that was shown on "Dateline NBC" on Monday, May 19, 2008. Watson's death caused media attention in both Australian and American media and also from media around the world because of the unusual case.
However, media in particular from the Australian state of Queensland, have continually described Tina's death as "murder" while Queensland Courts have found it to be manslaughter by way of a failure to rescue. This issue finally came to a head with the Townsville Bulletin on 10th February 2010. They again described Tina's death as "murder". Seven days later they published an apology and correction which says:
"On February 10, 2010 an article was published concerning ‘murdered US bride Tina Watson’. The Townsville Bulletin accepts that Gabe Watson has not been convicted of murdering Tina Watson. Tina died while scuba diving at the Yongala wreck on October 23, 2003. Gabe Watson pleaded guilty to manslaughter by reason of his failure to take Tina Watson to the surface when it was apparent she was in distress and by this inaction this constituted criminal neglect."
On July 17, 2010 a leading Australian daily newspaper, "The Age", published a complete review of the Watson case "Death on Reef Mystery". The author was award winning investigative journalist "Peter Patrick". This is the first media account to contain first-hand interviews from both Gabe Watson's family and Tina's family. Relying on technical experts, the story reports that Gabe was exonerated by the Queensland Court of Appeal of murder but convicted of failing to comply with a previously unused and little known part of the Queensland Penal Code. This is a violation of section 290. He says the court decided to call this manslaughter. The story says the charge amounts to a crime by Gabe of failing to rescue his wife, once she got into trouble. It also explains Tina's extensive history of heart irregularity and the medication she was taking, the morning of her death, including anti-sea-sickness pills. Patrick says that Tina gave a 'no' answer to the medical question at her diving induction, which asked about prior heart disease. He also states that because Watson had been absent from diving for some years, his level of rescue skill would have been that of beginner.
The story would eventually have worldwide ramifications, for in a footnote, Patrick revealed he had written to Australia's Attorney General, Robert McClelland MP, requesting Watson not be deported to Alabama, because of the risk he faced from the death penalty in that state and because he had already been tried in the Australian State of Queensland, with a comprehensive review by the Queensland Court of Appeal. This brought an instant response from an Alabama police web site, questioning the link between the journalist and Watson.
Ignoring Alabama's wishes, the Australian Government then advised Watson would not be deported and invited him to request a Visa that would allow him to remain in Australia.
Watson was deported in November to face new charges by a grand jury in his home town of Birmingham. Watson arrived at Los Angeles Airport on the Thursday 25th November, 2010, accompanied by Queensland police officers and Australian immigration officials. He was immediately imprisoned in California to await extradition to Alabama, the following week.
After eighteen months in an Australian prison, Watson spent the 2010 Thanksgiving he wished to spend at home, in a Los Angeles County Lockup facing the prospect of life in prison in Alabama. He was transferred to the Birmingham Al., Lockup ten days later.
On December 15, 2010, Watson appeared before Judge Tommy Nail in the 10th Judicial Circuit, Jefferson County, Alabama and requested bail.
The court room was packed with his friends and relatives, both Australian and U.S. media with a smaller showing from Tina's family.
Don Valeska Alabama's assistant attorney general, told the judge the basis of the Grand Jury indictment of Gabe Watson was evidence from Tommy Thomas that Gabe Watson had murdered Tina Watson for insurance money.
In often heated argument, Judge Nail said that motive could not be substituted for evidence. He asked what hard evidence the State had against Watson. Mr Valeska replied that the question of motive was a question for the jury.
After an hour long hearing, Watson was granted bail with a bond of $100,000. He must wear a monitoring radio bracelet and remain in doors at his home from sundown to sunup.
On hearing that bail was to be granted, those in the Court room rose and cheered, causing Judge Nail to respond with the words, "Sit-down, sit-down, this is not a spectator sport."
On January 31st, 2011, Gabe Watson appeared in Judge Nail's court to formally answer two charges firstly, that he had kidnapped Tina and taken her to Australia with the intention of murdering her and secondly, that he had then murdered her while Scuba diving on the Great Barrier Reef.
He pleaded "Not Guilty" to both charges.
The trial date was set at the 23rd May 2011 (later changed to 13th February 2012 due to security concerns). Mr Valeska told Judge Nail that important witnesses were to be flown in from Australia. He then added that a previous witness Mr David Glasgow, the Queensland Magistrate who was the Australian official responsible for Gabe's indictment of murder in Australia, would not now be called. No reason was given as to the reason why the State had changed its mind on calling Mr Glasgow. The arraignment lasted just fourteen minutes
With Watson's arraignment occurring in late January 2011 and the trial not commencing until mid February 2012, there has been a number of significant and new developments. Not the least being questions as to who is available to give evidence of the State's case for murder.
On 22nd April, 2011, Australian journalist Peter Patrick published the second of his major stories on the case. Documented for the first time, is the account of Mr Colin McKenzie, a 50-year diving veteran who says he recanted earlier evidence because he felt he had been misled. Under the headline, "Watson a 'coward but not a killer'", McKenzie says "I gave that evidence to the police, but then I found out his rescue course was over two days - in Australia we do it over four days - in a quarry in Alabama... He had no hope of being competent... Now the story's come out that he couldn't even put his fins on. I just don't see that it could have been premeditated." 
Patrick reveals he is an experienced scuba diver and while diving on the Yongala to investigate Tina's death, had an abnormally high air consumption, which he puts down to constantly swimming against unpredictable currents flowing across the wreck.
The strongest criticism of the Watson murder theory is made in the Sydney Morning Herald and comes from Dr Carl Edmonds. It is written by Jennifer Cooke, one of the authors of "Honeymoon Dive", a book recommended as "compulsory reading" by Alabama Prosecutor, Don Valeska.
Here Dr Edmonds, who was previously Chief Medical Officer to the Royal Australian Navy's elite, clearance diving teams, and is a world expert on diving accidents, says in a story headlined, "Honeymooner's diving death 'an accident, not murder".
"If you listen to Gabe's story, it is very consistent with a really straightforward, panicking diving accident," Dr Edmonds said. "It's all very plausible. In fact, it's like so many other diving accidents".
On February 23, 2012, the case against David Gabriel "Gabe" Watson was dismissed by Judge Tommy Nail in a Birmingham, Alabama County Court. The Judge found the State's case lacked credibility and said, "It just doesn't make any sense quite frankly."
In concluding his findings, His Honor determined, "There is no evidence to suggest that he [Gabe] intended to kill her and he hatched it here and carried it out there. I'm going to grant this defendant's motion. Case dismissed."
Watson was never at risk of facing the death penalty as both the U.S. Government and the State of Alabama had given undertakings to the Australian Government, he would not be executed. He faced a mandatory life sentence, if found guilty.
On 25 August 2012, The Lifetime Movie Network ran a cable TV movie titled, "Fatal Honeymoon".
It was billed by the Network as a movie, based on the true story murder allegations that Gabe Watson had kidnapped then murdered his new wife Tina Watson during their scuba diving trip to Australia in 2003. It stars Billy Miller as Gabe Watson and Aussie Amber Clayton as Tina, with Harvey Keitel in a supporting role as the father of the dead bride. Well known Aussie actor, Gary Sweet plays tough Queensland cop, Detective Campbell, the lead Australian investigator.
The screenplay follows much of the work of Lindsay Simpson and Jennifer Cooke, published in their book, "Honeymoon Dive", and seems based on this title. While this work remains the most comprehensive attempt to review the death of Tina Watson, current events since publication have largely overtaken the Simpson/Cooke account of the fatality.
"Fatal Honeymoon" was directed by Nadia Tass. The screenwriters were Mac Gudgeon and Teena Booth.
Geoff Berkshire, writing for Variety TV Reviews says of the screenplay, "There's no sense that these stick figures trapped in a by-the-numbers melodrama could be real people swept up in tragic circumstances...Tech credits are in line with low-budget telepic standards."
Similarly, Jill O'Rourke in a review on the web site, "Crushable", describes "Fatal Honeymoon" as a show, underscoring Lifetime's skill at "making men look irredeemably evil and women look like clueless victims".
The quality of the underwater vision is particularly poor, even accounting for the difficulties in working in that medium. Many of the scenes in the movie did not take place or took place in a substantially different form to what is portrayed. The following are just some of the many scenes which are entirely fictional.

</doc>
<doc id="78140" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78140" title="City of Wakefield">
City of Wakefield

The City of Wakefield is in West Yorkshire, England. As well as Wakefield there are five other medium-sized towns - Normanton, Pontefract, Featherstone, Castleford and Knottingley - and some smaller towns in the City area. Most people who live in those towns will tell other people that they live in those towns, instead of telling them that they live in Wakefield. The City of Wakefield has a population of about 320,000 people.
There is a mulberry tree in the exercise yard of the Wakefield Prison. It is believed that the prisoners made up the song "Here we go round the mulberry bush" as they walked around and around the tree.

</doc>
<doc id="78141" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78141" title="Io (moon)">
Io (moon)

Io is a moon of the planet Jupiter. It is Jupiter's third biggest moon with a diameter of 3642 km, being slightly bigger than Earth's moon. Io has about 400 active volcanos.
Io is the most volcanically active body in the Solar System. Volcanoes erupt massive volumes of silicate lava, sulphur and sulphur dioxide, constantly changing Io's appearance. This new basemap of Jupiter's moon Io was produced by combining the best images from both the Voyager 1 and Galileo Missions. Although the subjovian hemisphere of Io was poorly seen by Galileo, superbly detailed Voyager 1 images cover longitudes from 240 W to 40 W and the nearby southern latitudes. 
In the same way that the Moon always has the same side facing Earth, Io always has the same side facing Jupiter. The movie shows two sped-up rotations of Io (a single rotation really takes 1.77 days), and begins with a view of the Jupiter-facing hemisphere. With rotation in an easterly direction, after two seconds the volcano Prometheus (on the equator) comes into view. The massive red deposit around Pele (seconds 5-10) is the most distinctive expression of volcanic activity on Io, and just to the north-west is the horse shoe-shaped Loki Patera, the most powerful volcano on Io.

</doc>
<doc id="78153" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78153" title="Cormorant">
Cormorant

Cormorants are a family of seabirds. There are about 40 different species of Cormorants. In some areas, they are also known as shags.
Cormorants range in size from as little as 45 cm (18 in) and 340 g (12 oz) to a maximum size 100 cm (40 in) and 5 kg (11 lbs). Most cormorants, including nearly all northern hemisphere species, have mainly dark feathers. Some southern hemisphere species are black and white. A few species are very colorful. Many species have areas of colored skin on the face. These areas can be bright blue, orange, red or yellow. They usually become more brightly colored in the breeding season. The bill is long, thin, and sharply hooked. Their feet have webbing between all four toes.
Cormorants can dive for 4 minutes looking for food.
Cormorants breed on rocky headlands and islands as well as near inland lakes, marshes and reservoirs. The birds spend the winter on coasts, estuaries, rivers, lakes and reservoirs.

</doc>
<doc id="78154" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78154" title="2006 Tour de France">
2006 Tour de France

The 2006 Tour de France was the 93rd Tour de France. It took place from 1 to 23 July 2006. The winner was Óscar Pereiro. Floyd Landis was the first person to finish the race, but was disqualified on 20 September 2007 for taking the drug testosterone during the 17th stage of the race.
The Tour began in Strasbourg, on the French-German border. It ended Sunday 23 July in Paris. The distance of the race was 3657 km (2272 mi). The race was the third fastest in average speed. Along the way, the cyclists passed through six different countries including France, The Netherlands (a stop at Valkenburg in Stage 3), Belgium (at Huy, Stages 3 and 4), Luxembourg (at Esch-sur-Alzette, Stages 2 and 3), Germany (though not stopping there, Stage 1) and Spain (Pla-de-Beret, Stage 11). For the first time since the 1999 race, there was no team time trial.
One day before the start of the Tour, there was a doping scandal. 13 racers were removed from the Tour, because it was believed that they were getting drugs from a doctor named Fuentes. Two of the 13 riders were the expected to do well in the race. They were Jan Ullrich and Ivan Basso.

</doc>
<doc id="78155" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78155" title="Beth Phoenix">
Beth Phoenix

Elizabeth Carolan (born November 24, 1980) better known by her ring name Beth Phoenix, is an American professional wrestler. She currently works for WWE, wrestling on its Raw brand.
Phoenix is a former 3-time WWE Women's Champion and won a Slammy Award in 2008 for "Diva of the Year". She is the actual WWE Divas Champion, she defeated to Kelly Kelly with her "Glam Slam" at Hell in a Cell 2011.

</doc>
<doc id="78157" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78157" title="Cartridge (firearms)">
Cartridge (firearms)

A cartridge (also called a round, sometimes a shell) is a type of ammunition, consisting of a cylindrical casing (made of metal, usually brass) that has inside of it a bullet, gunpowder and primer. It is made to fit neatly in the chamber of a gun. This kind of cartridge became usual in the 19th century.

</doc>
<doc id="78163" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78163" title="Hong Kong Island">
Hong Kong Island

Hong Kong Island () is an island in the southern part of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, China. Most of the city of Hong Kong was built on the island. Hong Kong Island covers . 
It had a population of 1,289,500 (16,390 people per square kilometre) in 2008. 3,000 people lived on the island in fishing villages when it was first occupied by the United Kingdom. In 1842, the island was formally given the United Kingdom by China for good. The City of Victoria was then built on the island by the British.
The northern part of the island, on the southern shore of Victoria Harbour is the historical, political, and economic centre of Hong Kong.
The island hosts many famous places, including The Peak and Ocean Park, along with historical sites and large shopping centres. The mountains on the island are also famous for hiking. The northern part of Hong Kong Island and Kowloon form the central urban area of Hong Kong. 

</doc>
<doc id="78164" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78164" title="Communist Party of China">
Communist Party of China

Originally, the party was led by Chen Duxiu, who was the General Secretary of the Central Committee. From 1943-82 the most powerful position in the party was Chairman. In 1982, members of the Central Committee voted to name the leader of the party General Secretary again. The current General Secretary is Xi Jinping.

</doc>
<doc id="78168" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78168" title="Tatar language">
Tatar language

The Tatar language is a Turkic language that is spoken by Tatar people. The Tatar language is the official language of Tatarstan.

</doc>
<doc id="78172" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78172" title="House of Medici">
House of Medici

The House Medici (pronounced med-ee-chee) or Medici family was a very important family in Florence, Italy from the year 1300 to about 1600. They were the richest family in Europe for many years. Many leaders of Florence during the Renaissance were Medicis. The Medicis were important because they ran many banks, including the most important bank in Europe. They were so powerful they became like a royal family. 4 popes of the Catholic Church were from the Medici. Their names were Pope Leo X (the 10th), Pope Clement VII(the 7th), Pope Pius IV (the 4th), and Pope Leo XI (the 11th) 2 Queens of France were from the medici- Catherine de’ Medici and Marie de’ Medici.The heir to the Tuscan throne was traditionally known as the Grand Prince.
The family ruled the state with the title of Grand Duke of Tuscany.

</doc>
<doc id="78177" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78177" title="Giordano Bruno">
Giordano Bruno

Giordano Bruno (1548 – 17 February 1600), born Filippo Bruno, was an Italian friar of the Dominican Order. He was also a philosopher and mathematician. He is best known as believing in the infinity of the universe. His cosmological theories went beyond the Copernican model. 
Bruno thought the Sun was just one of an infinite number of independently moving heavenly bodies. He is the first man to have thought the stars we see at night are identical in nature to the Sun. For publishing beliefs contrary to Roman Catholic dogma about transubstantiation, trinity and other matters, he was burnt at the stake as a heretic by the Inquisition of the Roman Catholic Church.
Bruno also wrote extensive works on the art of memory, a loosely organized group of mnemonic techniques and principles.
The Catholic Church made the following accusations against Bruno:
Bruno did accept and promote Copernicus' idea that the Earth revolves round the Sun. Many believe this was one of main reasons for his downfall; others think his theological beliefs were more critical. In 1584 he published two dialogues which argued for his idea on astronomy. Eight years later he was arrested, and his trial took another eight years. His accusers demanded complete recantation of all his 'erroneous' beliefs. He refused, and went to his death. Later the Inquisition used his example to terrify Galileo into withdrawing his works from publication.

</doc>
<doc id="78183" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78183" title="Wheel of Fortune (US game show)">
Wheel of Fortune (US game show)

Wheel of Fortune is a game show on television. It was created by Merv Griffin in 1975. It was first hosted by Chuck Woolery from 1975 until 1981. Pat Sajak has been hosting the show since 1981. The show has been aired in syndicated format since 1983.
The game combines hangman with a wheel that gives away cash and prizes. At the beginning of the show, there is a $1,000 toss-up puzzle. During a toss-up puzzle, one letter at a time appears on the board. Contestants can ring in to solve the puzzle before the last letter is revealed. An incorrect solution disqualifies that contestant for the rest of that round.
A second toss-up is worth $2,000 and determines who starts round one. The contestant who wins the second toss-up starts the first round. There are 24 spaces on the wheel. A contestant who lands on a cash space is credited with that amount multiplied by how many of a particular letter is in the puzzle. A contestant can buy a vowel for $250.
Any contestant who lands on Lose a Turn loses his or her turn but not the winnings they have earned during the round. If a contestant lands on Bankrupt, he or she will lose all of his or her winnings they have earned during the current round as well as a Wild Card. The Wild Card is used to call for another consonant while the wheel is still on the cash space a contestant landed on. Also on the wheel are two "1/2 Car" tags. If a contestant wins a round with both tags, they win a car. Both tokens offer $500 per letter if claimed. There is also a prize wedge and a Gift Tag. The prize wedge is a prize announced before the first round. To win it, a contestant has to land on the wedge, call a correct letter, and solve the puzzle without hitting Bankrupt. The Gift Tag is $1,000 credit for purchases from a company. Both tokens offer $500 per letter if claimed. In the first three rounds, there is a special wedge that, if claimed and bought to the bonus round, allows the contestant a chance to play for $1,000,000 in the bonus round. If a contestant lands on Free Play, he or she will not lose his or her turn for an incorrect guess or incorrect solution. A consonant is worth $500. The top dollar value on the wheel is $2,500 in round one, $3,500 in the second and third rounds, and $5,000 from the fourth round on.
In round two, two mystery wedges are added to the wheel. One hides $10,000 and the other hides a Bankrupt. A contestant who lands on a mystery wedge calls for a letter. He or she may take $1,000 per letter occurrence or turn over the wedge. If one wedge was turned over, the other acts as a regular $1,000 cash space and cannot be turned over. Round three is the Prize Puzzle round. The contestant who solves the puzzle wins a prize. Also in round three is an Express wedge. If a contestant lands on this wedge and calls a correct letter, they can continue playing the game like normal, or choose to play for $1,000 per letter without spinning. If a contestant chooses to play for $1,000 per letter without spinning and calls a wrong letter, they lose all of the winnings they have earned during the round.
A third toss-up puzzle, worth $3,000, determines who starts the fourth round. When time runs short, a bell sounds. The host spins the wheel. Remaining consonants are worth $1,000 plus the value in front of the left-most contestant. The contestants take turns calling for letters. A vowel can be called at no cost. Then, the contestant in control has three seconds to solve.
The contestant with the most cash at the end of the game advances to the bonus round. If the game ends in a tie, another toss-up puzzle is played to determine who goes to the bonus round. The contestant spins the bonus wheel. A category is announced. A bonus puzzle is revealed. The contestant is given the letters R, S, T, L, N, and E. The contestant then calls for three more consonants and a vowel. If a contestant has a Wild Card in the bonus round, a fourth consonant is called. The contestant who has solved the puzzle wins the prize they landed on. Any contestant who fails to solve the puzzle loses. The host then shows the prize in the envelope regardless of the result. Prizes include cash amounts ranging from $30,000 to $50,000 in $5,000 amounts, a car with $5,000 cash, and a top prize of $100,000. If the Million Dollar Wedge is bought to the bonus round, the $100,000 envelope is replaced with a $1,000,000 one.

</doc>
<doc id="78192" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78192" title="Shalom">
Shalom

Shalom (שלום) is a Hebraic word which means "peace". Like in English, it can mean the peace between two parts, as well as an inner peace, being calm or the quietness of a person. It is also used as a method of greeting like "hello", "good day (morning, afternoon, high noon...)" or "good bye".
The root of the word "shalom" can be related to "le-shalem" which means "to complete, to reward, to pay, to compensate". This means that it is more than the absence of conflict or struggle or the breaking of unfriendliness: It also means a return to the balance, to justice, and to the complete equality. 
In general, one uses the word "shalom" as the short form of the sentence "Shalom Aleichem" (exactly "Peace is with you") that can be translated as "good day (morning, afternoon, high noon...)" (a greeting). This is very similar to the Arabic phrase "Salam Alaykum" (سلام عليكم) which is again a greeting meaning "Peace be with you".

</doc>
<doc id="78197" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78197" title="Villa Gordiani">
Villa Gordiani

Villa Gordiani is a park situated in Rome. Several Roman ruins,some of them still well preserved, are scattered throughout the park.

</doc>
<doc id="78213" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78213" title="Massachusetts Bay Colony">
Massachusetts Bay Colony

The Massachusetts Bay Colony was an English settlement in the 17th century on the east coast of North America. The colony was later called New England and what is now the cities of Salem and Boston. The Bay Colony also included what is now known as the States of Massachusetts, Maine, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, and Connecticut.
John Winthrop, the founder of the Massachusetts Bay Colony, continued to work on the colony, and improve it any possible way. He knew that the Church of England was bad, so he decided to improve it at the New World; either colonizing the natives or getting rid of them.
There were two companies who brought settlers in the New World. The first company was the Dorchester Company but was a failure. The second company was in 1628 and called the Massachusetts Bay Colony. This was successful and brought approximately 20,000 people to the Colony.
At first the colonists had a good friendship with the Native Americans but as more Europeans moved to these areas there were problems over land borders. The Native Americans also had many different customs. These differences led first to the Pequot War (1636–1638), and then to King Philip's War (1675–1676). After these wars, the Native Americans became peaceful and others moved to different places.
The colony was doing well and made money trading with England. They also traded with the West Indies. In 1686 there was a civil war in England. King James II wanted to have total control over the colonies. After the war, the colonies remained the same until 1692. Then Sir William Phips arrived and Massachusetts Bay and the Plymouth Colony were combined. The colonists helped in the running of the government and how it would spend its money.
From the earliest times many Native American lived in this area. They farmed and hunted within their own land borders and did not cross each other's land. Early in the 1600s, explorers, Samuel de Champlain and John Smith made a map of the area.
Living in the New World was very hard work for the first settlers. Many became ill and died though the cold winter. There was not enough food, and the rest of the people decided to return to England after one year. For awhile there was no more talk of settling people in those parts. English ships did still come to the New England area for fishing and trading with the Indians.
In November 1620, a group of Europeans arrived and started Plymouth Colony. Other settlements were tried near there but they failed and the people either joined the Plymouth Colony, returned to England, or lived nearby the Colony.
The people of Plymouth faced many problems during the first years and could not pay back their investors. In 1627 the companies left the colonists to take care of themselves. Edward Winslow and William Bradford, two of its leaders, wrote about the "Mayflower" and the colony they created, called Plymouth Colony. It was published in England in 1622 called "Mourt's Relation". The two men have different opinions but it was written to encourage people to come to the New World to live.

</doc>
<doc id="78214" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78214" title="About a Girl">
About a Girl

About a Girl is a Canadian comedy television series, which was first shown on October 5, 2007 on The N in the United States, and Global in Canada. It is the first scripted comedy for The N. On February 25, 2008, actor Sandy Robson announced that the show was getting cancelled. The show ended with 13 episodes in one season.
The series centers around Amy, a young college co-ed who moves in an apartment off campus with four guys, when she finds out her dorm room is a uninhabitable sty. Her new roommates are wild, unpredictable, and...kind of hot.

</doc>
<doc id="78215" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78215" title="Number line">
Number line

A number line is a line with integers (simply ordinary numbers, ...-3, -2, -1, 0, 1, 2, 3...) on it extending forever in both directions. Usually, zero (0) is placed in the middle of the line. The numbers have an equal space from each other. Other numbers in between the numbers on the line represent rational, irrational, and other types of real numbers.
There is another number line, equally valid and useful, that extends vertically through 0 (the origin) at right angles to our traditional number line and uses imaginary numbers ("i"). These so-called imaginary numbers extend above and below the traditional number line and are used in very real calculations in many areas of science and technology and also extend in both directions forever (into infinity).
A number line is usually drawn as a simple horizontal line. Another form is the helical number line. If the line of numbers is wrapped around a cylinder following an upward helical path, it becomes a helical number line.
If the circumference of the cylinder is equal to the length occupied by ten numbers on the number line, it then becomes a decimal helical number line, and the numbers arrange themselves into columns, each number in a particular column having the same number ending.

</doc>
<doc id="78223" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78223" title="Tunicate">
Tunicate

Tunicates (Sea squirts or Urochordata) are a subphylum of the Chordates. They are filter feeders, living mainly from plankton. The adults are sessile, stuck to rocks. They are called tunicates because the adult form is covered by a leathery tunic. This tunic supports and protects the animal. 
Many of them are colonial or semi-colonial in their adult stage. They are quite a large group, containing about 3,000 species. The adults live mostly on the sea floor, in the littoral zone.
The sea squirt has two openings in its small body. One opening, called the "oral siphon", sucks water into the animal; the other opening, called the "atrial siphon", squirts water out of the animal. Inside is a little basket-like sieve which traps food: so these sea squirts are filter feeders. The Sea squirt can close the holes in its siphons, like a drawstring can close the opening in a bag. 
When in its larval state, it looks like a tadpole and is sometimes called a "tadpole larva". Like many sea creatures, a sea squirt larva looks very different from an adult sea squirt. The larva swims for a short time and then attaches itself to something on the sea floor, like a rock, transforming into its adult form. It usually stays in one place for the rest of its life.
Tunicates are more closely related to craniates (hagfish, lampreys, jawed vertebrates) than to lancelets, echinoderms, hemichordates, or other invertebrates.
Chemical substances which might help fight diseases like cancer or various viruses have been found in some species. 
Scientists have also found out that some species can heal some damage done to them, over several generations. A similar process might be possible for humans.

</doc>
<doc id="78230" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78230" title="Zheng He">
Zheng He

Zheng He (; 1371–1433) was an explorer, diplomat, and admiral from China. He lived during the Ming Dynasty. Zheng He was the leader of a very large fleet of ships that traveled all over the Indian Ocean and Southwest Asia. Zheng He was an eunuch of China's Imperial Court. The fleet that Zheng He commanded had 317 ships that were very large. 28,000 Chinese soldiers were on board these ships.
Zheng He was born in Kunyang, a village in Yunnan. He was born with the name Ma He (). He and his family were Muslim. At the time, Yunnan was ruled by Mongols. In 1381, however, a Ming army invaded and took control of the area.
Ma He was taken as a prisoner by the Ming armies. He was about 10 years old. He was castrated and then taken away to serve the Prince, Zhu Di (the future emperor). Ma He became a servant at the Imperial Court. The name Zheng He was given to him by the Prince. He also came to be called "Sanbao", a reference to the Three Jewels of Buddhism.
From 1405 to 1433, Zheng He went on seven journeys to the Indian Ocean, or what the Chinese people called the "Western Ocean". He was the leader of a large fleet of ships and a big army.
In his first three journeys he visited the countries of Southeast Asia, India and Sri Lanka. In his fourth to seventh journeys he went as far as the east African coast. In his journeys he gave the countries he visited gifts of silk, porcelain, gunpowder and other goods. He got lots of unusual gifts as well, including giraffes and zebras.
He had his first journey from 1405–1407, but it is not known why the journey was made. He traveled from the mouth of the Yangtze River to Vietnam, as well as the south of India. His fleet was made up of 317 ships, more than 27,000 men, and the cargo included porcelain, silk, and lacquerware. He used a treasure fleet which is known as the largest wooden ships ever built, being long, and about wide. On his first voyage, he defeated a famous pirate in the Strait of Malacca.
For the next 28 years, Zheng He traveled on six more voyages. From 1407–1409, he visited Calicut, Thailand and Java. From 1409–1411, he saw Ayutthaya, Malaya, Sumatra and Sri Lanka. From 1413–1415, he went to Sri Lanka, Bengal, India, Hormuz, Arabia and Aden. On his fifth journey, from 1417–1419, he visited the Ryukyu Islands, Brunei, and east Africa. Then from 1421–1422, he expanded on his fifth journey. His final journey, from 1433–1435, he revisited many of the previous places and brought back gifts from many rulers.
Zheng He visited over 30 countries, and is believed to have died in 1433 on the journey home during the final treasure fleet voyage. After Zheng He died at sea in 1433, his treasure fleet quickly faded, even though his voyages had been a success. Less than 100 years after his death, all of the ships from China were destroyed.

</doc>
<doc id="78231" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78231" title="List of elements">
List of elements

This page shows a list of all 118 chemical elements that have been identified.

</doc>
<doc id="78235" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78235" title="Georg Büchner Prize">
Georg Büchner Prize

The Georg Büchner Prize (German: Georg-Büchner-Preis) is the most important literary prize of Germany. It was created in 1923 in memory of German writer Georg Büchner and was only given to artists who came from or were closely tied to Büchner's home of Hesse. 
In 1951, the prize changed to a general literary prize, given yearly by the "Deutsche Akademie für Sprache und Dichtung". It goes to German language authors, and the annual speech by the recipient takes place in Darmstadt. Since 2002, the prize has been endowed with 40,000 Euros.

</doc>
<doc id="78236" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78236" title="Brigham Young University Hawaii">
Brigham Young University Hawaii

Brigham Young University Hawaii, or "BYU-Hawaii" for short, is an undergraduate institution that educates some 2,400 students from Asia, the Pacific islands, the United States, and other parts of the world. 
The campus is located in Laie, Hawaii. It is owned and operated by The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints. It was founded in 1955 by Mormon prophet David O. McKay.

</doc>
<doc id="78237" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78237" title="Australopithecus africanus">
Australopithecus africanus

Austalopithecus africanus was first discovered by Raymond Dart in 1925. He found a well-preserved skull of a young australopithecine, three to four years old. This skull is often called the Taung Child, after Taung, South Africa where it was found. It is perhaps the most complete skull of "A. africanus" known. Based on current data "A. africanus" dates to between 3.03 and 2.04 million years ago.
"Australopithecus africanus" had a dish shaped facial structure with teeth that were large compared to modern humans. While it had larger front teeth compared to the back, the emphasis was on back tooth grinding. Males had a sagital crest on the tops of their skulls. Large muscles were attached to this ridge that helped to support the heavy jaw.

</doc>
<doc id="78239" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78239" title="Australopithecus">
Australopithecus

Australopithecus is a genus of extinct hominids closely related to humans.
The first "Australopithecus" described was the Taung Child, discovered by Raymond Dart, and described in 1925.
Their remains are mostly found in East Africa, and the first fossil is from 3.9 million years ago (mya). The split from other apes would have taken place earlier, perhaps about 5 mya.
It is widely believed that the group of which they are part gave rise to the genus "Homo", and hence to human beings.
The genus "Australopithecus" originally included two rather different forms. One form was lightweight: the gracile australopithecines. The other form was bulkier, the robust australopithecines.
It is still under discussion whether they should be put in separate genera. Here we treat the gracile forms; the robust forms are described elsewhere as "Paranthropus".
Gracile australopithecines shared several traits with modern apes and humans. They were widespread throughout Eastern and Northern Africa 3.9 to 3 million years ago.
The brains of most species of "Australopithecus" were roughly 35% of the size of that of a modern human brain. This is not much more than the brain of a chimpanzee. Brain size in hominins does not increase significantly until the arrival of the genus "Homo".
The Taung specimen had short canine teeth, and the position of the foramen magnum was evidence of bipedal locomotion.
Most species of "Australopithecus" were diminutive and gracile, usually standing between 1.2 and 1.4 m tall (approx. 4 to 4.5 feet). There is a considerable degree of sexual dimorphism. Modern hominids do not show sexual dimorphism to the same degree — particularly, modern humans display a low degree of sexual dimorphism, with males being only 15% larger (taller, heavier) than females, on average.
In "Australopithecus", however, males can be up to 50% larger than females, though usually less pronounced than this.
The skeleton, the fossil footprints found at Laetoli, Tanzania, the canine teeth and the foramen magnum all show that these apes had achieved bipedalism.
"Australopithecus africanus" used to be regarded as ancestral to the genus "Homo" (in particular "Homo erectus").
However, fossils assigned to the genus "Homo" have been found that are older than "A. africanus". Thus, the genus "Homo" either split off from the genus "Australopithecus" at an earlier date (the latest common ancestor being "A. afarensis" or an even earlier form, possibly "Kenyanthropus platyops"), or both developed from a yet possibly unknown common ancestor independently.
According to the Chimpanzee Genome Project, both human ("Ardipithecus", "Australopithecus" and "Homo") and chimpanzee ("Pan troglodytes" and "Pan paniscus") lineages diverged from a common ancestor about 5 to 6 million years ago, if we assume a constant rate of evolution.
However, hominins discovered more recently are somewhat older than the molecular clock would suggest. "Sahelanthropus tchadensis", commonly called ""Toumai"" is about 7 million years old and "Orrorin tugenensis" lived at least 6 million years ago. Since little is known of them, they remain controversial because the molecular clock in humans has determined that humans and chimpanzees had an evolutionary split at least a million years later.
One theory suggests that the human and chimpanzee lineages diverged somewhat at first, then some populations interbred around one million years after diverging. More likely, the assumptions behind molecular clocks do not hold exactly. The key assumption behind the technique is that, in the long run, changes in molecular structure happen at a steady rate.
Researchers such as Ayala have challenged this assumption.

</doc>
<doc id="78240" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78240" title="Homo">
Homo

Homo is the genus of which man is a species, "Homo sapiens". 
The genus began about 2.3 million years ago. Their ancestors were almost certainly some line of Australopithecine apes.
The physical characteristics of these species are larger brain (above 900ml), and various changes to the skeleton which improve walking and running ability. As the process continues, the forehead becomes more vertical, the skull becomes rounder, the teeth are reduced in size, arms are shorter and legs are longer, and the skeleton becomes more delicate. All species used stone tools, but there is no evidence of when language developed. Human evolution is a much studied topic.

</doc>
<doc id="78279" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78279" title="Poverty in India">
Poverty in India

India suffers from a lot of poverty, which means that many people there do not have enough money. In 2012, the latest report by the Planning Commission of India (Tendulkar Committee) reported that 26% of all people in India fall below the international poverty line of US$ 1.25 per day. Over the last decade, poverty has witnessed a consistent decline with the levels dropping from 37.2% in 2004-05 to 29.8% in 2009-10. The number of poor is now estimated at 250 million, of which 200 million live in rural India.
Despite all the causes, India currently adds more millions people to its middle class every year than any other country same as China. Poverty decline in India is fastest just after China, and will be poverty free by 2020.
According to the release from the Planning
Commission, 25.7% of people in rural areas were
below the so-called poverty line and 13.7% in
urban areas. This is comparable with 33.8% and
20.9%, respectively, in 2009-10, and 42% and
25.5%, respectively, in 2004-05.
The poverty numbers are estimated on the basis
of consumption expenditure captured in the five-
year surveys undertaken by the National Sample
Survey Office (NSSO). The decline in poverty
numbers was first reported by The Hindu on 16
July.
The press release sought to show that the
number of poor has declined faster in the period
during which the Congress-led United Progressive
Alliance was in power and that, in the same
period, the monthly expenditure per person had
increased more equitably, especially in rural
areas. Nearly 20 million people were pulled out of
poverty every year, the data showed.
While experts welcomed the decline in poverty,
they flagged concerns such as the comparability
of the numbers.the rich is dominating the poor people in the world. so we want to say that don't see poor people as your slaves.
There are two views on the cause of poverty in India.

</doc>
<doc id="78280" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78280" title="The Christian Community">
The Christian Community

The Christian Community (original German name: "Die Christengemeinschaft") is a Christian denomination. It was founded in 1922 in Dornach (Switzerland) by a group of theologians and pastors, led by the Protestant pastor Friedrich Rittelmeyer. He was helped by Rudolf Steiner, the Austrian philosopher and founder of anthroposophy.

</doc>
<doc id="78281" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78281" title="List of Melbourne railway stations">
List of Melbourne railway stations

This is a list of the 200 currently operating suburban railway stations (216 including greater metropolitan stations) in Melbourne, Australia. The stations make up 16 railway lines going out from the city (and 4 greater metropolitan lines), as well as the central City Loop.
There are also a further 19 stations on 3 old, volunteer-operated, tourist railways. These are not a part of the suburban network.
Stations are broken up into 2 Myki ticketing zones (some stations are included in both zones, where tickets for either zone may be used), as well as the City Saver area, which is within Zone 1 and covers the central business district. On March 4, 2007 zone 3 was made part of zone 2.
For detailed travel information, do not rely only on this page; please go to the Metlink website.
56 stations
Separates from the Pakenham line at Caulfield station.
19 stations
The Stony Point line is a greater metropolitan line that joins the Frankston line.
Separates from the Sandringham line at South Yarra station.
23 stations
The Traralgon line is a regional line that continues the Pakenham line.
Separates from the Pakenham line at Dandenong station.
Separates from the Eastern lines (Burnley group) at Richmond station.
12 stations
53 stations
Separates from the City Loop at Southern Cross and Flagstaff stations.
14 stations
Separates from the Craigieburn railway line at North Melbourne station.
13 stations
Separates from the Craigieburn railway line at North Melbourne station.
12 stations
The Sunbury line is a greater metropolitan line that joins the Sydenham line.
Separates from the Sydenham line at Footscray station.
7 stations
Separates from the Williamstown line at Newport station.
7 stations
The Geelong and Warrnambool regional lines join the Werribee line.
Separates from the Craigieburn railway line at Newmarket station. Trains may start running on this line every day, as part of renewing the Royal Melbourne Showgrounds.
49 stations
Separates from the City Loop at Flinders Street and Parliament stations.
23 stations
Separates from the Lilydale line at Burnley station.
12 stations
Separates from the Lilydale line at Ringwood station.
8 stations
Separates from the Lilydale line at Camberwell station.
6 stations
37 stations
Separates from the City Loop at Flinders Street and Parliament stations.
23 stations
Separates from the Hurstbridge line at Clifton Hill station.
14 stations
These lines have trains pulled by diesel engines and railcar services, and use Myki tickets. All trains are run by V/Line, except for the Stony Point line run by Metro Trains Melbourne using engines borrowed from V/Line Passenger.
15 stations
Begins at Frankston station on the Frankston line.
9 stations
Separates from the Sydenham line at Sunshine station.
The Ballarat regional line is joined to the Melton line.
Continues from the Sydenham line.
The Bendigo regional line is joined to the Sunbury line.
These lines are run part-time (full-time in the case of Puffing Billy) by groups of people who want to keep old trains running, and are do not use Myki tickets.
19 stations
12 stations. In this list only, a star ( * ) shows stations at which trains do not normally stop, and are there mainly to be historic.

</doc>
<doc id="78286" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78286" title="Flag of Iraqi Kurdistan">
Flag of Iraqi Kurdistan

The Flag of Iraqi Kurdistan (Kurdish: "Alaya Kurdistanê") has three colours and are placed horizontally. The top colour is red, the middle is white and the bottom is green. In the middle of the white is a sun with 21 rays. The 21 rays represent Navruz.

</doc>
<doc id="78287" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78287" title="Vector graphics">
Vector graphics

Vector graphics (also called graphical modeling, or object-oriented graphics) is a type of computer graphics. Vector graphics uses geometrical objects, like points, lines, curves, and polygons to model the image. Mathematics can be used to describe the graphics. Most often vectors and matrices are used. The other way to model computer graphics is to use raster graphics. They model images as a collection of pixels.
Unlike raster images, vector-based images can be scaled indefinitely without loss of quality. Vector graphics are most often used for diagrams, and other things that can be described using simple shapes. Photographs are most often raster images.

</doc>
<doc id="78291" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78291" title="Silence (band)">
Silence (band)

Silence is a German rock - heavy metal band. It was founded in 1995 in Bavaria, Germany. Its founding members were Stefan Mueller (guitar), Holger Kronester (drums), and the brothers Bernd (guitar) and Marco Wolf (bass). They played a mix of rock and metal music. Their music always had a dark, depressive side.
The band's first successful album was "Enola". It was listed as "Album of the month" in German Metal-Hammer. The album was released in 2000. Three years later they recorded "the p/o/u/r letters". It got very good reviews all over Germany and Europe. In 2007 they released their 5 track EP "The Badtime Stories". With this album they got a record deal with the German record label Biohazzard Records, a sublabel of Danse macabre.
In 2010 they released the follow-up full-length album to "the p/o/u/r letters". It was titled "Life: Failed". 
The today's members of the band consists of Stefan (singer), Bernd (guitar), Sebastian (keyboard), Bastian (guitar), Oliver (bass) and Bastian (drums).

</doc>
<doc id="78292" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78292" title="Georg Büchner">
Georg Büchner

Karl Georg Büchner (17 October 1813 – 19 February 1837) was a German dramatist and writer of prose. He was the brother of physician and philosopher Ludwig Büchner. Many people think that he might have become as important as Johann Wolfgang von Goethe and Friedrich Schiller if he had lived longer.
He was the son of a doctor and born in Goddelau near Darmstadt, Hesse-Darmstadt. Büchner went to a secondary school that focused on Latin, Greek and on modern languages (including French, Italian and English). But he was mainly interested in science and when he went to university he studied medicine in Strasbourg.
In 1828 he became interested in politics and joined a group which later on probably became the Gießen and Darmstadt section of the "Gesellschaft für Menschenrechte" (Society for Human Rights). In Strasbourg, he studied not only medicine but French literature and political thought as well.
While Büchner continued his studies in Gießen he started a secret society which wanted revolutionary change. With the help of the Protestant theologian Friedrich Ludwig Weidig he published the leaflet "Der Hessische Landbote", a revolutionary text that criticized social problems in the Grand Duchy of Hesse. The authorities charged them with treason and issued a of . While Weidig was arrested, tortured and died imprisoned in Darmstadt, Büchner fled across the border to Strasbourg where he wrote most of his literary work and translated two plays by Victor Hugo, "Lucrèce Borgia" and "Marie Tudor". Two years later, his dissertation, "Mémoire sur le Système Nerveux du Barbeaux (Cyprinus barbus L.)" was published in Paris and Strasbourg. The ideas of François-Noël Babeuf and Claude Henri de Saint-Simon had an important influence on his work. In October 1836 he got a job at the University of Zürich as a lecturer in anatomy and went back to Zürich where he spent his final months writing and teaching until he died of typhus at the age of twenty-three.
In 1835, his first play, "Dantons Tod" (Danton's Death), about the French revolution, was published, followed by "Lenz". It is a novella based on the life of the Sturm und Drang poet Jakob Michael Reinhold Lenz. In 1836 his second play, "Leonce and Lena" he describes the nobility. His unfinished and most famous play, "Woyzeck", was the first literary work in German whose main characters were members of the working class. Published after Büchner's death, it became the basis for Alban Berg's opera "Wozzeck" which was first performed in 1925.
By the 1870s, Büchner was nearly forgotten in Germany when Karl Emil Franzos edited his works; these later became a major influence on naturalism and expressionism. Arnold Zweig described "Lenz", Büchner's only work of prose, as the "beginning of modern European prose".
There are many translations of the individual plays.

</doc>
<doc id="78293" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78293" title="Ludwig Büchner">
Ludwig Büchner

Friedrich Karl Christian Ludwig Büchner (29 March 1824 – 1 May 1899) was a German philosopher, physiologist and physician who became one of the exponents of 19th century scientific materialism. 
Büchner was born at Darmstadt, Germany, on 29 March 1824. From 1842 to 1848 he studied physics, chemistry, botany, mineralogy, philosophy and medicine at the University of Giessen. In 1852 he became lecturer in medicine at the University of Tübingen, where he published his great work "Kraft und Stoff: Empirisch-naturphilosophische Studien" (Force and Matter: Empiricophilosophical Studies, 1855). In this work, he sought to demonstrate the indestructibility of matter and force. The extreme materialism of this work excited so much opposition that he was compelled to give up his post at Tübingen. He retired to Darmstadt, where he practiced as a physician and contributed regularly to pathological and physiological magazines. 
He died at Darmstadt on 1 May 1899. 
Ludwig Büchner was the brother of Georg Büchner, a famous playwright.

</doc>
<doc id="78297" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78297" title="Goitre">
Goitre

A goitre or goiter (Latin: "struma"), also called a bronchocele, is a swelling in the neck (just below Adam's apple or larynx). It happens when the thyroid gland gets larger (usually because the body is not getting enough iodine). 
Goitres are classified in different ways (put into different categories): 
Some of the causes of goitre include:
New research says that some people may be more vulnerable to goitre (more likely to have goiters) because they inherited that vulnerability (it was passed down to them from their parents).

</doc>
<doc id="78298" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78298" title="Cincinnati Reds">
Cincinnati Reds

The Cincinnati Reds are a Major League Baseball from Cincinnati, Ohio, are the oldest team in professional baseball, established in 1869. The was knowns as the Cincinnati Red Stockings until 1878, when the team changed the name to the current Cincinnati Reds. The Reds joined the National League in 1876 The Reds have won World Series championships in 1919, 1940, 1975, 1976 and 1990. The strong Reds teams of the 1970s were nicknamed "The Big Red Machine". From 1912 to 1970, the Reds home stadium was Crosley Field, from 1970-2002 home games were played at Riverfront Stadium. Since 2003 the Reds have played home games at Great American Ballpark

</doc>
<doc id="78300" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78300" title="Josh Beckett">
Josh Beckett

Josh Beckett (born May 15, 1980) is a Major League Baseball starting pitcher for the Los Angeles Dodgers.

</doc>
<doc id="78301" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78301" title="Curt Schilling">
Curt Schilling

Curtis Montague (Curt) Schilling (born November 14, 1966 in Anchorage, Alaska) is an American Major League Baseball starting pitcher. Schilling is a right-handed starting pitcher for the Boston Red Sox. He has won World Series championships in 2001 with the Arizona Diamondbacks and in 2004 and 2007 with the Red Sox. Schilling began his career on September 7, 1988 playing for the Baltimore Orioles.
On Wednesday, February 5, 2014 Schilling revealed that he has been diagnosed with and is being treated for cancer.
In 2016, Schilling announced that he is interested in running for President of the United States in the future if Hillary Clinton were to win.

</doc>
<doc id="78302" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78302" title="Adam Dunn">
Adam Dunn

Adam Troy Dunn (born November 9, 1979, in Houston, Texas), nicknamed "Big Donkey", is an American Major League Baseball first baseman, outfielder, and designated hitter for the Oakland Athletics. He bats left-handed and throws right-handed.

</doc>
<doc id="78303" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78303" title="Stroke">
Stroke

A stroke is an event which damages part of the brain. This can happen if an artery that feeds blood to the brain gets clogged, or if it tears and leaks.
Strokes are often called a brain attack because of the similarities it has to a heart attack. A heart attack is when there is a lack of blood flow to the heart and a stroke is when there is a lack of blood flow to the brain. There are two types of strokes. One is when there is a blood clot blocking the artery. An artery is a type of tube that takes blood to different parts of your body. The other type of stroke is when a blood vessel bursts and there is blood moving around freely in the brain. A blood vessel is another type of tube that carries blood to your body.
A stroke, or cerebrovascular accident (CVA), is the rapid loss of brain function(s) due to disturbance in the blood supply to the brain. This can happen because of ischemia (lack of blood flow) caused by blockage (thrombosis, arterial embolism), or a haemorrhage (leakage of blood).
As a result, the affected area of the brain cannot work properly. Symptoms might include: hemiplegia (an inability to move one or more limbs on one side of the body), aphasia (inability to understand or use language), or an inability to see one side of the visual field.
A stroke is a medical emergency. It can cause permanent damage. If it is not quickly treated, it may lead to death. It is the third most common cause of death and the most common cause of disability for adults in the United States and Europe.
Strokes happen on both the left and right side of the brain. When a stroke happens on the left side of someone’s brain, it affects the right side of the body. It can also cause problems with the patient’s speech and language. If a stroke affects the right side of the brain, it affects the left side of the body. It also changes patient’s spatial (relating to space) perceptions. Getting a stroke on the right side of the brain can also cause people to not acknowledge their illness. Patients behave impulsively and neglect the side of their body.
Factors that increase the risk of a stroke include old age, high blood pressure, a previous stroke, diabetes, high cholesterol, smoking, atrial fibrillation, migraine with aura, and thrombophilia (a tendency to thrombosis). Of those factors, the most easy to fix are high blood pressure and smoking.
The Cincinnati Prehospital Stroke Scale was designed to help "pre-hospital" medical professionals (like EMTs) identify a possible stroke before the patient gets to the hospital. It tests three basic signs. If any of these signs are not normal, the patient may be having a stroke and should be transported to a hospital as soon as possible.
About 72% of patients who cannot do one of these three tasks normally are having an ischemic stroke. More than 85% of patients who cannot do all three tasks are having an acute stroke.
The "Spot a Stroke" campaign, created by the American Heart Association and the American Stroke Association, teaches everyday people how to recognize a stroke. The Spot a Stroke campaign teaches the basic tests from the Cincinnati Stroke Scale, using the acronym FAST:
Once the patient is in the hospital, doctors can find out for sure whether they are having a stroke by looking at their brain with special scanning machines, like an MRI or a CT scanner.
Strokes can kill. To prevent a stroke, doctors advise people to:

</doc>
<doc id="78309" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78309" title="Wheel of Fortune">
Wheel of Fortune

Wheel of Fortune could mean a popular TV game show:
Wheel of Fortune could also mean:

</doc>
<doc id="78311" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78311" title="The Wheel of Fortune">
The Wheel of Fortune

The Wheel of Fortune, or "Rota Fortunae", is a concept in medieval and ancient philosophy and means the unpredictable nature of Fate. The wheel belongs to the goddess Fortuna, who spins it at random, changing the positions of those on the wheel - some suffer great misfortune, others gain windfalls.
The concept developed in antiquity; it was used by Cicero. The Wheel originally belonged to the Roman goddess Fortuna, whose name seems to derive from "Vortumna", "she who revolves the year". Fortuna eventually became Christianized: the Roman philosopher Boethius (d. 524) was a major source for the medieval view of the Wheel, writing about it in his"Consolatio Philosophiae".
The Wheel of Fortune motif appears significantly in the "Carmina Burana" (or "Burana Codex"), over one thousand poems and songs — often profane in content — written by students and clergy in the early 13th century. Excerpts from two of the collection's better known poems, ""Fortuna Imperatrix Mundi" (Fortune, Empress of the World)" and ""Fortune Plango Vulnera" (I Bemoan the Wounds of Fortune)," read:
Fortune and her Wheel have remained an enduring image throughout history.
William Shakespeare in "Hamlet" wrote of the "slings and arrows of outrageous fortune" and, of fortune personified, to "break all the spokes and fellies from her wheel." And in "Henry V", Act 3 Scene VI, are the lines:
Selections from the "Carmina Burana", including the two poems quoted above, were set to new music by twentieth-century classical composer Carl Orff, whose bombastic and well-known "O Fortuna" is based on the poem "Fortuna Imperatrix Mundi.
Fortuna does occasionally turn up in modern literature. She is often associated with gamblers, and dice could also be said to have replaced the Wheel as the primary metaphor for uncertain fortune.

</doc>
<doc id="78316" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78316" title="Raster graphics">
Raster graphics

Raster graphics (or bitmap graphics) is one of two kinds of computer graphics. With raster graphics, images are modeled as big collections of pixels. Usually they form an image shaped like a rectangle. Each pixel holds something, like color or transparency. Raster images are used very often. Computer screens are made of a raster of points. Vector graphic images are rasterised that way. Images that are difficult to make as a vector, like photographs, are often made in the form of a raster image.
Many printers today use computer languages like Postscript or PCL. These languages are based on vectorized images, most of the time. To be printed, these images need to be translated into raster graphics first. This is done by a part called a Raster Image Processor. Most modern printers have those processors inside the printer. Some printers use a special piece of software on the computer to do that job.

</doc>
<doc id="78320" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78320" title="Postscript">
Postscript

Postscript is a programming language. It was developed by Adobe, in 1984. It is a standard used by many computer printers. There are three different versions of it, Postscript Level 1, Level 2, and Level 3.
The Portable Document Format is another standard, also from Adobe. It is better adapted to printing. Many things computer languages have, have been dropped to develop PDF.
And finally, a Hello World program, the customary way to show a small example of a complete program in a given language, might look like this in Postscript:
or if the output device has a console

</doc>
<doc id="78329" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78329" title="Horse Chestnut">
Horse Chestnut

A Horse Chestnut is a large deciduous tree. Its Latin name is Aesculus hippocastanum. It grows natively in southern Europe, in the Balkans. It is grown very often in temperate climates. It can grow up to 36 m tall. The name of the tree (and the whole genus of similar trees) is because it was used to treat horses, against cough and some parasite worms.

</doc>
<doc id="78331" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78331" title="Francisco Pizarro">
Francisco Pizarro

Francisco Pizarro González, marqués de los Atabillos (1471– June 26, 1541) was a Spanish conquistador. Today, he is known as the conqueror of the Inca Empire. He also founded Lima, La Ciudad de los Reyes, capital of Peru. Pizarro was born in Trujillo, Extremadura, Spain. He was an illegitimate son of Gonzalo Pizarro Rodríguez de Aguilar (senior) who as colonel of infantry served in the Italian campaigns under Gonzalo Fernández de Córdoba, and in Navarre, with some distinction. His mother was Francisca González Mateos, a woman of slender means from Trujillo. Through his father, Francisco was second cousin to Hernán Cortés, the famed conquistador of Mexico.
In 1502, Pizarro travelled to the New World where he joined in several expeditions to see the Pacific Ocean. In 1513 Pizarro joined the expedition of Nunez de Balboa across the Isthmus of Panama to become one of the first Europeans to see the Pacific Ocean. In 1524, after hearing stories about the exploration of Peru, he joined Diego de Almagro and Hernando de Soto. Together, they agreed to travel to Peru and look for gold. The expedition was a disaster, but Pizarro made connections with the Inca people. In 1528 he returned to Spain, where the king allowed him to conquer the new land for the sake of Spain. Pizarro himself was to be named governor of Peru. In 1531 he landed in Peru again, accompanied by not even 300 soldiers. The country was devastated by a recent civil war between Atahualpa and Huascar, the sons of the dead emperor. In November 1532, Pizarro met Atahualpa in the city of Cajamarca and managed to capture him, despite the Inca was protected by thousands of soldiers. The weapons of the Spaniards proved superior. In 1533, after paying a huge ransom for his release, Atahualpa requested to be let free but was killed anyway by Pizarro. He then continued south into Peru and captured the capital of Cuzco. 
In 1535, Pizarro founded a new capital named La Ciudad the los Reyes, today known as Lima. However, some Spaniards had not been part of the capture of the Inca and therefor had not been paid any gold. Led by Almagro, the "Almagristas", Almagro's men, marched south into present-day Chile to find new riches, while Pizarro stayed in Peru. The Inca were treated very ill and their riches stolen by the Spaniards, who built huge estates or travelled back to Spain. Pizarro became the richest and most powerful of them all. In 1536, the Inca tried to overthrow him in a rebellion, but failed since Pizarro managed to subdue the Incas after a year of fights. However, the Spaniards had became so weakened that when Almagro returned, he took power and expelled Pizarro to the north. Pizarro returned with an army in 1538 and defeated Almagro. Almagro was executed in the plaza of Cuzco and Pizarro was again sole ruler. However, Almagro had a son who swore revenge, and in 1541, Pizarro was killed in his palace in Lima by a number of men following Diego Almagro the younger. He was himself caught and executed the following year, so was the last brother of Pizarro struggling for power in Peru, in 1548. Then the Spanish king took personal control over the country by a personal envoy, the "Viceroy".

</doc>
<doc id="78332" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78332" title="Bingo">
Bingo

Bingo or Housie is a game where people try to match numbers drawn at random with numbers on a card. When someone does this, they call "BINGO!" or "HOUSE!" very loud so everyone playing can hear.
The game was invented in Italy in the 1500s. The game slowly moved to other countries like France, Great Britain, and other parts of Europe. Bingo originates from the Italian lottery, Il Gioco del Lotto d'Italia. In Paris the game was known as Le Lotto, played by the rich part of French society. Since then the game become popular all over the world and today Charitable Bingo in US is worth $3 Billion.
In the United Kingdom, the game is played by marking a card. The card has 27 squares in 3 rows of 9. 15 squares have a numbers between 1 and 90. 5 numbers on each row. The winner is the first player to mark the 5 numbers in one line or all fifteen numbers on the card.
Bingo cards are normally printed in strips of six. A strip of six cards has every number between 1 and 90. Many people buy only 4 cards, so that the other two cards were usually wasted. Edward Thompson and Company, the largest printer of bingo tickets in the UK found a way to print strips of 12 so that there would be less waste, and so that any 6 tickets had all of the numbers 1 to 90.
In the UK, all money used to buy the bingo ticket must be given back in prize money. The owner of a bingo club is allowed to charge an entrance fee and also a "participation fee" (a fee to be allowed to take part in the bingo game).
In the United States, the game is played by a group of people. All of the group has cards and tokens. When a number is called that you have on your card, you place a token on that spot. The first person to make a line of 5 tokens up or down, across, or diagonally wins the game. This game is played for prizes usually.

</doc>
<doc id="78337" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78337" title="9 (number)">
9 (number)

Nine is the Arabic number which comes after 8 and before 10. It is an odd number, and is the highest single-digit number. It is also a square number. In Roman numerals, nine can be written as IX.

</doc>
<doc id="78338" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78338" title="5 (number)">
5 (number)

The number five is a number that comes after four and before the number six. In Roman numerals, it is V. 
Five is the third prime number, after two and three, and before seven. The number five is also an odd number.
Most people have five fingers on each hand and five toes on each foot.
It is not known for certain who and how the shape of the number five was created, but most people think it was made by the Brahmin Indians.

</doc>
<doc id="78339" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78339" title="Hurling">
Hurling

Hurling (in Irish, "iománaíocht" or "iomáint") is an Irish outdoor team sport similar to hockey, played by two teams of 15 people.
The object of the game is for players to use a wooden axe-shaped stick called a hurley (in Irish a "camán", pronounced kam-awn), or a hurl, to hit a small ball called a sliotar (pronounced slith-er) between the opponents' goalposts either over the crossbar for one point, or under the crossbar into a net guarded by a goalkeeper for one goal, which is equivalent to three points.
The ball can be caught in the hand and carried for not more than four steps, struck in the air, or struck on the ground with the stick. It can be kicked or slapped with an open hand (the hand pass) for short-range passing. A player who wants to carry the ball for more than three steps has to bounce or balance the ball on the end of the stick, and the ball can only be handled twice while in his possession.
 Hurling is played on a pitch approximately 137m long and 82m wide The goals at each end of the field are formed by two posts, which are usually 6 m high, set 6.4 m apart, and connected 2.44 m above the ground by a crossbar. A net extending in back of the goal is attached to the crossbar and lower goal posts. 

</doc>
<doc id="78340" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78340" title="6 (number)">
6 (number)

The number six is a natural number that comes after the number five and before the number seven. Six is also the first perfect number which means that the sum of its factors (1, 2 and 3) are equal to the number itself (6). The next perfect number is 28. In Roman numerals, it is VI.
In mathematics, the number six is an even number.

</doc>
<doc id="78341" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78341" title="4 (number)">
4 (number)

The number four is a number and a numeral. It comes after the number three, and before the number five. In Roman numerals, it is IV.
In mathematics, the number four is an even number and the smallest composite number. Four is also the second square number after one.
A small minority of people have four fingers and four toes, on each hand and foot, respectively. This proves difficult to count on your fingers. Four squared is 16, and four doubled is 8.

</doc>
<doc id="78342" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78342" title="7 (number)">
7 (number)

The number seven is a natural number that comes after six and before eight. In Roman numerals, it is VII.
In mathematics, the number seven is an odd number and a prime number.
It is also a Mersenne prime.
Example
918785
77 is divisible by 7, so the original number 918785 is also divisible by 7.
Proof:
Pretend formula_1 is the root number and formula_2 is the last digit. So formula_3 is the whole number.
If the whole number (formula_3)is divisible by 7, that means formula_5 is also a multiple of 7.
And formula_6 must also divide 7. formula_7 is always divisible by 3, since 3 and 6 are all multiples of 3, through 3 is coprime to 7, and the last, formula_8 is also divisible by 7.

</doc>
<doc id="78343" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78343" title="8 (number)">
8 (number)

The number eight is a natural number that comes after the number seven and before the number nine. In Roman numerals, it is VIII. 
In mathematics, the number eight is an even number and a composite number. Eight is also a power of two, being 2 times itself 3 times.

</doc>
<doc id="78345" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78345" title="Donatello">
Donatello

Donatello (Donato di Niccolò di Betto Bardi, c. 1386 – 13 December 1466) was an Italian sculptor during the Renaissance. He lived in Florence. He worked in stone, bronze, wood, clay, wax and stucco, and had several assistants. His reputation as a great artist was stated by Vasari, and has always stood well. He worked in Rome, Sienna and Padua as well as Florence, and worked for the Church, for Cosimo de' Medici, and for various city authorities.
He was the son of Niccolo di Betto Bardi, and was born in Florence. His mother's name is not known. When Donatello was older, he studied with Filippo Brunelleschi the architect. He also helped the sculptor Lorenzo Ghiberti to make statues for the Battistero di San Giovanni. 
Donatello's work was inspired by ancient sculpture. He was the first sculptor of his time to celebrate the human body, an idea that had died out after Greek and Roman times. His life-size statue of David is his best-known work. The David is the first known free-standing nude statue made since antiquity. Much of his work was done for display in grand churches. Between 1415 and 1426, he made five statues for the Florence Cathedral, also known as the Duomo.
Donatello was a realist: an artist whose sculpture showed the subjects as real people. Naturalism and the showing of human feelings are his influences.

</doc>
<doc id="78359" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78359" title="Sarah Bernhardt">
Sarah Bernhardt

Sarah Bernhardt (23 October 1844 – 26 March 1923) was a French stage actress, and has often been called "the most famous actress in the history of the world". Bernhardt made her fame on the stages of Europe in the 1870s, and was soon working in Europe and the United States. She developed a reputation as a serious actress, getting the nickname "The Divine Sarah."
She was born in Paris as Marie Henriette Bernardt, the daughter of Julie Bernardt and a Dutch father. She added the letter "H" to her first and last name, and used the name of Edouard Bernardt, her mother's brother, as the name of her father. This was probably done to hide the fact that her father was unknown.
Bernhardt's career started in 1862, when she was a student at the Comédie-Française. She was not very successful there, and left to become a courtesan by 1865. She became famous in Europe in the 1870s, and was soon in demand all over Europe and in New York. She may have been the most famous actress of the 19th century. She coached many young women in the art of acting, including Liane de Pougy.
In 1905, while performing in Rio de Janeiro, Bernhardt hurt her right knee during the final scene when she jumped from a high wall. The leg never healed properly, showing signs of bruising. By 1915, gangrene had set in and her entire right leg was amputated, meaning she was in a wheelchair for several months. Nonetheless, she continued her career. She carried out a successful tour of America in 1915, and died on returning to France. On 26 March 1923, Bernhardt died of uremia following kidney failure. She is buried in Père Lachaise Cemetery in Paris. 
Sarah Bernhardt has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame at 1751 Vine Street.

</doc>
<doc id="78362" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78362" title="Kevin Rudd">
Kevin Rudd

Kevin Rudd (born 21 September 1957) is a former Australian politician who was twice Prime Minister of Australia serving from 2007 to 2010 and again from 27 June 2013 to 18 September 2013. He also served as Prime Minister from 2007 to 2010. Rudd was the Australian Minister for Foreign Affairs from 14 September 2010 to 22 February 2012. He was member for Griffith in Brisbane from 1998 to 2013. 
Rudd went to the Australian National University and studied International Studies. He learned to speak the Chinese language. He became a diplomat for the Australian government. He lived and worked in Sweden, and later in China. Rudd won a seat in Parliament in 1998. The Australian Labor party elected him the Leader of the Opposition in December 2006. After 11 years of the Liberal Party being in power, the Labor Party won the 2007 federal election. During the election Rudd talked a lot about work agreements (industrial relations laws) and global warming. As prime minister he signed the Kyoto Protocol and "apologised" to Aboriginal Australians for bad things done by the government long ago. He spoke about human rights in China in the Chinese language to Chinese students. Australia and China were doing lots of trade, but the Chinese government did not like this talk. He also supported the Afghanistan war and took Australian troops out of the Iraq conflict. 
Rudd was Prime Minister at the beginning of the Global Financial Crisis. His government, with Wayne Swan as treasurer, spent a lot of money to try and keep the economy going. Australia did not have a recession, but management of this government spending started problems for Rudd. His government was seen as being unable to cope with and this started to affect Rudd's popularity.
Rudd planned a new tax on the huge profits being made mining companies in Australia. These companies and their leaders started a huge advertising campaign against the Labor government. He also decided to delay his election promises to do something about Global Warming. His leadership style was unpopular with many members of the Labor Party. members of parliament felt that they were not able to take part in making important decisions. They felt that Rudd left things until the last moment, and then acted quickly when things had almost became a crisis. With these things happening, the Labor Party decided that there had to be some changes. Realizing that he had lost support, Rudd resigned as leader of the Labor Party, and as Prime Minister. Julia Gillard was elected to the position of leader, and therefore prime minister. He was really sad. Gillard promised that Rudd would be made Foreign Minister if they won the 2010 election.
After the 2010 Election, Gillard chose Rudd to be Foreign Minister. In February 2012, Rudd decided that he should again be leader of the Labor Party. He said he could not work with Gillard because she did not trust him. He resigned as Foreign Minister, and said he would challenge Gillard for the leadership. The Labor Party held a meeting on 27 February 2012 and held a new vote for the leader's position. Rudd only received 31 votes while Gillard got 71 votes. Rudd returned to the backbench, and not have any positions of responsibility in the government until on 26 June 2013, Gillard announced another caucus ballot on the leadership. Rudd won it so he became the Leader of the Labor Party for a second time. On 27 June 2013, Rudd was sworn in as Prime Minister. Rudd is the first former Prime Minister to return to the office since Robert Menzies in 1949 and the second Labor Prime Minister to do so. 
On 31 May 2012 Rudd became a grandfather when his daughter Jessica gave birth to a baby girl. 
On 7 September 2013, Labor lost the 2013 election to the Coalition led by Tony Abbott.
On 13 November 2013, Rudd announced that he would be retiring from politics at end of week. His resignation took effect on 22 November 2013. 

</doc>
<doc id="78364" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78364" title="Hurley (stick)">
Hurley (stick)

A hurley is a wooden stick measuring between 70 and 100 cm (26 to 40 inches) long with a flattened, curved end (called the "bas"), used to hit a "sliotar" (leather ball) in the Irish sport of hurling. It is also used in camogie, the female equivalent, and there often called a camogie stick. 
Hurleys are made from ash wood, and are usually bought from local craftsmen in Ireland, who still use traditional production methods. 
No matter how well crafted the hurley is, a hurler may well expect to use several hurleys over the course of the hurling season. The hurleys often break if two collide in the course of a game, or occasionally they break off on the other players (arms, legs, etc.). Two hurleys colliding is colloquially known as "the clash of the ash." Throwing the hurley (e.g. to block a ball going high over one's head) is illegal, but camogie players may drop it to make a handpass.

</doc>
<doc id="78366" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78366" title="Sliotar">
Sliotar

A sliotar (or sliothar) is a hard solid sphere slightly larger than a tennis ball, consisting of a cork core covered by two pieces of leather stitched together. Sometimes called a "puck" or "hurling ball", it resembles an American baseball with more pronounced stitching. It is used in the Gaelic games of hurling, camogie, rounders and shinty.
Early sliotars used various materials, depending on the part of the country:

</doc>
<doc id="78368" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78368" title="Camogie">
Camogie

Camogie (in Irish, "camógaíocht") is an Irish team sport, organised by the "Camogie Association of Ireland", the women's variant of hurling. The rules are almost identical to hurling with a few exceptions.
One is that goalkeepers wear the same colours as outfield players and a player in camogie can handpass a score, which is not allowed in the men's game. All games last 60 minutes (senior inter-county hurling games last 70), and dropping the camogie stick to handpass the ball is allowed. The All-Ireland Final is held every year in Croke Park during September, usually the week between the hurling final and Gaelic football final. There are two main competitions; the National League which is staged during the winter-spring months and is used as a warm-up to the All-Ireland Championships during the summer.
The reigning champions are Wexford.
Camogie/hurling is unique in that it uses a different name for the version played by men and women. The reason is complicated: men play using a curved stick called in Irish a "camán". Women would use a shorter stick, called by the diminutive form "camóg". The suffix -"aíocht" was added to both words to give names for the sports: "camánaíocht" (which became "iománaíocht") and "camógaíocht". When the Gaelic Athletic Association was founded in 1884 the English-origin name "hurling" was given to the men's game. When an organisation for women was set up in 1904, it was decided to Anglicise the Irish name "camógaíocht" to "camogie".

</doc>
<doc id="78370" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78370" title="Rounders">
Rounders

Rounders is a sport which originated in Great Britain and Ireland. The game is regulated by the "Gaelic Athletic Association" (GAA) in Ireland and the "National Rounders Association" (NRA) in the UK. Both have different, although broadly similar, game-play and culture. Competitions are held between teams from " both" traditions, often with one version being played in the morning and the other being played in the afternoon.
Game-play centers around innings where teams act at turns being batters and fielders. A maximum of nine players are allowed to play in fielding positions at one time. Points ("rounders") are scored by the batting team by completing a circuit around the field through four bases/posts without being put 'out' - for example, by a ball they batted being 'caught-out' or touching a tagged base/post.
The earliest nationally formalised rules of play were devised by the GAA in Ireland in 1884. 
Although it is generally considered a school game, rounders is played at international level as well. Currently, teams from Canada, England, Ireland, the Isle of Man, Scotland and Wales compete against each other. 
Some theories on the origin of baseball claim that baseball is based on rounders.Rounders is a sport played with a bat and ball when the ball is thrown to you the ball is meant to be hit with the bat.
Official rules of rounders:

</doc>
<doc id="78379" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78379" title="Cricket (insect)">
Cricket (insect)

Crickets, family Gryllidae (also known as "true crickets"), are insects somewhat related to grasshoppers and more closely related to katydids or bush crickets (family Tettigoniidae). They have somewhat flattened bodies and long antennae. There are about 900 species of crickets. They tend to be nocturnal and are often confused with grasshoppers because they have a similar body structure including jumping hind legs.
Crickets are known for their chirp (which only male crickets can do; male wings have ridges or "teeth" that act like a "comb and file" instrument). The left forewing has a thick rib (a modified vein) which bears 50 to 300 "teeth". The chirp is made by raising their left forewing to a 45 degree angle and rubbing it against the upper hind edge of the right forewing, which has a thick scraper (Berenbaum 1995). This sound producing action is called "stridulation" and the song is species-specific. There are two types of cricket songs: a calling song and a courting song. The calling song attracts females and repels other males, and is fairly loud.
Night-time in the Jurassic included the sound of chirping bush crickets. This is according to scientists who have reconstructed the song of a cricket that chirped 165 million years ago. "A remarkably complete fossil of the prehistoric insect enabled the team to see the structures in its wings that rubbed together to make the sound".

</doc>
<doc id="78382" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78382" title="Rounders (movie)">
Rounders (movie)

Rounders is a 1998 movie about the underground world of high-stakes poker. The movie was directed by John Dahl and starred Matt Damon and Edward Norton. It follows two friends who need to quickly earn enough cash playing poker to pay off a huge debt. The term “rounder” refers to a person whose sole means of earning a living is by playing cards.
The movie opened to mixed reviews and only made a modest amount of money. However, with the growing popularity of Texas hold 'em and other poker games, "Rounders" has become a cult hit.

</doc>
<doc id="78389" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78389" title="Gaelic Athletic Association">
Gaelic Athletic Association

The Gaelic Athletic Association (GAA) (Irish: "Cumann Lúthchleas Gael") is an organisation which is mostly focused on promoting Gaelic Games - traditional Irish sports, such as hurling, camogie, Gaelic football, handball, and rounders. The organisation also promotes Irish music and dance, and the Irish language. It is the largest and most popular organisation in Ireland with some 800,000 members out of the island's population of almost 6 million.
Gaelic football and Hurling are the main and most popular activities promoted by the organisation.
Gaelic football is a contact sport that combines the skills of soccer, basketball, and some of the skills of volleyball in a high-scoring game in which players punch or kick the ball over the crossbar for one point, or kick the ball into a net on the bottom for three points. The game also has similarities with Australian Rules Football (see below).
Hurling is a stick-and-ball game that combines many of the skills of field hockey, lacrosse, and baseball but pre-dates all three. Players can catch the ball and use a hurley (Irish: "camán") to hit a ball (sliotar) between the goalposts using the same scoring system as in Gaelic football and on the same size of field. It is not to be confused with the Scottish game of shinty.

</doc>
<doc id="78390" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78390" title="Gaelic Games">
Gaelic Games

Gaelic games are the traditional sports played in Ireland. The two main Gaelic games are Gaelic football and hurling. Both are organised by the Gaelic Athletic Association (GAA). Other games organised by the association include camogie, rounders, Gaelic handball. During the late 19th century, Gaelic games in Ireland were dying out. This decline was stopped by the GAA and the Irish national Gaelic Revival. Today they are the most popular games in Ireland. 
Gaelic football is the most popular of the gaelic games and is played by teams of 15 on a rectangular grass pitch with H-shaped goals at each end. The object is to score by driving the ball through the goals. The team with the highest score at the end of the match wins. It combines the skills of soccer and basketball in a fast-paced, high-scoring contact sport.
A slightly different rule set is used for women's Gaelic football (officially called "ladies' Gaelic football"). The women's game also uses 15-player teams and H-shaped goals, but allows less physical contact.
Hurling is a stick-and-ball game played by teams of 15 on a rectangular grass pitch with H-shaped goals at each end. The primary object is to score by driving the ball through the goals. The team with the highest score at the end of the match wins. It is over three thousand years old, and is said to be the world's fastest field game, combining skills from lacrosse, field hockey, and baseball in a hard-hitting, highly skilled game.
Camogie is a game almost identical to hurling, but played only by women. Like hurling, it is a stick-and-ball game played by teams of 15, with the pitch and goals the same as those in hurling. Other rules are almost the same between the two sports, but camogie does not allow as much physical contact.
Rounders is a bat and ball game which is played in Ireland; a similar version is played in England. Rounders is the least popular of the GAA gaelic games and is organised by a sub division of the GAA known as the Rounders Council of Ireland. It is similar to baseball.
Gaelic handball is a game where two players use their hands to return a ball against a wall. The game is similar to American handball; Gaelic handballers play against their US counterparts.
Other Gaelic Games such as gaelic athletics have nearly or completely died out. Pastimes such as Road bowling, a sport played in Ireland for a long time, could be considered Gaelic games.

</doc>
<doc id="78391" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78391" title="Gaelic handball">
Gaelic handball

Gaelic handball is a game where two players use their hands to return a ball against a wall. The game is similar to American handball; Gaelic handballers play against their US counterparts.

</doc>
<doc id="78392" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78392" title="American handball">
American handball

American (or court) handball, usually referred to simply as handball, is an American form of fives played against one or more walls. 
It is a common belief that "American handball" was brought to the United States in the 1880s by Irish immigrants. The Gaelic handball sport was played since the 15th century in Ireland and Scotland.
American handball is played on a court 12.2 meters long by 6.1 meters wide (40 feet long by 20 feet wide) with either a single (front) wall, three walls, or in a fully enclosed four-wall court (the most common). The four-wall court is a rectangular box. The front wall is 6.1 meters (20 feet) square, and the side walls are 12.2 meters (40 feet) long and 6.1 meters (20 feet) high. In the middle of the floor of the court lies the short line, that divides the floor into two 6.1 meter (20 feet) squares. Also along the floor is the service line, which is 1.5 meters (5 feet) in front of the short line. The service zone is the area between these two lines. The back wall of the court is usually 3.7 meters (12 feet) high, with an above gallery for the referee and scorer, and also spectators. A few courts have a glass back wall and/or glass side walls to allow for a better view of the match. (In three-wall court handball, the court often has a front wall and two full side walls, or the front wall is flanked by two triangular wings.) 

</doc>
<doc id="78393" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78393" title="Fives">
Fives

Fives is a British sport believed to come from the same origins as many racket sports. In fives, a ball is propelled against the walls of a special court using gloved or bare hands as though they were a racquet. 
The name may be derived from the slang expression "a bunch of fives" (meaning a fist). The game has also been known as hand-tennis and historically was often played between the buttresses of church buildings in England. There are links between Fives and the Irish and North American handball games and indeed, in recent years, British clubs have begun to establish ties with clubs in those countries.
Fives is not the same as Long Fives, which is played in a real tennis court.
There are two main forms of the game Rugby Fives and Eton Fives. 
Eton Fives is played competitively as a doubles game, whilst Rugby Fives is played as both a singles and a doubles game. 

</doc>
<doc id="78394" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78394" title="Miami Heat">
Miami Heat

The Miami Heat are a team in the National Basketball Association in Miami, Florida. It was started in 1988. They play their home games at the American Airlines Arena. They won the 2006 NBA Finals where they defeated the Dallas Mavericks 4 games to 2 and they also won the 2012 NBA Finals where they defeated the Oklahoma City Thunder 4 games to 1. They also defeated the San Antonio Spurs in 2013; 4 games to 3. They lost to the San Antonio Spurs in 2014 over five games.

</doc>
<doc id="78395" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78395" title="Buttress">
Buttress

A buttress is a structure placed against the walls of a building to give it more support, or to help it to hold the roofs. Buttresses are common in ancient buildings, especially in Europe. A buttress can be an inside or outside support.

</doc>
<doc id="78396" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78396" title="Real tennis">
Real tennis

Real tennis is the original racket sport from which the modern game of lawn tennis, or tennis, developed. It is also known as "jeu de paume" in France and as "court tennis" in some parts of United States.
Real tennis is still played at a small number of active courts in the United Kingdom, Australia, the United States, and France. The sport is supported and governed by 
organizations around the world.

</doc>
<doc id="78397" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78397" title="Jeu de paume">
Jeu de paume

Jeu de paume was originally a French game similar to lawn tennis, but played without racquets. The players hit the ball with their hands as in volleyball. "Jeu de paume" literally means: game of palm (of the hand). After some time gloves replaced bare hands. But even when bats, and finally racquets, became standard equipment for the game, the name did not change. It became known as "tennis" in English (see History of tennis), and later "real tennis" after lawn tennis became more popular than the parent game.
Some important buildings in France are known by the name "jeu de paume", in general because they are near to tennis courts or to sites on which courts once stood. Several works of art also bear this name, including the famous "serment du jeu de paume" ('the Tennis Court Oath') in the Palace of Versailles. It depicts the formal announcement of the French revolution made in the Royal Tennis Court there on 20 June, 1789.

</doc>
<doc id="78399" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78399" title="Palace of Versailles">
Palace of Versailles

The Château de Versailles, or simply Versailles, is a royal castle in Versailles, France.
In English one often speaks of the Palace of Versailles. When the castle was built, Versailles was a country village, but it is now a suburb of Paris. From 1682, when King Louis XIV moved from Paris, until the royal family was forced to return to the capital in 1789, the Court of Versailles was the centre of power in Ancien Régime France. Versailles is therefore famous not only as a building, but as a symbol of the system of absolute monarchy.

</doc>
<doc id="78400" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78400" title="Château">
Château

A (plural "") is a manor house or residence of the lord of the manor or a country house of nobility or gentry.
It may have fortifications, but often has none. The term comes from French-speaking regions and is used most often for buildings in these regions. Where clarification is needed, a fortified château (that is, a castle) is called a "château fort". But the word is not used in the same way as "castle" is in English, and most châteaux are more appropriately described as "palaces" or "country houses" in English than as "castles". For example, the Château de Versailles is so called because it was in the country when it was built, but it does not bear any resemblance to a castle, so it is usually known in English as the Palace of Versailles.

</doc>
<doc id="78401" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78401" title="Château (disambiguation)">
Château (disambiguation)

Château may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="78402" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78402" title="Positron">
Positron

A positron is the antimatter version of an electron. It has the same mass and spin as an electron. However, it has a positive charge, whereas an electron has a negative charge. Like all antimatter, when it meets its so-called counterpartner, each are annihilated and turned into energy. The electron and positron disappear, and the total mass decreases. There is no name for this type of energy, as it is neither mechanical, radiation, chemical, electrical, nuclear, nor thermal. Although the energy does emit light photons when annihilated, it is converted from some form of energy that has not been named.
A positron also very rarely makes a structure called positronium. Positronium is like an atom in many ways, but is very unstable, and usually quickly annihilates.

</doc>
<doc id="78405" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78405" title="Basque pelota">
Basque pelota

Pelota in Spanish, pilota in Basque and Catalan, or pelote in French (from Latin "pila") is a name for several court sports played with a ball using one's hand, a racket, or a wooden bat ("pala"), against a wall ("frontón" in Spanish, "frontoi" in Basque, "frontó" in Catalan) or, more traditionally, with two teams face to face separated by a line on the ground or a net. Their roots can be traced to the Greek and other ancient cultures, but in Europe they all come from real tennis (see "Jeu de paume"). Today, Basque Pelota is widely played in several countries: in Spain and France, specially in the Basque Country and its neighbour areas.

</doc>
<doc id="78407" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78407" title="Pump-jet">
Pump-jet

A pump-jet or water jet is a marine system that creates a jet of water for propulsion. The mechanical arrangement may be a propeller with nozzle, or a centrifugal pump and nozzle.
Pump jets have some advantages over bare propellers for certain applications, usually related to requirements for high-speed. 

</doc>
<doc id="78408" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78408" title="Propulsor">
Propulsor

A propulsor is a mechanical device that gives propulsion. The pump-jet is an example.

</doc>
<doc id="78411" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78411" title="Valencian language">
Valencian language

Valencian ("valencià") is the historical, traditional, and official name used in the Valencian Community (Spain) for the language spoken in this region, also known as Catalan ("català") in the Spanish Autonomous Communities of Catalonia, Aragon and the Balearic Islands; in the country of Andorra; in the southern French region of the Roussillon; and in the Italian city of Alghero on the island of Sardinia. 
In linguistics "Valencian" is also used to identify this distinctive variant spoken in central and southern Valencia which has gained its own currency within the Catalan domain.

</doc>
<doc id="78412" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78412" title="Valencian pilota">
Valencian pilota

"Pilota Valenciana" or Valencian pilota ("pilota" means "ball" in Valencian) is a traditional handball sport played in the Valencian Community. Its origins are not known, but seems to be related to the French Jeu de paume. 
Rules vary from area to area but the common trait is that the ball is struck with a bare, or almost bare, hand (only some minimal protection is applied in some versions of the sport). The general rule involves two teams made from two up to five players each (the numbers depend on the particular version played). 
The second characteristic is that it is not played against a wall. Instead, similarly to modern tennis, two individuals or teams are placed face to face separated either by a line on the ground or a net. 
A distinctive trait of Valencian pilota is that the spectators are often seated or standing very close to the court which means that they may be impacted by the ball and thus become an (unwilling) part of the game.
Valencian pilota origins are not known with certainty, but it's commonly supposed to be a variant from the middle-aged Jeu de paume, as many other European handball sports (Basque "laxoa", French Longue paume, Frisian handball and Italian Pallone) similar to the actual Valencian llargues variant.
"Jeu de paume" is documented at Paris in 1292 since there were 13 ball workshops and many "tripots" (courtfields), it was first played with the hands, and the scoring system was very similar to the current Valencian one. There were so many resemblances with the "Valencian pilota" sport that, in the 16th century Joan Lluís Vives compared both games in his "Dialogues" and claimed them to be exactly the same despite some minor differences.

</doc>
<doc id="78414" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78414" title="Trapezoid">
Trapezoid

A trapezoid (in North America) or trapezium (in Britain and elsewhere) is a quadrilateral, which is defined as a shape with four sides, which has one set of parallel sides. In North America, they call a trapezium as an irregular quadrilateral by people outside of North America.
To calculate the area of a trapezoid, you must add the two parallel sides together, divide that by 2, then times that by its height.

</doc>
<doc id="78416" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78416" title="Frisian handball">
Frisian handball

Frisian handball ("Dutch: kaatsen, Frisian: Keatsen") is a traditional Frisian sport, related to American handball and fives, that is most commonly practiced by people from the northern province of Fryslân, or Friesland. It is believed to be one of the oldest ballgames. The score is similar to tennis. The first team that scores six games, wins the match. It is played by the ethnic group of the Frisians.
In parts of Belgium, a similar game is played, there called "Jeu de Pelote". This game is played by teams of 5 players on a trapezium shaped field, mostly on marketplaces.
Chris Wassenaar

</doc>
<doc id="78419" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78419" title="Gaelic football">
Gaelic football

Gaelic Football (Irish: "Peil", "Peil Ghaelach" or "Caid" ), commonly referred to as "football", or "Gaelic", is a form of football played mainly in Ireland. It, along with Hurling, is the most popular spectator sport in Ireland.
Gaelic football is played by teams of 15 on a rectangular grass pitch with H-shaped goals at each end. The object is to score by kicking/striking the ball with your hand and getting it through the goals. The team with the highest score at the end of the match wins.
Players advance the ball up the field with a combination of carrying, "soloing" (dropping and then toe-kicking the ball upward into the hands), kicking, and hand-passing to their team-mates.
Gaelic football is one of four Gaelic Games run by the Gaelic Athletic Association, the largest sporting organization in Ireland. It has strict rules on player amateurism. The game is believed to have come from ancient Irish football known as caid which dates back to 1537, although the modern game took shape in 1887.
The grass pitch is rectangular, stretching 130–145 metres long and 80–90 metres wide. There are H-shaped goalposts at each end with a net on the bottom section. The same pitch is used for hurling; the GAA, which organizes both sports, decided this to facilitate dual usage. Lines are marked at distances of 13m, 20m and 45m from each end-line. Shorter pitches and smaller goals are used by under-12s and under 10s.
All Gaelic football matches last for 60 minutes, divided into two halves of thirty minutes, with the exception of senior inter-county games which last for 70 minutes (two halves of 35 minutes). Draws are decided by replays or by playing 20 minutes of extra time (two halves of 10 minutes).
Teams consist of fifteen players (a goalkeeper, two corner backs, a full back, three half backs, two mid fielders, three half forwards, two corner forwards and a full forward) plus up to fifteen substitutes, of which five may be used. Each player is numbered 1–15, starting with the goalkeeper, who must wear a different coloured jersey.
The game is played with a round leather football, similar to a soccer ball, but heavier, and with horizontal stitching rather than the hexagon and pentagon panels often used on soccer balls, and similar to a standard volleyball.

</doc>
<doc id="78420" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78420" title="Caid (sport)">
Caid (sport)

Caid was the name given to several ancient and traditional Irish football games. "Caid" is now used by some people for modern Gaelic football.
The word "caid" originally meant the ball which was used. It was made out of animal skin, with a natural bladder inside.
Some people believe that "caid" has influenced the modern sport of Gaelic football the rules of which were officially published in 1887. 
The first recorded mention of football in Ireland was in 1308, when John McCrocan, a spectator at a football game was charged with accidentally stabbing a player named William Bernard. Football games are mentioned in the "Statute of Galway", 1527, which allowed the playing of football and archery, but banned ""hokie" – the hurling of a little ball with sticks or staves", as well as other sports. 
"Caid" was especially popular in rural areas. 
There is some evidence that "caid" was taken around the world by the Irish diaspora, and that it may have influenced the development of Australian rules football, although this is controversial. 
By the late 19th century, "caid", like many aspects of native Irish culture, was in steep decline.

</doc>
<doc id="78425" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78425" title="Longue paume">
Longue paume

Longue paume is an outdoor version of jeu de paume and therefore an ancestor of modern lawn tennis. Hundreds of years ago it was quite popular, particularly in France. It was part of the Paris 1900 Summer Olympics, but not all think that the medals that were awarded for longue paume at that Olympics have full value. Today, the sport is played regionally in Picardie. The governing body of the sport is the "Fédération Française de Longue Paume" with its headquarter in Amiens.

</doc>
<doc id="78428" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78428" title="Pallone">
Pallone

Pallone (Italian for an inflated ball, similar to the word "balloon") is the name of several traditional ball games, played in various regions of Italy, with minimal differences in regulations.
"Pallone col bracciale" was particularly popular throughout Italy in the 18th century then in 19th century and 20th century until 1930 was the most popular sport of ancient Italian national sports; its first official regulations date back to 1555. The "pallone col bracciale" players are called "pallonisti" and during 19th century Italian professional pallonisti were richest and best rewarded sportsmen of all the world. This sport and his champions were described by Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, Giacomo Leopardi, Edmondo de Amicis, Antonio Francesco Grazzini, Ottavio Rinuccini, Gabriello Chiabrera, Tommaso Grossi, Giuseppe Gioachino Belli. Where Angels Fear to Tread (1991) includes a brief film depiction of this game.
Balls are struck back and forth with a wooden cylinder, called "bracciale", worn over the forearm, if carelessly played, a broken arm can result: in fact bracciale weighs 2 or 1 kilogram. Originally the ball of 934 grams was inflated, but now hard rubber ball of 350 grams is used. Scoring is by fifteens, as in tennis and the team which wins 12 games is final winner of the match. A special feature is that the ball is put into play by a designated server, who otherwise is not part of the game. The receivers can reject serves at will. Pallone is played on courts marked out on town streets. Registered players of official championships dispute their matches in a kind of stadium named "sferisterio" or "sferodromo" in Italian language. Nowadays they play two forms of this sport: 3 players a side with lateral wall and 4 players a side in open playing field without lateral wall.
Celebrated former professional champions include:
"Pallapugno", one time named "pallone elastico", is a game from Piedmont and Liguria and it is played with a bandaged fist; rubber ball has diameter of 10,5 
centimetres and weighs 190 grams. Scoring is also by fifteens, but in this version a second bounce can result in a "chase" rather than an outright point, similar to real tennis. Every team has 4 players and the team which wins 11 games is final winner of the match. Professional players dispute their matches in sferisterio 90 metres long and 18 metres large with lateral wall. Professional Italian pallapugno league is top level of competitions: in 2008 10 teams competed.
This sport is played in various nations and they dispute a world championship.
"Pallapugno leggera" is played in courtfield which has same size of volleyball's courtfield without net (device). Each team has 4 players with 2 reserve players. A match consisted of one set or three sets.
"Pantalera" or "pallapugno alla pantalera" is generally played on the urban streets. First action of every match consisted of shot pushing up the ball for rebound on a roof called pantalera in Piedmontese language. Other rules are the same of pallapugno.
"Pallonetto" or "pallonetto ligure al lungo" is generally played on the urban streets with tennis balls without covering felt. Playing field is long between 60 and 90 metres and it's large 18 metres with or without lateral wall. Players push the ball using one bandaged hand. 

</doc>
<doc id="78432" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78432" title="Palla">
Palla

Palla, Italian language for ball, is the name of various traditional ball games of Italy. In Italian they also call "pallacanestro" for basketball, "pallavolo" for volleyball, "pallamano" for handball and "pallanuoto" for water polo.
"Palla eh!" is an old Tuscan ball game from Maremma towns between Siena and Grosseto. It has this name because players call out "eh!" before serving.
Small hand-made balls contain a lead wrapped in rubber and wool with a leather cover. The game is played by facing teams who strike, not catch, the ball with either a bare or gloved hand: every team include 3, 4 or 5 athletes. Courts are marked out with painted lines on town streets, but there is no net, and players can move between sides. Adjacent buildings, objects, and sometimes spectators, are considered "in play." Play does stop for oncoming automobiles. Similar to real tennis, a second bounce can result in a "chase" rather than an outright point, marked in chalk where the ball stops rolling. In one version of palla, scoring is identical to that of tennis: 15-30-40-game.
In a variant called "palla 21" scoring is 7-14-21 or game. In this form they use a rubber or plastic ball of 35-40 grams. Firstly a palla 21 tournament was played in Chicago during 2007 with Italian national team.
"Palla elastica" is a team game: every team include 5 athletes who catch a rubber ball, similar to tennis ball, with either a bare hand. The team which wins 11 games is final winner of the match: each game consists of 4 points. Registered players of official championships dispute their matches in a kind of stadium, 75 metres long with lateral wall, named "sferisterio" or "sferodromo" in Italian language.
"Pallamuro" is Italian name of American handball.
"Palla prigioniera" is Italian name of prisoner ball.
"Pallacorda" or "palla della corda" is the Italian name of ancient form of real tennis where a cord of rope was strung across the street and players used hands, racket or tamburello alias "tambourine" in English language. Pisa, Prato, Rome, Siena, and various Tuscan towns still have streets named "via Pallacorda" or "via Della Corda".
"Pallamaglio" is an other ancient game called pall mall in English language and his modern form named skittles is played in England, Germany, Austria and Switzerland currently.
"Pallina" means "small ball" and it is a team game: every team include 4, 5 or 6 athletes who catch a rubber ball, of almost 50 grams, with either a bare hand.

</doc>
<doc id="78433" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78433" title="Pellet">
Pellet

Pellet is a term used for a small particle or grain, typically one created by compressing an original material. The term is used in a variety of specific contexts.

</doc>
<doc id="78437" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78437" title="Storm history of Hurricane Katrina">
Storm history of Hurricane Katrina

The meteorological history of Hurricane Katrina started on August 23, 2005. Hurricane Katrina was extremely destructive Category 5 hurricane which formed as Tropical Depression Twelve near the Bahamas. The next day, the tropical depression strengthened to a tropical storm, and was named "Katrina". Katrina continued on to make landfall on the southern part of the U.S. state of Florida as a Category 1 hurricane.
While passing across Florida, Katrina weakened to a tropical storm; however, the warm waters of the Gulf of Mexico allowed it to rapidly intensify to the sixth strongest Atlantic hurricane in recorded history. Afterwards, Katrina made landfall as a Category 3 hurricane near Buras-Triumph, Louisiana, and once more near the Mississippi/Louisiana border. Katrina continued northward through the central United States and finally dissipated near the Great Lakes, when it was absorbed by a cold front.
Tropical Depression Twelve formed over the southeastern Bahamas at 5:00 p.m. EDT (2100 UTC) on August 23, 2005, partially from the remains of Tropical Depression Ten, which had dissipated from the effects of a nearby upper tropospheric trough. While the normal standards for numbering tropical depressions in the Atlantic shows that the old name/number is kept when a depression dissipates and regenerates, satellite data indicated that a second tropical wave combined with Tropical Depression Ten north of Puerto Rico to form a new, much more advanced system, which was then named as Tropical Depression Twelve. Simultaneously, the trough in the upper troposphere weakened, causing the wind shear in the area to decrease, also allowing the new tropical depression to develop. In a later re-analysis, it was found that the low-level circulation of TD Ten had completely detached and dissipated, with only the remnant mid-level circulation moving on and merging with the second tropical wave mentioned before. As a result, the criteria for keeping the same name and identity were not met.
As the atmospheric conditions surrounding Tropical Depression Twelve were favorable for tropical development, the system began to strengthen, was upgraded to Tropical Storm status and given the name "Katrina" on the morning of August 24. A burst of convection allowed Katrina to become the fifth hurricane of the 2005 season on August 25, only two hours before it made landfall around 6:30 p.m. EST (2230 UTC) between Hallandale Beach and Aventura, Florida.
Katrina struck the peninsula with 80 mph (130 km/h) winds, and had a well-defined eye on Doppler radar, which managed to stay undisturbed throughout its passage over Florida. The storm weakened over land on August 26 to a tropical storm, but regained its strength as a hurricane at 2:00 a.m. EDT (0600 UTC), about one hour after making landfall in Florida. Parts of the Florida Keys experienced tropical storm force winds throughout August 26, with the Dry Tortugas briefly experiencing hurricane-force winds.
At first, the National Hurricane Center forecasts predicted that Katrina would begin turning northward after landfall, eventually to make its second landfall on the Florida Panhandle about three to four days later. Katrina, however, continued a westerly and west-southwesterly track, which eventually made the forecasts change their predictions, and forecast Katrina to move westward into New Orleans.
Right after the storm entered the Gulf of Mexico, the low wind shear, good upper-level outflow, and the warm sea surface temperatures of the Gulf Loop Current caused Katrina to intensify rapidly. On August 27, the storm was upgraded to Category 3 strength, becoming the third major hurricane of the season. An eyewall replacement cycle inhibited strengthening of its maximum winds for about 18 hours, but nearly doubled the size of the storm as a result. The storm then began a second period of rapid intensification starting at 7:00 p.m. CDT on August 27, and by 12:40 a.m. CDT on August 28, Katrina was upgraded to a Category 4 hurricane with maximum sustained winds of 145 mph (233 km/h). It became a Category 5 storm by 7:00 a.m. CDT, twelve hours after the beginning of the second round of rapid intensification, and reached its peak intensity at 1:00 p.m. CDT with maximum sustained winds of 175 mph (280 km/h), gusts of 215 mph (344 km/h) and a central pressure of 902 mbar (26.64 inHg). The minimum pressure made Katrina, at the time, the fourth most intense Atlantic hurricane on record (Hurricanes Rita and Wilma would later beat Katrina's record that same year). As the hurricane came closer New Orleans, the Weather Forecast Office in Slidell, Louisiana gave out two strongly-worded warnings of the storm's danger.
By the afternoon of August 28, the storm was large enough that some areas of the Gulf Coast were already experiencing tropical storm-force winds. The center of Katrina was about 180 statute miles (290 km) from the mouth of the Mississippi River, but tropical storm-force winds extended 230 mi (370 km) from the center of the storm, and hurricane-force winds extended about 105 miles (170 km) away.
Overnight on August 29, and into the morning of the next day, Katrina quickly weakened (in terms of maximum sustained winds) as it began to enter another eyewall replacement cycle. The inner eyewall disappered before an outer eyewall had fully formed, which was one of the reasons of its rapid weakening. In 18 hours, the hurricane's maximum sustained winds decreased from 170 mph (280 km/h) to 125 mph (205 km/h). However, storm surges remained high at landfall because large waves greater than 30 feet (9.1 m) in height were generated beforehand (with a buoy recording a 55 ft/16.7 m wave at sea), when Katrina was at Categories 4 and 5 on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale. The waves then combined with the storm surge of the large Category 3 hurricane.
Katrina made its second landfall at 6:10 a.m. CDT on August 29 as a Category 3 hurricane with winds of 125 mph (205 km/h) near Buras-Triumph, Louisiana. Because Katrina had just weakened from Category 4 strength, and also because of the shape of the coastline, Category 4-force winds are believed to have existed on land while the eye was over water. At landfall, hurricane-force winds were recorded 120 miles (190 km) from the center, the storm's central pressure was 920 mbar (27.17 inHg), and its forward speed was 15 mph (10 km/h). As it made its way up the eastern Louisiana coastline, most communities in Plaquemines, St. Bernard Parish, and Slidell in St. Tammany Parish were severely damaged by storm surge and the strong winds of the eyewall, which also swipped over eastern New Orleans, creating $1 billion worth of damage to the city from intense flooding and wind damage.
Original estimates recorded that Katrina had made this landfall as a Category 4 hurricane, with 135 mph (220 km/h) winds; however, as mentioned above, the storm weakened just before landfall to Category 3 intensity. The reasons for this weakening are not completely understood yet; while the eye-wall replacement cycle played a part, slightly increasing shear, dropping sea surface temperatures, dry air on the western semicircle of the storm and interaction with the continental landmass also may have played a role in weakening the cyclone. This follows the trend of previous strong cyclones in the Gulf of Mexico: all cyclones with minimum central pressures of 973 mbar (28.73 inHg) or less have weakened over the 12 hours before making landfall in the Gulf Coast of the United States.
A few hours later, after weakening slightly, Katrina made its third landfall near the Louisiana-Mississippi border with 120 mph (195 km/h) sustained winds and 928 mbar (27.37 inHg) pressure, still at Category 3 intensity. Its minimum pressure at its second landfall was 920 mbar (27.17 inHg), making Katrina the third strongest hurricane on record to make landfall on the United States, behind Hurricane Camille's 909 mbar (26.85 inHg) reading in 1969, and the 1935 Labor Day Hurricane's 892 mbar (26.35 inHg) record.
Because the storm was so large, its highly destructive eye-wall winds and the strong northeastern quadrant of the storm pushed record storm surges onshore, smashing the entire Mississippi Gulf Coast, including towns in Mississippi such as Waveland, Bay St. Louis, Pass Christian, Long Beach, Gulfport, Biloxi, Ocean Springs, Gautier and Pascagoula, and, in Alabama, Bayou La Batre. The surges peaked at 28 feet (8.5 m) in Bay St. Louis, Mississippi, and at 13 feet (4.0 m) as far away as Mobile, Alabama, which saw its highest storm surge since 1917. Storm surge was particularly high due to the hydrology of the region, the hurricane's extreme size, and the fact that it weakened only shortly before landfall. As Katrina moved inland diagonally over Mississippi, high winds cut a swath of damage that affected almost the entire state.
Katrina stayed at hurricane strength in Mississippi, but it soon weakened. It lost hurricane strength more than 150 miles (240 km) inland, near Meridian, Mississippi. Katrina was then lowered into a tropical depression near Clarksville, Tennessee and broke in half. One half of the storm continued to race northward, affecting the Central United States, and it was last noticeable in the eastern Great Lakes region. On August 31, it was absorbed by a frontal boundary and became a powerful extratropical low, causing 1.97–6.69 inches (50–170 mm) of rain in 12 hours. It also caused gale-force wind gusts from 31 to 61 mph (50 to 98 km/h) in southeastern Quebec and northern New Brunswick. In the region of Saguenay and Côte-Nord, rain caused breakdowns and failure in roads. The Côte-Nord region was isolated from the rest of Quebec for at least 1 week. However, the other half of Katrina broke off in the eastern part of the Appalachians, which caused a major tornado outbreak in the area from central Georgia to central Pennsylvania. The tornadoes were strong, killing two people and creating severe damage.
At 11:00 p.m. EDT on August 31, the center of the remnant storm that was once Katrina was absorbed by another weather system in southeastern Canada.

</doc>
<doc id="78440" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78440" title="Troposphere">
Troposphere

The troposphere is the lowest part of Earth's atmosphere. It contains about 75% of the atmosphere's mass and 99% of its water vapor and aerosols. Its height is about 15 km. It is taller in the tropics (20 km) and shorter at the poles (7 km).
The troposphere is where Earth's weather like rain, snow, thunder, or storms occur. Clouds can form up to a height of 10–15 km. The troposphere is where people live, because it reaches down to ground level. The next layer up is called the stratosphere. Between the two layers there is the tropopause.
In the troposphere, the temperature goes down as the altitude increases. This is different from the stratosphere. This also means that the troposphere is quite unstable: gases can easily rise up or fall down. Hence the troposphere is well mixed. This vigorous atmospheric convection also causes the general atmospheric circulation.

</doc>
<doc id="78442" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78442" title="Rapid deepening">
Rapid deepening

Rapid deepening is a condition that happens when the minimum sea-level atmospheric pressure of a tropical cyclone goes down at lot very quickly. The National Weather Service describes rapid deepening as a decrease of 42 millibars in less than 24 hours. However, this phrase is usually applied to most storms that are quickly becoming stronger.

</doc>
<doc id="78443" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78443" title="Doppler radar">
Doppler radar

Doppler radar uses the Doppler effect to measure the speed (radial velocity) of targets. Radial velocity is how fast the target is coming towards, or going away from, the radar. The Doppler effect will shift the received frequency up or down, based on the radial velocity of a target in the beam. This gives a direct and highly accurate measurement of target velocity, but only the radial velocity. Doppler radar by itself doesn't measure the azimuthal velocity (how fast it is going in other directions). 
Doppler radars may be Coherent Pulsed, Continuous Wave, or Frequency Modulated.

</doc>
<doc id="78444" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78444" title="Horseshoe crab">
Horseshoe crab

The horseshoe crab or king crab is a benthic or bottom-dwelling creature. It is not a crab at all, but a relative of the arachnids. Its main habitats are coastal areas and river estuaries.
"Limulus polyphemus" is the best-known of the four species. 
On its dome-shaped carapace, the horseshoe crab has four small eyes. It has two compound eyes at the sides of the carapace, and two simple eyes on the front. 
A horseshoe crab has twelve legs: five pairs of walking legs and a set of tiny pincers. The long, spiky tail is not used as a weapon or for defense; instead, it is just used for steering and flipping the body over if it gets turned upside down.
Atlantic horseshoe crabs, "Limulus polyphemus", can be found all over the eastern coast of North America and Mexico. Buried under mud or sand, they eat small clams, crustaceans, and worms. All over the coast, you will find their shells washed up on shore. Some of these shells are quite big, as the horseshoe crab can grow up to two feet long and a foot wide. Horseshoe crabs go through moults to reach that size.
The horseshoe crab population ranges from the Yucatán Peninsula to northern Maine, but they are most commonly found in the mid-Atlantic region between Virginia and New Jersey. Each major estuary along the coast has its own horseshoe crab population, distinguished from one another by size, colour and eye pigment. The females lay about 100,000 eggs.
The other three species are also called horseshoe crabs. The Japanese horseshoe crab ("Tachypleus tridentatus") is found in the Seto Inland Sea, and is considered an endangered species because of loss of habitat. Two other species occur along the east coast of India: "Tachypleus gigas" and "Carcinoscorpius rotundicauda". All four are quite similar in form and behavior.
Horseshoe crabs may be threatened by Asian overconsumption.
The horseshoe crab has an effective immune system. Its brackish maritime environment is a perfect home for bacteria. 
The blood of horseshoe crabs contains an enzyme that causes very rapid clotting in response to the presence of infectious bacteria. This response is used by medical and pharmaceutical companies to detect those kinds of bacteria in products, before the products are sold.
Horseshoe crabs are relatives of the Eurypterids (sea scorpions), whose first fossils appeared at the same time. They are quite ancient. They were definitely present in the early Ordovician, 450 million years ago, in a Burgess Shale-type environment. Their body shape has not changed much since then, though fossils in this group are scarce. The Atlantic horseshoe crab itself has no fossil record at all, and the genus "Limulus" goes back only some 20 million years, not 200 million.
The order they belong to, the Xiphosura, are basal to a clade of the Eurypterida and the Arachnida. It is estimated that the Xiphosura diverged from the Arachnida 480 million years ago.
Because they are famous as so-called "living fossils", the evolutionary record and the genetics of the horsehoe crabs have been studied with interest.

</doc>
<doc id="78445" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78445" title="Atlantic hurricane">
Atlantic hurricane

An Atlantic hurricane is a tropical cyclone that forms in the Atlantic Ocean, usually in the Northern Hemisphere during the summer or autumn, with one-minute maximum sustained winds of at least 74 mph (64 knots, 33 m/s, 119 km/h). When applied to hurricanes, "Atlantic" generally refers to the entire "Atlantic basin", which includes the North Atlantic Ocean, Caribbean Sea and the Gulf of Mexico.
Most Atlantic tropical storms and hurricanes form between June 1 and November 30. The United States National Hurricane Center monitors the basin and gives out reports, watches and warnings about tropical weather systems for the Atlantic Basin as one of the Regional Specialized Meteorological Centers for tropical cyclones as defined by the World Meteorological Organization.
Tropical disturbances that reach tropical storm intensity are named from a pre-determined list. On average, 10.1 named storms form each season, with an average of 5.9 becoming hurricanes and 2.5 becoming major hurricanes (Category 3 or greater). The climatological peak of activity is around September 10 every season.

</doc>
<doc id="78448" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78448" title="Buras-Triumph, Louisiana">
Buras-Triumph, Louisiana

Buras-Triumph is an unincorporated community in Plaquemines Parish, Louisiana, United States.
The population was 3,358 at the 2000 census. On the peninsula, Buras is higher, with Triumph southeast of Buras.
Buras-Triumph has become famous as the location where, on August 29, 2005, at 6:10 AM CDT, the eye of Hurricane Katrina made its strongest landfall. However, the storm surge and high winds began on the previous day, August 28, 2005. During those 2 days, the area was destroyed as a result.

</doc>
<doc id="78449" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78449" title="Dry Tortugas">
Dry Tortugas

The Dry Tortugas are a small group of islands. They are at the end of the Florida Keys, United States. They are about west of Key West, and west of the Marquesas Keys, at , the closest islands. Still farther west is the Tortugas Bank, which is now underwater. The islands were discovered in 1513 by Spanish explorer Juan Ponce de León. They are an unincorporated area of Monroe County, Florida and belong to the Lower Keys Census County Division. With their surrounding waters they make up the Dry Tortugas National Park.

</doc>
<doc id="78450" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78450" title="Aventura, Florida">
Aventura, Florida

Aventura is a city found in the northeastern part of Miami-Dade County, Florida. The city name is from the Spanish word for "adventure," and was named "Aventura" because that was the name of the original group of condominium developments in the area. The name predates the well known mall (Aventura Mall) built near the condominium developments. According to the U.S Census estimates of 2006, the city had a population of 30,027.

</doc>
<doc id="78452" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78452" title="Florida Keys">
Florida Keys

The Florida Keys is an archipelago of about 1700 islands in the southeast United States. They begin at the southeastern tip of the Florida peninsula, about 15 miles south of Miami, and extend in a gentle arc south-southwest and then westward to Key West, the westernmost of the inhabited islands, and on to the uninhabited Dry Tortugas. The islands lie along the Florida Straits, dividing the Atlantic Ocean to the east from the Gulf of Mexico to the west, and defining one edge of Florida Bay. At the nearest point, the southern tip of Key West is just 98 miles (157 km) from Cuba. The Florida Keys are between about 23.5 and 25.5 degrees North latitude, in the subtropics. The climate of the Keys however, is defined as tropical according to Köppen climate classification. More than 95 percent of the land area is in Monroe County, but a small portion extends northeast into Miami-Dade County, primarily in the city of Islandia, Florida. The total land area is 355.6 km² (137.3 sq mi). As of the 2000 census the population was 79,535, with an average density of 223.66/km² (579.27/sq mi), although much of the population is concentrated in a few areas of much higher density, such as the city of Key West, which has 32% of the entire population of the Keys.
The city of Key West is the county seat of Monroe County, which consists of a section on the mainland which is almost entirely in Everglades National Park, and the Keys islands from Key Largo to the Dry Tortugas.
Upper keys 
Middle keys
Lower keys

</doc>
<doc id="78453" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78453" title="Climatology">
Climatology

Climatology is the study of climate, scientifically defined as weather conditions averaged over a period of time, and is a branch of the atmospheric sciences. Basic knowledge of climate can be used within shorter term weather forecasting using analog techniques such as teleconnections and climate indices.

</doc>
<doc id="78460" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78460" title="Harder, Better, Faster, Stronger">
Harder, Better, Faster, Stronger

Harder, Better, Faster, Stronger is a 2001 single from the album "Discovery" by Daft Punk.
Kanye West's 2007 song "Stronger" from the album "Graduation" uses a sample from "Harder, Better, Faster, Stronger".

</doc>
<doc id="78465" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78465" title="Fiona Apple">
Fiona Apple

Fiona Apple McAfee Maggart, or Fiona Apple (born September 13, 1977) is an American musician. Her song "Criminal", which was on her first album, "Tidal", won a Grammy Award in 1998 for Best Female Rock Vocal Performance.
Since then Apple has released three studio albums.
Apple was born in New York City to singer Diane McAfee and actor Brandon Maggart. She started psychotherapy when she was 11. When she was 12 she was raped outside the apartment she lived in. She had obsessive-compulsive disorder.
In 1994 Apple gave demo tape containing the songs "Never Is a Promise", "Not One of Those Times", and "He Takes a Taxi" to her friend, who was the babysitter of music publicist Kathryn Schenker. Schenker passed the tape on to Sony Music executive Andy Slater. Slater signed Apple to the label. In 1996 Apple's first album "Tidal" was released. Apple won the MTV Video Music Award for "Best New Artist" for her song "Sleep to Dream" in 1997. Apple famously said that "the world is bullshit" in her acceptance speech.
In 1999 Apple's second album "When the Pawn..." was released.
Apple sang with Johnny Cash on a cover of Simon & Garfunkel's "Bridge over Troubled Water" on Cash's 2002 album "American IV: The Man Comes Around".
Apple's third album "Extraordinary Machine" was released in 2005. Apple was on the cover of NYLON magazine.
In 2012 Apple's fourth album "The Idler Wheel..." was released.
A cover of "I'm in the Middle of a Riddle" that Apple made with her sister Maude Maggart was released on February 4 on "Sweetheart", a Valentine's album only sold at Starbucks.
Apple is vegan. In October 2013 she asked a fan to leave her concert in Portland, Oregon after they shouted "Get healthy!" at her.

</doc>
<doc id="78489" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78489" title="Tanakh">
Tanakh

Tanakh is an acronym that is almost the same thing as saying the "Hebrew Bible."
It has three parts called the Torah, which has the first five books, the Nevi'im, which has the books of Hebrew prophets, and the Ketuvim, which has the rest of the books. It takes its name from the first (Hebrew) letter of each of these parts. 
The Tanakh is the Jewish holy book, although most would say the Torah is, but it is just the most important part out of the three parts of the Tanakh.

</doc>
<doc id="78491" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78491" title="Pastor">
Pastor

A pastor is what a leader is called in some Christian Churches. The word "pastor" is Latin for "shepherd".

</doc>
<doc id="78492" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78492" title="Egyptology">
Egyptology

Egyptology is the study of Ancient Egypt. It falls under both history and archaeology. Someone who studies or works in this field is called an Egyptologist.

</doc>
<doc id="78493" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78493" title="Lichfield">
Lichfield

Lichfield is a small city in Staffordshire, England.
The first part of the name comes from a nearby Roman-British village called "Letocetum". It was captured by the Mercians some time before 669, when it was called "Licidfelth". Between 786 and 803, the Christian archbishop in England was here, instead of Canterbury.

</doc>
<doc id="78494" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78494" title="New France">
New France

New France was a colony settled by France in North America. The regions in New France included Quebec, Acadia, and Louisiana. Quebec City was its capital. The French settled there after finding Quebec and in doing so created New France. The colony was most valuable for its fur trade. France lost the colony during the French and Indian War and it became part of British North America 

</doc>
<doc id="78497" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78497" title="El Llano, Elías Piña">
El Llano, Elías Piña

El Llano (in English, "The Plain") is a Dominican municipality in the Elías Piña Province. It has a total area of 104.49 km².
The municipality had, in 2010, a total population of 8,344: 4,394 men and 3,950 women. The urban population was 42.95% of the total population. In this numbers are included the population of the municipal district Guanito. The population of El Llano without its municipal district was 4,193.
El Llano was elevated to the category of municipality by the law 687 of 2 July 1974. Before that date, it was part of Comendador.
The main economic activity of the municipality is agriculture, and rice is the main crop.

</doc>
<doc id="78498" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78498" title="Hondo Valle, Elías Piña">
Hondo Valle, Elías Piña

Hondo Valle (in English, "Deep Valley") is a Dominican municipality in the Elías Piña Province. It is located in the Sierra de Neiba mountain range.
The municipality had, in 2010, a total population of 10,587: 5,638 men and 4,949 women. The urban population was 51.70% of the total population. In this numbers are included the population of the municipal district Rancho de la Guardia. The population of Hondo Valle without its municipal district was 7,194.
Hondo Valle was elevated to the category of municipality by the law 916 of 12 August 1978. Before that date, it was a municipal district of Comendador.
Hondo Valle is in a small Valley on the Sierra de Neiba mountain range, at an elevation of 890 m. It is at 36 km to the south of Comendador. The average temperature in the city is 21.2°C and the average rainfall is 1,717.0 mm.
The limits of the municipality are the municipality of El Llano to the north, the municipality of Juan Santiago to the east, the Independencia province to the south and Haiti to the west.
Hondo Valle has one municipal districts: Rancho de la Guardia.
The main economic activity of the municipality is agriculture.

</doc>
<doc id="78500" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78500" title="Juan Santiago, Elías Piña">
Juan Santiago, Elías Piña

Juan Santiago is a Dominican municipality in the Elías Piña Province. It has a total area of 107.15 km².
The limits of the municipality are the municipality of El Llano to the north, the San Juan province to the east, the Independencia province to the south and the municipality of Hondo Valle to the west.
The municipality had, in 2010, a total population of 4,491: 2,453 men and 2,038 women. The urban population was 34.85% of the total population.
Juan Santiago was elevated to the category of municipal district of Comendador by the law 916 of 12 August 1978. Then it was elevated to the category of municipality.
The main economic activity of the municipality is agriculture.

</doc>
<doc id="78501" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78501" title="Río Limpio, Elías Piña">
Río Limpio, Elías Piña

Río Limpio (in English, "Clean River") is a Dominican municipal district of Pedro Santana in the Elías Piña Province. It is on the northern side of the Cordillera Central mountain range.
The limits of Río Limpio are the Dajabón province to the northwest, the Santiago Rodríguez province to the northeast, the San Juan province to the east, the municipality of Pedro Santana to the south and Haiti to the west.
The municipality had, in 2010, a total population of 3,364: 1,913 men and 1,451 women. The urban population was 45% of the total population.
Río Limpio was elevated to the category of municipal district of Pedro Santana by the law 36 of 15 November 1992.
The main economic activity of the municipality is agriculture.

</doc>
<doc id="78502" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78502" title="Sabana Cruz, Elías Piña">
Sabana Cruz, Elías Piña

Sabana Cruz (in English, "Savanna [of the] Cross") is a Dominican municipal district of Bánica in the Elías Piña Province. It has a total area of 66.0 km².
Sabana Cruz is on the southwest of the municipality of Bánica, on the border with Haiti.
In the last national census (2002), the population of Sabana Cruz was of 2,081 persons. The population density was 31.5 persons/km².
The main economic activity of the municipality is agriculture.

</doc>
<doc id="78503" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78503" title="Sabana Larga, Elías Piña">
Sabana Larga, Elías Piña

Sabana Larga (in English, "Long Savanna") is a Dominican municipal district of Comendador in the Elías Piña Province. It has a total area of 103.99 km².
Sabana Larga is on the northeast of the municipality of Comendador and is bordered on the north and northeast by the municipality of Bánica, on the west and south by Comendador and on the east by the San Juan province.
In the last national census (2002), the population of Sabana Larga was of 1,966 persons. The population density was 18.9 persons/km².
Sabana Larga was made a municipal district of Comendador by the law 18 of 20 January 2004; a municipal district is a part of a municipality that has its own government.
The main economic activity of the municipality is agriculture.

</doc>
<doc id="78505" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78505" title="Destiny Fulfilled">
Destiny Fulfilled

Destiny Fulfilled is the fourth studio album by the American R&B trio Destiny's Child. The album features the top five singles "Lose My Breath" and "Soldier" along with the top twenty single "Cater 2 U" and top thirty single "Girl".
"Destiny Fulfilled" debuted too early at number-nineteen on the Billboard 200 selling 61,000 copies a week before its official release. During its first official week of sales the album sold over 497,000 (558,000) copies and went to number two on the pop charts behind Eminem's "Encore" and number one on the Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums chart (for two weeks). The album sold over 337,000 copies in its second week (number four), 164,000 in its third (number nine) and 214,000 in its fourth (number seven). "Destiny Fulfilled" was made Triple platinum by the RIAA after only eight weeks on the chart in January, 2005. It spent nine weeks in the top ten and fifty weeks on the Billboard 200 and has sold 2.7 million copies in the US says Nielsen SoundScan. The album has sold 6 million copies worldwide, to date.

</doc>
<doc id="78511" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78511" title="Kanal 5">
Kanal 5

Kanal 5 is a Swedish television channel.

</doc>
<doc id="78516" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78516" title="Decadence">
Decadence

Decadence (pronounced: DEK-a-dence) means a state in which people are behaving in a way that is regarded by some people as being morally bad. The adjective is decadent (pronounce: DEK-a-dent). It has nothing to do with the word decade (10 years). 
“Decadence” comes from the Latin words “de” (from) and “cadere” (to fall). Thus it means "to fall from a higher state of being".
Decadence is usually a state in a society which used to be good but has become bad. Many people have started to behave in a way that others think is shocking and society does not function as well as it did before. Of course, not everyone will agree what is “good” or “bad”, but some societies, such as ancient Rome at the end of its existence, are normally thought to have been decadent.
In literature and other arts the end of the 19th century and beginning of the 20th century is often called the “Decadent movement”. It is often called the “fin de siècle” (end of century). In France there were several writers who were happy to be called “decadent”. They included Paul Verlaine, Charles Baudelaire, Arthur Rimbaud and Stéphane Mallarmé. In France, the symbolist artists such as Gustave Moreau regarded themselves as "decadent". In England decadent artists included the author Oscar Wilde and visual artists such as Aubrey Beardsley. The "decadents" advocated living a "decadent lifestyle", which means a lifestyle based on seeking the maximum possible amount of aesthetic pleasure. 
In the early 1970s, glam rock musicians such as David Bowie called themselves "decadent". David Bowie's 1973 album "Diamond Dogs" is about the theme of decadence. Glam rock musicians and fans of glam rock music signaled that they were decadent by wearing platform shoes. Another aspect of "decadence" in the early 1970s was a liking of Art Deco design. 
The popular 1976 film "Rocky Horror Picture Show" is a humorous depiction of "decadence". 
People of the goth subculture, which began in the early 1980s among fans of the band Bauhaus, generally regard themselves as being "decadent". One way they may symbolize themselves as being decadent is by wearing fishnet stockings. 
The color lavender is usually used to symbolize decadence. Both of the books in the "further reading" list below are colored different tones of lavender. In the 1890s, the color mauve was used to symbolize decadence--the 1890s were called the "mauve decade". Lavender and mauve are both tones of purple. Various other tones of purple besides lavender and mauve may also be used to symbolize decadence. 

</doc>
<doc id="78518" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78518" title="Kanye West">
Kanye West

Kanye Omari West (; born June 8, 1977) is an American hip hop musician, songwriter, record producer, film director, entrepreneur and fashion designer from Chicago, Illinois. He rose to fame in the mid 2000s. His first two albums, "The College Dropout" and "Late Registration", received many awards (including six Grammys), critical acclaim, and commercial success. 
West also runs his own record label called GOOD Music. West's mascot and trademark is a teddy bear. A teddy bear has appeared on the covers of his first three albums as well as the single cover for his song "Stronger". In 2008, he released his fourth album, "808s & Heartbreak". In 2010, he released his fifth, titled "My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy". In 2013, he released his sixth album, "Yeezus". "Yeezus" got good reviews from music critics. In 2016, he released his seventh album, "The Life of Pablo".
West was born to middle class African American parents in Atlanta, Georgia. He moved with his mother to Chicago when he was three years old. He started writing poetry at the age of five. Kanye moved with his mother to Nanjing, China when he was 10. In 1997 West started taking painting classes at Chicago's American Academy of Art. After a short time he changed to Chicago State University to major in English. When he was 20 he left college to focus on music.
In the late 1990s West was a member of a rap group called Go-Getters with GLC, Timmy G, and Really Doe. In 1999 they released their only album, "World Record Holders".
In 2003 West released his first mixtape, "Get Well Soon...". He rapped on Twista's single "Slow Jamz". In 2004 West's first album "The College Dropout" was released by Roc-A-Fella. It entered the "Billboard" 200 at number two. Five singles were released from the album. That year West started a record label called GOOD Music. John Legend is signed to the label. West was nominated for three American Music Awards.
In 2005 West's second album "Late Registration" was released. Five singles were released from the album. The second single "Gold Digger" was nominated for Record of the Year at the 2006 Grammy Awards. West was also nominated for Best New Artists. Other rappers on the album included Jay-Z, Ludacris, and Mos Def. In 2005 West released his first fashion line. West's third album "Graduation" was released in 2007. The album was nominated for eight Grammy Awards. Five singles were released from the album. The album's second single "Stronger" won a Grammy Award for Best Rap Solo Performance.
In 2008, West's fourth album "808s & Heartbreak" was released. Most of the album was sung instead of rapped by West. It sold 450,145 copies in its first week. West acted in the 2008 movie "The Love Guru".
"My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy" was released on Roc-A-Fella Records in 2010. Music critics said that it was genius. "Pitchfork" gave the album a score of 10/10. Pitchfork rarely give 10/10, so this was a big achievement. "Rolling Stone" gave it five out of five stars. Four singles were released from the album.
In 2011 West released an album with Jay-Z called "Watch the Throne". In 2011 "All of the Lights" was released as the fourth single from "My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy". Rihanna sang in it.
On May 23, 2012 a short film made by West called "Cruel Summer" was shown for the first time at the 2012 Cannes Film Festival. The film was given good reviews. The film's name came from an album West released called "Cruel Summer" on his record label GOOD Music.
On June 18, 2013 West's sixth album "Yeezus" was released. The album got very good reviews from music critics. In November 2013 West gave a lecture at Harvard University. On November 15, 2013 Busta Rhymes' single "Thank You" was released. West rapped on it with Lil Wayne and Q-Tip. On November 24, 2013, West said in an interview that he is making his seventh album. "New Slaves" was nominated for Best Rap Song at the 2014 Grammy Awards. On June 27 2015, West headlined Glastonbury Festival 2015 to much controversy.
On February 14 2016, Kanye West released "The Life of Pablo" on Tidal, Jay-Z's online music service. On April 1, 2016, West released "The Life Of Pablo" on other music services, including Spotify, Apple Music, and Google Play Music.
West married Kim Kardashian in 2014. They have a daughter, North "Nori" West, who was born on June 15, 2013. They also have a son, Saint West, who was born on December 5, 2015.
In August 2015 during MTV Video Music Award, West announced his candidacy for President of the United States in the 2020 election.
Kanye West has released 8 studio albums:

</doc>
<doc id="78527" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78527" title="Giro Manoyan">
Giro Manoyan

Giro (Kiro) Manoyan () is an Armenian politician, one of the leaders of ARF Dashnaktsutiun and the head of "Armenian Cause" Office.
Manoyan attended and finished Concordia University in Montreal, Canada. In the 1980s he was the Executive Director of the Armenian National Committee of Canada. From 1989 to 1999, he edited the Horizon Weekly Armenian newspaper. Since 2000, he is the Director of the International Secretariat of the Armenian Revolutionary Federation Bureau in Yerevan.

</doc>
<doc id="78534" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78534" title="Castleton, Derbyshire">
Castleton, Derbyshire

Castleton is a small village in the Derbyshire Peak District national park, in England. It is built on a limestone part of the national park and nearly all the buildings are built of limestone. It has extremely good access as it is near some main cities.
The main attractions in Castleton include Mam Tor, a tall mountain made out of shale. Burbage Moor is a lovely walking spot. It has some climbing spots and has a valley in a valley. Winnats Pass is a path way in between two cliffs. It is very spectacular walking through it. There are big limestone caves near Castleton. They have stalagmites stalactites. 
Blue John is a type of rock which is found near Castleton. Water can be seen flowing out of the ground. This is water which has soaked into the limestone.
Castleton has the nickname "Gem of the Peaks".

</doc>
<doc id="78537" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78537" title="Los Angeles Lakers">
Los Angeles Lakers

The Los Angeles Lakers are a National Basketball Association team in Los Angeles, California. The Lakers play their home games at Staples Center, which they share with the Los Angeles Clippers, their sister team the Los Angeles Sparks of the WNBA, the Los Angeles Kings of the National Hockey League, the Los Angeles Avengers of the Arena Football League and the NBA Development League's Los Angeles D-Fenders. The Lakers were originally known as Minneapolis Lakers. 
Many famous players played on the Los Angeles Lakers' team, including:
The Lakers have won 16 NBA championships, including 5 in Minneapolis (1949, 1950, 1952, 1953, 1954) and 11 in Los Angeles (1972, 1980, 1982, 1985, 1987, 1988, 2000, 2001, 2002 and 2009, 2010).
Three of the Lakers' rivals are the Boston Celtics, Portland Trail Blazers and the Sacramento Kings.

</doc>
<doc id="78541" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78541" title="Asterix">
Asterix

Asterix () is a French comic book. It was created by René Goscinny (words) and Albert Uderzo (pictures). Goscinny died in 1977 and Uderzo continues to draw and write the series by himself. The title character Asterix is a Gaul, a member of a Celtic tribe that lived in France, in the year of 50 B.C.E. Asterix lives in a small village in northwest Gaul (Ancient France) during the time of Julius Caesar in 50 BC. Unlike the rest of Gaul, this village has not been taken over by the Romans, because the people in the village drink a magic potion brewed by their druid Getafix. Asterix has many adventures with his friend, Obelix, a Menhir delivery man. The stories have been adapted into movies and video games; there is even an amusement park. There is also a couple of cartoons made after this popular comic, and both the comic and the cartoon can be made into so that the characters speak French.

</doc>
<doc id="78542" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78542" title="Hurdy gurdy">
Hurdy gurdy

A hurdy gurdy is a stringed musical instrument played by a rosin-covered wheel. It dates back to the Middle Ages. 
The hurdy gurdy can create three types of sounds. The melody is played on melody strings by pressing keys on the side of the instrument. These press tangents against the strings. Hurdy gurdies can also have drone strings, which play one note continuously. Many hurdy gurdies also have a buzzing bridge. Turning the wheel faster causes this to make a rhythmic buzzing sound.

</doc>
<doc id="78547" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78547" title="List of magicians">
List of magicians

This is a list of magicians, illusionists, escape artists, and other practitioners of stage magic. For a list of witches, wizards, and other people who say they do real magic, see: List of occultists.
Magicians are listed by the most common name used in performance. Magicians' real names, if different, follow in parentheses.

</doc>
<doc id="78548" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78548" title="Magician">
Magician

A magician is an entertainer who does illusions and magic tricks by learning about the tricks of the mind and using them to his/her advantage; magicians will occasionally use props, such as a pack of cards. 
The most famous magicians are:
Harry Potter is a fictional magician who uses words to create magic.

</doc>
<doc id="78550" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78550" title="Republic P-47 Thunderbolt">
Republic P-47 Thunderbolt

The P-47 Thunderbolt (also called The Jug ) was a fighter aircraft made by Republic Aviation. It first flew in 1941, and was introduced in 1942. It had a very big Pratt and Whitney R-2800-59 engine, which had more than 2,000 horsepower. Because of this, the P-47 could go more than 430 miles per hour. In fact, it was the biggest engine ever at the time. It had 8 machine guns, 2 more than most fighters. It's shape and speed made it similar to the Fw 190.
During 1944, the P-51 Mustang was lighter, faster, and could turn better. Because of this, it started replacing the P-47 as a fighter. The P-47 was then used for bombing in late World War II. It was retired from the American Air National Guard in 1955.
Now, there is a jet called the A-10 Thunderbolt II, and it is named after the P-47.

</doc>
<doc id="78553" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78553" title="Judo">
Judo

Judo is very scientific in its training methods and fighting techniques.
Judo grew out of an older martial art, "Jujutsu" or "Jū-jutsu".
"Jujutsu" was an ancient and deadly martial art which used chokes, throws, joint locks, and strikes. Kanō created judo by using techniques which were common in jujutsu. He eliminated techniques that he thought were dangerous in training, so that students could train with resistance.Some basic throws are Tai-otoshi and De-ashi-barai (these are in Japanese). There are 2 types: groundwork and feet work . Ground work is when both players are on the ground. Usually the the attacker would be on top and the ukemi (defender) would be on the bottom. In feet work both players would move along the mat in a variety of moves. Every once in a while a player will throw his/her opponent on the floor. In competitions the players will go full on for each other and once someone has thrown his/hers opponent down they need to hold them down for 25 seconds or the point won't count. The person who has the most points at the end wins a gold ,silver or bronze. One of the best trophies is the spirit of judo. You get the spirit of judo award for never giving up and carry on trying.

</doc>
<doc id="78554" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78554" title="Michelle Williams">
Michelle Williams

Michelle Williams may refer to different people:

</doc>
<doc id="78571" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78571" title="Humus">
Humus

Humus (or humous) is the organic matter in the soil. It is made of dead parts of plants and animals. Humus takes in water and has plenty of nutrients. Nitrogen is the most important. Plants put roots into the soil to get the water and nutrients. Humus is good for plants because it is like a sponge.
The dark color of humus (usually black or dark brown) helps to warm up cold soils in the spring.
When plants and insects die they are first raw organic matter. Bacteria and fungi eat the raw material, but they do not eat all of it. They leave a small amount behind. The part they leave behind is named "humus". This activity is dynanmic and keep happening. There is always more dead material arriving on top. So the soil always has organic material in it, along with small pieces of rock.
In agriculture, "humus" usually means mature compost, or some taken naturally from a forest, where it may have lived for many years. 

</doc>
<doc id="78575" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78575" title="Soil science">
Soil science

Soil science deals with soil as a natural resource on the surface of the earth.
It includes soil formation, classification and mapping.
But many more sciences deal with knowledge of soils and the advancement of the soil sciences: engineering, agronomists, chemistry, geology, geography, biology, microbiology, sylviculture, public health, archaeology, and regional planning.
"Soil" refers to anything between the top of the dirt and the top of the underlying rock (called "bedrock"). Soil is often broken into layers. The top layer is high in organic matter (roting plants and such). Then there is a layer of layer of soil where rain water has removed some metals (called "leaching"). Those metals get collected in another, lower layer. Finally, there is a layer made up mostly of broken bits of bedrock. A soil can have all of these layers, or only a few.
Soils are important because most groundwater, which is used in everything from city water supplies to farming, is found in soil, not bedrock.

</doc>
<doc id="78581" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78581" title="Queen's Counsel">
Queen's Counsel

Queen's Counsel (postnominal QC), during the reign of a male sovereign known as King's Counsel (KC), are senior lawyers in various Commonwealth countries.
They are appointed by letters patent to be one of "Her Majesty's Counsel learned in the law". They are not a separate type of lawyer. They are more than long serving lawyers, because their status is given by the Crown and recognised by the courts. 
Queen's Counsel have the privilege of sitting within the Bar of court, and wear silk gowns of a special design (hence the informal title Silks). The special robes are the reason why becoming a QC is often called "taking silk".
In order to "take silk" a lawyer usually has to serve as a barrister or a Scottish advocate for at least 10 years. Recently solicitors have also been appointed Queen's Counsel.
A QC's status means they generally charge higher fees than ordinary barristers, and always have another barrister as an assistant. This assistant is called a "junior" even if the junior has been a lawyer longer than the "silk".

</doc>
<doc id="78593" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78593" title="Pedogenesis">
Pedogenesis

Pedogenesis or soil evolution (formation) is the process by which soil is formed. 
Climate regulates soil formation. Soils are more developed in areas with higher rainfall and more warmth.
The rate of chemical weathering increases by 2-3 times when the temperature increases by 10 degrees Celsius (20 °F).
Climate also affects which organisms are present, affecting the soil chemically and physically (movement of roots, burrowing by animals).
The organisms living in and on the soil form distinct soil types. Coniferous forests have acidic leaf litter. Mixed or deciduous forests leave a larger layer of humus. Prairies have very high humus accumulation, creating a dark, thick soil.
The rock from which soil is formed is called 'parent material' (bedrock).
The main types are: eolian (wind), glacial material, alluvium, lake material other parent materials.
Pedogenesis is the major topic of the science of pedology. Its other aspects include the soil morphology, classification (taxonomy) of soils, and their distribution in nature.

</doc>
<doc id="78595" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78595" title="11 (number)">
11 (number)

11 (eleven or ) is a number. It comes between ten and twelve, is an odd number, and is a prime number, after 2, 3, 5, and 7.
In Roman numerals, 11 is written as XI.

</doc>
<doc id="78596" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78596" title="12 (number)">
12 (number)

Twelve is a number. It comes between eleven and thirteen, and is an even number. It is divisible by 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, and 12. Its ordinal is 12th (twelfth). In Roman numerals, it is written as XII. It is the base of duodecimal numbers. 

</doc>
<doc id="78597" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78597" title="Sedimentary rock">
Sedimentary rock

Sedimentary rocks are rocks formed from sediment. They are deposited over time, and often show layers which can be seen in cliffs. Other types of rock are igneous rock and metamorphic rock.
Sediments are usually formed from matter which falls to the bottom of oceans and lakes. The matter includes tiny pieces of other rocks, and dead animals, plants and microorganisms. Also, inorganic chemicals may be precipitated from solution in the water. The three most common sedimentary rocks are limestone, sandstone and shale.
Sedimentary rocks cover 7580% of the Earth's land area, but they make up only 5% of the Earth's crust. The relative abundances of the different types of sedimentary rocks are:
Squeezed and compressed over time, the sediments become 'consolidated' (made solid) into layers of rock. 
Cementation occurs when dissolved mineral components deposit in the interstices of sediments. It is the sticking together of sediment that forms a rock. 
Otherwise, rocks may have the water squeezed out, yet remain for long periods with their character unchanged. There are many quarries of unconsolidated deposits where sand and pebbles are removed for the construction industry. Such quarries may be taking out sand which has lasted as sand since the Jurassic period. But consolidated sand, sandstone, can be a very hard rock.
Consolidated rocks may be changed some more, by water seeping through, or by heat and extreme pressure.
Sediments are formed by three processes:
These sedimentary processes – weathering, transportation, and deposition – reach three final end products: quartz sand, shale (from clay), and limestone (CaCO). Most sedimentary rocks are variations on this general pattern.
Chalk, limestone, and dolomite are all basically made from calcium carbonate. This comes from a mixture of minerals and pieces of animals (especially animal shells). They are mostly formed in oceans.
Shales, sandstones, and conglomerates are all clastic rocks. They are made from pieces of other rocks. The pieces may have come from erosion by water, ice or wind.
Coal is made from ancient plants; oil and natural gas is also organic in origin. 
Sedimentary rocks may be found anywhere on Earth. When sedimentary rocks are heated and squeezed, they become metamorphic rocks. Igneous rocks have a volcanic origin. Over a very long time, rocks get recycled, in two ways. When marine sediments are raised above sea level, they get weathered, and the pieces carried down to the sea. On a much longer time-scale continental plates may collide. Then one plate goes under the other (is subducted), and all its material is recycled, emerging much later.

</doc>
<doc id="78598" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78598" title="14 (number)">
14 (number)

Fourteen is a number. It comes between 13 and 15. It is an even number. It is divisible by 1, 2, 7, and 14.
In Roman numerals, 14 is written as XIV.

</doc>
<doc id="78599" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78599" title="Rock (geology)">
Rock (geology)

A rock is a naturally occurring solid. It is made of minerals (which are crystalline), or other mineral-like substances. The minerals in the rocks vary, making different kinds of rock. The Earth's crust is made of rock. Rock is often covered by soil or water. Rock is beneath the oceans, lakes, and rivers of the earth, and under the polar icecaps. Petrology is the scientific study of rocks.
Rocks are classified by their minerals and chemical make-up. The processes that formed them are also noted. Rocks may be igneous, sedimentary and metamorphic. Rock types may change in a so-called "rock cycle".
Igneous rocks are formed when molten magma cools, either above or below the surface. They are divided into two main categories: plutonic rock and volcanic rock. Plutonic or intrusive rocks are made when magma cools and crystallizes slowly within the Earth's crust (example granite). Volcanic or extrusive rocks result from magma reaching the surface either as lava or ejecta (examples pumice and basalt).
Sedimentary rocks are the most common rocks on Earth. They form at or near the Earth's surface. Sedimentary rock is formed in layers which were laid down one by one on top of another. Some of the layers are thin, some are thick. Layers are made by deposition of sediment, organic matter, and chemical precipitates. Deposition is followed by squeezing of sediment under its own weight, and cementation. This process is called 'consolidation': it turns the sediment into a more or less hard substance.
The approximate amounts of different kinds of sedimentary rock are:
Only sedimentary rocks have fossils.
Metamorphic rocks are formed by rocks coming under great pressure and high temperatures. These temperatures and pressures are found under mountains and volcanoes, especially when continental plates move together. These conditions change the make-up of the original minerals.
Rocks have had an impact on human life. They have been used by humans for over 2 million years. The mining of rocks for their metal has been one of the most important things in human advancement. 

</doc>
<doc id="78600" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78600" title="15 (number)">
15 (number)

Fifteen is a number. It comes between fourteen and sixteen, and is an odd number. It is divisible by 1, 3, 5, and 15.
In Roman numerals, 15 is written as XV. 

</doc>
<doc id="78601" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78601" title="16 (number)">
16 (number)

Sixteen is a number. It comes between fifteen and seventeen, and is an even number. It is also the 4th square number, after 1, 4, and 9.
In Roman numerals, 16 is written as XVI. 

</doc>
<doc id="78602" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78602" title="Weathering">
Weathering

Weathering is the breaking down of rocks, soil and their minerals through direct contact with the Earth's atmosphere, waters, or living things. 
Weathering occurs "in situ" (in place, with no movement). It is a type of erosion. Erosion is where rocks and minerals are moved downhill (usually towards the sea) by water, ice and wind.
Dynamic movement is always taking place on Earth. One type of change raises the land surface upwards to form (at the highest) huge mountain ranges. This orogeny is formed as a result of plate tectonics, such as the collision of continental plates.
At the same time, all land surfaces are being ground down gradually all the time. Material from the land ends up in the seas or lakes, and forms the sediment which finally ends up as sedimentary rock. Rocks and minerals break up under the influence of water, ice, wind and gravity, and other causes.
The two main types of weathering are "physical" and "chemical". Sometimes there are also aspects of biology.
Physical weathering is important in very cold or very dry environments. Chemical reactions are most intense where the climate is wet and hot. However, both types of weathering occur together, and each tends to accelerate the other. For example, physical abrasion (rubbing together) decreases the size of particles and therefore increases their surface area, making them more susceptible to rapid chemical reactions. 
The effect is to convert primary minerals, such as feldspars and micas, to secondary minerals (clays and carbonates) and release plant nutrient elements in soluble forms. The materials left after the rock breaks down combined with organic material creates soil. 
Mechanical or physical weathering means the breakdown of rocks and soils through direct contact with atmospheric conditions such as heat, water, ice and pressure. 
Wind processes are called 'aeolian'. Wind erodes the Earth's surface by removing loose, fine-grained particles, called 'deflation'. Sand carried by wind wears down surfaces.
Regions which have intense and sustained erosion are called deflation zones. Most aeolian deflation zones are composed of desert pavement, a sheet-like surface of rock fragments that remains after wind and water have removed the fine particles. Almost half of Earth's desert surfaces are stony deflation zones. The rock mantle in desert pavements protects the underlying material from deflation.
Rain is another force that works slowly. The force of raindrops on some rocks make them wear down. Rain also can make a chemical change in some rocks, because it is usually slightly acidic. The water mixes with the minerals in the rock to break it down.
Changing temperature can make a rock crack. Every day when the sun shines on the rock, its surface is heated. Heat causes the surface to expand (get bigger) a little. The inside of the rock, though, does not heat up as fast as the outside of the rock. The inside of the rock stays cooler. At night, the surface cools down and contracts. The expanding and contracting makes some places on the surface weak, and a crack is made.
Also, if water gets into a crack in a rock and the temperature goes below the freezing point, the water will freeze and expand. After some time, the rock may be weak enough to break into pieces.
Ice, which can be miles thick, grinds the surface of the rock below it. The particles are carried with the ice, and if a glacier ends up in the sea, so does all the material carried with it.
Lava or magma can cause weathering when molten rock touches older rock. It causes the older rock to change form to a different crystal structure.
Chemical weathering is the direct effect of atmospheric or biological chemicals in the breakdown of rocks, soils and minerals.
The carbon dioxide cycle is the most important for weathering. CO is put into the atmosphere mostly by volcanoes, and it is taken out of the atmosphere by photosynthesis, and by one other process. 
While it is in the air, CO can dissolve in water droplets to form dilute carbonic acid.
In fact, since volcanoes have not been very active in the Cainozoic, the supply of CO has been run down somewhat. It is thought this may have led to the Pleistocene ice ages.
When rain hits rock it does so with mechanical energy and dilute acid. The acid dissolves
many types of minerals and rocks though, of course, very slowly. When a mineral like feldspar is dissolved, it lets sodium ions into the sea; chlorine ions come from other minerals. The sea tastes salty because of the elements which have been dissolved out of rocks.

</doc>
<doc id="78604" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78604" title="Recrystallisation">
Recrystallisation

Recrystallization (see also crystallization) is an essentially physical process that has meanings in chemistry, metallurgy and geology.
In chemistry, recrystallization is a procedure for purifying compounds. A crystal compound often has other compounds on it that make it less useful. To get rid of these extra items, the crystal is placed in a boiling liquid. Soon the crystal dissolves. The boiling solution, or the mix of the liquid and the dissolved crystal, gets colder. The crystal will form again. The unwanted compounds stay in the solvent, or the liquid. Now the crystal is pure and made of only the compound. Each type of compound works best in a certain type of liquid. Sometimes two or more liquids mixed together are needed to dissolve a crystal.
In geology, solid-state recrystallization is a metamorphic process that occurs under situations of intense temperature and pressure where grains, atoms or molecules of a rock or mineral are packed closer together, creating a new crystal structure. 
Limestone is a sedimentary rock that undergoes metamorphic recrystallization to form marble, and clays can recrystallize to muscovite mica.
In metallurgy, recrystallization is the nucleation and growth of new undeformed grains in a deformed metal.
For ice, recrystallization means the growth of larger crystals at the expense of smaller ones. Some biological antifreeze proteins have been shown to inhibit this process, and the effect may be relevant in freezing-tolerant organisms.

</doc>
<doc id="78611" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78611" title="Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981">
Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981

The Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 is an law for environmental conservation made by the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It protects native species and restricts the release of non-native species into the wild. The Act is split into four parts. Killing most mammals and almost all birds is illegal in the United Kingdom, except for certain types and for certain reasons.
General licences under the act to hunt birds are issued each year by the Department for Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA) in England. The Department can give a licence to kill or disturb birds. It also gives out a general licence. This allows any "authorised person", that is someone who has the landowner's permission, to kill certain birds, or to destroy their eggs or nests, if there is no other way to get rid of the birds.
This table shows the name of the bird, and the reasons () that type of bird can be destroyed.
or to prevent serious damage to livestock or damage to foodstuffs for livestock, crops, vegetables, fruit, growing timber, fisheries or inland waters.

</doc>
<doc id="78614" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78614" title="Soil classification">
Soil classification

Soil classification means that one finds categories of soils that are based on general characteristics as well as criteria that decide about the use that is possible.
Soil classification can be approached from both the perspective of pedogenesis and from soil morphology. But in both cases interpretations do not vary widely. 

</doc>
<doc id="78617" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78617" title="Manor house">
Manor house

A manor house or fortified manor-house is a country house, which has historically formed the centre of a manor (see Manorialism). The term is sometimes used for relatively small country houses which belonged to gentry families, as well as to grand stately homes, particularly as a technical term for minor late medieval castles more intended for show than for defence.
In general terms, the manor house was the house of a feudal lord of a manor, which he occupied only on occasional visits if he held many manors. Although not built with strong fortifications as castles were, many manor houses were partly fortified: they were enclosed within walls or ditches. Often the farm buildings were within these walls as well. Many of manor houses had small gatehouses and watchtowers. 
The main feature of the manor house was its great hall. By the beginning of the 16th century, manor houses as well as small castles began to acquire the character and amenities of the residences of country gentlemen. This late 16th century transformation produced many of the smaller Renaissance châteaux of France and the many country mansions of the Elizabethan and Jacobean styles in England. 
In France, the terms "château" or "manoir" are often used to describe a French manor house. "Maison-forte" is another French word to describe a strongly fortified manor house. In the western France provinces of Brittany and Normandy, certain large manors enjoyed real means of protection. 
In modern usage, the term "manor" or "manor house" is often used, especially outside Europe, to mean simply either a country house or indeed any other house considered to resemble one, without any reference to age or to the historical sense of the term.

</doc>
<doc id="78618" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78618" title="English country house">
English country house

The English country house is generally accepted as a large house that was once in the ownership of an individual who in most of the cases owned another great house in the West End of London. The country house was not only a weekend retreat for aristocrats, but also often a full time residence for the minor gentry.
The country houses of England have developed over the last 500 years. Before this time most larger houses were fortified, because their owners were feudal lords or overlords of their manor. The Tudor period of stability in the country saw the first of the large unfortified country houses.
With the rise of modern industry and urbanization, when people left the country to go to the big cities the popularity of country houses declined as there were less people in the country. After 1945 it became very difficult to pay for the huge staff that was required to maintain these houses.

</doc>
<doc id="78623" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78623" title="Larynx">
Larynx

The larynx (plural "larynges"), also known as the voice box, is an organ in the neck of humans and animals. It helps to protect the wind pipe by stopping it from inhaling food. It also helps with breathing and making sounds. The larynx houses the vocal cords.
Sound is created in the larynx. Both pitch and loudness are controlled here. It has a small slit through which air passes and when the vocal cords vibrate air is vibrated.This sound is changed as it travels through the vocal tract. It becomes a different sound based on the position of the tongue, lips, mouth, and pharynx. 
When swallowing, the backward motion of the tongue forces part of the larynx called the epiglottis to cover up the opening to the larynx, also called the laryngeal opening. This is to stop the food swallowed from entering the lungs. The larynx is also pulled upwards to help with this process. If the larynx is irritated by something that is swallowed, a strong cough reflex is used to protect the lungs.
There are several things that can cause a larynx to not function properly. Some symptoms are hoarseness, loss of voice, pain in the throat or ears, and breathing difficulties. Larynx transplant is not done very often. The world's first successful operation took place in 1998 at the Cleveland Clinic, and the second took place in October 2010 at the University of California Medical Center in Sacramento. 

</doc>
<doc id="78625" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78625" title="Endangered species">
Endangered species

An endangered species is a group (population) of plants, animals or other organisms that is in danger of becoming extinct. This could happen because there are few of that animal left, its predators have grown in number, or the climate that it lives in is changing, or the places it lives in have been destroyed. The World Conservation Union (IUCN) has worked out that endangered species are 40% of all organisms. 
Many countries have laws to protect these plants and animals. These laws can save species by stopping hunting, land development or making parks and reserves. Only a few plants and animals at risk of extinction, mostly vertebrates, are put on the lists and get legal protection. Many more species become extinct, or will become extinct, without people knowing about it.
Some of the animals that are listed as endangered are:

</doc>
<doc id="78642" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78642" title="Archosaur">
Archosaur

Archosaurs are a large group of reptiles, including all crocodiles, birds, dinosaurs, and pterosaurs (flying reptiles). There are also a number of smaller extinct groups, mostly from the Triassic period.
The Archosaurs are definitely a monophyletic clade, and do not include reptiles such as the Squamata (lizards and snakes) and the Sphenodontia ("Sphenodon").
They have these diagnostic features, called "synapomorphies" in cladistics talk:
The archosaurs or their immediate ancestors survived the catastrophic Permian–Triassic extinction event. Then, in the early and middle Triassic, there was rapid evolution into the types of land reptile which dominated the rest of the Mesozoic era.
Clades:

</doc>
<doc id="78643" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78643" title="MS Explorer">
MS Explorer

The MS "Explorer was a cruise ship ("MS" stands for motor ship). It had been known as MS "Lindblad Explorer (–1985) and MS "Society Explorer" (–1992). It was registered in Liberia. It was designed for sailing in cold areas, such as around Antarctica. The MS "Explorer" was originally ordered by the Swedish explorer Lars-Eric Lindblad. The ship was sold several times. Its last owner was the Toronto-based travel company G.A.P Adventures. It had bought the "Explorer" in 2004.
Besides being the first cruise ship ever built specifically to ply the frigid waters of the Antarctic Ocean, the "Explorer" became the first ever to sink there when it struck an unidentified submerged object, possibly ice, on November 23 2007 which caused a 10 by 4 inch (25 × 10 cm) gash in the hull. Everyone escaped from "Explorer" in the early hours of November 23 2007 after taking on water near the South Shetland Islands in the Southern Ocean, which is usually stormy, but was calm at the time. The "Explorer" was confirmed by the Chilean Navy to have sunk at approximately position: 62 degrees 24 minute South and 57 degrees 16 minutes west, between South Shetlands and Grahams Land, in the Bransfield Strait, where the depth is roughly 2000 feet (600 m).
Commissioned by Lars-Eric Lindblad, the Swedish-American pioneer of exotic expedition tours, the "Explorer" was built in 1969 at Nystads Varv shipyard in Uusikaupunki, Finland. The ship was built to stay afloat with two of its compartments filled with water, and its ice class on the HELCOM scale was IC.
The vessel was originally named the "Lindblad Explorer" in honor of Lars-Eric Lindblad. On February 11, 1972 the "Explorer" ran aground (into the ground) near La Plaza Point, Antarctica; its passengers, Lars-Eric Lindblad among them, were rescued by the Chilean Navy. It was towed to Buenos Aires, Argentina and then to Kristiansand, Norway for repairs.
In 1998 "Explorer" was the first ship to sail around the James Ross Island;.
The "Explorer" was depicted on at least two postage stamps issued by South Georgia.
The ship left Ushuaia, Argentina on November 11th, 2007, on a 19-day cruise intended to trace the route of 20th century explorer Ernest Shackleton through the Drake Passage (an area typically stormy with rough seas). After visiting the Falkland Islands and South Georgia Island the "Explorer" hit an unidentified submerged object in the Bransfield Strait close to King George Island in the Antarctic Ocean, near the South Shetland Islands, on November 23, 2007. The object struck by the "Explorer" caused a 10 by 4 inch (25 × 10 cm) hole to the ship's port side (left side) which allowed sea water to enter the ship.
A passenger reported sea water in the cabin at about 03:00 UTC. Although some reports indicate there had been no noticeable impact, or at least nothing more than the normal crunching of ice experienced when sailing through icy waters, other reports say that there was a loud bang. Some reports also indicate that the ship drifted into an iceberg on the "Explorer's" starboard side while the crew was assessing damage caused by the original impact to the port side of the ship.
A mayday call was put out by the ship at 04:24 UTC, and rescue operations were quickly coordinated by the Prefectura Naval (Coast Guard Corps) of the Argentine Republic, and the Chilean Navy Center for Search and Rescue. Chile dispatched the icebreaker "Almirante Viel", and nearby commercial ships including the MN "Ushuaia", the "National Geographic Endeavor", and the Norwegian Coastal Express ship MS "Nordnorge" which was operating as a passenger cruise ship at the time. By 07:30 UTC, all 91 passengers, 9 guides and 54 crew, from over 14 countries
, left the ship and took to the life rafts, where they drifted for three to four hours, until they were picked up by the Norwegian ship MS "Nordnorge" which arrived on scene by 10:00 UTC.
Some of those rescued by the "Nordnorge" were taken to the Chilean Eduardo Frei Montalva Station on King George Island. Later they were flown by C-130 Hercules transport aircraft of the Chilean Air Force to Punta Arenas, Chile, in two separate flights on Saturday, November 24th, and Sunday, November 25th. Approximately 70 of the survivors were taken to Uruguay’s Artigas Base. The "Explorer" sank within 20 hours after striking an unknown submerged object reported to be ice. 

</doc>
<doc id="78650" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78650" title="Calcite">
Calcite

Calcite is one of the most widely distributed minerals on the Earth's surface. It is a common constituent of sedimentary rocks, limestone in particular. It is also the primary mineral in metamorphic marble.
It is a chemical or biochemical calcium carbonate corresponding to the formula CaCO and belongs to the carbonate mineral. One can find it as a vein mineral in deposits from hot springs, and in caverns as stalactites and stalagmites.

</doc>
<doc id="78651" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78651" title="Stalagmite">
Stalagmite

A stalagmite is a form that can be found on the floor of a cave. It rises from the floor of a limestone cave when mineralized solutions drip from the ceiling and deposits of calcium carbonate form columns on the ground. The corresponding formation on the ceiling of a cave is known as a stalactite. 
There are several methods to help remember which formation hangs from the ceiling (stalactite) and which rises from the floor (stalagmite):
When touring caves with stalactites and stalagmites you might be asked to not touch the rock formations. This is generally because the formation is considered to still be growing and forming. Since the rock buildup is formed by minerals solidifying out of the water solution, skin oils can disturb where the mineral water will cling. So the development of the rock formation will be affected and not natural anymore.
Stalactites and stalagmites can also form on concrete ceilings and floors, but they form much more rapidly there than in the natural cave environment.

</doc>
<doc id="78652" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78652" title="Deposit">
Deposit

Deposit could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="78653" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78653" title="Deposition (geology)">
Deposition (geology)

Deposition is the geological process where material is added to a landform. This happens quite often. Some parts of a shoreline build up and grow out, whereas other parts of the shoreline erode and fall into the sea.
In deposition, wind and water lay down grains of material that has been eroded and transported from another place. Deposition happens when the forces which transport sediments are weaker than the forces of particle weight and friction. This causes a resistance to movement, and the particles drop down. 
Deposition can also refer to the buildup of sediment from organically derived matter or chemical processes. 

</doc>
<doc id="78654" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78654" title="Calcium carbonate">
Calcium carbonate

Calcium carbonate is a chemical compound, with the chemical formula CaCO. The elements involved are calcium (Ca), carbon (C) and oxygen (O). It is a common substance found as rock in all parts of the world, and is the main component of seashells, snails, and eggshell. Calcium carbonate is usually the main cause of hard water. It is used as a calcium supplement or as a treatment for antacid, but too much can be bad for your health.
Calcium carbonate is found naturally as the following minerals and rocks:
To test whether a mineral or rock contains calcium carbonate, strong acids, such as hydrochloric acid, can be added to it. If the sample does contain calcium carbonate, it will fizz and produce carbon dioxide and water. Weak acids such as acetic acid will react, but less quickly. All of the rocks/minerals mentioned above will react with acid.

</doc>
<doc id="78656" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78656" title="Hard water">
Hard water

Hard water is water that has a high mineral content (contrast with "soft water").
The main components of these minerals usually are calcium (Ca) and magnesium (Mg) ions. But there are also dissolved metals, bicarbonates, and sulfates. Calcium usually enters the water as either calcium carbonate (CaCO) in the form of limestone and chalk, or calcium sulfate (CaSO) in the form of several other mineral deposits. The main source of magnesium is dolomite (CaMg(CO)). Hard water is generally not harmful and some hardness in water is a useful source of calcium for healthy bone development . 

</doc>
<doc id="78657" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78657" title="Soft water">
Soft water

Soft water is water which has relatively low concentration of calcium carbonate and other ions.
The water that lathers with soap easily is called soft water. It describes type of water that contain few or no minerals like calcium (Ca) or magnesium (Mg) ions. The term is usually relative to "hard water", which does contain significant amounts of such ions.
Soft water mostly comes from peat or igneous rock sources, such as granite but may also come from sandstone sources, since those sedimentary rocks are usually low in calcium and magnesium. 
Hard water may be better for the heart than soft water. Its calcium (Ca) and magnesium (Mg)ions may be a dietary supplement for some. 
The main disadvantage of hard water is it deposits calcium carbonate on pipes, especially hot water pipes. This is called "scale formation". It may cause blockage of pipes and reduce boiler efficiency. Also, soap and detergents work less well in hard water. These effects increase as hardness increases.

</doc>
<doc id="78658" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78658" title="Moorland">
Moorland

Moorland or moor is a type of habitat that one can find in upland areas, that are characterised by acidic soils. 
Moorland habitats are rather common in the neotropics and tropical Africa but one can find them also in small scattered places in northern and western Europe, northern Australia, North America, Central Asia and the Indian subcontinent. In the tiny areas of European moorlands tend to be environments with only very few species. They are often dominated by heather. In the far more extensive moorlands of the tropics species diversity can be extremely high. 
Moorlands differ from typical heathland in being colder and much wetter, often with extensive bogs.
Notable areas of upland moorland in Britain include the Dark Peak, the Forest of Bowland, the Lake District, the Pennines, Mid Wales, the Southern Uplands of Scotland, the Scottish Highlands and a few very small pockets in western Herefordshire.
In Europe if the heather and other vegetation is left for too long, a large volume of dry and combustible material builds up. This is may cause a fire which may burn out a large area. But generally moorland wildlife copes with even major fires and are easily able to recover if such intense burnings are not too frequent.

</doc>
<doc id="78659" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78659" title="Moorland (disambiguation)">
Moorland (disambiguation)

Moorland could mean:
In geography:
In other fields:

</doc>
<doc id="78661" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78661" title="Neotropic">
Neotropic

In context of biogeography, Neotropic or Neotropical means one of the world's eight terrestrial ecozones.
This ecozone includes South and Central America, the Mexican lowlands, the Caribbean islands, and southern Florida, because these regions share a large number of plant and animal groups. 
It is sometimes used as a synonym for the tropical area of South America, although the ecozone also includes temperate southern South America. 
Its fauna and flora are distinct from the Nearctic (which includes most of North America) because of the long separation of the two continents. The formation of the Isthmus of Panama joined the two continents 2 to 3 million years ago.
The Neotropic includes more tropical rainforest than any other ecozone. They extend from southern Mexico through Central America and northern South America to southern Brazil and include the Amazon Rainforest. These rainforest ecoregions are one of the most important reserves of biodiversity on Earth. Extensive deforestation in the late 20th century has reduced this diversity to a degree.

</doc>
<doc id="78664" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78664" title="Nearctic">
Nearctic

"For the thoroughbred racehorse see Nearctic (horse)."
The Nearctic is one of the eight terrestrial ecozones dividing the Earth's land surface.
In ecology, an ecozone is a large land mass that contains many terrestrial ecoregions, each of which has unique plants and animals.
The Nearctic ecozone covers most of North America, including Greenland and the highlands of Mexico. 
Southern Mexico, southern Florida, Central America, and the Caribbean islands are part of the Neotropic ecozone, together with South America.
The World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) divides the Nearctic into four Bioregions, defined as "geographic clusters of ecoregions that may span several habitat types, but have strong biogeographic affinities, particularly at taxonomic levels higher than the species level (genus, family)."

</doc>
<doc id="78665" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78665" title="Nearctic (horse)">
Nearctic (horse)

Nearctic (born 1954 – died 1973) was a Canadian-bred Thoroughbred racehorse. He had his most successful season in racing at 4 years old, when he won nine races. Nearctic was retired to stand at stud at "Windfields Farm" in Canada where he became father of a "Kentucky Derby" winner and the "Northern Dancer".
He died at age 19 on July 27, 1973.

</doc>
<doc id="78666" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78666" title="Stud">
Stud

Stud could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="78672" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78672" title="Lockerbie">
Lockerbie

Lockerbie is a small town in Scotland that was devastated on 21 December 1988 when a Pan American 747-400 aeroplane crashed after a bomb exploded on board. The bomb was hidden in a hand held radio in the rear cargo hold. It had been transferred onto the flight from a connecting flight from Amsterdam. All passengers and crew aboard the aeroplane, and 11 people in the town of Lockerbie were killed. The total number of people killed was 270. The Libyan government was found to have organized the bombing. The United Nations placed sanctions on Libya, which stopped people buying and selling items with Libya. In 2003 Libya agreed to pay compensation to the families of the people killed.

</doc>
<doc id="78685" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78685" title="Circadian rhythm">
Circadian rhythm

A circadian rhythm is a rhythm that repeats about every 24 hours. Plants and animals have these built-in cycles which allow them to flower at the right time, sleep at the right time etc. The word "circadian" comes from the Latin "circa", "around", and "diem" or "dies", "day", meaning "about a day." The study of biological time-keeping rhythms such as daily, tidal, weekly, seasonal, and annual rhythms, is called chronobiology.
Circadian rhythms are "built-in" so that, without time signals from the environment, they keep time at the rate of "about" 24-hour periods. When kept in total darkness, plants and animals continue to behave by the built-in period which is "about" 24 hours. The rhythms are also affected and re-set by time signals such as daylight and the length of the day and the night. It is important that the rhythms be re-set regularly to the natural light/dark cycle. Adult humans of all ages have a circadian rhythm which averages 24 hours and 11 minutes.
The circadian rhythms, also called the "biological clock" or the "body clock", of humans and other animals, regulate many bodily functions including feeding, sleeping, body temperature and hormone production.
The primary body clock in humans and other mammals is located in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (or "nuclei") (SCN), a pair of groups of cells in the hypothalamus in the brain. Destruction of the SCN results in the complete absence of a regular sleep/wake rhythm. The SCN receives information about light through the eyes and directs the pineal gland to release the hormone melatonin at night.
Some people have circadian rhythm sleep disorders which cause them to sleep much too early (Advanced sleep-phase syndrome, ASPS), much too late (Delayed sleep-phase syndrome, DSPS) or in several bouts throughout the day and night (Irregular sleep-wake disorder). The worst circadian rhythm sleep disorder in people who can see is Non-24-hour sleep-wake disorder (Non-24); their "daily" rhythm lasts 25 hours or more so they sleep and wake up one or more hours later each day. Blind people who see no light at all can also have Non-24, but it is less serious and can usually be treated.

</doc>
<doc id="78686" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78686" title="Stud (animal)">
Stud (animal)

A stud in animal breeding is a male animal, such as a horse or dog, that is employed for breeding. The terms for the male of a given animal species (stallion, bull, rooster, etc.) usually mean that the animal is entire, that is, not castrated, and therefore capable of standing at stud. A specialized vocabulary exists for de-sexed animals.
A stud farm, in animal husbandry, is an establishment for selective breeding using stud animals.

</doc>
<doc id="78687" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78687" title="Castration">
Castration

Castration is any action, surgical, chemical, or otherwise, by which a male loses the functions of the testes or a female loses the functions of the ovaries.
Castration is commonly performed on domestic animals not intended for breeding. 
Domestic animals are usually castrated in order to avoid unwanted or uncontrolled reproduction; to reduce or prevent other ways of sexual behaviour such as territorial behaviour or aggression (like fighting between groups of uncastrated males of a species); or to reduce other consequences of sexual behaviour that may make animal husbandry more difficult, such as fence destruction when animals try to get to nearby females of the species.
Male horses are usually castrated, because stallions are rather aggressive. The same applies to male mules, although they are sterile. Male cattle are castrated to improve docility for use as oxen.
A specialized vocabulary has arisen for neutered animals of given species:
The practice of castration has its roots before recorded human history. Castration was frequently used in certain cultures of Europe, the Middle East, India, Africa and China, for political, religious or social reasons. After battles in some cases, victors castrated their captives or the corpses of the defeated to symbolise their victory and 'seize' their power. Castrated men — eunuchs — were often admitted to special social classes and were used particularly to staff bureaucracies and palace households: in particular, the harem. Castration also figured in a number of religious castration cults. Other religions, for example Judaism and Islam, were strongly opposed to the practice. The "Leviticus Holiness code", for example, specifically excludes eunuchs or any males with defective genitals from the priesthood, just as castrated animals are excluded from sacrifice.
In China, to become a servant of the emperor, men had to be castrated. This would prevent them from having sons or having affairs with royal concubines. Eunuchs in China have been known to usurp power in many eras of Chinese history, most notably in the Later Han, late Tang and late Ming Dynasties. There are similar recorded Middle Eastern events.
Testicular cancer is generally treated by surgical removal of the cancerous testicle(s) (orchidectomy), often followed by radiation or chemotherapy. Unless both testicles are cancerous, only one is removed.
Edward Gibbon's famous work "Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire" reports castration of defeated foes at the hands of the Normans. Castration has also been used in modern conflicts, as the Janjaweed militiamen currently (as of 2005) attacking citizens of the Darfur region in Sudan, often castrating villagers and leaving them to bleed to death.
In Europe, when females were not permitted to sing in church or cathedral choirs in the Roman Catholic Church, boys were sometimes castrated to prevent their voices breaking at puberty and to develop a special high voice. The first documents mentioning castrati are Italian church records from the 1550s.

</doc>
<doc id="78688" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78688" title="Bullock">
Bullock

Bullock may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="78689" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78689" title="Bureaucracy">
Bureaucracy

Bureaucracy is the structure and set of rules that control the activities of people that work for large organizations and government. 
It is characterized by standardized procedure (rule-following), formal division of responsibility, hierarchy, and impersonal relationships. In practice, the interpretation and execution of policy can lead to informal influence.
Bureaucracy is a concept in sociology and political science. Four structural concepts are central to any definition of bureaucracy: a well-defined division of administrative labor among persons and offices, a personnel system with consistent patterns of recruitment and stable linear careers, a hierarchy among offices, such that the authority and status are distributed among actors, and formal and informal networks that connect organizational actors to one another through flows of information and patterns of cooperation. 
Examples of everyday bureaucracies include governments, armed forces, corporations, hospitals, courts, ministries and schools.

</doc>
<doc id="78695" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78695" title="Anzère">
Anzère

Anzère is a small village in the canton of Valais, Switzerland. It is north of Sion. It is a popular ski resort, with several ski schools. 
The ski slopes in Anzère cover about 40 kilometers, with 1 cablecar, 2 chair lifts, and 8 T-bars.
There are several cafes in the area, and the entire area is known as Télé-Anzère. 
Facilities in and around Anzère's 'Place du Village' include both indoor and outdoor swimming pools, two supermarkets, many hotels, bars and nightclubs, as well as many restaurants and clothing shops. The 'Place du Village' is a person area right in the heart of the village, housing most of Anzère's cafes and restaurants. There is also an internet cafe, a crèperie and a children's play area.

</doc>
<doc id="78701" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78701" title="Sion, Switzerland">
Sion, Switzerland

Sion is the capital of the Swiss canton of Valais. In 2002, it had a population of 27,700. 
Landmarks include the Basilique de Valère and Château de Tourbillon.
The city is home to 28,013 people as of 31 December, 2005. It is in the center of the Rhône valley. Sion is the economic and commercial hub of the region and canton.
The older area of the city still stays and is well preserved. As well as the two Château's, a number of other important buildings are there, such as the "Château de la Majorie", the "Hôtel de Ville" and the "Cathédrale Notre-Dame de Sion".
Sion really started to develop during the time when Celts were big.
It takes its name from the Latin word "Sedunum". It housed the Romans with the rest of the surrounding area in the first century BCE. 
The Roman Catholic bishop of Sion is the oldest in Switzerland and one of the oldest north of the Alps.
The tertiary sector is the main economic sector in Sion. Tourism is also an important sector due to its historic "château's" and museums. 
Sion is the third largest wine making region in Switzerland, however, the valuable agricultural land and vineyards are undergoing constant regression due to the process of urbanisation.
Sion has also become an important medical site. The Sion-Region hospital is here next to the central institute of Valaisan hospitals and the "Romande" clinic for physical rehabilitation (SUVA).
Finally, the commune hosts a waste incinerator which disposes of the waste from 44 surrounding communes. This incinerator has a catalytic converter, something that reduces harmful gases to below unacceptable levels. The heat created from the burning is converted into electrical energy that is then provided to local communes.
Public Airshows have been held at the airfield of Sion. Participated Aerobatic teams have been for example the Frecce Tricolori from Italy was well as the Patrouille de France.
Sion is on the main railway line, the motorway and also has an airport (Sion Airport).

</doc>
<doc id="78706" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78706" title="Brig (district)">
Brig (district)

Brig is a part of the canton of Valais, Switzerland. It includes the following municipalities:

</doc>
<doc id="78710" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78710" title="Monthey, Switzerland">
Monthey, Switzerland

Monthey is the capital of the district of Monthey in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.
It has a population is of 15,118 (as of 2004) people ("Montheysans"). Monthey is located on the west side of the Rhone valley, south to Lake Geneva. Monthey is important to Swiss industry, with many important companies including chemical companies. The city is close to the famous winter sports region, the Portes du Soleil. 

</doc>
<doc id="78734" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78734" title="Sierre">
Sierre

Sierre is the capital of the district of Sierre in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.
It has a population of 14,355. It is situated at the language border of the German-speaking upper part of the ""Wallis"" and the French-speaking ""Valais"". This city counts as one of the three official bilingual towns in Switzerland. Sierre is starting point for the tourist sites of the Val d'Anniviers including the villages of Vercorin, Chandolin, St-Luc Vissoie, St-Jean Chandolin, Grimentz, Zinal and Ayer. Sierre is connected with Crans-Montana by a cable car.
At the beginning of the 20th century, Sierre became economically important as very early aluminium smelting is enabled by its access to hydroelectricity. 

</doc>
<doc id="78735" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78735" title="Brig, Switzerland">
Brig, Switzerland

Brig is the capital of the district of Brig in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.
The historic town of 5,000 people is part of the Brig-Glis municipality. The name 'Brig' comes from "Briva", or "bridge." Its medieval name was "Briga dives". It is a small town in the Swiss canton of the Valais, at the foot of the northern slope of the Simplon Pass, on the right bank of the Saltine stream, and a little above its junction with the Rhone. Its older houses look very Italian. Its buildings were built during the 17th century, because of a single member of the local Stockalper family.
Brig is close to the Swiss-Italian borders. The language used when talking between one another is a unique German dialect, used only in this canton. Brig is popular among winter sport athletes, since it is surrounded by many Alp summits. The town itself is close to Rhone river. Due to the height, the temperatures in winter often remain below zero, resulting in frost. During the summer season, heat can be intense.
The place of meeting in the town is the train station, which links it to other Swiss cities.
The wealth of Brig is because of the Simplon Pass. The opening of the carriage road across the Simplon (1807) and of the tunnel beneath the pass (1906), as well as the fact that above Brig is the steeper and less fertile portion of the Upper Valais (then much frequented by tourists), greatly increased the importance and size of the town.

</doc>
<doc id="78736" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78736" title="Pennine Alps">
Pennine Alps

The Pennine Alps are a mountain range in the western part of the Alps. They are in Switzerland (Valais) and Italy (Piedmont and the Aosta Valley).
They include the following peaks:

</doc>
<doc id="78740" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78740" title="Bernese Alps">
Bernese Alps

The Bernese Alps are a group of mountain ranges in the western part of the Alps, in Switzerland. Although the name notes that they are in the Bernese Oberland region of the canton of Bern, some of the Bernese Alps are found in the cantons of Vaud, Fribourg, Valais, Lucerne, Uri, and Nidwalden.
The main peaks of the Bernese Alps are:

</doc>
<doc id="78758" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78758" title="Armenian National Committee of America">
Armenian National Committee of America

The Armenian National Committee of America (ANCA) is the largest and most influential Armenian American advocacy organization in the United States. Working in coordination with a network of offices, chapters, and supporters throughout the country and affiliated organizations around the world, the ANCA advances the concerns of the Armenian American community on a broad range of issues.
Beyond the Central offices of ANCA are in Washington DC, Boston and Los Angeles, ANCA has more than fifty local chapters and thousands of activists, it is cooperating with a large web of regional Armenian National Committees (or "Armenian Cause/Hay Tad" Offices) in Armenia, Russia, France, the Middle East, Canada and Australia.
The Executive Director of ANCA is Aram Hamparian.

</doc>
<doc id="78771" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78771" title="Valais">
Valais

Valais is one of the 26 cantons of Switzerland in the south-western part of the country.
It is near the valley of the Rhone River from its springs to Lake Geneva, that separates Pennine Alps from the Bernese Alps. The canton is one of the drier parts of Switzerland in its central Rhone valley. It is also one of most well-watered parts, having large amounts of snow and rain up on the highest peaks in Switzerland. It is perhaps best known worldwide for the Matterhorn. 
The canton of Valais is in the south of Switzerland. To its south is Italy, to the southwest France. To the north the canton there are the Swiss cantons of Vaud and Bern; the cantons of Uri and Ticino lie to its east.
The wide, icy Rhone valley dominates the area. There are many side valleys off the main valley. At the head of the Mattertal valley is Zermatt, a pretty tourist village dominated by views of the Matterhorn (4,478 m). Fifty of the mountains are more than 4,000m high, with the highest, Monte Rosa, that reaches to 4,638m (15,217 ft), and there are many glaciers. 
The Rhône drains the main valley from east to west up to Martigny, Switzerland, then in a right angle north to its mouth in the Lake Geneva. After the small town of Saint-Maurice, the northern banks of the river belong to the canton of Vaud. The main valley is between the Bernese Alps in the north and the Pennine Alps in the south. Only about half of the total area is considered productive.
The Romans called the area "Vallis Poenina" (""Upper Rhône Valley""). 
In 888, Valais became a part of the kingdom of Jurane Burgundy. 
King Rudolph III of Burgundy gave the area to the Bishop of Sion in 999, and made him Count of the Valais. The count-bishops had to defend their area against the dukes of Savoy.
in 1474 was the Battle of Planta, a place near the capitale Sion. The Bishop of Sion and the people of the Sieben Zenden, beat the Duke of Savoy. The Battle of Planta is a part of the Burgundy War. 
After this battle, the bisoph conquired the area until Lake Geneva. 
Valais did not follow the Protestant Reformation. 
On March 12, 1529, Valais became an associate member ("Zugewandter Ort") of the Swiss Confederation. 
In 1628 the Valais became a republic, the "République des Sept Dizains / Republik der Sieben Zenden" but the bishop remained in power until Napoleon's troops invaded the Valais and created the "République du Valais" on March 16, 1798 but on May 1, 1798, the Valais became part of the Helvetic Republic and became independent again in 1802 as the "Rhodanic Republic". 
In 1810, the Rhodanic Republic was made a part of France, and was called the Simplon Department. 
Valais became independent again in 1813 and on August 4, 1815 decided to join the Swiss confederation as a canton (state). 
In 1845, the Valais joined the Catholic separatist league ("Sonderbund"), but never fought federal troops when other members of the league started fighting in 1847.
Wine production and tourism are some of the main industries of the canton. The Matterhorn near Zermatt is one of the biggest tourist attractions in the Swiss mountains, as is its sister valley immediately east Saas Fee. Other parts of the mountains of the canton farther west are popular as well, such as the more French speaking resorts near Verbier and the Evolene & Arolla region. The resorts on the north side of the main Rhone river valley are popular, looking out southwards towards the Peninne Alps and still part of the southern slope of the Bernese Alps, such as the family oriented resort of Crans-Montana. The resorts in the Goms region are slightly less known, yet also receive attention during the summer hiking season and the winter ski season. 
Apart from tourism, agriculture is still important, particularly cattle breeding in the mountains and dairy farming in the plains. The wine industry of the canton is the largest in Switzerland. There are also a large number orchards in the area, and saffron is also gathered here.
The most industrial western region of the canton is called Chablais. The area is very important for the economy. There are a lot of factories, the most important are the subsidiaries of Novartis and Syngenta, in Monthey. In the town of Collombey, there is an oil refinery.
Near Visp there is a large plant of aluminium manufacturing. Other metal products and chemicals are produced around Visp and Sierre. 
Despite the thriving tourist industry, high level of infrastructure, and the many vineyards, canton Valais is still one of the poorest of the Swiss cantons, and not near the rich banking/financial cantons. A large portion of the canton's land and houses are now owned by foreigners.
A small airport is at Sion, but the main routes of transport are rail and road. Both networks are large and benefit from tourism. Many of the road passes are well known, such as the Grimsel Pass. The longest land tunnel in the world, the Lötschberg Base Tunnel, will soon be working, in late 2007 perhaps, connecting by rail the town of Frutigen in canton Bern, with the town of Visp in canton Valais/Wallis. This is to better spread car traffic in the highly scenic Kandertal, and also to provide faster transport through the Bernese Alps from the populous Mittelland in the north to the southern canton of Valais. Cars may be loaded onto the trains as freight.
Valais is mostly French speaking. The eastern part of the canton Upper Valais, however, speaks Walliser German. The French speaking population makes up a two-thirds of the population.
The people of the canton are spread thinly. The largest towns are the capitals Sion ("Sitten"), Sierre and Brig. There is no major city in the canton. Most of the population is Roman Catholic.
The following are the cities of the canton, by district.

</doc>
<doc id="78772" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78772" title="Conthey (district)">
Conthey (district)

Conthey is a district in the canton of Valais, Switzerland. It contains the following municipalities:

</doc>
<doc id="78774" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78774" title="Martigny, Switzerland">
Martigny, Switzerland

Martigny is the capital city of the French-speaking district of Martigny in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.
It is 495 meters high. It has a population of about 15,000 people. Martigny is at the joining of Italy, France and Switzerland, one road linking this town over the Great St. Bernard Pass to Aosta (Italy), and the other one, over the col de la Forclaz to Chamonix (France). In winter, Martigny is appreciated for its nearby ski resorts like Verbier.
In the first century BCE, present-day Martigny was an oppidum or vicus of a Celtic tribe, the Veragri. It was then called Octodurus or Octodurum. When Julius Caesar was in Gaul (57-56 BCE), he sent Servius Galba with the twelfth legion and some cavalry into the country of the Nantuates, Veragri, and Seduni. His purpose in sending this force was to open the pass over the Alps, the pass of the Great St. Bernard, by which road the "mercatores" had been used to travel at great risk, and with the payment of great tolls. ("B. G." iii. 1.) The people of the Alps allowed the Italian merchants to pass, because if they plundered them the merchants would not come; but they got as much out of them as they could. Galba, after taking many strong places, and receiving the submission of the people, sent off two cohorts into the country of the Nantuates, and with the remaining cohorts determined to winter in Octodurus, which was in a valley with no great extent of level ground near it, confined on all sides by very lofty mountains. There is some level ground at Martigny, and the valley of the Rhone at this part is not very narrow. Caesar says that the town of Octodurus was divided into parts by a river, but he does not mention the river's name. It is the Dranse. Galba gave one part of the town to the Galli to winter in, and assigned the other to his troops. He fortified himself with a ditch and rampart, and thought he was safe. He was, however, suddenly attacked by the Galli before his defences were complete or all his supplies were brought into the camp. Thus began the Battle of Octodurus. The Romans obstinately defended themselves in a six hours' fight; when, seeing that they could no longer keep the enemy out, they made a sortie, which was successful. The Romans estimated the Galli at more than 30,000, and Caesar says that more than a third part were destroyed. The slaughter of the enemy was prodigious, which has been made an objection to Caesar's veracity, or to Galba's, who made his report to the commander. It has also been objected that the valley is not wide enough at Martigny to hold the 30,000 men. There may be error in the number that attacked, and also in the number who died. After this escape Galba prudently withdrew his troops, and marching through the country of the Nantuates reached the land of the Allobroges, where he wintered.
The region joined the Roman Empire. In 47, Emperor Claudius founded Forum Claudii Augusti, later renamed Forum Claudii Vallensium to avoid confusion with another city that was dear to him. Octodurus was the principal town of the area until the displacement of the episcopal see to Sion in the 4th century. Pliny (iii. c. 20) says that the Octodurenses received the "Latinitas" ("Latio donati"). The town appears in the Antonine Itinerary and in the Tabula Peutingeriana. In the "Notit. Prov.", the place is called Civitas Vallensium Octodurus. At a later period it was called Forum Claudii Vallensium Octodurensium, as an inscription shows. One authority speaks of the remains of a Roman aqueduct at Martigny. Many coins, and other memorials of the Roman time, have been found about the place.
The name "Octodur" is manifestly Celtic. The second part of the name is "Dur", water. The first part, probably some corrupt form, is not explained. The town sat on the Roman road from Augusta Praetoria (modern Aosta) in Italy.
The Romans left many ruins. The city is known for the amphitheatre, which was restored in 1978. Cow fights are held in the amphitheatre during early autumn for the "Comptoir". The city is also famous for its museum, the Pierre Gianadda Foundation, built on top of Roman ruins. 
The area has some apricot orchards, and vines on steep slopes.

</doc>
<doc id="78775" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78775" title="Mattertal">
Mattertal

Mattertal is a valley in the Alps of Switzerland which begins on the side of the Matterhorn. The "Matterhorn" is one of the most famous mountains in the world because of its beauty, and because it is hard to climb. 
The "Mattertal" is a valley that was made by a glacier (a slowly-moving river of ice) moving down from the mountain. This can be seen from the deep U shape of the valley. (Valleys made by a fast-running stream are V-shaped). Because the sides of the valley are very steep, there are often landslides. One can be seen in the photo taken near Randa village. Many houses in the villages are called chalets. These can be seen in the picture of Täsch village.
In the Mattertal are villages which include Zermatt, Täsch, Randa, Grächen, and St. Niklaus. Many tourists like to stay in the villages to see the view, to go walking, skiing or mountain climbing. The traditional work of the people is dairy farming, but many people work in the tourist industry. 

</doc>
<doc id="78777" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78777" title="Zermatt">
Zermatt

Zermatt is a municipality in the district of Visp in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.
It is found to the north of the Matterhorn in the German-speaking and mostly Roman Catholic section of the canton. It is pretty far southeast of Gstaad, and is pretty close to the border with Italy. 
Zermatt has a local population of 5,500 people, but the actual population changes through the seasons as tourists come and go. 
Zermatt is a famed ski resort and is a tourist destination. Until the mid-1800s, it was mostly a farming community; its name, as well as that of the Matterhorn itself, derives from the alpine meadows, or "matten", in the valley. In the German language, the town is "Zur Matte", or "in the meadow." 
The town was "discovered" mid-century by British mountaineers, most notably Edward Whymper, whose conquest of the Matterhorn made the village famous worldwide.
Zermatt is a closed village, which means that non-Swiss nationals are not permitted to buy property within the area. May is the worst time to visit this city, as most of the streets are muddy.
Zermatt is a good place to start many hikes into the surrounding mountains, such as the Haute Route that ultimately leads to Chamonix in France. A complex of cable cars and chair lifts carry skiers in the winter and hikers in the summer; the highest of them leads to the Klein Matterhorn, a small outcropping on the ridge between Breithorn and Matterhorn that offers cool views in all directions. It is possible to cross into Italy via the Cervinia cable car station.
Any automobile that uses an engine is not allowed in Zermatt because of concerns for air pollution. Electric vehicles are allowed for local commerces. The Cantonal police allow some people to park in the northern section of this city. Some emergency vehicles (firetrucks, ambulance..) are also allowed to use combustion engines.
Most people reach Zermatt by train or cable car. Trains also leave for Zermatt from Visp and Brig.
Zermatt is well known throughout the world for its great skiing, especially Triftji for its moguls. The high altitude results in consistent skiing continuously up until the summer.
Skiing in Zermatt is split up into four distinct areas; Sunnegga, Gornegrat, Klein Matterhorn and Schwarzsee. There is also a connection to Cervinia and Valtournenche in Italy. 
Trail Map.

</doc>
<doc id="78778" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78778" title="Ajax the Lesser">
Ajax the Lesser

Ajax the Lesser (Ancient Greek: Αἴας) was a Greek hero from the Trojan War, who was the son of Oïleus.

</doc>
<doc id="78779" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78779" title="Post-nominal letters">
Post-nominal letters

Post-nominal letters are letters after a persons name. They are used most in the United Kingdom and other Commonwealth realms to show that the person has a certain:
Academic degrees (qualifications from a university) can also be shown as postnominal letters, as can military awards (medals and decorations)

</doc>
<doc id="78783" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78783" title="Corvidae">
Corvidae

The Corvidae are the crow family. They are all passerines. There are over 120 species in the family. The word 'crow' is also used to describe birds in the genus "Corvus". This genus includes the crows, jackdaws and ravens.
Crows are found on every continent except for the southern area of South America and Antarctica. Most crows are found in South America, Central America, Europe and Asia. There are only 10 species each in Africa, Australia and North America.
A group of crows is called a "murder".
Most members of the crow family are black, such as crows, rooks, choughs, ravens and jackdaws. However, not all crows are black. Magpies and treepies can be black and white, or blue and green, or brown. Jays are often blue and white.
Crows are some of the most intelligent birds in the world. Crows and rooks are good at using tools, for example sticks or twigs. Magpies can see themselves in a mirror and they understand that it is a reflection. Many crows live near to humans in towns and cities. Some crows (such as Treepies) live in forests. They are more shy than the crows that live in cities.
Some crows in North America, Europe and northern Asia migrate. This means they travel to different places in summer or winter. Most crows are resident birds. This means they live in the same place all year round. 
Many crows live in large groups. For example, many rooks nest together in large groups at the top of trees. This is called a rookery. Crows in big groups are often noisy. However, when it is the breeding season (this means when birds nest and have babies), crows can become angry and will scare off other crows.
Crows eat a variety of food. They will eat fledglings (baby birds) and eggs from nests, small animals (mice and rats), carrion (dead animals), vegetables and garbage. for much of the year, crows and rooks dig into grassland with their strong beaks, and eat various kinds of insect grubs and worms. Because they may attack the nest of other birds, crows may get mobbed by other species. This is when the defending birds group together to chase off the crow. Also, on farms, crows will eat vegetables and seeds. Farmers do not want this to happen so they make a scarecrow. This is a object made of straw and old clothes. It looks like a man and (maybe) it scare the crows away. 
Crows make their nests in tall trees. They make the nest from large sticks. The usually lay 3–8 eggs. Both parents will look after the fledglings.
The family includes:

</doc>
<doc id="78784" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78784" title="Visp">
Visp

Visp is the capital city of the district of Visp in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.
It has a population of around 7,000 people. The two valleys are Mattertal and Saastal. It borders Brig-Glis
The majority of the population are German-speaking.
It has a chemical business named LONZA AG. There are also several smaller businesses.
In 2007, Visp will become a junction of the Neue Eisenbahn-Alpentransversale or NEAT, connecting with many other rail-lines.
The bus and the train station of Visp and Brig is the starting point for many outdoor activities, trips, and tours in the surrounding mountain resorts of Zermatt and Saas-Fee.

</doc>
<doc id="78791" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78791" title="Saint-Maurice, Switzerland">
Saint-Maurice, Switzerland

Saint-Maurice is the capital of the district of Saint-Maurice in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.
It is the site of the Roman outpost of Agaunum and the old Abby of Saint-Maurice, which has become a famous high school in Switzerland ("Collège de Saint-Maurice").
It is not St. Mortiz, a resort in the east part of Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="78792" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78792" title="Conthey">
Conthey

Conthey is the capital of the district of Conthey in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="78793" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78793" title="Entremont (district)">
Entremont (district)

Entremont is a district in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.
It has the following cities:

</doc>
<doc id="78794" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78794" title="Santeri Palin">
Santeri Palin

Santeri Palin (also known as Incánus) (born September 15, 1983, Nokia, Finland.) is a Finnish poet who writes poems in Finnish and English. His first book "Elämän kolmio kuoleman syklissä – ajatuksia reunalta" ("The Triangle of Life in the Cycle of Death – Thoughts from the Edge") came out in 2006.
Palin is a fan of J. R. R. Tolkien and currently he is the president of "Kontu Internet Community' (or "Verkkoyhteisö Kontu ry" in Finnish) and the vice president of the "Finnish Tolkien Society", which are Finnish Tolkien related communities.

</doc>
<doc id="78799" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78799" title="Sembrancher">
Sembrancher

Sembrancher is the capital of the district of Entremont in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.
A small scenic village of around 500 residents in the Bagnes Valley, it is close to the Verbier ski resort. There is a way to get from Sembrancher to the Verbier ski resort and back for people interested in skiing.

</doc>
<doc id="78801" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78801" title="Münster-Geschinen">
Münster-Geschinen

Münster-Geschinen is the capital city of the district of Goms in the canton of Valais in Switzerland. It was formed in 2004 when the municipalities of Münster and Geschinen came together.

</doc>
<doc id="78812" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78812" title="Microbiotheria">
Microbiotheria

Microbiotheria are a small order of marsupial mammals with only one living species, the Monito del Monte (Spanish for 'little mountain monkey').
It is the only New World representative of the superorder Australidelphia; all other New World marsupials are part of the Ameridelphia.
The species is nocturnal and arboreal, and lives in thickets of Chilean bamboo in the temperate rain forests of the southern Andes. It eats mainly insects and other small invertebrates, supplemented with fruit.
At one time, they were placed in the order Didelphimorphia, the opossums, but due to many morphological differences, they were placed in another order. The skull's shape is strange, with many technical differences from the opossums.
It has long been suspected that South American marsupials were ancestral to those of Australia. The two continents were connected via Antarctica in the early Cainozoic era.
Australia’s earliest known marsupial is "Djarthia", a primitive mouse-like animal that lived about 55 million years ago. "Djarthia" had been identified as the earliest known australidelphian, and this research suggested that the Monito del Monte was the last of a clade which included "Djarthia".
In 2010, analysis of retrotransposon insertion sites in the nuclear DNA of marsupials confirmed the placement of the Monito del Monte in Australidelphia. It also showed its position as the most basal of that superorder.
The study also confirmed that the most basal of all marsupial orders are the other two South American lineages (Didelphimorphia and Paucituberculata, with the former probably branching first). This indicates that Australidelphia arose in South America (with the ancestors of all other living marsupials), and probably reached Australia in a single dispersal event after Microbiotheria split off (originated).

</doc>
<doc id="78815" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78815" title="Dasyuromorphia">
Dasyuromorphia

Dasyuromorphia are fair-sized order of some of the more unusual carnivorous or insectivorous marsupials. They vary in appearance, from rodent-like to cat-like to dog-like. This order includes the ever-famous Tasmanian devil. In this order, most of the marsupials have a pouch on the belly. However, some of the broad-footed marsupial mice have only folds of skin instead of true pouches, and the numbat lacks a pouch entirely. There are 63 species in 3 families, although one of the families is probably extinct:

</doc>
<doc id="78816" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78816" title="Goat Rock Beach">
Goat Rock Beach

Goat Rock Beach is a beach in Sonoma County, California, United States.
It is part of the Sonoma Coast State Beach, which is owned by the State of California. The mouth of the Russian River is in the northern part of the beach. Goat Rock is in the southern part of the beach. The beach itself was named after the rock. The naming of Goat Rock is unknown, but many sources say some goat herders around the early 20th century used the grassy, flat rock for goats, because few other animals could live there.
Goat Rock Beach has many visitors. It usually has the most people in the middle of summer. The beach is a popular spot for swimming and surfing. It is home to seagulls, harbor seals, and sea lions, as well as other animals from the Pacific Ocean.
The oldest natural history of the area is related to marks made by mammals in an area of rock about one third of a mile south of Goat Rock Beach. In uplifted sea stack formations, there are rubbing marks about two to four meters above the ground surface, too high of a rubbing mark for modern bovids. Mammoths are thought to have traveled here as recently as 40,000 years ago, and are thought to have made these rubbing marks. Mammoth fossils have been found at Bodega Head, which is a few miles south of Goat Rock Beach.
The earliest known humans to settle at Goat Rock Beach were the Native American Coast Miwok and Pomo tribes. During the mid-1800s, Mexican ranchers lived in California, and Goat Rock Beach was part of a Mexican land grant called the "Bodega Rancho". The Russians are thought to have begun cutting down the forests just north of the beach in the early 19th century.
The Russian River, which has its mouth at the north end of Goat Rock Beach, is Sonoma County's biggest watercourse and river. Just north of the Russian River mouth is the small town of Jenner, and the beach, Jenner Beach. Goat Rock is at the south end of the beach. Visitors can walk onto Goat Rock, going on a small "isthmus", which is also known as a land bridge. Blind Beach is just south of Goat Rock Beach, with only Goat Rock between the two beaches, and Goat Beach is southwest of it.
Goat Rock Beach has much marine erosion and erosion from the wind. This causes about one to three feet of land mass lost each year. "Erosion" is when water and wind remove the top layer of rock or mud. During big storms, there can be even more erosion. 
The "sea stacks" (eroded parts of rock) along the Goat Rock Beach coast are rocks from the Franciscan Complex, rock formations which were made during earthquakes in California. About 200 years to 30 million years ago, the North American Plate collided with the Farallon Plate, causing earthquakes. Different rock types came from these collisions, including pillow basalt, chert, and sandstone. Goat Rock has a flat topped sea stack, made of greywacke. The rock "formations" (groups) are made of sandstone with layers of quartz.

</doc>
<doc id="78817" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78817" title="Sea lion">
Sea lion

Sea lions are several pinnipeds from the family Otariidae (eared seals). They live all around the world, except in the Atlantic Ocean.
Male sea lions have thick fur around the face and neck, which sometimes looks like a lion's mane. That's how they got the name "sea lion". Some, like the Steller sea lion, can actually roar! Of course, these pinnipeds are not really lions at all, but they are mammals. Like lions, they have fur, breathe air, give birth to live young, and feed milk to their young. They also eat meat, though sea lions eat the meat of fishes, squids, and sea birds instead of land animals. Sea lions are also fierce fighters, just like lions.
The pinniped species called "sea lion" are: 

</doc>
<doc id="78818" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78818" title="Greywacke">
Greywacke

Greywacke is a type of sandstone. It is hard, and dark in color. It has different sized grains of quartz, feldspar, and small rock fragments set in a compact, fine clay matrix. It is mostly found in Palaeozoic strata. The larger grains can be sand-to-gravel-sized, and matrix materials make up more than 15% of the rock by volume. 
The origin of greywacke was a problem. Gravel, sand and mud should not be laid down together, because river outflow drops heavier grains first. Now geologists think greywacke is formed by submarine avalanches or strong turbidity currents. These actions churn sediment and cause mixed-sediment slurries to occur. When this happens, the resulting rocks show various sedimentary features. Support for the turbidity current origin is the fact that deposits of greywacke are found on the edges of the continental shelves, at the bottoms of oceanic trenches, and at the bases of mountain formational areas. It also occurs in association with black shales of deep sea origin.

</doc>
<doc id="78834" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78834" title="Carmina Burana">
Carmina Burana

Carmina Burana is the name given to a collection of texts from the 11th and 12th century. There are over 240 texts in the collection, most of them written in Latin, some in Middle High German. Most of the texts are moral or satirical in nature. There are also texts about spring, or about love. Some of them are drinking songs, some of them were used as Minnesang. Some of the songs contain hints for the melodies. For some, the melodies can be reconstructed.
The texts were written down around 1230. This happened either in an abbey in Styria, or near Brixen. They were discovered by Johann Christoph von Aretin in Benediktbeuern Abbey in 1803. Today, they are in the Bavarian State Library in Munich. There they can be found there as Codex Buranus, with the signature clm 4660/4660a.
Johann Andreas Schmeller edited them and published them as "Carmina Burana – Lieder aus Benediktbeuern". 
Carl Orff took 24 of them as "Carmina Burana". He wrote the music for them. The work was first performed in 1937 in the Opera house in Frankfurt am Main. Together with his works "Catulli Carmina" and "Trionfo di Afrodite" he made a work containing all three, called "Trionfi". Trionfi is performed much less than the Carmina Burana alone, though.

</doc>
<doc id="78856" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78856" title="Vex, Switzerland">
Vex, Switzerland

Vex is the capital city of the district of Hérens in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="78862" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78862" title="Dasyuridae">
Dasyuridae

Dasyuridae is a family of marsupial carnivores. It has nearly all non-extinct members of the order "Dasyuromorphia". This means the quolls, phascogales, antechinuses, dunnarts, planigales, and Tasmanian devil (about 55 species in all).

</doc>
<doc id="78864" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78864" title="Mohammed Zahir Shah">
Mohammed Zahir Shah

Mohammed Zahir Shah (16 October 1914 – 23 July 2007) was the last King ("Shah") of Afghanistan. He ruled for four decades, from 1933 to 1973.
Mohammed Zahir Shah became king of Afghanistan at the age of nineteen after the assassination of his father in November 1933. Since he was so young, his uncle, "Shah Mahmood Khan" ran the government. Mohammed Zahir Shah took control and was able to keep Afghanistan’s neutral position in international politics.
In July 17, 1973, Mohammed Zahir Shah was no longer king after a bloodless coup. He died on 

</doc>
<doc id="78866" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78866" title="Thurgau">
Thurgau

Thurgau is a northeast canton of Switzerland. The population is 228,200 (2003). The capital is Frauenfeld.
To the north of Thurgau is Lake Constance, across which are Germany and Austria. The river Rhine makes the border in the northwest. To the south is the Canton of St. Gallen; to the west are the cantons of Zürich and Schaffhausen.
The area of the canton is 991 km and is usually divided into three hilly areas. One of these is along Lake Constance to the north. Another is inland between the rivers Thur and Murg. The third one makes the southern border of the canton and comes together with the Hörnli mountain in the pre-Alps.
In prehistoric times the lands of the canton were inhabited by people of the Pfyn culture along the lake. During Roman times the canton was part of the province "Raetia" until in 450 the lands were settled by the Alamanni. It was only in the 8th century that the canton became a political unit similar to what it is known today, as a Gau of the Frankish Empire. At the time, however, the area was not so clearly defined and changed frequently. Overall, the size of the Thurgau was larger, but during the Middle Ages the canton became smaller in size. The dukes of Zähringen and the counts of Kyburg took over much of the land.
The town of Zürich was part of the Thurgau until it became "reichsunmittelbar" in 1218. When the Kyburg dynasty became extinct in 1264 the Habsburgs took over that land. The Swiss confederation allied with ten freed bailiwicks of the former Toggenburg seized the lands of the Thurgau from the Habsburgs in 1460, and it became subject territory of Zürich. 
In 1798 the land became a canton for the first time as part of the Helvetic Republic. In 1803 the canton of Thurgau became a member of the Swiss confederation. The current cantonal constitution dates from 1987.
The canton of Thurgau is known for farm produce such as apples, pears, and other fruits and vegetables. The many orchards in the canton are used for the making of cider. Wine is produced in the Thur valley.
There is also industry in the canton of Thurgau. The main industries are printing, clothing and arts and crafts. Small and middle-sized businesses are important for the economy. Many of these are concentrated around the capital.
The population is mostly German speaking. Most of the population are Protestants with the rest being Roman Catholics.
The Canton of Thurgau is divided into eight districts, and each is named after its capital:
There are 80 municipalities in the canton (as of April 2004):

</doc>
<doc id="78867" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78867" title="Graubünden">
Graubünden

Graubünden ' is the biggest and is farthest to the east of the cantons of Switzerland. The name means "Gray Union" in German and the canton lies entirely in the Alps. In Switzerland it hosts the biggest number of tourists each year.
The area of the canton is 7,105 km². Only one third of this land is used for farming. Forests cover 20% of the total area. The canton has many mountains that make up the highlands of the Rhine and Inn river valleys. Many of its scenic areas are part of the Swiss National Park or the Ela Nature Park.
There are many important peaks in the Grison Alps, including the Tödi at 3,614 meters and the highest peak Piz Bernina at 4,049 meters. Many of the mountain ranges feature huge glaciers, such as at the Adula, the Albula, the Silvretta, the Bernina, the Bregaglia and the Rätikon ranges. The mountain ranges in the central area contain many of the deepest vallies in Switzerland.
The canton borders Liechtenstein to the north, Austria to the north and the east, Italy to the south, and the cantons of St. Gallen to the northwest; Glarus and the canton of Uri to the west, and Ticino to the southwest. The capital city is Chur. Davos and St. Moritz are world-famous resorts and can be found in this area.
Most of the lands of the canton were once part of a Roman province called "Raetia" that was established in 15 BC. The area later was part of the lands of the diocese at Chur.
In 1367 the League of God's House was founded against the power of the Bishop of Chur. This was followed by the making of the Grey League, sometimes called "Oberbund", in 1395 in the Upper Rhine valley. The name "Grey League" is derived from the homespun grey clothes worn by the people. The name of this league later gave its name to the canton of Graubünden.
The first step towards the naming of the canton into Graubünden was when the league of the Ten Jurisdictions allied with the League of God's House in 1450. In 1471, the two leagues aligned with the Grey League. This meant that the leagues allied with the Swiss Confederation. The Habsburgs were defeated at Calven Gorge and Dornach, helping the Swiss confederation and the allied leagues of the canton of Grisons to be recognized.
The last traces of the bishop of Chur's jurisdiction were abolished in 1526. The Musso war of the 1520 drove the Three Leagues closer to the Swiss Confederacy. The lands of the canton of Graubünden were part of the Helvetic Republic, but the "perpetual ally" of Switzerland became a canton in 1803. The constitution of the canton dates from 1892.
The arms of the three original leagues are now all part of the coat of arms of the canton.
Private cars were only allowed in the canton of Graubünden after several votings in 1926.
The Graubünden are known for a dried-beef delicacy called Bündnerfleisch and for a nut and honey pie known as Bündner Nusstorte. Another specialty, made mostly in the western part of Grison, is Capuns, a filling meal of pasta and a little bit of meat, rolled into Chard leaves, eventually baked in mode of a gratin with cheese.
Agriculture and tourism make up most of the canton's economy. Agriculture combines forests and mountain pasturage in summer, mostly beef but also sheep and goats. Tourism is all around the canton, mainly around the towns of Davos/Arosa, Flims and St. Moritz/Pontresina, which are important in both winter and summer. There are a great number of other resorts people visiting the country can go to in the canton.
There is wine production around the capital Chur. Chur is also the center of industry. In the southern valleys of Mesolcina/Misox and Poschiavo there is corn (maize) and chestnut farming.
The languages spoken in Graubünden are German in the northwest, Romansh in the Engadin and around Disentis/Mustér), and Standard Italian in the valleys Mesolcina/Misox, Calanca, Val Bregaglia, and Poschiavo.
The main religions are Protestantism and Catholicism. Both are well-represented in the canton, with Roman Catholics forming a slight majority.
Graubünden is divided into 11 districts:
There are 209 municipalities in Graubünden (as of April 2004):

</doc>
<doc id="78868" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78868" title="Nidwalden">
Nidwalden

Nidwalden is a canton of Switzerland. It is in the center of Switzerland. The population is 38,600 (in 2001). The capital is Stans.
Nidwalden is in the center of Switzerland. To the north is Lake Lucerne. Mountain ranges block in the rest of the canton on the other sides.
In 1291 the people of Nidwalden joined Uri and Schwyz to form an alliance. At the time there was no state, but towards the end of the 14th century early forms of government were established. This included institutionalized assemblies and courts. In the 14th and 15th century the people of Nidwalden joined the people of Obwalden to discuss important matters, but the two cantons were never really one. For example, Obwalden did not participate in the annexation of Bellinzona, Riviera and Blenio areas (today in the canton of Ticino).
Around 1500 many people in Nidwalden worked as mercenary soldiers. Many of these soldiers later emigrated. This helped to lessen the pressure of a growing population. A popular destination was the Alsace. After rejecting a new constitution by Napoleon — the ideas of the French Revolution were not popular in such an agricultural area — Nidwalden was attacked by French troops on 9 September 1798. Random destruction was caused and at least 400 people were killed. After the end of Napoleon's rule in 1814 most of the changes were reverted. Only in 1877 did Nidwalden introduce a new constitution. The open assembly ("Landsgemeinde") was abolished in 1997.
The government is composed of seven members. The local parliament has 60 seats.
Nidwalden sends only one deputy to the Swiss Council of States.
Up to the 1900s, Nidwalden was taken over by agriculture. Cattle and cheese were exported mainly to northern Italy. Around 1500, many people in Nidwalden worked as mercenary soldiers (people hired to fight for someone for money). 
From the middle of the 19th century onwards, trade, industry and tourism gained momentum. Still, until the 1950s, agriculture took over the canton. Today, many small and middle-sized businesses fill the economy. The largest employer is the airplane constructor Pilatus. The small and middle-sized businesses work in a lot of areas. Many provide work in machine construction, medical equipment, international trade, optics and electronics.
Traditional areas such as forestry and agriculture are still important. Most farming is done with cattle and dairy products. Family farms are still common in Nidwalden today.
In recent years, Nidwalden is becoming an increasingly popular place to live and work. This is caused by its low taxes, its central location between Zürich and Milan, and the pretty countryside.
Because of the mountainous geography, tourism is important to Nidwalden. The lake and mountains attract many tourists around the year. 
Many local charities have kept local traditions intact. There is traditional music, yodeling, dances, theaters and festivals. There are a number of modern cultural events, such as concerts and galleries.
There are eleven municipalities: 

</doc>
<doc id="78869" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78869" title="Schaffhausen">
Schaffhausen

Schaffhausen is a city in northern Switzerland and the capital of the canton of the same name. It has a population of about 33,527 as of March 31, 2005.
The old portion of the city has many fine Renaissance era buildings decorated with exterior frescos and sculpture, as well as the impressive old canton fortress, the "Munot". A train runs out of town to the nearby Rhine Falls in Neuhausen am Rheinfall, Europe's largest waterfall, a tourist attraction.
Schaffhausen was a city state in the Middle Ages, documented to have struck its own coins starting in 1045. For a time it was under Habsburg domination, but regained its independence in 1415. It allied itself with Zürich in 1457, and became a full member of the Swiss Confederation in 1501. The first railroad came to Schaffhausen in 1857.
Schaffhausen is in a finger of Swiss territory surrounded on three sides by Germany. On April 1, 1944, Schaffhausen suffered a bombing raid by United States Army Air Forces aircraft which strayed from German airspace into neutral Switzerland. While the United States immediately offered a million dollars in reparations, the raid occurred only a month after the Swiss Air Force had shot down an American bomber.
Schaffhausen has some well-known industrial companies (Georg Fischer) in piping systems, machine tools and automotives, one internationally-reputed watches manufacturer (IWC), and drug industry (Cilag, founded by Bernhard Joos).

</doc>
<doc id="78870" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78870" title="Obwalden">
Obwalden

Obwalden is a canton of Switzerland. It is in the centre of Switzerland. As of 2004, 33,300 people lived there. Its capital is Sarnen.
Lakes in the canton include: parts of Lake Lucerne, Lake Sarnen, Lungerersee, Wichelsee, Tannensee and Melchsee.
There are seven municipalities: Sarnen, Kerns, Sachseln, Alpnach, Giswil, Lungern and Engelberg.

</doc>
<doc id="78874" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78874" title="Jura (canton)">
Jura (canton)

The canton of Jura is one of the Cantons of Switzerland. It is the newest of the 26 Swiss cantons (created in 1979) and is in the northwestern part of Switzerland. The capital is Delémont. It shares borders with the canton of Basel-Landschaft, the Canton of Bern, and the French département of Jura. 
Canton Jura is in northwest Switzerland. It includes parts of the Jura mountains in the south and the Jura plateau in the north. The Jura plateau is hilly and almost entirely limestone. 
To the north and the west of Jura is France. The canton of Solothurn and Basel-Landschaft are east of Jura, while the canton of Bern is south of Jura. The River Doubs and the river Birs drain the lands. 
The king of Burgundy donated much of the land that today makes up Canton Jura to the Bishop of Basel in 999. The area was a sovereign state within the Holy Roman Empire for more than 800 years. After the Treaty of Westphalia in 1648 the Jura had close ties with the Swiss Confederation. In the Congress of Vienna the Jura was given to the Canton Bern. This act caused dissension. The Jura was French-speaking and Roman Catholic, whereas the canton of Bern was mostly German-speaking and Protestant. The people of the Jura region called for independence. After a long struggle, a constitution was accepted in 1977. In 1978 the split was made official when the Swiss people voted in favour of it, and in 1979 the Jura joined the Swiss Confederation as a full member. However, the southern part of the Jura region, which is also predominantly French-speaking but has a Protestant majority, opted not to join the newly-formed canton, and instead remained part of Bern. This area is now known as Bernese Jura. The word Jura, therefore, may refer either to Canton Jura, or to the combined territory of Canton Jura and Bernese Jura.
On creation, the canton adopted the title Republic and Canton of the Jura. Other cantons in Switzerland using the title "Republic and Canton" are Ticino, Canton Geneva, and Canton Neuchâtel. In each case the title asserts the autonomy of the canton and its nominal sovereignty within the Swiss Confederation.
Agriculture is important in Canton Jura. Cattle breeding is significant and there is also horse breeding. The main industries are watches, clothing and tobacco. There are a growing number of small and middle-sized businesses.
The people are almost fully French-speaking. The majority is Roman Catholic.
Jura is divided into 3 districts:
This is a list of the canton's 83 municipalities by district. 

</doc>
<doc id="78880" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78880" title="French Community">
French Community

The French Community () was the body which replaced the French Union in 1958. Under the 1958 Constitution, member territories, former French colonies, had a lot of independence, but France controlled the currency, defence, foreign affairs and national security. 
When the Community was established, French President de Gaulle said that any country in the French Community could move to complete independence. Apart from Guinea, which chose by referendum in 1958 not to join the Community, all French-ruled territories in sub-Saharan Africa joined the French Community. They obtained independence in 1960.

</doc>
<doc id="78882" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78882" title="Usury">
Usury

Usury is lending money for interest. Nowadays it usually means lending at a high, often extortionate rate of interest on a loan.
Usury is illegal in many parts of the world. In muslim countries charging any interest at all is illegal.
Some people argue that this is against the Old Testament, especially Exodus and Deuteronomy which states that those who lend to someone in need will be blessed, but the point about usury is the high levels of interest, not the act of lending in itself.
Aristotle also condemned usury as "contraty to nature" in his book on Politics, because if increases by itself and makes money without labour.

</doc>
<doc id="78890" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78890" title="John Bates">
John Bates

John Lewis Bates (September 18, 1859–June 8, 1946) was born in Massachusetts.
He was a Republican, and was a member of the Massachusetts House of Representatives from 1894 to 1899; from 1897 to 1899 he was Speaker of the House. From 1900 to 1903 he was Lieutenant Governor of Massachusetts. 
In 1902, Bates was elected Governor, holding office from 1903 to 1905. Bates then retired to his private law practice in Boston. From 1917 to 1919 Bates was a delegate to the Massachusetts Constitutional Convention.
Bates was a member of the American Bar Association, the Freemasons, the Odd Fellows, and Beta Theta Pi.

</doc>
<doc id="78891" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78891" title="Acoustic music">
Acoustic music

Acoustic music is music which is played by using acoustic musical instruments, i.e. instruments in which the sound is not made louder by electronic amplification. Before electronic musical instruments were created in the 20th century all instruments were acoustic.
Classical music is usually played using only acoustic musical instruments, although some 20th century composers such as Karlheinz Stockhausen used electronic instruments, sometimes together with acoustic instruments.

</doc>
<doc id="78892" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78892" title="Mandolin">
Mandolin

The mandolin is a musical instrument, which literally means, a small soprano member of the lute family. It is played by hitting its strings and sounds similar in tone of a violin or a hammered dulcimer. The most common type of mandolin, which was first designed in Naples, has eight strings. It has a body made of wood and a fingerboard which has frets.

</doc>
<doc id="78895" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78895" title="Bluegrass music">
Bluegrass music

Bluegrass music is a form of American roots music. It has its own roots in Irish, Scottish and English traditional music. It is usually played using acoustic musical instruments, and electronic musical instruments are rarely used in bluegrass music. Traditional instruments used include the banjo, mandolin, guitar and bass. Other instruments such as the dobro are also used.
There are many accomplished bluegrass artists including Bela Fleck, Tony Rice, Alison Krauss, Laurie Lewis, Sam Bush, Bill Monroe, and Earl Scruggs. There are many organizations devoted to this music such as the International Bluegrass Music Association (IBMA).
Many festivals are held around the country where professionals perform, amateurs gather to play, and workshops are given.

</doc>
<doc id="78896" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78896" title="Billboard charts">
Billboard charts

"Billboard" charts are charts published by "Billboard" magazine. They have information about the popularity of music songs, singers, etc. The "Billboard" Hot 100 is the most popular chart. It appears every week in the United States. It uses information from radio play and sales to say the most popular song each week.

</doc>
<doc id="78902" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78902" title="Leuk">
Leuk

Leuk (French Loèche) is a city and municipality of Switzerland and is the capital city of the district of Leuk in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.
Since it controls access to the Gemmipass, it had some importance from the time of Roman Raetia. The Leukerbad hot baths are just North of Leuk, towards the pass. 
Loèche houses the installations of Onyx, the Swiss interception system for electronic intelligence gathering.

</doc>
<doc id="78903" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78903" title="Raron">
Raron

Raron is the capital city of the district of Raron in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="78905" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78905" title="Goms (district)">
Goms (district)

Goms is a district of the canton of Valais in Switzerland.
It includes the following municipalities:

</doc>
<doc id="78912" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78912" title="Shavo Odadjian">
Shavo Odadjian

Shavo Odadjian () (born April 22 1974, Yerevan, Armenia as Shavarsh Odadjian) is the bassist for the Armenian American-based alternative metal band, System of a Down. He also scored summer blockbuster hit, "Babylon, A.D." alongside with The Rza and Hans Zimmer. He is a multi-instrumentalist, painter, DJ, and director.
In his youth, Shavo used to spend his time skateboarding and listening to punk rock and heavy metal music. He started managing the band "Soil" with Malakian and Tankian in 1993 after meeting them in a recording studio. In 1995, Shavo became the permanent bassist of the band. They then named themselves "System of a Down" after a poem titled "Victims of a Down" authored by bandmate Daron Malakian.
Odadjian is a popular DJ in the LA area met by "Dj Tatic", taking part in such events as the "Rock/DJ Explosion" on March 2 2001 at The Roxy in Hollywood and collaborating with bandmate Tankian on SerArt, the singer's side project with Armenian musician Arto Tunçboyacıyan.

</doc>
<doc id="78921" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78921" title="Aspartame">
Aspartame

Aspartame (also known as E951 or NutraSweet) is an artificial sweetener. It was discovered in 1965 by James M. Schlatter. It can be used to replace some kinds of sugar. It is not based on sugars. It is not like saccharin. 

</doc>
<doc id="78922" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78922" title="Saccharin">
Saccharin

Saccharin is the oldest artificial sweetener that exists. It can be used to replace certain kinds of sugar. It was discovered in 1878 by Constantin Fahlberg. It is also known as E954.

</doc>
<doc id="78924" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78924" title="Isomalt">
Isomalt

Isomalt is a natural substitute for sugar. It is a kind of sugar alcohol. It is used mainly to replace sugar in some products, like bubble gum, candies,chocolate or ice cream. This makes it different from other artificial sweeteners. It is also known as E563.

</doc>
<doc id="78925" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78925" title="Sloth">
Sloth

Sloths are Xenarthran mammals from Central and South America. They are part of the order Pilosa. There are two families of sloths: two-toed sloth and three-toed sloth. Most scientists call these two families the Folivora, while some call them the Phyllophaga.
The biogeographic origins of the Pilosa is still unclear, but they can be traced back in South America as far as the early Tertiary, about 60 million years ago. The presence of these animals in Central America is explained by the Great American Interchange.
Most sloths are about the size of a small dog and they have short, flat heads. Their hair is grayish brown but, at times they look grey-green in color because they move so slowly that tiny camouflaging algae grow all over their coats. They have hooklike claws on their arms and legs to keep them attached to trees.
Sloths are active at night and sleep curled up with their head placed between the arms and the feet drawn close together, or hanging upsidedown with the help of their hook-like claws. This disguises them as part of a tree so that its enemies like the jaguar do not see them. Sloths rarely climb down from the trees, and when they are on the ground they can only crawl awkwardly. However, when there is a forest flood, they are very good swimmers. Sloths can live for up to 30 years. They mostly just eat leaves and flowers, which take a very long time to digest.

</doc>
<doc id="78934" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78934" title="Jura">
Jura

Places named Jura include:
Rivers named Jura include:

</doc>
<doc id="78936" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78936" title="Oberon (moon)">
Oberon (moon)

Oberon is the farthest big moon of the planet Uranus. It is made of about half ice and half rock.
With a mean radius of about 760 km, Oberon is the second biggest moon of Uranus's 27 moons. It orbits Uranus about every 13.4 days.
It was found on January 11, 1787 by William Herschel, in the same year he found Titania. It was named after a Oberon, King of the Fairies, a character in William Shakespeare's play A Midsummer Night's Dream.
Oberon has several large impact craters where it has been hit by meteorites. These were photographed by the Voyager 2 spacecraft in 1986 as it flew passed. Scientists also believe there is a mountain that could be high on the moon.
Craters on Oberon are named after characters in the plays of William Shakespeare.

</doc>
<doc id="78937" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78937" title="Delémont (district)">
Delémont (district)

The district of Delémont is one of three districts in Jura, Switzerland. Its capital is the city of Delémont. The district is nearly all French-speaking and is home to a population of 35,175 (end of 2005).
Delémont is divided into 28 municipalities:

</doc>
<doc id="78943" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78943" title="Xavier Rudd">
Xavier Rudd

Xavier Rudd (born 1978) is an Australian musician. He grew up in the small town of Torquay, Victoria, Australia. When Rudd was young, he learned to play the didgeridoo on a vacuum cleaner hose. 
Rudd is known for playing at music festivals and concerts in Australia and in North America. He has many fans in Australia, his home, as well as Canada, where he has recorded a few live albums. 
Some of his songs have political themes that deal with the environment and the rights of Aboriginal Australians.
Rudd is a father of two sons, Joaquin and Finojet, and a husband to his Canadian wife, Marci. He claims to have his son Joaquin's sock with him when he travels, because his family often can not travel with him. 
Rudd also describes himself as a full-time "barefooter", which means that he does not own any shoes or other footwear. Rudd is also a vegetarian.

</doc>
<doc id="78946" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78946" title="Banjo">
Banjo

The banjo is a string instrument, that was first played by African slaves a few hundred years ago in the United States. The idea came from other African instruments. 
The name "banjo" may have come from a Kimbundu word: "mbanza", but it could have also come from a Senegambian word for the bamboo stick used for the banjo's neck.

</doc>
<doc id="78949" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78949" title="Nicolás de Ovando">
Nicolás de Ovando

Nicolás de Ovando (Brozas, 1460 – Seville, 1511) was a Spanish soldier from a noble family and a knight of the Order of Alcántara. He was governor of Hispaniola from 1502 until 1509. 
Nicolas de Ovando was born in 1460 in the town of Brozas, in Extremadura, Spain. His family was very religious and, when young, he joined the military religious "Order of Alcantara" where, in 1478, he was named "Comendador de Lares" ("Commander of Lares"), a very important position in the Order.
As "Commander of Lares", he was very appreciated by the Spanish Catholic Kings and, in particular, by Queen Isabella. On 3 September 1501 (Oviedo said in 1502), he was named as Governor of Hispaniola and of all lands discovered in America.
On 13 February, 1502 he went out of the port of Sanlúcar de Barrameda, Spain to go to the Hispaniola island with a fleet of 32 ships. On the fleet, there were 2,500 people, including priests, soldiers and colonists (some of them with their families), who were going to live in the Hispaniola. Among those colonists was Bartolomé de las Casas, later known as the "Protector of the Indians", and also Francisco Pizarro, who conquered the Inca Empire.
The plan of Ovando was to develop the West Indies economically and expand the Spanish influence in the region.
Ovando got in Santo Domingo on 15 April 1502.
The administration of Ovando in Hispaniola was one of great cruelty toward the Taíno Indians. When the Spaniards came to the island in 1492, the native population was 400,000 (estimated) but in 1508 there were only 60,000 Indians.
Because the new colonists needed more workers for the gold mines and farms, they brought, as slaves, Indians from the "Lucayas" (now, the Bahamas) islands. Then they brought slaves from Spain ("Ladinos", that is, of Africa origin but born in Spain); those were the first African slaves brought to America.
Ovando founded several cities (or ordered their foundations) on Hispaniola, among them: Compostela de Azua (or Azua de Compostela), Santa María de la Vera Paz, Bayajá (today, Fort Liberté, in Haiti), Salvatierra de la Sabana (today, Les Cayes, in Haiti), Salvaleón de Higüey, Cotuí, Puerto Plata, Santa Cruz de Hicayagua (today, Santa Cruz del Seibo, Dominican Republic).
Ovando sent Andrés Morales to explore completely the Hispaniola island. Morales made the most complete map of the island. Sebastián de Ocampo was sent to find out if Cuba was an island or part of the continent; after 8 or 10 months, Ocampo came back with the information that Cuba was an island. In 1508, Juan Ponce de León was sent with 50 men to conquer the island of San Juan (now the island of Puerto Rico).
In 1509, Ovando went back to Spain where he was made "Comendador Mayor" ("Head Commander") of the Order of Alcantara. During a meeting of the Order in Seville, Spain, he died on 29 May 1511 (Oviedo said in 1518). He was buried in the Church of San Benito, in the city of Alcántara, Extremadura, Spain.

</doc>
<doc id="78972" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78972" title="Abelsonite">
Abelsonite

Abelsonite (nickel porphyrin) is a mineral that can be pinkish-brown, purple, or reddish-brown in colour and is formed from porphyrin crystals. It is platy (made in plates like mica) and fragile. 
Porphyrins are organic ring compounds like haeme, the pigment in red blood cells.
It is found in the Green River Formation of Utah, in the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="78975" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78975" title="Abenakiite-(Ce)">
Abenakiite-(Ce)

Abenakiite-(Ce) is a pale brown mineral and made from crystals. It was named for the Abenaki Indian Tribe, the people that lived in the area where this mineral was found. It is somewhat radioactive and it is easily scratched with fluorite. It was found in a quarry in Canada.

</doc>
<doc id="78977" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78977" title="Abernathyite">
Abernathyite

Abernathyite is a pale, yellow-colored mineral that forms crystals. It was named for Jess Abernathy, the person who found the first samples of this mineral. It is found in a mine in Emery County, in the United States. It is highly radioactive.

</doc>
<doc id="78978" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78978" title="Abhurite">
Abhurite

Abhurite is a colorless crystalline mineral that forms on ship-wrecked tin ingots (nuggets). It is named for where it is found. It is found in a cove in the Red Sea. It is not radioactive.

</doc>
<doc id="78980" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78980" title="Animal Liberation Orchestra">
Animal Liberation Orchestra

Animal Liberation Orchestra (also known as ALO) is an American rock and jam band from Southern California. They first formed several years ago as a group calling themselves Django. Over the years, they changed their name to Animal Liberation Orchestra and were signed to Jack Johnson's record label Brushfire Records.

</doc>
<doc id="78981" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78981" title="Leftover Salmon">
Leftover Salmon

Leftover Salmon is an American Rock and jam band from Boulder, Colorado.

</doc>
<doc id="78982" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78982" title="Internet meme">
Internet meme

An internet meme is something famous on the internet such as an image, a video, or even a person. Internet memes are usually created when someone published something and that thing was spread widely over the Internet. Famous internet phenomena are lolcats, Chuck Norris Facts, Advice Dog, Angry German Kid, Tay Zonday's "Chocolate Rain", Polandball and Rick Astley's "Never Gonna Give You Up" (A.K.A. ""Rickroll"").

</doc>
<doc id="78990" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78990" title="Morris Gleitzman">
Morris Gleitzman

Morris Gleitzman (born 9 January 1953 in England) is one of Australia's most successful children's writers. Morris Gleitzman began writing as a screenwriter and enjoyed success writing for the Norman Gunston Show on Australian television. He has also written for the Governor-General of Australia and Rolf Harris.
Morris Gleitzman has had much success with his children's stories. They have been published in 14 countries around the world including the United States, United Kingdom, France and Australia. Some of his most successful books include "Misery Guts", "Worry Warts", "Blabber Mouth", "Belly Flop" and "Puppy Fat". He was born in England, on 9 January 1953. He had dropped out of school by the age of 16 to live "the hippie dream" and by the time he had moved to Australia was writing many short stories that would later become a reality and turn his small life into a big meaningful life.
His most successful book is "Two Weeks With the Queen".

</doc>
<doc id="78999" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78999" title="Coaxial cable">
Coaxial cable

A Coaxial cable is a special electrical cable. It is used to transmit signals. The cable is specially insulated. This makes it quite stiff. Today, coaxial cables are used for things like Cable TV. Coaxial cables can also be used for computer networks, but this is rarely the case now, as twisted pair cables can be used more easily in this area. 
Such cables are usually made of a conducting wire. Then there is some insulation, then there is another layer of conducting material. Finally there is the (insulating) mantle. Such cables are used as a high-frequency transmission line to carry a high-frequency or broadband signal. Because the electromagnetic field carrying the signal exists (ideally) only in the space between the inner and outer conductors, it cannot interfere with or suffer interference from external electromagnetic fields.
There are different types of coaxial cables, which satisfy different standards.

</doc>
<doc id="79009" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79009" title="Abswurmbachite">
Abswurmbachite

Abswurmbachite is a black or dark brown metallic mineral. It is named after Irmgard Abs-Wurmbach, who is a German mineralogist. It is found in Mili, Avia or Andros Island, Greece. It is not radioactive.

</doc>
<doc id="79018" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79018" title="Acanthite">
Acanthite

Acanthite is a mineral that can be lead gray, gray, or coal in color and is made from crystals. Its name comes from the Greek word, akanta, meaning "arrow", or the Latin word "argentum", meaning "silver". It is made of silver(I) sulfide.
It is found in Freiberg, Schneeberg, and Annaberg, Germany. Acanthite is not radioactive.

</doc>
<doc id="79019" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79019" title="Seven Lucky Gods">
Seven Lucky Gods

The , commonly called the Seven Lucky Gods in English, refer to the seven gods of good fortune in Japanese mythology and folklore. They are often the subject of netsuke carvings.
Each has a traditional characteristic:
Many figures in Japanese myth were transmitted from China (some having entered China from India), including all of the Seven Lucky Gods except Ebisu. Another god, Kichijōten, goddess of happiness, is sometimes found depicted along with the seven traditional gods, replacing Jurōjin. 
The seven gods are often pictured on their ship, the Takarabune (宝船), or "Treasure Ship." The tradition says that the seven gods will arrive in town on the New Year and distribute fantastic gifts to worthy people. Children often receive red envelopes bearing the Takarabune which contain gifts of money around the New Year. The Takarabune and its passengers are often shown in art in different locations, from the walls of museums to cuddly caricatures.

</doc>
<doc id="79022" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79022" title="Acetamide">
Acetamide

Acetamide is a mineral that is either colorless or gray in color, and is made of a crystalline crust on black shale. It is named for acetic acid and ammonia. It can be found in Russia and is not radioactive.

</doc>
<doc id="79025" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79025" title="17 (number)">
17 (number)

Seventeen is a number. It comes between sixteen and eighteen, and is an odd number. It is also the 7th prime number, after 2, 3, 5, 7, 11, and 13. In Italy, 17 is considered an unlucky number.
In Roman numerals, 17 is written as XVII.

</doc>
<doc id="79026" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79026" title="Pectin">
Pectin

Pectin is a food supplement. It is a source of dietary fiber. It is used to make jellies and jams. Usually it comes in the form of a white powder. It is made from parts of fruit, like oranges. People use pectin to thicken things, like jelly and jam. 
It is also seen as a large polysaccharide molecule found in the cell wall of many cells.

</doc>
<doc id="79048" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79048" title="Pectobacterium carotovorum">
Pectobacterium carotovorum

Pectobacterium carotovorum (syn "Erwinia carotovora") is a rod-shaped bacterium originally isolated from carrots. It is a plant pathogen and opportunistic human pathogen, causative agent of soft rot and blackleg potato ("P. atrosepticum") diseases.

</doc>
<doc id="79049" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79049" title="Burger">
Burger

Burger may refer to the following:

</doc>
<doc id="79055" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79055" title="Jesus with erection">
Jesus with erection

Jesus with erection is a picture that was made by students at the University of Oregon and published in the March 2006 edition of the "Student Insurgent". It caused debates in the United States in 2006. The picture shows a naked Jesus Christ on the Cross with an erection. 
In 2005 the Danish newspaper Jyllands-Posten published 12 cartoons of the Islamic prophet Muhammad. The paper said that this was to add to the debate about criticism of Islam and self-censorship. Danish-Muslims said that they did not like them because Islam teaches that it is wrong for people to make any picture of Muhammad and also because they felt that the pictures showed disrespect to Muhammad. This led to protests in many Islamic countries, some of which became violent and led to more than 100 deaths. 
The students of the University of Oregon said that they made the pictures of Jesus because they want to show how people who are religious feel when people make pictures that may be offensive to Jesus. They wanted to get Muslims and Christians to talk and understand each other better.
Some people disliked the picture of Jesus with erection. The president of the Catholic League, William Donohue, said that the president of the Oregon University, Dave Frohnmayer, is partially responsible for the pictures. William Donohue said that the picture was one of the worst attacks on Christianity he had ever seen. Other people who disliked the picture said that the University's President David B. Frohnmayer should not work for the University any more. However, the Oregon Daily Emerald and the Oregon Commentator, said that the students' right to free speech and the University's decision to defend the student newspaper, citing the decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States like the Southworth case. This case said that universities could support student groups (such as newspapers) that other students did not agree with without hurting the rights of the students who do not like the groups.

</doc>
<doc id="79060" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79060" title="Giovanni Guaita">
Giovanni Guaita

Giovanni Guaita is an Italian historian, researcher of Eastern Christianity and writer. He is an assistant Professor of the Moscow Linguistic University. Guaita was born in 1962 in Italy. He studied in different Western European and Russian (Moscow and St Petersburg) universities. 
He is the author of several books. Three of these books are on the Armenian theme. Guaita also known as the compilator of "The vocabulary of Orthodox agiology".

</doc>
<doc id="79062" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79062" title="Cockatoo">
Cockatoo

A cockatoo is any of the 21 species belonging to the bird family Cacatuidae, the only family in the superfamily Cacatuoidea. Along with the Psittacoidea (true parrots) and the Strigopoidea (New Zealand parrots), they make up the order Psittaciformes (parrots).
The name "cockatoo" comes from the Malay name for these birds, "kaka(k)tua", via the Dutch "kaketoe".
Cockatoos are recognisable by the showy crests and curved and strong bills. Their plumage is generally less colourful than that of other parrots, being mainly white, grey or black and often with coloured features in the crest, cheeks or tail. On average they are larger than other parrots; however, the Cockatiel, the smallest cockatoo species, is a small bird.
Cockatoos have a much more restricted range than the true parrots, occurring naturally only in Australasia. Eleven of the 21 species exist in the wild only in Australia, while seven species occur only in the islands of the Philippines, Indonesia, Papua New Guinea and the Solomon Islands. Interestingly, no cockatoo species are found in Borneo (despite their presence on nearby Palawan and Sulawesi) or many Pacific islands, although fossil remains have been recorded from New Caledonia.
Three species occur in both New Guinea and Australia. Some species have widespread distributions, with the Galah, for example, occurring over most of Australia, whereas other species have tiny distributions, confined to a small part of the continent, such as the Long-billed Black Cockatoo of Western Australia or to a small island group, such as the Tanimbar Corella, which is restricted to the Tanimbar Islands of Indonesia.
Cockatoos occupy a wide range of habitats, from forests in subalpine zones to mangroves. However, no species is found in all types of habitat. The most widespread species, such as the Galah and Cockatiel, are open-country specialists that feed on grass seeds. Other cockatoo species, such as the Glossy Black Cockatoo, inhabit woodlands, rainforests, shrublands and even forests with an alpine climate. The Philippine Cockatoo inhabits mangroves. Several species have adapted well to human modified habitats and are found in agricultural areas and even busy cities.
The cockatoos were first defined as a subfamily Cacatuinae within the parrot family Psittacidae by the English naturalist George Robert Gray in 1840, with "Cacatua" the first listed and type genus. This group has alternately been considered as either a full family or a subfamily by different authorities. The American ornithologist James Lee Peters in his 1937 "Check-list of Birds of the World", Sibley and Monroe in 1990 maintained it as a subfamily, while parrot expert Joseph Forshaw classified it as a family in 1973. Subsequent molecular studies indicate that the earliest offshoot from the original parrot ancestors were the New Zealand parrots of the family Strigopidae, and following this the cockatoos, now a well-defined group or clade, split off from the remaining parrots, which then radiated across the southern hemisphere and diversified into the many species of parrots, parakeets, macaws, lories, lorikeets, lovebirds and other true parrots of the family Psittacidae.
The fossil record of cockatoos is even more limited than that of parrots in general, with only one truly ancient cockatoo fossil known: a species of "Cacatua", most probably subgenus "Licmetis", found in Early Miocene (16–23 million years ago) deposits of Riversleigh, Australia. Although fragmentary, the remains are similar to the Western Corella and the Galah.
Names in parentheses after generic names indicate subgenera.
The current subdivision of this family is as follows:
Subfamily Nymphicinae
Subfamily Calyptorhynchinae: The black cockatoos
Subfamily Cacatuinae
The cockatoos are mostly medium to large parrots with a heavy, compact body. They range from in length and in weight. However, one species, the Cockatiel, is considerably smaller and slimmer than the other species, being long (including its long pointed tail feathers) and in weight.
The movable headcrest, which is present in all cockatoos, is spectacular in many species; it is raised when the bird lands from flying or when it is aroused.
Cockatoos share many features with other parrots, including the characteristic curved beak shape and a zygodactyl foot, with the two middle toes forward and the two outer toes backward. They differ however in a number of characteristics, including the presence of a gallbladder, some other anatomical details and their lack of the structures in the feathers which cause the bright blues and greens seen in true parrots.
Like other parrots, cockatoos have short legs and strong claws, and often use their strong bill as a third limb when climbing through branches. They generally have long broad wings used in rapid flight, with speeds up to being recorded for galahs. The members of the genus "Calyptorhynchus" and larger white cockatoos, such as the Sulphur-crested Cockatoo and Major Mitchell's Cockatoo, have shorter, rounder wings and a more leisurely flight.
Cockatoos are active mainly during the day and require daylight to find their food. They eat a range of mainly vegetable food items. Seeds form a large part of the diet of all species; these are opened with their large and powerful bills. The Galahs, corellas and some of the black cockatoos feed primarily on the ground; others feed mostly in trees.
Like most parrots, the cockatoos are made their nests in holes in trees, which they are unable to excavate themselves. These hollows are formed from decay or destruction of wood by branches breaking off, fungi or insects such as termites or even woodpeckers where their ranges overlap. In many places these holes are scarce and the source of competition, both with other members of the same species and with other species and types of animal. In general, cockatoos choose hollows only a little larger than themselves, hence different-sized species nest in holes of corresponding (and different) sizes.
The female lays two white eggs on small pieces of wood. The young, which is born naked and blind, is fed by the adults with partially digested food for about three months.
According to the IUCN and BirdLife International, seven species of cockatoo are considered to be vulnerable or worse and one is considered to be near threatened. Of these, two species—the Philippine Cockatoo (or Red-vented Cockatoo) and the Yellow-crested Cockatoo—are considered to be critically endangered.
The principal threats to cockatoos are habitat loss and the trade in wild animals. All cockatoos nest in trees, and are vulnerable to their loss. Also, many species have specific habitat requirements or live on small islands and have naturally small ranges, making them especially vulnerable.
Cockatoos are popular as pets and the capture and trade has threatened some species; between 1983 and 1990, 66,654 recorded Salmon-crested Cockatoos were exported from Indonesia, a figure that does not include the number of birds caught for the domestic trade or that were exported illegally. The capture of many species has subsequently been banned but the trade continues illegally. Not only are the rare species smuggled out of Indonesia but also common and rare cockatoos alike are smuggled out of Australia.
All species of cockatoo except the Cockatiel are protected by the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES), which restricts import and export of wild-caught parrots to special licensed purposes. Five cockatoo species (including all subspecies)—the Tanimbar Corella ("Cacatua goffiniana"), Philippine Cockatoo ("Cacatua haematuropygia"), Moluccan Cockatoo ("Cacatua moluccensis"), Yellow-crested Cockatoo ("Cacatua sulphurea") and Palm Cockatoo ("Probosciger aterrimus")—are protected on the CITES Appendix I list. With the exception of the Cockatiel, all remaining cockatoo species are protected on the CITES Appendix II list.

</doc>
<doc id="79064" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79064" title="Bell P-39 Airacobra">
Bell P-39 Airacobra

The P-39 Airacobra was a fighter aircraft made by Bell Aircraft. It first flew in 1939, and was introduced in 1941. While it had good weapons, it was known for being very unstable and could lose control easily. It was fast but not very good above 5000 m (15,000 feet) as it lacked turbocharger. The Soviet Union used it during World War II as a fighter interceptor as most air battles at the Eastern front were fought at low heights. Very near the ground the Airacobra became extremely manoeuevrable and could out-turn any German airplane. The Russians liked the plane, and they often removed the wing guns to make it even more manouevreable. Several Soviet pilots became fighter aces on P-39. The main weapon of P-39, 37 mm cannon, was so powerful that it could destroy almost any airplane on a single hit.
The pilot who has scored most aerial victories has been Grigori Rechkalov from Soviet Air Force. He shot down 57 Germans with Airacobra. His squadronmate Aleksandr Pokryshkin (59 victories of which 47 with Airacobra) was another well known Airacobra ace.
The P-39 was different from a lot of aircraft in World War II. It had "tricycle" landing gear (like a tricycle), doors that opened like a car (pilots would climb out of most fighters of the time). The "Q" version could go 375 miles per hour (600 km/h), had four 13mm machine guns, and one 37mm cannon.

</doc>
<doc id="79067" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79067" title="Air Canada">
Air Canada

Air Canada is Canada's largest airline. It flies from Canada to the United States, Europe, Asia, Australia, and some Caribbean countries. Air Canada began on September 1, 1937. It was first called "Trans-Canada Air Lines". The first flight was from Vancouver to Seattle. The airline's name changed to "Air Canada" in 1964. Air Canada was privatized in 1989. A large strike was launched by Air Canada pilots in September 1998. Air Canada bought Canadian Airlines in 2000. Since the early 2000s Air Canada has had many financial problems.
Air Canada's fleet includes:
Air Canada has ordered the Boeing 737 MAX airplanes for the future. It is still receiving more Embraers and Boeing 787s. In the past, Air Canada had Airbus A340s, Boeing 727s, Boeing 737s, Boeing 747s, Douglas DC-8s, Douglas DC-9s and Embraer 170s.

</doc>
<doc id="79073" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79073" title="Actinolite">
Actinolite

Actinolite is a mineral that can be green, green-black, gray-green, or black in color and is made of crystals. It is common around the world. The environment it lives in is in metamorphic rocks. It is named after the Greek word aktinos (meaning "ray") because of the nature of Actinolite. Actinole is not radioactive.

</doc>
<doc id="79082" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79082" title="Buoy">
Buoy

A buoy is a floating or marker that is placed in the sea. It can have many different purposes, which determine whether the buoy is anchored (stationary) or allowed to drift. The word is most commonly said () (as in "buoyant"), but in American English it is often pronounced .
One of the many purposes are keeping the people safe from strong currents. Buoys mark the end of the safety zone, if people swim past the buoys they will be likely to be dragged out to sea.

</doc>
<doc id="79088" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79088" title="Gulf Coast of the United States">
Gulf Coast of the United States

The Gulf Coast region of the United States is made up of the coasts of states which border the Gulf of Mexico. The states of Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, and Florida are known as the Gulf States. All Gulf States are in the Southern region of the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="79090" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79090" title="Florida Panhandle">
Florida Panhandle

The Florida Panhandle is the region of the state of Florida which includes the westernmost 16 counties in the state. It is a narrow strip lying between Alabama and Georgia to the north and the Gulf of Mexico to the south. Culturally and in terms of history and climate, the region is more closely tied to the Deep South than to peninsular Florida.

</doc>
<doc id="79093" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79093" title="Loop Current">
Loop Current

Part of the Gulf Stream, the Loop Current is a warm ocean current in the Gulf of Mexico that flows northward between Cuba and the Yucatán Peninsula, moves north into the Gulf of Mexico, loops west and south before exiting to the east through the Florida Straits.
Around 1970, it was believed that the Loop Current exhibited an annual cycle in which the Loop feature extended farther to the north during the summer. Further study over the past few decades, however, has shown that the extension to the north (and the shedding of eddies) does not have a significant annual cycle.
The Loop Current and its eddies may be detected by measuring sea surface level. Sea surface level of both the Eddies and the Loop on September 21, 2005 was up to higher than surrounding water, indicating a deep area of warm water beneath them.

</doc>
<doc id="79100" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79100" title="National Weather Service bulletin for New Orleans region">
National Weather Service bulletin for New Orleans region

The National Weather Service bulletin for the New Orleans region of 10:11 a.m., August 28, 2005 was a vividly worded release issued by the local Weather Forecast Office in Slidell, Louisiana warning of the devastation that the Gulf Coast of the United States could experience as a result of Hurricane Katrina. Partly due to this bulletin, people in southeastern Louisiana and southern Mississippi, those most affected by the storm's impact, followed evacuation orders more closely, resulting in a reduced fatality number.
On the evening of August 25, 2005, Hurricane Katrina made landfall as a Category 1 hurricane near the Miami-Dade – Broward county line in southern Florida and weakened into a tropical storm as a result. The next morning, after passing over the state, Tropical Storm Katrina moved into the Gulf of Mexico, strengthened back to hurricane strength, and from the influence of the warm waters from the Loop Current, began undergoing rapid deepening.
At 11:00 p.m. EDT August 26, approximately 56 hours before Katrina's landfall near Buras, Louisiana, the National Hurricane Center had predicted that the New Orleans metropolitan area could face a direct hit by the storm. As New Orleans is located on the Mississippi River delta and much of the city is below sea level, a strong hurricane could have a devastating effect on the city. Previous warnings, such as the one made by the Houston Chronicle in 2001, told of a disaster that "would strand 250,000 people or more, and probably kill one of 10 left behind as the city drowned under 20 feet of water" following a severe hurricane making landfall on the city. The National Hurricane Center's director, Max Mayfield, mentioned that the Mississippi/Louisiana area has "the greatest potential for nightmare scenarios," and that this has been known for at least the three decades he has worked at the NHC. Other publications, such as "Popular Mechanics", "Scientific American", and The Times-Picayune predicted doomsday situations in which a sinking city would drown and its residents would be left homeless.
In 1965, Hurricane Betsy made landfall just south of New Orleans, causing widespread flooding in the city. As a result, a system of levees was authorized by Congress to handle future storm events. However, the protection given by this system was limited to hurricanes up to Category 3 intensity on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale.
Three days before Katrina's second and third landfalls, the National Hurricane Center began predicting that the storm would make landfall as a major hurricane. By the next morning, on August 27, the NHC gave out a hurricane watch that included the New Orleans metro area, which was upgraded to a hurricane warning by 10:00 p.m. CDT that same evening. At this point, Katrina was a Category 3 hurricane with 115 mph (185 km/h) winds and about 335 miles (540 km) to the south-southeast of the Mississippi River's mouth.
That night, the storm underwent another period of rapid strengthening, strengthening to a Category 5 hurricane with maximum sustained winds of 175 mph (280 km/h) by 10:00 am CDT on August 28. At that time, the Weather Forecasting Office in Slidell, Louisiana issued an "urgent weather message" describing the destruction Katrina would likely cause in the region:
At 10:11 a.m. CDT (1511 UTC), Robert Ricks, a meteorologist with the New Orleans/Baton Rouge NWS office, issued the following statement:
An equally-explicit bulletin was repeated at 4:13 p.m. CDT.
In the following months after the storm, Congress appointed a two-party system committee to look into the response to Hurricane Katrina and the preparations before to its landfall. The committee concluded that the forecasts given by the National Weather Service were timely, were not responsible for failures in other agencies, and were likely responsible for saving thousands of lives.
During an internal assessment by the National Weather Service, the 10:11 bulletin and its impact were examined. The report called the bulletin "a significant moment for the NWS during Katrina," as its detailed and specific language did not have any previous precedent (though the message was based on a template designed by the Tampa Weather Office in 1990). The strongly-worded statement persuaded people to evacuate, and was highlighted by national news media. As a result, the level of detail was highlighted as an "innovative best practice" in the NWS assessment, which recommended issuing warnings with similar levels of detail in the future.

</doc>
<doc id="79101" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79101" title="Cesc Fàbregas">
Cesc Fàbregas

Cesc Fàbregas (born May 4, 1987) is a Spanish football player. He plays as a midfielder for Chelsea F.C. in the English Premier League.
Fàbregas started playing football at Barcelona. In 2003, when he was just 16 years old, he signed with Arsenal. 
He was named as the new captain of Arsenal in November 2008, after William Gallas lost the captaincy. He also plays for the Spanish national team since he was 19. He signed for Chelsea FC in June 2014.
160||17||11||0||10||1||48||10||229||28
160||17||11||0||10||1||48||10||229||28
!Total||91||13

</doc>
<doc id="79107" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79107" title="Misery Guts">
Misery Guts

Misery Guts is a book by the award winning Australian author Morris Gleitzman.
This is a story about a kid named Keith who lives in London and his parents who own a fish and chip shop. This parents for a long time have not had many customers. Keith is dedicated to trying to make the store better and cheer up his parents so they won't be Misery Guts for the rest of their lives. He tries everything including some crazy stunts.
The story continues in the hilarious sequel "Worry Warts".
The book did not sell very well. As of November 2007, the "Misery Guts/Worry Warts" combination was ranked #3,465,204 in books sold by Amazon. A television series was made based on this book.

</doc>
<doc id="79109" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79109" title="Brett Lee">
Brett Lee

Brett Lee (born 8 November, 1976 in Wollongong, New South Wales) is an Australian cricketer. He has played for the Australian national cricket team and New South Wales Blues. He has taken more than 300 wickets. Brett is a very fast bowler, one of the fastest the cricket world has known. His fastest delivery was . Lee won the Donald Bradman Young Player of the Year Award at the Allan Border Medal award ceremony in 2000 soon after his debut and has gone on to win many awards and a few tournaments.
He is the second of 3 boys and first played cricket with his brothers. 

</doc>
<doc id="79110" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79110" title="Otter">
Otter

Otters are animals that live near and around water. They are a part of the animal family Mustelid. A group of otters is called a "romp", because they play together and are energetic. They live in nests called holts. There are many different kinds of otters. Some live near rivers, some in the sea (Sea Otters). Otters live on every continent except for Australia and Antarctica.
Otters are long and slim animals with four short legs that can be longer than a meter. They usually stay on all four legs, but they can stand up as well but they are expert swimmers and spend a lot of time in water. They have a thick fur coat that keeps them warm even in freezing water. They have very soft, insulated underfur, which is protected by an outer layer of long guard hairs. This traps a layer of air which keeps them dry and warm under water. They keep the air topped up by blowing into the fur with their mouth. Their fur is often brown at the top, and lighter underneath the Otter. 
They eat meat and hunt for fish and small animals, so they have sharp claws and teeth that allow them to catch prey, then eat them. They are great swimmers and divers; they can stay underwater for 8 minutes. Their thick and long tail helps them steer while swimming underwater. Also, their feet are webbed, which helps them swim. On they ground, they can run very fast.
Otters live 8 to 9 years in the wilderness, and as many as 21 years when living with people.
Otters are carnivores; they must eat a lot of meat to live, so they spend 3 to 5 hours every day fishing and hunting. They can die of hunger more quickly than most animals. They eat fish, crayfish, crabs, and frogs. They will eat any small animals and birds they can catch. Much of their food is found in water. They dive in rivers, lakes and streams until they can find a suitable animal to eat, which they then chase. Once they catch it, they bring it to the top of the water, where they eat it. If the animal has a hard shell, otters can use a rock as a tool to break open the shell.
Otters are playful and energetic. They can be seen sliding down hills and slopes, as well as chasing other otters for fun. Some kinds of otters live in groups, while others are almost always alone. Because they spent so much time in cold water, they have to groom their fur often to stop themselves from freezing.
Otters talk to other animals and otters with whistles, growls, chuckles and screams, as well as chirps, squeals, and some kinds of otters might even purr. They also leave their scent on plants to mark their territory.
Sea otters ("Enhydra lutris") are classified as marine mammals. They live along the Pacific coast of North America. Their historic range included shallow waters of the Bering Strait. It also included Kamchatka, and as far south as Japan. Sea otters have about 26,000 to 165,000 hairs per square centimeters of skin. They have a rich fur for which humans hunted them almost to extinction. They frequently carry a rock in a pouch under their forearm. They use this to smash open shells. This makes them one of the few animals that use tools. They grow to in length and weigh . Although once near extinction, they have begun to spread again, from remnant populations in California and Alaska.
The European otter ("Lutra lutra") was common as recently as the 1950s, but became rare because of DDT pesticides, habitat loss and water pollution. Hunting of otters was also common. They stayed relatively common in parts of Scotland and Ireland, but numbers in England reached a low point in the 1980s. They are now recovering strongly. Otters are now quite common, especially in the west of England. Roadkill deaths are now happening more.

</doc>
<doc id="79125" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79125" title="Arsenal">
Arsenal

An 'arsenal' is a place where guns and ammunition are made, repaired or stored. 
Some arsenals include:
Several places, landmarks and buildings have been named after arsenals:
Arsenal is used in the name of several football clubs:
In arts, music and culture, Arsenal can refer to:
There are also several man-made objects with Arsenal in their name:
Railway stations with Arsenal in their name include:
Companies with Arsenal in its name include:

</doc>
<doc id="79140" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79140" title="Medal of Honor">
Medal of Honor

The Medal of Honor is the highest award given to members of the United States Military. It is given to people who show a lot of bravery in wartime. Because of this, many people who get the Medal of Honor die earning it. It was first given in 1863 during the American Civil War. 
The Medal of Honor has been given to 3,458 different people, including
According to Medal of Honor recipient Retired Army Maj. Gen. Patrick Brady who flew more than 2,500 combat missions over Vietnam and helped rescue more than 5,000 wounded, "it is harder to wear it than to earn it".

</doc>
<doc id="79142" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79142" title="Asynchronous Transfer Mode">
Asynchronous Transfer Mode

Asynchronous Transfer Mode is a set of protocols used for computer networks. It is mostly used for Wide Area Networks (WAN). It splits the data, and encodes it into packets of a fixed size. Each packet can be routed differently, along virtual paths set up in the network. 
ATM has been very successful in WANs, as well as in Local Area Networks (LAN). Today, many ADSL implementations use ATM technology.
Standards like Ethernet (which is used for LANs) usually are quite simple. When there is little traffic on the network they work well. However, when there is a lot of traffic it is difficult to predict how an Ethernet network will behave. For this reason, Ethernet cannot give any service guarantees. It is not possible to say that an Ethernet packet will take a maximum delay, but after that time it is guaranteed to arrive.
ATM is more complex, but this complexity allows to give guarantees as to data rate, maximum delay, and jitter. These are usually called Quality of Service. 

</doc>
<doc id="79147" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79147" title="Blood type">
Blood type

Blood type or blood group is a medical term. It describes the type of blood a person has. It is a classification of blood based on the presence or absence of inherited antigenic substances on the surface of red blood cells (RBCs).
Blood types predict whether a serious reaction will occur in a blood transfusion. This reaction is called a "haemolytic reaction". It may destroy red blood cells, and cause renal failure. Shock is likely to occur, and death is a possibility.
When a blood transfusion or an organ transplant takes place, it is vital to know the blood types of the donor (who gives blood) and the receiver (who needs blood).
There are a number of human blood group systems. Of these systems, the ABO blood group system and the Rhesus blood group system are the most important. In this system the presence or absence of the A-antigen, the B-antigen and the RhD-antigen are determined.
The principle of the ABO system is that antigens – in this instance, sugars exposed on the surface of red blood cells – differ between individuals. People have immunological tolerance only for what occurs in their own bodies. As a result, humans may produce antibodies against natural components in the bodies of "other" people, but not themselves. So, people may produce antibodies against A and/or B antigens if they are not in their blood.
These antibodies clump red blood cells together if they carry the foreign antigens. This harsh response can cause death when large amounts of such cells are encountered after a blood transfusion. Because A and B antigens are chemically modified from a precursor form that is also present in type O individuals, people with type A and B antigens can accept blood from type O individuals.
Anti-A and anti-B antibodies are not present in the newborn. They appear in the first years of life. Anti-A and anti-B antibodies are usually too big to pass through the placenta to the foetal blood circulation.
In a laboratory, blood is tested for antigens. When a certain antigen is found, there are also always antibodies found. Antibodies attack (attach to) antigens that they do not recognise.
The blood is thus tagged as being "A positive", "O negative" for instance, where the letter refers to the ABO blood group and "positive" or "negative" refers to whether or not the RhD-antigen of the Rhesus blood group system was found. It can also be written "A+ " and "O-", respectively.
People with type O negative blood are often called universal donors because they can give blood to any other blood group. People with type AB positive blood are called universal recipients because they can receive blood from any other blood group.
The Rh factor (Rh meaning Rhesus) is a feature of the second most common blood-group system in human-blood transfusion. it is named after the Rhesus monkey where they were first discovered. Rh is an inherited trait, which refers to a protein on the surface of an individual's red blood cells.
The Rh factor is separate from, and in addition to, ABO groups. The Rh factor is either present on individual's red blood cells or it is not. Rh positive means the factor is present. Rh negative means it is not present. In blood transfusions it is important that the blood donor and recipient have the same Rh factor and same blood group.
Before a transfusion takes place blood is thoroughly tested for anything that might cause problems for the receiver.

</doc>
<doc id="79148" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79148" title="Trance music">
Trance music

Trance music is a kind of electronic music. It centers around a synthesizer and bass drum on each beat and melodies with themes. Most trance music usually have 140 beats per minute. Trance music is commonly played in clubs. The genre takes insipiration from techno, house music, and other kinds of electronic music.
Trance refers to an altered state of consciousness as, for example, achieved by hypnosis. Trance music is characterised by unusually long tracks of highly repetitious music. Group dancing makes the effect stronger, as it does with some types of traditional African music. The general idea has been many times used in religious ceremonies. Nobody knows who introduced the term to electronic music.

</doc>
<doc id="79164" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79164" title="Acuminite">
Acuminite

Acuminite is a colorless mineral made from crystals. It is named for the Latin word "acuminis" (meaning "sharp point" or "spearhead") for the way the crystals are made. It is easily found in Greenland in the Ivigtut cryolite deposit. It is easily scratched with a copper penny.

</doc>
<doc id="79165" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79165" title="Warthog">
Warthog

Warthog ("Phacochoerus africanus") are remarkable animals. They are found in most of Africa south of the Sahara and are widely distributed in East Africa. They are the only pigs able to live in areas without water for several months of the year. By tolerating a higher-than-normal body temperature, the warthog is perhaps able to conserve moisture inside its body that might otherwise be used for cooling. (Camels and desert gazelles have developed a similar mechanism for survival in hot, arid environments.)
Warthogs are found in moist and arid savannas. They avoid rainforest, deserts and high mountains.

</doc>
<doc id="79167" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79167" title="Moraine">
Moraine

Moraines are accumulations of debris that are found in regions where there are glaciers or were glaciers formerly.
Moraines which are found far off from existing glaciers were created during a past ice age. The debris may have been taken off the valley floor as a glacier moved or fallen off the valley walls as a result of weathering. Moraines may be made of silt like glacial flour to large boulders. Moraines may be on the glacier’s surface or deposited as piles or sheets of debris where the glacier has melted. Moraines may also develop when glacier or iceberg transported rocks fall into the sea as the ice melts.

</doc>
<doc id="79169" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79169" title="Silt">
Silt

Silt is soil or rock that developed from granular material of a specific grain size.
Silt particles range between a and mm (3.9 to 62.5 μm), larger than clay but smaller than a sand. Silt is chemically distinct from clay, and unlike clay, grains of silt are approximately the same size in all dimensions.
Silt may occur as a soil or alternatively as suspended sediment in a water column of any surface water body. It may also exist as deposition soil at the bottom of a water body and it can occur as a deposit or as material transported by a stream or by a current in the ocean. Silt is easily transported in water and is fine enough to be carried long distances by air as 'dust'. Thick deposits of silty material that result from "wind" deposition are often called "loess" (a German term) or "limon" (French). Silt and clay contribute to in water.

</doc>
<doc id="79170" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79170" title="Silt (disambiguation)">
Silt (disambiguation)

Silt is a type of soil or earth material. It may also refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="79172" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79172" title="Catalytic converter">
Catalytic converter

A catalytic converter is a device in the exhaust pipe of a car, near its engine. It is used to clean up the exhaust the car sends out into the atmosphere. It works by using a catalyst material, usually made of Platinum, Palladium, and Rhodium. The catalytic converter converts carbon monoxide, hydrocarbons, and nitrogen oxides, all of which make the air dirty and make people sick, into carbon dioxide, water, and Nitrogen, all of which are less harmless. These chemicals, however, are still large contributors to global warming. A catalytic converter reduces carbon monoxide by contacting it with oxygen, creating carbon dioxide, which is less harmful. Because hydrocarbons are unburned fuel particles that are put into the catalytic converter, they burn up in the catalytic converter, making it very hot.

</doc>
<doc id="79173" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79173" title="Adamite">
Adamite

Adamite is a mineral that can be either yellow, purple, green, pink, or yellowish-green in color and is made from crystals. It is very easy to break and it can be scratched by a copper penny. Adamite is not radioactive. It is named for the French mineralogist Gilbert Joseph Adam (1795-1881), who was the person who discovered it. It is mainly found in the Atacama Desert in Chile. Adamite is also used for other commercial resources.

</doc>
<doc id="79180" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79180" title="Six Flags Great Adventure">
Six Flags Great Adventure

Six Flags Great Adventure is a theme park in Jackson Township, New Jersey, United States. It opened on July 4, 1974. The park is located beside a water park called Six Flags Hurricane Harbor and a zoo called the Wild Safari Area. Billed as the world's largest theme park it has 13 roller coasters. Three are world-class rides: El Toro, Kingda Ka and Nitro. Kingda Ka, with a top speed of 128 mph feels like taking off from an aircraft carrier. At 458 feet tall guests say on a clear day you can see both the Philadelphia and New York City skylines. Nitro, another fast roller coaster, offers a panoramic view of the New Jersey countryside. El Toro is one of the tallest wooden roller coasters at 181 feet. The park includes a Safari Off-Road Adventure that has over 1,200 animals. It is the largest drive-through safari park in North America. 
There are three areas just for children. The Hurricane Harbor water park takes up 45 acres by itself. Between the three areas there are over 200 rides and attractions. Six Flags Great Adventure is open between spring break and late October.
Located halfway between New York City and Philadelphia, the park opened in 1974. At first it was called The Enchanted Forest. In 1976 it was renamed Great Adventure. Six Flags bought it in 1977.
On August 17, 1981 a park employee fell to his death during a routine test of Rolling Thunder. The concluded he may not have used the safety bar. On May 11, 1984 the Haunted Castle caught fire. Eight teenagers were caught inside and died. In 1987 a woman fell to her death from the Lightnin' Loops roller coaster. Officials said she did not have her shoulder safety harness on. She was 19 years old. There have been no serious accidents since 2003 at Great Adventure. 

</doc>
<doc id="79217" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79217" title="Adamsite-(Y)">
Adamsite-(Y)

Adamsite-(Y) is a mineral that can be white, pale pink, pale purple, or is colorless in color and is made of crystals. It is named for Professor Frank Dawson Adams (1859-1942) of McGill University, Montreal, Quebec and is found in the Poudrette quarry in Quebec. It's environment is in a pegmatite dike that is greatly heated. It is barely radioactive, and is easily scratched with calcite and it also breaks easily.

</doc>
<doc id="79218" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79218" title="18 (number)">
18 (number)

Eighteen is a number. It comes between seventeen and nineteen, and is an even number. It is divisible by 1, 2, 3, 6, 9 and 18.
In most countries it is the age of majority, age of consent, and voting age.
In Roman numerals, 18 is written as XVIII.
The number 18 has many multiples such as: 36, 54, 72, 90, 108, and so on. The prime factorization of 18 is 3x3x2 in expanded form, and 3^2x2 in factored form.

</doc>
<doc id="79219" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79219" title="19 (number)">
19 (number)

Nineteen is a number. It comes between eighteen and twenty, and is an odd number. It is also the 8th prime number, after 2, 3, 5, 7, 11, 13, and 17. 
In Roman numerals, 19 is written as XIX.

</doc>
<doc id="79220" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79220" title="21 (number)">
21 (number)

Twenty-one is a number. It comes between twenty and twenty-two, and is an odd number. It is divisible by 1, 3, 7, and 21.
Twenty-one is also a name of a popular card game and is the age at which people in the United States can buy alcoholic drinks.
In Roman numerals, 21 is written as XXI.

</doc>
<doc id="79225" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79225" title="Samuel Pepys">
Samuel Pepys

Samuel Pepys, (23 February 1633 – 26 May 1703) was an English administrator at the Admiralty and Member of Parliament. He is famous for his diary. 
Pepys rose to be the Chief Secretary to the Admiralty under Charles II, and later under James II. Although Pepys had no maritime experience, he rose by patronage, hard work and his talent for administration. 
The detailed private diary that he kept from 1660–1669 was first published in the nineteenth century. It is one of the most important primary sources for the English Restoration period. It provides a combination of personal notes and eyewitness accounts of great events, such as the Great Plague of London, the Second Dutch War and the Great Fire of London.
Pepys was a key person in the fire of 1666. Seeing that the wind was driving the fire westward, he ordered the boat to go to Whitehall, and became the first person to inform the King of the fire. The King told him to go to the Lord Mayor, and tell him to start pulling houses down. 
Pepys took a coach back to Old St Paul's Cathedral, before setting off on foot through the burning city. He found the Lord Mayor, who said: "Lord! what can I do? I am spent: people will not obey me. I have been pulling down houses; but the fire overtakes us faster than we can do it." 
At noon Pepys went home and 'had an extraordinary good dinner, and as merry, as at this time we could be'. In the evening he and his wife watched the fire from the safety of Bankside: Pepys writes that 'it made me weep to see it'. Returning home, Pepys met his clerk, Tom Hayter, who had lost everything. Hearing news that the fire was advancing, Pepys started to pack up his possessions by moonlight.
A cart arrived at 4am on 3 September, and Pepys spent much of the day arranging the removal of his possessions. Many of his valuables, including his diary, were sent to friend. The next day, Pepys continued to arrange the removal of his possessions. By this point, he believed that Seething Lane was in grave danger, and suggested calling men from Deptford to help pull down houses and defend the king's property. He described the chaos in the city, and his curious attempt at saving his own goods:
On Wednesday, 5 September, Pepys – who had taken to sleeping on his office floor – was woken by his wife at 2am. She told him that the fire had almost reached All Hallows-by-the-Tower, and that it was at the foot of Seething Lane. He decided to send her and his gold – about £2350 – to Woolwich. In the following days Pepys witnessed looting, disorder and disruption. On 7 September he went to Paul's Wharf and saw the ruins of St Paul's Cathedral, of his old school and of his father's house. Despite all this destruction, Pepys's house, office and diary had been saved.
The complete and definitive edition of Pepys's diary by Robert Latham and William Matthews was published by Bell & Hyman, London, in 1970–1983.
Some of the older editions of the diary are available online.
There are also two encyclopedic sites about Pepys based on these free editions
As well as other sites about Pepys.

</doc>
<doc id="79226" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79226" title="Jorge Guillen">
Jorge Guillen

Jorge Guillén y Álvarez (January 18, 1893 – February 6, 1984) was a Spanish poet, a member of the Generation of '27.
Jorge Guillén was born in Valladolid. His life paralleled that of his friend Pedro Salinas, whom he succeeded as a Spanish teaching assistant at the Collège de Sorbonne in the University of Paris from 1917 to 1923. He was also a professor at the University of Murcia from 1925 to 1929, the University of Oxford from 1929 to 1931, and the University of Seville from 1932 to 1938. Exiled, he was forced to establish himself in the United States to continue his postsecondary teaching. He was a professor of Spanish at Wellesley College from 1941 to 1967. He retired to Italy, where he married for the second time. He later moved to the city of Málaga. In 1977, he was awarded the Miguel de Cervantes Prize, one of the most prestigious prizes for Spanish-language writers. He died in Málaga in 1984, age 91.

</doc>
<doc id="79231" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79231" title="Albatross">
Albatross

Albatrosses are large seabirds which belong to the biological family Diomedeidae. They live in the region of the Southern Ocean and the North Pacific Ocean. They are not found in the North Atlantic region, but their fossils have been found there, which shows that they used to live there. There are four main species of albatross: Great Albatrosses, North Pacific Albatrosses, Mollymawks and Sooty Albatrosses. These are divided into twenty-one species identified by the World Conservation Union (ICUN).
Great Albatrosses are among the largest of flying birds. All albatrosses are very good at flying, spending much of their life in the air. They eat squid, fish and krill. Albatrosses come ashore to make their nests, mostly on islands, and usually near the nests of other birds.
Nineteen of the twenty-one species of albatross are endangered. This is partly because animals such as rats and cats attack their eggs, chicks, and sometimes adult birds as well. Pollution of the oceans, such as plastic waste and oils spills, also kills albatrosses. Sometimes there may be not enough fish to eat because of over-fishing. The main reason why albatross are endangered is longline fishing which causes many albatross to get caught on hooks that have been baited to catch fish. This causes the birds to drown.
Albatrosses are very large. The bill is large, strong and sharp. This bill is made of horny plates. Along the sides are the two "tubes". They are actually long nostrils. The tubes of all albatrosses are on the sides of the bill. They help the albatrosses develop their sense of smell a lot. The feet have no last toe and the three other toes are all webbed. Their legs are quite strong, and they can walk well on land, unlike other sea birds.
Albatrosses need to take salt out of their body because they drink ocean water. All birds have a large gland at the top part of their bill, above their eyes. This gland is sometimes useless to birds that do not need it. However, albatrosses use them to help take out saltwater. Scientists are not sure how it works exactly. However, they know that it helps take out the salt. It makes a liquid that makes the saltwater drip out of their nose.
The adult albatrosses usually have a dark upper-wing and back, and white undersides when they are getting ready to take flight. Albatrosses take several years to get their full adult feathers.
The wings of the largest albatrosses (genus "Diomedea") can be up to .
Albatrosses flying north from their family sometimes fly in a clockwise direction, and those flying south will fly the opposite. The most energy used up in their journey is not when they travel a long way, but when they land, take-off, and hunt. This helps the albatross fly more longer distances and find good food. They can fly easily over wind and waves. However, because their long wings does not have strong muscles or energy, they cannot flap while they fly. Because of this, albatrosses in calm seas must stop and rest on the surface of the ocean until the wind begins to blow harder. When taking-off, albatrosses need to run first to help the wing make lift. Albatrosses are known for their clumsyness when landing.
Most albatrosses are found in the southern hemisphere from Antarctica to Australia, South Africa and South America. However, the four North Pacific albatrosses live elsewhere. Three of them are in the North Pacific, from Hawaii to Japan, California and Alaska. The last one, the Waved Albatross, is in the Galapagos Islands and finds food in the coast of South America.
It is not known clearly why the albatrosses became extinct in the North Atlantic. Some think that it was because the sea level rose at that time. Some kind of albatrosses that live in the south have usually been trapped in the North Atlantic, and are forced to stay there for a long time.
Sometimes scientists may use the satellite when trying to learn about albatrosses. They try to find out about the way albatrosses go across the ocean to find food with the satellites. There is proof that the sea separates different kinds of species of the Albatross. There is also proof of different pathways for the two sexes of the same kind of species. A study of Tristan Albatrosses living on the Gough Island showed that males look for food on the west and the females go around the east.
The albatross eats cephalopods, fish, crustaceans and offal. Sometimes, they may also eat carrion and or other kinds of zooplankton. However, the importance of each food is different according to each species. Some may like to eat only squids, or others might eat more krill or fish. From the two albatross species that live in Hawaii, one of them, the Black-footed Albatross, eats mostly fish. The other one, the Laysan Albatross, eats more squids instead.
Sometimes albatrosses may use the help of other animals to eat. For example, some squids are too big to be caught alive by the albatross. Instead, albatrosses eat squids that die after mating, or after they have been vomited by squid-eating whales (such as sperm whales and pilot whales). Other species, like the Black-browed Albatross or the Grey-headed Albatross, eats smaller species of squid that sink after they die, and they do not scavenge a lot. Also, sometimes the Waved Albatross has been seen stealing food from other birds.
Until now, it was thought that the albatrosses ate and found their food at the surface of the sea, such as dead squid and fish pushed to the surface by the waves, other animals that had eaten them, or death. This was thought because some species do not dive deeper than a metre. However, this theory was not true because some species have a mean diving depth of almost 5 m and can dive as deep as 12.5 m. They have now been seen to eat from the surface and diving, and sometimes also plunge from the air to snatch their prey.
Albatrosses live together, and they usually nest on islands where no people live. Many Buller's Albatrosses and Black-footed Albatrosses nest under trees in open forest. Albatrosses usually come back to their own group after leaving for a while to find a mate. This is one of their strongest instinct, and the study of Laysan Albatross showed that the normal distance between the place where it was hatched and the place where the bird made its own territory was 22m (72 ft).
Like most seabirds, albatrosses live much longer than other birds. They also do not look for their mate for a long time, and do not have a lot of young. Some kinds of albatrosses live up to 50 years. The oldest albatross recorded was the Northern Royal Albatross that lived for 61 years.
Before albatrosses mate, they group together and spend lots of years practicing the mating rules and special "dances" that the family is famous for.
When the albatrosses learn these kind of actions and dances, they also learn things such as pointing, calling, making noises with their bill, staring, and sometimes all of them put together. When a bird first comes it will dance with many other albatrosses, but after a few years, the number of birds it will dance with will lessen until one of the birds are chosen. After becoming a pair, they will never use that dance again.
Albatrosses have a hard time laying their children. It takes a lot of time for an albatross to lay an egg and raise a chick. The great albatrosses take over a year to raise a chick. Albatrosses lay one egg, white with reddish brown spots. But if the egg is taken by other predators or accidentally broken, the parents will not lay another egg for that whole year. The larger eggs weigh from 200–510 g (7.1–18 oz). Two albatrosses do not usually "divorce". This sometimes may happen if several years passed without being able to lay a single egg.
All the albatrosses in the south live in large nests. They make it with grass, soil, and sometimes penguin feathers. The Waved Albatross, however, does not make a nest but instead moves its egg around the pair’s territory, as much as 50 m (160 ft). This may sometimes make it lose the egg. In all albatross species, both parents incubate the egg from between one day and three weeks. Incubation lasts around 70 to 80 days. This time may become more longer for the larger albatrosses. When they do this, it takes a lot of energy, and the adult can lose as much as 83 g (2.9 oz) of body weight a day.
After hatching, the chick is taken care of and guarded for three weeks until it is large enough to take care of and fight for itself. During this time the parents feed the chick small meals. After the chick has grown a little older, it is fed in bigger meals by both parents. The parents both take turns to go and find food, that are about 12% of their body weight (around 600 g (21 oz)). They find food such as fresh squid, fish and krill.
Albatross chicks take a long time to fledge (learn how to fly). In the case of more bigger albatrosses, it can take up to 280 days. And even for the smaller albatrosses, it can take from 140 to 170 days. Like many seabirds, albatross chicks later become even heavier than their mother and father. When they are preparing their body for flying, they may also grow flight feathers, which makes them sometimes as heavy as their parents. Between 15% and 65% of those who fledged survive to find their mate after. Albatross chicks learn to fly on their own. Their parents do not teach them, and instead they return to the nest even after their chick has left.
The name "albatross" came from the Arabic word "al-câdous" or "al-ġaţţās". This means a pelican, or can mean "the diver". This word later became English, also mixed with the Portuguese word "alcatraz", which means "gannet". This is also where the name of the prison Alcatraz comes from. The "OED" explains that the word "alcatraz" was at first supposed to be used for the frigatebird. But perhaps the change of the word to "albatross" was because of the Latin word "albus". This means "white", which is opposite to the frigatebirds which are black. In Portuguese, the word still presently used for the bird, "albatroz," came from the English albatross.
They were once known as Goonie birds or Gooney birds, especially the albatrosses in the North Pacific. In the southern hemisphere, most people still call the albatross mollymawk, which came from the word "malle-mugge", an old Dutch. The name "Diomedea", given to the albatrosses by Linnaeus, is from the story about the Greek warrior Diomedes becoming a bird.
Albatrosses have been described as "the most legendary of all birds". When people have a sad occasion or a burden, they may use the expression to have 'an albatross around their neck'. Also, there is a myth that sailors do not shoot or eat albatrosses because they think it is bad. But in truth, this is just a myth, because sailors regularly killed and ate them. However, they were often thought of as the souls of lost sailors. The Māori people used the bones in the wings of the albatross to carve tattoos into their skin at ceremonies.
Even though they are legendary birds of many myths, albatrosses are still attacked by humans. In the beginning, Polynesians and Aleut people hunted albatrosses. As Europeans began to explore the world, they too began to hunt albatross. They "fished" for them from boats and ate them or killed them for sport.
On the Midway Atoll, there were many airplane crashes because of the Laysan Albatrosses. They crashed together while flying very often, casing lots of people and birds to die. Tall towers killed 3000 birds in between the years 1964-1965. Because of this, the towers had to be taken down. Recently, people have tried to stop human activity on the island and this helped lessen the number of birds dying.
Another threat to albatrosses are introduced species, like rats or feral cats (cats that live without being cared for by people), which attack the albatross or its chicks and eggs. Albatrosses have lived on islands where there are not much land mammals and they are not adapted to defend themselves against them. Even animals such as mice can be dangerous for the albatrosses. For example, on Gough Island, the chicks of Tristan Albatrosses are attacked and eaten alive by house mice.
Sometimes albatrosses, and also many kinds of seabirds, are killed because they ate plastic. The amount of plastic eaten in the seas have increased very quickly since the first record in the 1960s. This is because of the waste thrown out by ships and trash dumped into the ocean. Sometimes the litter on beaches can also be washed into the sea by rivers. It is impossible to digest plastic, and the undigested plastic stops other food from being digested. This makes the bird starve and die. This plastic is sometimes vomited out and fed to the chicks from the parents. Although plastic is not the most main reason why albatrosses die, it still makes the chick very sick and is a serious problem.
Scientists and people who try to help albatrosses are working with governments and fishermen to stop these threats. They come up with solutions such as fishing at night, dying the bait in a blue color to hide it from the albatrosses, setting the bait under the water, and more. For example, a study made by some scientists and fishermen in New Zealand was to make the fishing people put the lines below the reach of some certain kinds of albatross species. The use of some of these ideas are also successful by stopping the number of many Black-browed Albatross that died in the last 10 years. Conservationists have also worked on taking away the introduced species to protect the albatrosses.
One important step towards protecting albatrosses and other seabirds is the 2001 treaty by the Agreement on the Conservation of Albatrosses and Petrels, which eight countries, Australia, Ecuador, New Zealand, Spain, South Africa, France, Peru and the United Kingdom, agreed with. The treaty asks these countries to do certain things to help the albatrosses. The treaty has also been signed by another three countries, Argentina, Brazil and Chile.

</doc>
<doc id="79238" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79238" title="Proxima Centauri">
Proxima Centauri

Proxima Centauri is a red dwarf star that is likely a part of the Alpha Centauri star system and is the closest star to the Sun at a distance of 
Proxima Centauri was found to share the same proper motion as Alpha Centauri in 1915 by Robert Innes while he was Director of the Union Observatory in Johannesburg, South Africa.
In 1951, Harlow Shapley said that Proxima Centauri was a flare star. Recorded photographs showed that the star became measurably brighter about 8% of the time, making it the most active flare star then found.
Red dwarfs are usually far too faint to be seen with the naked eye, that means without a telescope. Proxima Centauri has an apparent magnitude of 11 while its absolute magnitude is a very dim 15.5. Even from Alpha Centauri A or B, Proxima would only be seen as a 5th magnitude star.
Proxima Centauri has been the closest star to the Sun for about the last 32,000 years. Barnard's Star will make its closest approach to the Sun around AD 11,700, when it approaches to within about 3.8 light-years. However, at that time, it will "not" be the nearest star, since Proxima Centauri will then have moved even closer to the Sun. 

</doc>
<doc id="79239" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79239" title="San Jacinto fault">
San Jacinto fault

The San Jacinto Fault Zone is a series of faults that run through Southern California. It is said to be a sister fault of the older, much more famous San Andreas Fault. Some cities that are directly on the fault zone include San Bernardino, San Jacinto, and Hemet. This fault could create a large earthquake that could greatly affect Greater Los Angeles.

</doc>
<doc id="79246" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79246" title="Dhammapada">
Dhammapada

The Dhammapāda is a Buddhist scripture which includes sayings by the Gautama Buddha himself.

</doc>
<doc id="79247" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79247" title="Chant">
Chant

A chant is a type of song. It usually repeats, and is used in religious services around the world, as well as by many nonreligious groups.

</doc>
<doc id="79251" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79251" title="Habenaria mossii">
Habenaria mossii

Habenaria mossii is a species of plant in the Orchidaceae family. It is naturally found in South Africa. Its natural habitat is mild grassland. It is threatened by habitat loss. 

</doc>
<doc id="79280" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79280" title="22 (number)">
22 (number)

Twenty-two is a number. It comes between twenty-one and twenty-three, and is an even number. It is divisible by 1, 2, 11, and 22.
In Roman numerals, 22 is written as XXII.

</doc>
<doc id="79281" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79281" title="23 (number)">
23 (number)

Twenty-three is a natural number. It comes between twenty-two and twenty-four, and is an odd number. It is also the 9th prime number, after 2, 3, 5, 7, 11, 13, 17, and 19.

</doc>
<doc id="79284" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79284" title="Adelite">
Adelite

Adelite is a mineral that can be blueish-gray, green, gray, yellow, or light green in color and is made of crystals. It was named from the Greek word for indistinct because of how big it is. The person who discovered it has yet to come forward, so it is unknown for who it was named after. It can be found in Flipistad, Sweden and it is scratched easily with apatite. Adelite is not radioactive.

</doc>
<doc id="79287" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79287" title="The Naked Brothers Band">
The Naked Brothers Band

The Naked Brothers Band is a musical comedy television series that airs on Nickelodeon created by actress Polly Draper. It stars her real-life sons Nat and Alex Wolff, real-life brothers that deal with fame and living their lives as rockstars. The show is shot in the style of a documentary, which exaggerates the real musical experiences of the brothers', who self-write all of their own music. The series started in January 2007 and ended in 2009. The show began with the pilot episode "The Naked Brothers Band: The Movie", a low budget pretend documentary. It also has another movie, "Battle of the Bands". The second season of the series will started in January 2008 after the premiere of the new NBB movie "Sidekicks".

</doc>
<doc id="79288" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79288" title="Matterhorn">
Matterhorn

The Matterhorn (in German; , or "Le Cervin") is perhaps the most familiar mountain in the European Alps. Its height is 4,478 metres.
The mountain is on the border between Switzerland and Italy, it towers over the Swiss village of Zermatt and the Italian village Breuil-Cervinia in the Val Tournanche. The name of the mountain comes from the German words "Matte", meaning "valley" or "meadow", and "Horn", which means "peak".
</div>

</doc>
<doc id="79307" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79307" title="Jura (department)">
Jura (department)

Jura is a department in the east of France. It is named after the Jura mountains (not to be confused with the Swiss canton of Jura). 
Historically, Jura belonged to the Free County of Burgundy, known in French as the Free County. Dole was the capital until the region was conquered by Louis XIV. Louis XIV moved the capital to Besançon. It is now a "sous-préfecture" of Jura. 
As early as the 13th century, inhabitants of the southern 2/3 of Jura spoke a dialect of Arpitan language. It continued to be spoken in rural areas into the 20th century.
Jura is one of the original 83 departments created during the French Revolution on March 4, 1790. It was created from part of the former province of Free County. The departments of Jura, Doubs, Haute-Saône, Saône-et-Loire, Territoire de Belfort, and Yonne form the modern Bourgogne-Franche-Comté region of France. The prefecture (capital) is Lons-le-Saunier.
Jura is in the Bourgogne-Franche-Comté region. The French departments of Doubs, Haute-Saône, Côte-d'Or, Saône-et-Loire, and Ain, are next to it. The Swiss canton of Vaud is to the east.
The Jura mountains are wooded and rolling, not craggy and rocky like the Alps.
Many lakes can be found throughout the Jura. The largest natural lake is called Lac De Chalain. It is 3km long and 1km wide. Lac de Vouglans was formed after the building of a hydro-electric dam. It is one of the largest man-made lakes in France.
The climate of the Jura varies greatly by elevation. The lower valleys are temperate and pleasant, but the high mountain valleys have bitterly cold winters.
Jura is a wine-growing region. The Jura wines are very distinctive and unusual wines, such as vin jaune, which is made by a similar process to sherry. It develops under a flor of yeast. This is made from the local Savagnin grape variety. Other grape varieties include Poulsard, Trousseau, and Chardonnay.
The Jura mountains provide ample opportunities for hiking, skiing, mountain biking and other winter sports.

</doc>
<doc id="79313" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79313" title="Fray">
Fray

Fray is an eight-issue comic book series. It is a spin-off of the television series "Buffy the Vampire Slayer". The series is written by "Buffy" creator Joss Whedon. "Fray" tells the story of a Slayer named Melaka Fray. She is the "chosen one" in a time where vampires (called "lurks") are common, and the difference between rich and poor people is even greater. 
The series was published by Dark Horse Comics beginning in 2001. In a short video promoting the charity Equality Now Joss Whedon said that "Fray is not done, Fray is coming back. More than that, I will not say." This was repeated in 2007's Comic Con where Joss said that he would "absolutely would be returning to that world." 
The series was closely linked to the seventh season of "Buffy". It includes the Slayer's mystical scythe and her origins. Melaka Fray also appears in the story "Tales" in the comic book "Tales of the Slayers". 
Fray's scythe was used in the last three episodes of "Buffy the Vampire Slayer". Buffy Summers, also a vampire Slayer, found the scythe stuck in rock in Sunnydale. The scythe was later used to create fully developed Slayers of the many Potential Slayers. It has never been stated as to how the scythe travelled from Sunnydale, California to New York City through the centuries, or who had it during that time (or how they got it).
In "Fray" it is also explained that sometime in the twenty-first century, "a Slayer, possibly with some mystical allies, faced an apocalyptic army of demons. And when it was done, they were gone. All demons, all magicks, banished from this earthly dimension,". The Slayer, whose fate is unknown, was the last to be called.
Discussing her connection to the Slayer line, Urkonn tells Melaka, "In your dreams, you're someone else. A slave. A princess. A girl in school in a sunlit city." The scar Fray has and her personality are similar to Buffy in the alternate universe created in season 3 episode "The Wish". 

</doc>
<doc id="79316" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79316" title="Erik Satie">
Erik Satie

Erik Satie (born Honfleur (France), 17 May 1866; died Paris, 1 July 1925) was a French composer. He is mainly remembered today for the strange ways he behaved. He often gave his music unusual titles such as "Piece in the form of a pear". His best known musical compositions are the three piano pieces which he called "Gymnopédies". The first of these pieces is a very famous piece of music: it is a simple tune over a gentle accompaniment. Satie sometimes used unusual instruments such as sirens and typewriters.
Satie was more than just an unusual man. He was very important in the development of music in France in the late 19th and early 20th century. He was important because of the ideas he had, and many people were influenced by him. Satie used ways of composing such as very chromatic music and Minimalism before many other people. These ways of writing music became more common later in the century. Satie was not a brilliant composer, but he was happy to compose well in a simple way. He was also interested in other arts such as literature and painting and he was associated with the new ideas called "esprit nouveau" (new spirit) which was fashionable in France around the time of World War I.
He was born Alfred Eric Leslie Satie, but as a grown-up he always spelled his name “Erik”. His father had been in the shipping business, but the family then moved to Paris. He was still quite young when his mother died and he was sent back to his birthplace, Honfleur, to be brought up by his father’s parents. However, his grandmother drowned, so he was sent back to Paris again where his father taught him. His father had married again. His new wife was a pianist and sent young Eric to have piano lessons at the Paris Conservatoire.
Satie hated his piano lessons. His teacher said that he was the laziest pupil in the Conservatoire. He was bad at sight-reading, but he continued with his lessons because this would make it possible for him to do just one year of military service instead of five. In fact, he did less than a year in the army because he deliberately got himself ill with bronchitis. While he was getting better he started to compose. His father published a few songs he had written. However, he did not get on well with his family and he left home in 1887.
Satie soon got to know many people in the famous cabaret Chat Noir. He grew his hair long and wore a frock coat and a top hat. He wrote a ballet which most people found shocking. He became friends with Debussy who was one of the only people who understood the serious reasons for Satie’s unusual behaviour.
In 1890 he moved to new rooms on a top floor of a house so that people to whom he owed money could not get at him. He tried to compose in a simple style and became interested in mystical religion and Gothic art. He inherited a small amount of money with which he bought himself seven velvet suits which were all exactly the same: one for each day of the week. He started a church called Église Métropolitaine d’Art de Jésus Conducteur (Metropolitan Church of Art of Conductor Jesus), but nobody belonged to the church except himself.
At the end of 1898 he moved to Arceuil, a suburb of Paris. He spent the rest of his life there. He stopped performing in public and earned money by playing the piano in cafés and pubs. Every morning he walked the 10 kilometres into Paris, stopping on the way at cafés to drink or compose. He wore a bowler hat, wing collar and always carried a rolled-up umbrella. If it was raining he kept his umbrella underneath his coat to keep it dry. He also carried a hammer in case anyone attacked him. Late at night he walked home again or took the last train back. His flat was a terrible mess.
In 1905, at the age of 39, he became a student again and studied music at the Schola Cantorum. He wanted to become a better composer. He learned how to write fugues. He still liked to use parody in his music.
In 1911 Maurice Ravel played some of Satie’s piano pieces in public. Suddenly people began to take notice of Satie. They realized that he had been one of the first Impressionist composers. Debussy conducted his "Gymnopédies" in his arrangement for orchestra. Music critics started to write articles about Satie. He was at last becoming famous. He had some humorous piano pieces published. He was earning some money from his compositions, so he was able to give up playing in cabarets. He met Jean Cocteau who introduced him to Diaghilev for whom he wrote the music for "Parade". Some people loved it, some hated it, but people were taking notice of him. He was asked to write more theatre music. He was a very important influence on the six composers who were known as Les Six. He was asked to write a symphonic drama which he called "Socrate". Many musicians think it is his best piece.
In the 1920s he wrote many articles for newspapers and journals and became associated with the art movement known as Dada. His ballets "Relâche" and "Mercure" both shocked the audiences when they were first performed. "Relâche" is an early example of what later became the theatre of alienation.
Satie drank a lot of alcohol and became ill. He got cirrhosis of the liver and died in 1925. When his friends entered his flat after he died, there was so much mess that they had to throw away two cartloads of rubbish before they could get at his papers and manuscripts.
Satie was involved with dance, theatre and cabaret for most of his life and that is what much of his music is written for. He was always trying out new ideas in his music. He was capable of writing in a late Romantic style with chromatic harmonies, but he also wrote in more modern styles, often using very simple ideas. He was always more interested in beautiful melodies than in writing complicated rhythms. His three "Gymnopédies" are still extremely popular. They seem to come from an old-fashioned world where there is great simplicity. His three "Gnossiennes" (1890) sound more Oriental, and Satie wrote some very strange remarks in the music. His piano piece "Vexations" (1893) is a short piece with strange, chromatic chords, which the pianist is then supposed to play 840 times. "Uspud" was an early example of what later became the “Theatre of the Absurd”. The text was all written in lower-case letters: the first time this had ever been done. He wrote many cabaret songs.
Later, after he had studied at the Schola Cantorum, he became famous, and then wrote lots of piano pieces with funny titles and strange comments (e.g. “like a nightingale with toothache”). "Parade" has strange instruments such as typewriters. "Socrate" was his most serious work.
After his death all the people he had insulted wrote about Satie that he was a bad composer. As a result he was almost forgotten until the 1960s when John Cage became interested in his music and made it popular again. Many Surrealist artists were often inspired by Satie’s music and ideas.

</doc>
<doc id="79320" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79320" title="Particle size">
Particle size


</doc>
<doc id="79321" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79321" title="Arachniodes">
Arachniodes

Arachniodes is a genus of fern in family Dryopteridaceae. It has the following species (but this list may not have all species):

</doc>
<doc id="79323" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79323" title="Dryopteridaceae">
Dryopteridaceae

The Dryopteridaceae is a family of ferns that can be found almost anywhere on the world.
Many are cultivated as ornamental plants.

</doc>
<doc id="79324" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79324" title="Particle size (grain size)">
Particle size (grain size)

Particle size, also called grain size, means the diameter of individual grains of sediment, or the lithified particles in clastic rocks. The term may also be used for other granular materials.
In some schemes "gravel" is anything larger than sand (>2.0 mm), and includes "granule", "pebble", "cobble", and "boulder" in the above table. In this scheme, "pebble" covers the size range 4 to 64 mm (−2 to −6 φ).

</doc>
<doc id="79325" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79325" title="Rock flour">
Rock flour

Rock flour, or glacial flour, consists of clay-sized particles of rock, generated by glacial erosion or by artificial grinding to a similar size. Because the material is very small, it is suspended in river water making the water appear cloudy. If the river flows into a glacial lake, the lake may appear turquoise in color as a result. Examples of this are Lake Louise, Canada and Gjende lake in Norway.
Some agronomists believe that rock flour has a powerful effect in restoring trace minerals to soil. An early experimeter was the German miller Julius Hensel, author of "Bread from Stones", who reported successful results with "steinmehl" (stonemeal) in the 1890s. His ideas were not taken up through technical limitations and, according to proponents of his method, opposition from the champions of conventional fertilisers.

</doc>
<doc id="79332" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79332" title="Virginia opossum">
Virginia opossum

The Virginia opossum ("Didelphis virginiana") is the only species of North American marsupial. It is sometimes called a possum, but that refers more correctly to a group of Australian marsupials. 
An opossum is about the size of a house cat. It has grizzled white and gray fur. Adult opossums weigh about 2-6 kg (4-14 lbs). They live alone, are active at night, and they are good climbers.
People can find this opossum in the eastern United States, and along the west coast from British Columbia and to Baja California. They like to live in forests, brushy areas, and farmland.

</doc>
<doc id="79336" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79336" title="Motor ship">
Motor ship

A motor ship is a ship moved through water by an engine, usually a diesel engine. The name of motor ships are often prefixed with MS or M/S.

</doc>
<doc id="79338" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79338" title="24 (number)">
24 (number)

Twenty-four is a number. It comes between twenty-three and twenty-five, and is an even number. It is divisible by 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 12, and 24.
"24" is also the name of a popular television show in the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="79339" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79339" title="25 (number)">
25 (number)

Twenty-five is a number. It comes between twenty-four and twenty-six, and is an odd number. It is also the 5th square number, after 1, 4, 9, and 16.

</doc>
<doc id="79341" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79341" title="Passo de Camaragibe">
Passo de Camaragibe

Passo de Camaragibe is a municipality in Brazil. It is on the northern coast of the Brazilian state of Alagoas. About 13,544 people live there (2005). Its area is .

</doc>
<doc id="79346" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79346" title="Radlin">
Radlin

Radlin is a town in Wodzisław County, Silesian Voivodeship, Poland, with about 17,673 people (2004).

</doc>
<doc id="79349" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79349" title="Particle size (general)">
Particle size (general)

The term particle size is used to compare dimensions of different small material objects.
Larger objects are usually called stone, rock, a piece of something, etc. The term "particle" indicates small size, usually less than centimeter. Particle might be either solid, or liquid, or even gas. Liquid particles are called "droplets". Gaseous particles are "bubbles". All of them can be characterised in terms of size.
But a typical material object is likely to be irregular in shape. This causes ambiguity in definition of "particle size". Existing definitions are based on replacent of a given particle with imaginary sphere that has one of the properties identical with the particle.
Particle size (grain size)

</doc>
<doc id="79352" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79352" title="Chichester">
Chichester

Chichester is a small cathedral city in West Sussex, England, with a population of 23,731, (2001 Census). It is quite near the sea, and near to a harbour for yachts.
The City of Chichester is twinned with:
There are many buildings in the centre of Chichester which have interesting architecture. The oldest building is Chichester Cathedral. There are many beautiful houses in the Cathedral precincts. In many parts of the city one can still see the old city walls, and it is possible to walk along the top in some places. There is an old butter market dating from 1808. A century later another storey was added on top.
Just to the north of Chichester is the Goodwood race course. Many people go there in the summer to watch the horse races. Goodwood is in the South Downs which is a beautiful area for walking.
Chichester is an old Roman town. In the centre of Chichester are four main streets: North Street, South Street, East Street and West Street. These four streets meet in the centre, where there is a small round building with a cross: the Chichester cross. The four main streets form an area which is mostly pedestrianized. Chichester Cathedral stands near the centre, between West Street and South Street. Further to the north lies the area of Summersdale and the conservation area around Graylingwell Hospital. South of Chichester is a canal which links the city to the sea. Soon after it was built in the 19th century the railway came to Chichester so that the canal was not used for long. The canal was left in a bad state for many years until, more recently, it was restored. Some of it can be used by small boats, and there are reedbeds where birds can breed.
There is a Roman Museum near Fishbourne, just west of the city, where many Roman remains can be seen, including a palace which once stood there.
Chichester is a Fairtrade City. Suppliers of Fairtrade are shown by a green dot in the web directory.
Because Chichester is so beautiful it has been divided into eight conservation areas. People are very anxious that the town should not lose its historic character.
Every year in July, a three-week festival, the Chichester Festivities, takes place. Then in August since 2007 there has been a week long I AM JOY Arts and Music festival held across different venues in the city. The Chichester Festival Theatre has productions for most of the year. It is one of the most famous theatres outside London.
Pallant House Gallery won the 2007 gallery of the year Gulbenkian Prize. It has a lot of modern British art.
The Joy Gallery, open from December 2008 to November 2009, showcased emerging and established artists from the local area.
Chichester has its own amateur orchestra, the Chichester Symphony Orchestra, which gives three concerts during the year.
Chichester RAJF (From "Real Ale and Jazz Festival") gives a four day festival of music and real ale held each July in tents beside the 13th century Guildhall in Priory Park.
There is plenty of sport in Chichester. Chichester R.F.C. are a central team and rugby club. There is a large swimming pool with fitness rooms and sports hall. There are tennis courts near the Festival Theatre.
Chichester has several schools, including Chichester High School for Boys, Chichester High School for Girls, Bishop Luffa School and Prebendal School which is linked to the Cathedral. There is a University of Chichester which, until recently, was known as Bishop Otter College.
Several roads lead into Chichester. The A27, which runs along the south coast, now bypasses the city. There are rail links to London, Gatwick, Portsmouth, Southampton and Basingstoke. Many years ago there was a small train which went to Midhurst, and even a tram to Selsey. Nowadays busses go to these towns. They depart from the central bus station near the railway station.

</doc>
<doc id="79355" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79355" title="Admontite">
Admontite

Admontite is a mineral that is colorless in color and is made of crystals. It is named for Admont, Austria, which is where they found the first example of it. They found the first example of it in a gypsum deposit. Gypsum and calcite both easily scratch this mineral, and it easily breaks as well. Admontite is not radioactive. Admontite is not edible.

</doc>
<doc id="79357" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79357" title="Hydrology">
Hydrology

Hydrology is the study of movement, distribution, and quality of water throughout the Earth. A person who studies hydrology is called a hydrologist.
The central theme of hydrology is how the water circulates. This is called the water cycle. The most vivid illustration of it is the water evaporation from the ocean with the formation of clouds. These clouds drift over the land and produce rain.

</doc>
<doc id="79358" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79358" title="Semicircle">
Semicircle

In geometry, a semicircle is a two-dimensional geometric shape that forms half of a circle. Being half of a circle's 360°, the arc of a semicircle always measures 180°. A triangle inscribed in a semicircle is always a right triangle.

</doc>
<doc id="79359" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79359" title="Hurricane Camille">
Hurricane Camille

Hurricane Camille was the third named storm and second hurricane of the 1969 Atlantic hurricane season. Camille was the second of three Category 5 hurricanes to make landfall in the United States during the 20th century, which it did near the mouth of the Mississippi River on the night of August 17, resulting in catastrophic damage. Camille was the only Atlantic hurricane with official winds reported to reach 190 mph until Allen equalled that number in 1980.
The storm formed on August 14 and rapidly deepened. It scraped the western edge of Cuba at Category 3 strength. Camille strengthened further over the Gulf of Mexico and made landfall with a pressure of 905 mbar (hPa), estimated sustained winds of 190 mph (305 km/h), and a peak storm surge of 24 feet (7.3 m); by maximum sustained wind speeds, Camille was the strongest landfalling tropical cyclone recorded worldwide, and one of only four tropical cyclones worldwide ever to achieve wind speeds of 190 mph. The hurricane flattened nearly everything along the coast of the U.S. state of Mississippi, and caused additional flooding and deaths inland while crossing the Appalachian Mountains of Virginia. In total, Camille killed 259 people and caused $1.42 billion (1969 USD, $9.14 billion 2005 USD) in damages.

</doc>
<doc id="79360" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79360" title="1935 Labor Day Hurricane">
1935 Labor Day Hurricane

The Labor Day Hurricane of 1935 was the strongest tropical cyclone during the 1935 Atlantic hurricane season. The second tropical cyclone, second hurricane, and second intense hurricane of the season was the most intense Atlantic hurricane that affected the United States, and it remains the first of three Category 5 hurricanes that struck the country. After forming as a weak tropical storm east of the Bahamas on August 29, it slowly proceeded westward, became a hurricane on September 1, and underwent rapid intensification prior to striking the upper Florida Keys on September 2. After landfall at its peak intensity, it continued northwest along the Florida west coast, and it weakened prior to landfall near Cedar Key on September 4.
The large and strong hurricane caused severe damage in the upper Florida Keys, and a storm surge about 18 to 20 feet affected the region. The hurricane's strong winds destroyed most of the buildings in the Islamorada area, and many World War I veteran workers were killed by the storm surge. Portions of the Key West Extension of the Florida East Coast Railroad were severely damaged or destroyed. The hurricane also caused additional damage in northwest Florida, Georgia, and the Carolinas. In total, more than 400 people were killed.

</doc>
<doc id="79361" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79361" title="Vahan Totovents">
Vahan Totovents

Vahan Hovhannesi Totovents (1893 - 1938) was an Armenian writer, poet and public activist.
Vahan Totovents was born in Mezire, Western Armenia (modern Turkey). He studied in Armenia and Istanbul, then at Wisconsin University which he finished in 1915.
He was a volunteer in Caucasian front during World War I, and served as the bodyguarder, translator and secretary of General Andranik Ozanian, about whom he wrote memoires and published them in 1920. In Tbilisi Totovents edited "Hayastan" paper, the official organ of Andranik.
Since 1922 he lived in Yerevan, Soviet Armenia. In 1938 he became a victim of Stalinism.
The works of Totovents were published from 1907. He is the author of "Doctor Burbonian" (1918), "Death battalion" (1923), "New York" (1927), "Baku" (v. 1-3, 1930-34), "Jonathan, Son of Jeremiah" novels, stories and dramas. He influenced to Armenian literature especially by his "Life on the Old Roman Road" autobiographical novel (1930, "A piece of sky" film by Henrik Malian) which "reflect the society, culture, and mores not only of the Armenians of his childhood but also of their neighbors in the waning days of the Ottoman Empire".

</doc>
<doc id="79363" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79363" title="Leonid Azkaldian">
Leonid Azkaldian

Leonid Azkaldian (; November 22, 1942 in Tbilisi – June 21, 1992 in Martakert) was an Armenian physicist and one of the founders and the commander of "Liberation Army" military organization. 
Leonid Azkaldian was born on November 22, 1942, in Tbilisi, Georgian SSR. In 1959, he graduated from Askanaz Mravyan school and in 1960, he was admitted into Physics Department of Moscow State University. He later transferred and graduated with honors from the same department of Yerevan State University. After graduation, he worked in many spheres in national economy of USSR.
Leonid Azkaldian was one of the creators of Karabakh movement and a military leader. From February of 1990, he planned and organized the defense of several regions of Armenia and Nagorno-Karabakh. In June, 1991, with Hovsep Hovsepyan co-founded and commanded the "Liberation army" military organization whose goal was to preserve the self-determination and defense of the local Armenian population of Nagorno-Karabakh. He was killed in 21 June, 1992 in the Tonashen village of Martakert region of Nagorno-Karabakh. After his death, he was awarded with the Order of the Combat Cross of the First Degree.

</doc>
<doc id="79365" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79365" title="Central United States">
Central United States

The Central United States is sometimes conceived as between the Eastern United States and Western United States as part of a three-region model, roughly coincident with the Midwestern United States plus the western and central portions of the Southern United States; the term is also sometimes used more or less as a synonym for the Midwest, leaving out all or most of the South. 
The Census Bureau does not provide a standard definition of a "Central" region of the United States, and organizations that need to subdivide the US are free to define a "Central" region to fit their needs.

</doc>
<doc id="79366" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79366" title="International Committee of the Red Cross">
International Committee of the Red Cross

The International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) is a "private" humanitarian organisation based in Geneva, Switzerland. 
The ICRC has a special job, based on the Geneva Conventions as well as other international law, to protect the victims of international and internal armed conflicts. This includes people hurt in war, prisoners, refugees, civilians, and other non-combatants. But the ICRC is a private organisation. It is not controlled by any government, group of governments or international organisation
It is the oldest organisation within the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement and one of the most widely recognized organisations in the world. It is also the most honoured, The ICRC has won three Nobel Peace Prizes; in 1917, 1944, and 1963.
Up until the middle of the 19 century, there was no organized army nursing for casualties and no way safe place to house and treat the injured soldiers.
Swiss businessman Henry Dunant saw the Battle of Solferino, in the Austro-Sardinian War. The battle only lasted one day, but about 40,000 soldiers on both sides were killed or were left severely hurt on the battlefield. 
Dunant was shocked by the suffering of the wounded soldiers, and the lack of medical help. He cancelled his trip to see Emperor Napoleon III and spent several days helping to treat and care for the wounded.
He wrote a book about what he saw, called "A Memory of Solferino". he published it with his own money in 1862, and sent copies of the book to leading political and military figures throughout Europe. The book did not only describe what Dunant saw, but called for the setting up of national voluntary relief organisations to help nurse wounded soldiers in the case of war. Dunant also called for international treaties to guarantee the neutrality and protection for the wounded and for medics and field hospitals.
The Geneva Society for Public Welfare set up a committee to try to organise an international conference about Dunant's idea. The "Committee of the Five" met on 9 February 1863, the members were:
The committee soon changed its name to the "International Committee for Relief to the Wounded". 
In October 1863, the international conference it organised took place in Geneva to talk about improving medical services on the battle field. 
31 people joined the committee at the conference: eighteen official delegates from national governments, six delegates from other non-governmental organisations, and seven non-official foreign delegates. The official delegates came from:
The conference wanted:
Only one year later, the Swiss government invited the governments of all European countries, as well as the United States, Brazil, and Mexico, to attend an official diplomatic conference. Sixteen countries sent a total of twenty-six delegates to Geneva. On 22 August 1864, the conference adopted the first Geneva Convention "for the Amelioration of the Condition of the Wounded in Armies in the Field". Representatives of 12 states and kingdoms signed the convention: Baden, Belgium, Denmark, France, Hesse, Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal, Prussia, Switzerland, Spain, and Württemberg. The convention contained ten articles, establishing for the first time legally binding rules guaranteeing neutrality and protection for wounded soldiers, field medical personnel, and specific humanitarian institutions in an armed conflict. 
Also, the convention had two requirements before a national relief society would be recognised by the International Committee:
The first national societies were founded in Belgium, Denmark, France, Oldenburg, Prussia, Spain, and Württemberg. Also in 1864, Louis Appia and Charles van de Velde, a captain of the Dutch Army, became the first independent and neutral delegates to work under the symbol of the Red Cross in an armed conflict. Three years later in 1867, the first International Conference of National Aid Societies for the Nursing of the War Wounded was convened.
Dunant left the committee in 1867 after arguing with other members. In 1876, the committee changed its name to the"International Committee of the Red Cross" (ICRC), which is still its official name today. Five years later, the American Red Cross was founded through the efforts of Clara Barton. More and more countries signed the Geneva Convention and began to respect it in practice during armed conflicts. The Red Cross quickly became an internationally respected movement, and the national societies became increasingly popular as a venue for volunteer work. 
When the first Nobel Peace Prize was awarded in 1901, the Norwegian Nobel Committee opted to give it to Henry Dunant and Frédéric Passy, a leading campaigner against war. The International Committee of the Red Cross officially congratulated Dunant and was a tribute to his key role in the formation of the Red Cross. Dunant died nine years later in the small Swiss health resort of Heiden. Only two months earlier his former friend and committee member Gustave Moynier had also died.
By the start of the First World War in 1914, there were 45 national relief societies throughout the world. The movement had grown beyond Europe and North America to Central and South America (Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Cuba, Mexico, Peru, El Salvador, Uruguay, Venezuela), Asia (the Republic of China, Japan, Korea, Siam), and Africa (Republic of South Africa). The Geneva Convention had been changed to include fighting at sea as well as on land.
In World War I Red Cross nurses came from around the world, including the United States and Japan, came to help the medical services of the armed forces of the countries involved in the war in Europe. 
On 15 October 1914, immediately after the start of the war, the ICRC set up its International Prisoners-of-War (POW) Agency. By the end of the war, the Agency had sent about 20 million letters and messages, 1.9 million parcels, and about 18 million Swiss francs to POWs of all affected countries. The Agency also arranged for about 200,000 prisoners to be released and returned to their home country. The Agency collected about 7 million records from 1914 to 1923 about prisoners or missing people. The card index helped to identify about 2 million POWs and to contact their families. The complete index of 7 million cards is on loan from the ICRC to the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Museum in Geneva. But only ICRC can search the index.
The ICRC got the only Nobel Peace Prize of the war years, in 1917, for its outstanding wartime work. 
In 1923, the Committee changed its membership rules. Until then, only citizens of the city of Geneva could serve in the Committee. This was changed to include all citizens of Switzerland by birth. This is still the rule today, and is designed to show that the ICRC is neutral, and that committee members and workers have never been citizens of a country that might be involved in a war. Only in 1993 were non-Swiss-born people allowed to work for the committee.
In 1934 the ICRC tried to get extra protection for civilians during war. Unfortunately most governments were not interested in adopting the extra rules before the start of World War II.
The Geneva Conventions, as amended in 1929, governed what the ICRC did. revision . The activities of the Committee were similar to those during World War I: 
By the end of the war, 179 delegates had conducted 12,750 visits to POW camps in 41 countries. The Central Information Agency on Prisoners-of-War ("Zentralauskunftsstelle für Kriegsgefangene") had a staff of 3,000, the card index tracking prisoners contained 45 million cards (more than 6 times as many as world war 1), and 120 million messages were exchanged by the Agency. 
The German Red Cross was controlled by the Nazis, and would not uphold the Geneva conventions which may have helped stop the deportation of Jews from Germany and the mass murders conducted in the concentration camps run by the German government. 
Two other main countries in the war, the Soviet Union and Japan, were not party to the 1929 Geneva Conventions and were not legally required to follow the rules of the conventions. Thus, other countries were not bound to follow the Conventions regarding their prisoners in return.
The ICRC had to stop complaining about the treatment of detainees in concentration camps in case the ICRC was stopped from working for POWs. 
After November 1943, the ICRC could send parcels to concentration camp detainees with known names and locations. Because the notices of receipt for these parcels were often signed by other inmates, the ICRC managed to register the identities of about 105,000 detainees in the concentration camps and delivered about 1.1 million parcels, mostly to the camps Dachau, Buchenwald, Ravensbrück, and Sachsenhausen.
On 12 March 1945, ICRC president Jacob Burckhardt was told by SS General Ernst Kaltenbrunner that the ICRC's delegates could visit the concentration camps, but the delegates would have to stay in the camps until the end of the war. Ten delegates, among them Louis Haefliger (Camp Mauthausen), Paul Dunant (Camp Theresienstadt) and Victor Maurer (Camp Dachau), visited the camps.
Louis Haefliger told American troops about the forceful eviction or blasting of Mauthausen-Gusen and saved the lives of about 60,000 inmates. His actions were condemned by the ICRC because they were deemed as acting unduly on his own authority and risking the ICRC's neutrality. Only in 1990, his reputation was finally rehabilitated by ICRC president Cornelio Sommaruga. 
Another example of great humanitarian spirit was Friedrich Born (1903-1963), an ICRC delegate in Budapest who saved the lives of about 11,000 to 15,000 Jewish people in Hungary. Marcel Junod (1904-1961), a doctor from Geneva, was another famous delegate during the Second World War. He was one of the first foreigners to visit Hiroshima after the atomic bomb was dropped, and wrote his thoughts in his book "Warrior without Weapons".
In 1944, the ICRC got its third Nobel Peace Prize. 
On 12 August 1949, the existing two Geneva Conventions were changed, and the Hague Convention about casualties at sea was brought into the Geneva Convention "family". It was renamed the Second Geneva Covention, and so the second convention of 1929 is now called the third convention. The Fourth Geneva Convention, about the "Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War," was established. On 8 June 1977 extra article "protocols" were added to make the conventions apply to internal conflicts such as civil wars. 
In 1963, the ICRC shared its third Nobel Peace Prize with the League of Red Cross Societies.
Since 1993, non-Swiss citizens have been allowed to serve as Committee delegates abroad, a task which was previously restricted to Swiss citizens. Now about one third of staff are not Swiss citizens.
On 16 October 1990, the UN General Assembly gave the ICRC observer status for its assembly sessions and sub-committee meetings, the first observer status given to a private organization. The resolution was jointly proposed by 138 member states and introduced by the Italian ambassador, Vieri Traxler, in memory of the organization's origins in the Battle of Solferino. 
An agreement with the Swiss government signed on 19 March 1993, affirmed the already long-standing policy of full independence of the Committee from any interference by Switzerland. The agreement protects the full sanctity of all ICRC property in Switzerland including its headquarters and archive, grants members and staff legal immunity, exempts the ICRC from all taxes and fees, guarantees the protected and duty-free transfer of goods, services, and money, provides the ICRC with secure communication privileges at the same level as foreign embassies, and simplifies Committee travel in and out of Switzerland.
The ICRC continued its activities throughout the 1990s. It broke its usual silence when it denounced the Rwandan Genocide in 1994, and again in 1995 about the crimes that happened in and around Srebrenica when it said, "We must acknowledge that despite our efforts to help thousands of civilians forcibly expelled from the town and despite the dedication of our colleagues on the spot, the ICRC's impact on the unfolding of the tragedy was extremely limited." It went public once again in 2007 to decry "major human rights abuses" by Burma's military government including forced labor, starvation, and murder of men, women, and children. 
At the end of the Cold War, the ICRC's work actually became more dangerous. In the 1990s, more delegates lost their lives than at any point in its history, especially when working in local and internal armed conflicts. These incidents often demonstrated a lack of respect for the rules of the Geneva Conventions and their protection symbols. Among the slain delegates were:
The original motto of the International Committee of the Red Cross was "Inter Arma Caritas" ("Amidst War, Charity"). It has preserved this motto while other Red Cross organizations have adopted others. Because Geneva is in the French-speaking part of Switzerland, the ICRC is also known under its French name "Comité international de la Croix-Rouge" (CICR). However, the ICRC has six official languages, including Arabic. The official symbol of the ICRC is the Red Cross on white background (the inverse of the Swiss flag)with the words "COMITE INTERNATIONAL GENEVE" circling the cross.
The ICRC drew up seven fundamental principles in 1965 that were adopted by the entire Red Cross Movement. They are 
The 2005 budget of the ICRC was about 970 million Swiss francs. All payments to the ICRC are voluntary and are received as donations based on two types of appeals issued by the Committee: an annual "Headquarters Appeal" to cover its internal costs and "Emergency Appeals" for its individual missions. 
Most of the ICRC's funding comes from Switzerland and the United States, with the other European states and the E.U. close behind. Together with Australia, Canada, Japan, and New Zealand, they contribute about 80-85% of the ICRC's budget. About 3% comes from private gifts, and the rest comes from national Red Cross societies.
The ICRC is responsible for legally recognizing a relief society as an official national Red Cross or Red Crescent society and thus accepting it into the Movement. The exact rules are in the statutes of the Movement. After recognition by the ICRC, a national society is admitted as a member to the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent societies. The ICRC and the Federation cooperate with the individual national societies in their international missions, especially with human, material, and financial resources and organizing on-site logistics. According to the 1997 Seville Agreement, the ICRC is the lead Red Cross agency in conflicts while other organizations within the Movement take the lead in non-war situations. National societies will be given the lead especially when a conflict is happening within their own country.
The ICRC headquarters are in Geneva, Switzerland. It has other offices, called "Delegations", in about 80 countries. Each delegation is under the responsibility of a Head of delegation who is the official representative of the ICRC in the country. Of its 2,000 professional employees, roughly 800 work in its Geneva headquarters and 1,200 expatriates work in the field. About half of the field workers serve as delegates managing ICRC operations in the different countries while the other half are specialists like doctors, agronomists, engineers or interpreters. The international staff are assisted by some 13,000 national employees, so about 15,000 people work for the ICRC. 
The Directorate is the executive body of the Committee.It carries out the policies set by the assembly.
The Directorate consists of a Director-General and five directors in the areas of "Operations", "Human Resources", "Resources and Operational Support", "Communication", and "International Law and Cooperation within the Movement". The members of the Directorate are appointed by the Assembly to serve for four years. The Director-General has assumed more personal responsibility in recent years, much like a CEO, where he was formerly more of a first among equals at the Directorate.
The Assembly (also called the Committee) convenes on a regular basis and is responsible for defining aims, guidelines, and strategies and for supervising the financial matters of the Committee. The Assembly has a membership of a maximum of 25 Swiss citizens. Members must speak the house language of French, but many also speak English and German as well. These Assembly members are co-opted for a period of four years, and there is no limit to the number of terms an individual member can serve. A three-quarters majority vote from all members is required for re-election after the third term, which acts as a motivation for members to remain active and productive.
In the early years, every Committee member was Genevan, Protestant, white, and male. The first woman, Renée-Marguerite Cramer, was co-opted in 1918. Since then, several women have attained the Vice Presidency, and the female proportion after the Cold War has been about 15%. The first non-Genevans were admitted in 1923, and one Jew has served in the Assembly.
While the rest of the Red Cross Movement many be multi-national, the Committee believes that its mono-national nature is an asset because the nationality in question is Swiss. Thanks to permanent Swiss neutrality, conflicting parties can be sure that no one from "the enemy" will be setting policy in Geneva. The Franco-Prussian War of 1870-71 showed that even National Red Cross Societies can be biased and not maintain neutral humanitarianism.
Furthermore, the Assembly elects a five-member Assembly Council that constitutes an especially active core of the Assembly. The Council meets at least ten times per year and has the authority to decide on behalf of the full Assembly in some matters. The Council is also responsible for organizing the Assembly meetings and for helping communication between the Assembly and the Directorate. The Assembly Council normally includes the president, two vice presidents and two elected members. While one of the vice presidents is elected for a four-year term, the other is appointed permanently with his tenure ending by retirement from the vice presidency or from the Committee. Currently Jacques Forster and Olivier Vodoz are vice presidents. In April 2007, Christine Beerli was appointed to succeed Jacques Forster from the beginning of 2008.
The Assembly also selects, for a term of four years, one individual to act as President of the ICRC. The president is both a member of the Assembly and leader of the ICRC, and he has always been included on the Council since its formation. The President automatically becomes a member of the assembly and the ICRC once he is appointed, but he does not necessarily come from within the ICRC organization. There is a strong faction within the Assembly that wants to reach outside the organization to select a president from the Swiss government or professional circles like the banking or medical fields. In fact, the last three presidents were previously officials in the Swiss government. The president's influence and role is not well-defined, and changes depending upon the times and each president's personal style. Since 2000, the president of the ICRC has been Jakob Kellenberger. Kellenberger does not make many public appearances or statements but is good at personal negotiation promoting the ICRC privately. In February 2007, he was appointed by the Assembly to another four-year term which will run until the end of 2011.
The presidents of the ICRC have been:
The ICRC tends to work quietly and not attract publicity, unlike some other aid agencies. This way it was been able to get access to, for example, Nelson Mandela, when he was still a prisoner of the apartheid government of South Africa.

</doc>
<doc id="79367" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79367" title="Meridian, Mississippi">
Meridian, Mississippi

Meridian is the county seat of Lauderdale County in Mississippi, a state of the United States of America. Meridian is the fifth largest city in Mississippi and the principal city of the Meridian, Mississippi Micropolitan Statistical Area. The population was 39,968 at the 2000 census. The current population is larger than in the 2000 census. A recent annexation, in addition to seeing many displaced coastal residents after Hurricane Katrina (many of them have made Meridian their permanent residence), have put the population over 40,000.

</doc>
<doc id="79369" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79369" title="Hydrometeorological Prediction Center">
Hydrometeorological Prediction Center

The Hydrometeorological Prediction Center (a.k.a. HPC) is one of nine Service Centers that are part of the National Centers for Environmental Prediction (NCEP), which is part of the National Weather Service, which in turn is part of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) of the U.S. government.
The HPC serves as a center of excellence in Quantitative Precipitation Forecasting, Medium Range Forecasting (three to seven days) and the interpretation of numerical weather prediction models.
The HPC issues storm summaries on storm systems bringing significant rainfall and snowfall to portions of the United States. Advisories are also issued for tropical cyclones which have moved inland and are no longer the responsibility of the National Hurricane Center. The HPC also acts as the backup office to the National Hurricane Center in the event of a complete communications failure.
The HPC was created in October 1995, when the former National Meteorological Center was reorganised into the NCEP. It is based at the World Weather Building in Camp Springs, Maryland, along with a few of the other National Centers such as the Climate Prediction Center (CPC), the Ocean Prediction Center (OPC), and the Environmental Modeling Center (EMC).

</doc>
<doc id="79371" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79371" title="Côte-Nord">
Côte-Nord

Côte-Nord (French for "Northern Coast", area 247,627.06 km², or 95,609.34 sq mi) is the second largest administrative region by land area in Quebec, Canada. It covers much of the northern shore of the Saint Lawrence River's estuary and the Gulf of Saint Lawrence past Tadoussac. At the 2006 census it had a resident population of 95,911 inhabitants.

</doc>
<doc id="79374" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79374" title="Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean">
Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean

Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean is a region in Quebec, Canada.

</doc>
<doc id="79379" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79379" title="Plaquemines Parish, Louisiana">
Plaquemines Parish, Louisiana

Plaquemines Parish (Cajun French: "Paroisse Plaquemine") is the parish with the biggest combined land and water area in the U.S. state of Louisiana. The parish seat is Pointe à la Hache. As of 2000, the parish's population was 26,757.
The name is pronounced (transcription in IPA).

</doc>
<doc id="79390" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79390" title="Naiad (moon)">
Naiad (moon)

Naiad or Neptune III is the closest moon to Neptune named after the Naiads of Greek legend. It was found sometime before mid-September, 1989 from the images taken by the "Voyager 2" probe. The last moon to be discovered during the flyby, it was designated S/1989 N 6. Naiad is not a sphere and probably has not been changed by any internal geological processes after its formation. It orbits about 23,500 km above Neptune's cloud tops. 
Since the "Voyager 2" flyby, the Neptune system has been studied a lot from ground-based observatories and the Hubble Space Telescope as well. In 2002-03, Keck telescope looked at the system using adaptive optics and detected easily the biggest four closer satellites. Thalassa was found with some image processing, but Naiad was not located. 

</doc>
<doc id="79409" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79409" title="Tamsui">
Tamsui

Tamsui (Chinese: 淡水鎮, Taiwanese: Tām-súi/Tām-chúi, Tongyong Pinyin: Danshuei, Hanyu Pinyin: Danshui) is a sea-side town in Taipei County, Taiwan. The town has a population of 130,105 people. It is named after a river whose name means "Freshwater". The town is also popular as a site for viewing the sun setting into the Taiwan Strait. There are three universities in this small town.

</doc>
<doc id="79413" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79413" title="Lovisa Aarberg">
Lovisa Aarberg

Lovisa Aarberg, (born 1803, dead after 1866) was a Swedish surgeon and doctor. She and Kisamor were the first female doctors in Sweden. She was a doctor and a surgeon long before it was permitted for women. In Sweden, her name is spelled as Lovisa Årberg, and she was often called "Jungfru Årberg", which means "Maiden Årberg" in English.
Lovisa Årberg was born in Uppsala. Her mother often nursed sick people, and when Lovisa was a child, she followed her mother to the hospitals. She learned a lot about sickness and medicine and how to cure and nurse sick people, and often helped people she knew when they were sick. 
When she was an adult, she moved to Stockholm and became a maid. People had heard that she was good at helping sick people, and often came and asked her for help. Soon, even rich people started to ask her for help. The paid her money when she cured them, so she could stop being a maid and could start to work as a doctor instead. Lovisa then opened her own clinic and started to work as a doctor and a surgeon. 
She opened her clinic and started to work as a doctor in the 1820s. In the 1820s, it was forbidden for a woman to work as a doctor. The male doctors did not like that a woman worked as a doctor, and the government was worried that she might hurt her patients as she had never learned medicine at a university. But when they examined her, they found out that she was a very good doctor, and that she had all the knowledge that the male doctors had. So instead, they gave her a medal and special permission to work as a surgeon and a doctor. She continued to work as a doctor for forty years, until the 1860s. She gave treatment to poor people, even when they did not have the money to pay her. She was a popular doctor, and many people asked her for help. She worked very hard until she became unhealthy, so she often had to take time to rest.

</doc>
<doc id="79414" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79414" title="Kisamor">
Kisamor

Kisamor, (1788-1842), was a famous female doctor in Sweden. Her real name was Maria Jansson, but she was always called Kisamor. Kisamor means "The Mother in Kisa" in English, and Kisa was the place were she worked. She was a doctor before it was allowed for a woman to be a doctor, and she is the most famous woman doctor in Sweden in the 19th century.
She was born in Örebro. Her father was a doctor in natural medicine, and she wanted to become one too. But her father wouldn't let her. Instead, her forced her to marry a farmer. The marriage became unhappy, and she divorced her husband.
She often visited sick people and worked as a doctor in natural medicine. One day, she was given a house in Östergötland as a gift by some rich women after she had made them well after sickness. She visited the sick in their cottages, and sometimes they came to her in the inn called Kisa, and therefore, she was called "The Mother in Kisa". 
She became famous, and people came to her from all over the country to ask her for help. In 1825, she was given special permission to work as a doctor, even though it was forbidden for a woman to work as a doctor.

</doc>
<doc id="79416" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79416" title="Amalia Lindegren">
Amalia Lindegren

Amalia Lindegren, (1814-1891), was a famous Swedish painter.
She became an orphan when her mother died in 1817. Then, she was adopted by the widow of Benjamin Sandel. Benjamin Sandel is thought to have been her real father.
Amalia liked to draw and wanted to become an artist. When the artist Qvarnström saw her drawings, he got her a permission to study art at the Swedish Academy of Arts in 1849. They thought she was very promising and had great talent. In 1850, she became the first woman who got a scholarship by the Academy to study art in Paris.
In 1856, she was elected to become a member in to the Swedish Academy of Arts. She showed people her paintings in the exhibitions in Paris in 1867, Philadelphia in 1876, and in Chicago in 1893.

</doc>
<doc id="79417" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79417" title="Thalassa (moon)">
Thalassa (moon)

Thalassa or Neptune IV, is the second closest moon to Neptune. It was named after a daughter of Aether and Hemera from Greek mythology.
"Thalassa" is also the Greek word for "sea".
Thalassa was discovered sometime before mid-September, 1989 from the images taken by the "Voyager 2" probe. It was given the designation S/1989 N 5. The discovery was said (IAUC 4867) on September 29, 1989, but the text only talks of "25 frames taken over 11 days", giving a discovery date of sometime before September 18. The name was given on 16 September 1991.
Thalassa is not a sphere and shows no sign of any geological changes. Unusually for a non-spherical moon, it appears to be disk-shaped.

</doc>
<doc id="79423" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79423" title="Bayerischer Rundfunk">
Bayerischer Rundfunk

Bayerischer Rundfunk is the main German radio and television broadcasting company for Bavaria. It is a member of the ARD public broadcasting group.
It includes the following broadcasting services:
the radio stations
and the TV channels

</doc>
<doc id="79428" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79428" title="Circadian rhythm sleep disorder">
Circadian rhythm sleep disorder

Circadian rhythm sleep disorders happen when the circadian rhythm is not working correctly. They make people sleep and wake at times that are not normal, but these people usually have 8 hours of good sleep. These disorders affect other systems in the body, too, and not just sleep. Circadian rhythms also controll appetite, body temperature rhythm and hormone cycles. 
"Extrinsic" means something which comes from outside rather than from within a system or an organism. There are two circadian rhythm sleep disorders of the extrinsic type:
Jet Lag often affects people who have travelled several hours east or west, through several time zones. It may take many days for the body to adjust. The name "jet lag" comes from travelling by jet aircraft.
Many people have health problems when they work a shift during the times when their circadian rhythms say that they should be asleep. Most people who work later than midnight find it difficult to stay awake.
"Intrinsic" means something which happens or comes from within a system or an organism. There are four circadian rhythm sleep disorders of the intrinsic type. Unless they are caused by a head injury, they are usually genetic, that is, people are born with them. They are generally chronic; they do not go away, but they may sometimes be treated.
Advanced sleep-phase syndrome (ASPS) is very rare. People with this syndrome are sleepy very early in the evening and they sleep from about 19:00-20:00 in the evening to about 03:00-04:00 in the early morning. Often several people in the same family have ASPS.
Delayed sleep-phase syndrome (DSPS) is more common than ASPS and it affects about 0.15% of adults. It usually starts in early childhood or at puberty. Some cases that start at puberty go away when the person is about 20 or 21 years old. DSPS is much more common in teenagers than in adults. DSPS in people older than about 20 usually will have it all their lives, that is, it is chronic.
People with DSPS cannot go to sleep before 03:00-06:00 in the morning, or even later. They cannot wake up in time for school or a job which starts in the morning. They can go to sleep at the same time every night and get up at the same time each day. This means that they are "entrained" (adjusted, synchronized) to the daily light/dark cycle. Even when they try to sleep at "normal" times, they feel most awake late at night.
Non-24-hour sleep-wake syndrome (Non-24) is quite rare. People with Non-24 have very unusual sleep timing. Their sleep and wake times are not regulated by daylight; they are not "entrained" (adjusted, synchronized) to the daily light/dark cycle. This is called freerunning sleep.
The worst circadian rhythm sleep disorder in people who can see is Non-24; their "daily" rhythm lasts 25 hours or more so they sleep and wake up one or more hours later each day. Appetite, body temperature rhythm and hormone cycles all keep moving around the clock, coming back to the same time after a few weeks.
About half of totally blind people, who can see no light at all, have Non-24. Their daily rhythm is not exactly 24 hours and it does not adjust to the light/dark cycle in nature because they can not see light. This can often be treated.
Irregular sleep-wake disorder is rare, and it is often possible to find out what causes it, for example, a head injury, a mental handicap, dementia or some other sicknesses. People with this disorder sleep and wake several times a day, but not at the same times every day. They sleep about 8 hours a day but never 8 hours together.
Treatment for these disorders often does not work well. In addition, it can be difficult to find a doctor who knows much about circadian rhythms, as the field of study is quite new.
Treatment with bright light is also called phototherapy or light therapy. People with ASPS need a lot of light in the evening and they should avoid bright light in the morning. People with DSPS need bright light as soon as they wake up and should try to avoid bright light before bedtime.
Melatonin is a hormone produced in the pineal gland in the brain. It is normally only produced in the evening and at night. People with ASPS can take melatonin by mouth in the morning. People with DSPS can take melatonin in the afternoon or evening, and this treatment works also for some people with Non-24. 
One can buy melatonin in the shops in the USA and Canada. In most other countries one must get it from a doctor or it might not be legal at all. 

</doc>
<doc id="79432" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79432" title="Asian elephant">
Asian elephant

The Asian Elephant ("Elephas Maximus") is an elephant species living in Asia. They are more easily tamed than larger African elephants. People have used them as working animals for hundreds of years. It is the national animal of India.
Asian elephants are different from African elephants. They are smaller, have smaller ears, a more rounded back, and a fourth toenail on each of their back feet. They have thick, dry skin with a small amount of stiff hair, and are grey to brown in colour. Female Asian elephants have small tusks and occasionally none at all. Sometimes pink spots appear on the ears as a result of depigmentation.
Asian Elephants eat grass, hay, twigs, bark and fruits. It can live up to 60 to 80 years. It can weigh up to 5000kg and be up to 300cm tall. It takes up to 660 days or 22 months until the babies are born. 
Asian Elephants have live across many parts of India and Sri Lanka. They also as far south and east as Sumatra, Indonesia. These three areas appear to contain subspecies that are slightly different.
Asian elephants are spread over areas with very different amounts of rain. They can survive in dry places where less than 40cm of rain falls per year and in wet areas where over 8 meters of rain falls in a year.

</doc>
<doc id="79434" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79434" title="Karolina Bock">
Karolina Bock

Karolina Sofia Bock, (1792-1872), was a Swedish dancer, actor and singer. She also became principal for the famous theatre-school, Dramatens elevskola.
Karolina Bock was born as Karolina Richter. She was a student at the theatrical school Dramatens elevskola in Stockholm between 1806 and 1809, were she was instructed by the principal Sofia Lovisa Gråå. Many of the girls graduating from the school between 1804 and 1812, when Gråå was principal, became famous in Sweden, and were called "the girls of Gråå". 
Karolina worked at the theatres Djurgårdsteatern and Nya Komiska Teatern before she was hired at the Royal Dramatic Theatre in 1814. She worked there for fifty years, and became one of the most popular actors there. But she never became a star because of the parts she played; she always played old women in comedys, never heroines and main parts. She was very well used and never lacked parts to play, but she was not given main parts. It was said, that she had a rare quality; she knew her limitations. 
Her most popular parts were in the plays "Min tante Aurore", "Bildhuggaren", "Brodertvisten", "Syrsan", "Preciosa", "Jane Eyre" and "Mäster Smith". 
She was principal for Dramatens elevskola two times; the first time from 1831 to 1834, and the second time from 1841 to 1856. She was also teatcher in declamation there. She was the third woman to be principal for the famous school. Anne Marie Milan Desguillons had ben the first in 1793-1800, but she was principal together with her husband. Sofia Lovisa Gråå had ben the first woman who was principal of this school alone, and she was principal in 1804-1812. Karolina Bock was a good teatcher, but unlike her own teacher, Sofia Lovisa Gråå, she was very strict and firm with her students, so strict that her students rebelled and had her deposed from her position as principal. But she continued to work as an actor until 1863. 
Karolina Bock was married two times. In 1813, she married J.G. Svanberg, who played violin in the royal chapel, and in 1826 she married K.F. Bock, who played the flute in the royal chapel. She had a daughter, Bertha Tammelin, who became an actor, singer, composer, musician and a teatcher at Dramatens elevskola. 
Karolina Bock was revarded with the medal Litteris et Artibus in 1857.

</doc>
<doc id="79435" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79435" title="Lea Ahlborn">
Lea Ahlborn

Lea Ahlborn, (1826-1897) was a famous Swedish artist. She was a member of the Swedish Royal Academy of Arts, and the first woman to be appointed royal printmaker. The position of royal printmaker also made her the first female official in Sweden. 
She was daughter to Ludvig Lundgren, who was a printmaker, and she early decided, that she wanted to become a printmaker too. In 1849, she, as well as Amalia Lindegren and Agnes Börjesson, became one of the four women who were given permission to study art at the Swedish Royal Academy of Arts. 
In 1851, she made a study-trip to Paris with her teacher Carl Gustaf Qvarnström and her brother Pehr Henrik. 
In 1855, she was appointed royal printmaker, and was also elected as a member in the Royal Swedish Academy of Arts. She kept herself updated in everything regarding her work, and was given assignments from the Swedish Academy, the science academy and the royal academy Pro Patria. She made the medal-portraits to the celebration of the anniversary of the king and queen, and she was hired by the US government to make the medal of George Washington at the centenary (hundred years anniversary) of the end of the war of independence in 1883. In 1892, she was given the medal "Illis Quorum" by the king.
Her sister, Carolina Weidenhayn, (1822-1902), became the first professional female xylographer, who after she studied in Paris 1858-1867, became an instructor at the great technical school Tekniska Skolan in 1859-1881.

</doc>
<doc id="79437" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79437" title="Hedda Hjortsberg">
Hedda Hjortsberg

Hedda (Hedvig Katarina) Hjortsberg, (1777-1867), was a Swedish ballerina. She was the sister of Swedish actor Lars Hjortsberg. She became a student of the French ballet-master Louis Gallodier in 1786, at the age of nine. Between 1791 and 1806 she was a premier-dancer at the Royal Swedish Opera in Stockholm. She danced the parts of Lucile in the pantomime ballet "Det dubbla giftermålet" by Jean Marcadet in the 1790-1719 season, Leonore in "Enleveringen" by Louis Deland, and Diana in "Diana och Kärleken" by Deland in 1800-1801. She also performed the part of Venus in "Venus och Adonis" by Deland in 1801-1802, and Frosine in "Dansvurmen" by Gardel in 1803-1804. When the Opera was opened again in 1809 after it had been closed since 1806, she performed with her five year old daughter in "Dansvurmen". Hjortsberg married the businessman Erik Samuel Koersner in 1804, and Abraham Hülphers in 1811, and after that, she danced only as a guest-artist.

</doc>
<doc id="79439" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79439" title="Despina (moon)">
Despina (moon)

Despina or Neptune V is the third closest moon to Neptune. It is named after Despina, a nymph who was a daughter of Poseidon. 
Despina was found in late July 1989 from the images taken by the "Voyager 2" probe. It was given the designation S/1989 N 3.
Despina is not a sphere and shows no sign of any geological changes.

</doc>
<doc id="79445" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79445" title="Chef">
Chef

A chef is a person who cooks food as their job. They usually work in restaurants.
The chef is responsible for everything about the food in a restaurant. He is responsible for buying the food, hiring and supervising the kitchen workers, creating the menus for the customers, and deciding the recipes (the details of how the cooking is done).
The sous-chef (sometimes called an assistant chef) is the chef's main helper. A chef de partie is a 'line chef', in charge of a station in the kitchen. The commis chef works under a chef de partie. It is usually a training position.
The lines or stations in a big kitchen are:

</doc>
<doc id="79453" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79453" title="St. Bernard Parish, Louisiana">
St. Bernard Parish, Louisiana

St. Bernard Parish () is a parish in the U.S. state of Louisiana. As of 2000, 67,229 people lived there. In 2006, because of the effects of Hurricane Katrina, about 25,489 people lived there.

</doc>
<doc id="79457" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79457" title="Slidell, Louisiana">
Slidell, Louisiana

Slidell is the largest city in St. Tammany Parish in Louisiana. It is on the northeast shore of Lake Pontchartrain.
As of the 2000 census, the city had a population of 25,695. Slidell is a suburb of New Orleans.

</doc>
<doc id="79460" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79460" title="St. Tammany Parish, Louisiana">
St. Tammany Parish, Louisiana

St. Tammany Parish (French: "Paroisse de Saint-Tammany") is a parish located in the U.S. state of Louisiana, in the New Orleans metropolitan area. The parish seat is Covington, and as of 2000, the population was 191,268. In 2004, the population was estimated to have grown to 212,000, and after the landfall of Hurricane Katrina the following year, the population was estimated by St. Tammany Planners to be about 264,000. Most new residents are thought to have come from St. Bernard Parish. If correct, these figures make St. Tammany Parish the fastest-growing parish in the state, overtaking Livingston and Ascension parishes.

</doc>
<doc id="79461" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79461" title="Chewing gum">
Chewing gum

Chewing gum is a type of candy flavored with natural sugar or artificial sweeteners and also flavors such as mint. People chew gum for personal enjoyment and also to help clean teeth. Before it is chewed, the gum comes either soft and chewy or hard and then softens in your mouth.
Chewing gum has already been invented many years ago from spruce sap and beeswax. The first real gum has been sold two years before flavored ones became popular. 30 years after, in 1880 chewing gums tasted for a longer time. After this many famous brands started inventing ways to improve or adding flavor to the chewing gum to make it like it is today.
The effects of chewing gum on the health are different. Sugar free chewing gum is sometimes recommended by dentists, because it can clean the teeth. Chewing gum which contains sugar can, depending on the kind of sugar, harm the teeth. Gum can help to avoid snacks.
The new version of chewing gum has environmental effects, because it cannot rot easily. Also it is hard to clean up when it is sticking somewhere.
According to studies, chewing gum can have a good effect on the concentration. There are many other effects on people coming from different new invented chewing gums like dry mouth gum or energy gum.dick. 

</doc>
<doc id="79462" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79462" title="Herat">
Herat

Herat (, Herāt) is the third largest city of Afghanistan with about 436,300 people living in it as of 2012.436,300 as of 2012. It is the capital of a Herat province. It is in the west of the country, close to the border of Iran. The spoken language in the city is called Herati Perisan or just Herati.
Herat dates back to very old times. Avesta, the old book of Zoroastrianism mentions Herat as "Haroyu" and lists it as the sixth land of the sixteen perfect lands created by Ahura Mazda, the Zoroastrian god. In Achaemenid times (ca. 550-330 BC), the surrounding district was known as "Haraiva" (in Old Persian). Ancient Greeks called it "Aria" and "Artacoana" was the capital of Aria. Alexander the Great took Artacoana in 330 BC and destroyed it. He later built another city near Artacoana and named it "Alexandria in Ariana", today's city of Herat. After him Parthians and Sassanians took over. Sassanians called the city “Harēv”.
Arabs took Herat in 660 AD, and it became a center of the Muslim world. Herat has a long history as a centre for sufism, the mystical branch of Islam. It became part of the area then known as Khurasan, which reached its peak of civilization in the twelfth century. In 1221 AD, it was taken by the Mongols and later destroyed by Genghis Khan and Timur, the Turkic conqueror, took it in about 1393 AD. Herat’s greatest era was during the Timurid rule, when it was a centre of science and culture. As the capital of the Timurid empire, it boasted many fine religious buildings and was famous for its sumptuous court life and musical performance and its tradition of miniature paintings. Later Persians and Afghans fought over the control of the city and Herat changed hands several times before it (under British interference) permanently became part of Afghanistan in 1857 under the Treaty of Paris.
In March 1979, an anti-Communist uprising in Herat, left 25,000 civilian deaths. Between 1978 and 1992, communist forces in Herat city fought resistance forces holding the countryside. In 1995 the area came under the control of Pashtuns of the Taliban movement. After the United States' invasion of Afghanistan, on November 12, 2001, it was liberated from the Taliban by the Northern Alliance. These days, unlike other places in Afghanistan, Herat is safer.

</doc>
<doc id="79463" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79463" title="Mobile, Alabama">
Mobile, Alabama

Mobile () (pronunciation) is the third most populous city in the U.S. state of Alabama and is the county seat of Mobile County. The population within the city limits was 198,915 as of the 2000 census. Mobile is the principal municipality of the Mobile Metropolitan Statistical Area, a region of 399,843 residents which is composed solely of Mobile County and is the second largest MSA in the state. Mobile is included in the Mobile-Daphne-Fairhope Combined Statistical Area with a total population of 540,258, the second largest CSA in the state.

</doc>
<doc id="79464" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79464" title="Relay race">
Relay race

A relay race is a track and field event in which athletes run a pre-set distance carrying a baton before passing it onto the next runner. Often, a relay team is a team of four sprinters.
In athletics, the two standard relays are the 4x100 meter relay and the 4x400 meter relay. Traditionally, the 4x400 meter relay finals are the last event of a track meet.
Nowadays, long distance relays have become increasingly popular with runners of all skill-levels. These relays typically have 5 to 36 legs, each between 5 and 10 kilometers (3-6 miles) long.

</doc>
<doc id="79465" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79465" title="Bayou La Batre, Alabama">
Bayou La Batre, Alabama

Bayou La Batre ( is a city in Mobile County, Alabama, United States. It is included in the Mobile metropolitan statistical area. At the 2000 census, the population was 2,313. According to the 2005 U.S. Census estimates, the city had a population of 2,725.

</doc>
<doc id="79473" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79473" title="Bay St. Louis, Mississippi">
Bay St. Louis, Mississippi

Bay Saint Louis is a city in Hancock County, Mississippi. It is part of the Gulfport-Biloxi, Mississippi Metropolitan Statistical Area. As of the 2000 census, 8,209 people lived there. It is the county seat of Hancock County. Like several other upper Gulf Coast cities, Bay Saint Louis was devastated by Hurricane Katrina in August 2005.

</doc>
<doc id="79475" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79475" title="Waveland, Mississippi">
Waveland, Mississippi

Waveland is a city in Hancock County, Mississippi, on the Gulf of Mexico. It is part of the Gulfport-Biloxi, Mississippi Metropolitan Statistical Area. As of the 2000 census, 6,674 people lived there. On August 29, 2005, Waveland was nearly destroyed by Hurricane Katrina.
The current mayor of Waveland is Democrat Tommy Longo.

</doc>
<doc id="79477" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79477" title="Pass Christian, Mississippi">
Pass Christian, Mississippi

Pass Christian is a city in Harrison County, Mississippi, United States, along the Gulf of Mexico. It is part of the Gulfport-Biloxi, Mississippi Metropolitan Statistical Area. The population was 4,613 at the 2010 census.

</doc>
<doc id="79480" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79480" title="Long Beach, Mississippi">
Long Beach, Mississippi

Long Beach is a city (incorporated August 10, 1905) in Harrison County, Mississippi, USA. It is part of the Gulfport-Biloxi, Mississippi Metropolitan Statistical Area. As of the 2000 census, 17,320 people lived there. It also the home of Alphonso Campbell.

</doc>
<doc id="79481" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79481" title="Gulfport, Mississippi">
Gulfport, Mississippi

Gulfport is the second largest city in the U.S. state of Mississippi, after the state capital Jackson. It is the larger (population wise) of two, aom cities of the Gulfport-Biloxi, Mississippi Metropolitan Statistical Area, which is included in the Gulfport-Biloxi-Pascagoula, Mississippi Combined Statistical Area. As of the 2000 census, the city of Gulport had a population of 71,127. Gulfport is co-county seat with Biloxi of Harrison County, Mississippi. Gulfport is the east coast home to the US Navy Seabees, and also the birthplace of American football player Brett Favre.
On August 29, 2005, Gulfport was hit by the strong east side of Hurricane Katrina, and much of Gulfport was flooded or destroyed. Much of Gulfport was also severely damaged by Hurricane Camille on August 17, 1969.

</doc>
<doc id="79483" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79483" title="Gulfport-Biloxi-Pascagoula, Mississippi Combined Statistical Area">
Gulfport-Biloxi-Pascagoula, Mississippi Combined Statistical Area

The Gulfport-Biloxi-Pascagoula Combined Statistical Area is made up of five counties in the Mississippi Gulf Coast region. The statistical area consists of the Gulfport-Biloxi Metropolitan Statistical Area and the Pascagoula Metropolitan Statistical Area. As of the 2000 census, the CSA had a population of 396,754 The area was significantly impacted by Hurricane Katrina in 2005. A July 1, 2006 estimate placed the population at 380,309. Prior to the hurricane, the area had experienced steady to moderate population growth.

</doc>
<doc id="79486" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79486" title="Gulfport-Biloxi metropolitan area">
Gulfport-Biloxi metropolitan area

The Gulfport-Biloxi Metropolitan Statistical Area is a metropolitan area in the Mississippi Gulf Coast region that covers three counties – Hancock, Harrison, and Stone. As of the 2000 census, the MSA had a population of 246,190. The area was significantly impacted by Hurricane Katrina in 2005. A July 1, 2006, estimate placed the population at 227,904. Prior to the hurricane, the area had experienced steady to moderate population growth. It is also part of the larger Gulfport-Biloxi-Pascagoula Combined Statistical Area.

</doc>
<doc id="79487" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79487" title="Biloxi, Mississippi">
Biloxi, Mississippi

Biloxi () is a city in Harrison County, Mississippi, in the United States. The 2000 census recorded the population as 50,644. Biloxi is co–county seat with the larger city Gulfport, in the Gulfport-Biloxi, Mississippi Metropolitan Statistical Area, which is included in the Gulfport-Biloxi-Pascagoula, Mississippi Combined Statistical Area.
The beachfront of Biloxi lies directly on the Mississippi Sound, with barrier islands scattered off the coast and into the Gulf of Mexico.

</doc>
<doc id="79488" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79488" title="El Toro (roller coaster)">
El Toro (roller coaster)

El Toro, a Spanish term meaning The Bull, is a wooden roller coaster at Six Flags Great Adventure in Jackson, New Jersey, United States. It was opened on June 11, 2006. It has the steepest drop of any wooden roller coaster in the world, at 76 degrees. It is 188 feet tall, a world record breaking drop on a wooden roller coaster, and goes at a maximum (highest possible) speed of 113 km/h. The speed can sometimes be different. At the beginning of the day, it starts slow, but it goes faster and faster throughout the day. It begins at 108 km/h and by the end of the day it travels at 118 km/h. It has 4,400 feet of track, and the trains are known to not really slow down much through the whole ride. El Toro is also known for its strong "airtime" (when riders would be thrown out of the seats if the restraints were not there).
El Toro is quite different than most other wooden roller coasters because it is made out prefabricated track, which means that the pieces of track were cut in a factory and do not need to be cut by hand. This makes the time to build El Toro much shorter. Since it uses prefabricated track, the ride is very smooth. Most wooden roller coasters are known to be quite rough.

</doc>
<doc id="79496" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79496" title="Galatea (moon)">
Galatea (moon)

Galatea or Neptune VI, is the fourth closest moon to Neptune. It is named after Galatea, one of the Nereids of Greek legend.
Galatea was found in late July 1989 from the images taken by the "Voyager 2" probe. It was given the designation S/1989 N 4. The discovery was said (IAUC 4824) on August 2, 1989, but the text only talks of "10 frames taken over 5 days", giving a discovery date of sometime before July 28. The name was given on 16 September 1991.
It is not a sphere and shows no sign of any geological changes.

</doc>
<doc id="79505" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79505" title="Nguyen Hue">
Nguyen Hue

Nguyen Hue (1753–1792) was a general, an emperor of the Tay Son Dynasty in the history of Vietnam. He was born in Tay Son, Binh Dinh Province. His notable victories included: Victory over a Siamese army in Rach Gam and over Qing's army invasion in Dong Da, Thang Long.

</doc>
<doc id="79506" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79506" title="Mikoyan MiG-29">
Mikoyan MiG-29

The MiG-29 Fulcrum is a fighter aircraft made by Russian aircraft company Mikoyan. It first flew in 1977, and was introduced in 1983. It was made by the Soviet Union during the Cold War so it could fight new American fighters like the F-16 Fighting Falcon and F/A-18 Hornet. It is still used by the Russian Air Force and other countries in Europe, Asia and Africa.
There are some versions of the MiG-29 that are for trying things out.

</doc>
<doc id="79517" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79517" title="Emmy Rossum">
Emmy Rossum

Emmanuelle Grey "Emmy" Rossum (born September 12, 1986) is an American actress. She is best known for her roles as Laura Chapman in the 2004 movie "The Day After Tomorrow" and as Christine Daae in "The Phantom of the Opera".

</doc>
<doc id="79529" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79529" title="Bedouin">
Bedouin

Bedouins are an Arab ethnocultural group. They are descended from nomads who lived in the Arabian, Syrian and Saharan Deserts. 
They call themselves the "people of the tent", because they travelled around, living in tents. Bedouin were camel raisers and drivers, sheep and goat nomads, cattle driving nomads, and merchants. Today many Bedouin have given up the nomadic life and live and work in towns. 

</doc>
<doc id="79531" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79531" title="Hmong">
Hmong

Hmong might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="79561" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79561" title="26 (number)">
26 (number)

Twenty-six is a number. It comes between twenty-five and twenty-seven, and is an even number. It is divisible by 1, 2, 13, and 26.

</doc>
<doc id="79562" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79562" title="27 (number)">
27 (number)

Twenty-seven is a number. It comes between twenty-six and twenty-eight, and is an odd number. It is divisible by 1, 3, 9, and 27.

</doc>
<doc id="79563" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79563" title="28 (number)">
28 (number)

Twenty-eight is a number. It comes between twenty-seven and twenty-nine, and is an even number. It is divisible by 1, 2, 4, 7, 14, and 28. 28 is a perfect number.

</doc>
<doc id="79564" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79564" title="29 (number)">
29 (number)

Twenty-nine is a number. It comes between twenty-eight and thirty, and is an odd number. It is also the 10th prime number, after 2, 3, 5, 7, 11, 13, 17, 19, and 23.

</doc>
<doc id="79569" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79569" title="31 (number)">
31 (number)

Thirty-one is a number. It comes between thirty and thirty-two, and is an odd number. It is also the 11th prime number, after 2, 3, 5, 7, 11, 13, 17, 19, 23, and 29.
The factors of thirty-one are 1 and 31. 

</doc>
<doc id="79570" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79570" title="32 (number)">
32 (number)

Thirty-two is a number. It comes between thirty-one and thirty-three, and is an even number. It is divisible by 1, 2, 4, 8, and 16, and 32. It is also a power of two.

</doc>
<doc id="79572" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79572" title="33 (number)">
33 (number)

Thirty-three is a number. It comes between thirty-two and thirty-four, and is an odd number. It is divisible by 1, 3, 11, and 33.

</doc>
<doc id="79573" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79573" title="34 (number)">
34 (number)

Thirty-four is a number. It comes between thirty-three and thirty-five, and is an even number. It is divisible by 1, 2, 17, and 34.

</doc>
<doc id="79574" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79574" title="35 (number)">
35 (number)

Thirty-five is a number. It comes between thirty-four and thirty-six, and is an odd number. It is divisible by 1, 5, 7, and 35.

</doc>
<doc id="79577" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79577" title="36 (number)">
36 (number)

Thirty-six is a number. It comes between thirty-five and thirty-seven, and is an even number. It is divisible by 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 9, 12, 18, and 36. 36 is the 6th square number after 1, 4, 9, 16, and 25.

</doc>
<doc id="79580" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79580" title="37 (number)">
37 (number)

Thirty-seven is a number. It comes between thirty-six and thirty-eight, and is an odd number. It is also the 12th prime number, after 2, 3, 5, 7, 11, 13, 17, 19, 23, 29, and 31.

</doc>
<doc id="79612" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79612" title="Jewitchery">
Jewitchery

Jewitchery is a modern religion which has been based on minority beliefs. It started in the New Age beliefs of the 1970s.

</doc>
<doc id="79618" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79618" title="Larissa (moon)">
Larissa (moon)

Larissa or Neptune VII, is the fifth closest moon to Neptune. It is named after Larissa, a lover of Poseidon (Neptune) in Greek mythology.
It was first found by Harold J. Reitsema, William B. Hubbard, Larry A. Lebofsky and David J. Tholen based on ground-based stellar occultation observations on May 24, 1981, and given the designation S/1981 N 1 and said on 29 May 1981. The moon was refound and confirmed to be the only object in its orbit during the "Voyager 2" flyby in 1989 after which it received another designation S/1989 N 2 on August 2, 1989.
Larissa is not a sphere and appears to be cratered a lot, with no sign of any geological changes. Little else is known about it.

</doc>
<doc id="79623" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79623" title="Borat Sagdiyev">
Borat Sagdiyev

Borat Sagdiyev (Kazakh and Russian: Борат Сагдиев) is a fictional Kazakhstani journalist portrayed by British comedian Sacha Baron Cohen. Humour is often derived from Borat being a foreigner and having strange customs, thoughts and behaviour. There is also a lot of toilet humor in the show. Borat hates Gypsies and Jews, especially "the ones who suck blood."
The Borat character first appeared in short clips on "F2F - The Granada Talk TV Show" that Cohen presented in 1996-1997.
Borat was born on July 30, 1972, in the fictional village of Kuzcek, Kazakhstan, to Asimbala Sagdiyev and Boltok the town rapist (who is also his mother's father). He has a 13-year-old son named Hooeylewis and 12-year-old twin boys, named Biram and Bilak, as well as 17 grandchildren. He has an older sister, Natalya (who he has claimed at different times to be either "the number four" or "number two prostitute" in Kazakhstan) and a younger brother, Bilo, who is mentally retarded. It is revealed that he has a second wife in addition to a mistress, a girlfriend and a prostitute.
Borat is shown to have been married several times, after first having been betrothed to his half-sister's plough while in his teens. His first wife, Oksana, was reported in the "Borat" movie to have been "broken" by a bear while taking his brother Bilo for a walk in the forest. The death of Borat's wife did not bother him; he thanks the man who brings him this "good news"—and celebrates by trying to marry Pamela Anderson and eventually reuniting with Luenell, a black prostitute he met while filming his documentary.
Borat is a professional journalist and announcer on Kazakh television. According to various in-character interviews with Sacha Baron Cohen, Borat learned at Astana University, where he studied English, journalism, and plague research. He claims to have created five new plagues which supposedly "killed over 5 million goats and whores in Uzbekistan."
Before this Borat was an ice maker, animal sperm retriever, gypsy catcher, and someone who removes dead birds from a computer.
Borat was a pagan for most of his life. However, in the movie he attends a Pentecostal church service and later converts his village neighbors to Christianity.
Borat greatly admires Joseph Stalin, and claims that both he and Stalin are strong men with powerful "khram" (genitals). He hates women's rights and was surprised to learn that women can vote in some countries. In his spare time, he enjoys playing ping pong, sunbathing while wearing a lime green "mankini", disco dancing, spitting, sitting on comfortable chairs, and taking pictures of women while they "make toilet".
Borat is shown in each episode of "Da Ali G Show", doing funny interviews with real people in the United Kingdom and the United States. The segments were shot in low-quality video to make fun of how poor Kazakhstan is and how it cannot afford good cameras. Of Ali G, Borat comments on his website, "I appear on Alee G shows–He idiot, but it give me lot of girls & pickles; I like ..."
The Borat segments on "Da Ali G Show" use a rock and roll version of the Russian folk tune "Korobeiniki" as the theme song.
Was part of a six-part Ali G show originally on Channel 4 (UK) in March 2000.
Five Borat sketches were shown: "Etiquette", Hunting, Cambridge, Edinburgh and Henley. The "Guides" to "English Gentlemen", "Politics" and "Sport" were also filmed at this time but released later as part of "Ali G" DVDs.
A special shown on the E4 launch night (UK) in January 2001 known as "The Best of Borat".
Some of the best parts were the "Guide to Sport" and a some video of Borat's village in Kazakhstan. Though the village they used was really in Romania.
Shown as part of a six part "Ali G Show" originally on HBO (USA) in February 2003.
Six Borat sketches were shown, in the form of "Guides" to "Dating", "Etiquette", "Acting", "Men", "Baseballs" and "The (Deep) South". A "Guide to Animals" was filmed but released at a later date as part of an "Ali G" DVD. (Alyssa Greenfill was also in it).
Shown as part of a six-part "Ali G Show" originally on HBO (USA) in July 2004. (C4 was the UK channel where Ali G and Borat originally appeared, and the series for America was a HBO/C4 co-production).
Six Borat sketches were shown: "Wine Tasting", "Politics", "Country Music", "Hobbies", "Buying a House" and "Jobs" (careers). A "Guide to Hunting" was filmed but only aired in the UK because it bothered animal rights people in America.
Borat appeared in the Ali G movie "Ali G Indahouse" as a Kazak diplomat. Borat greets Ali G with a hug and kiss, but Ali pushes him away. Borat then calls Ali a "cocksucker". In the end, Borat performs a hip-hop song with superstar Max Allard.
Subtitled "Cultural Learnings of America for Make Benefit Glorious Nation of Kazakhstan", the movie "Borat" is mockumentary comedy. Most of those appearing in the movie are not paid performers, but real people whom Borat met on his journey. The movie was distributed by 20th Century Fox, and directed by Larry Charles. It premiered at the 2006 Toronto International Film Festival, and was released across Europe and North America on November 3, 2006.
The movie follows Borat in his travels across the United States, as he commits cultural and exposes a few American ones. Over the course of the movie, Borat falls in love with Pamela Anderson after watching a rerun of "Baywatch," and vows to make her his wife.
The movie opened at # 1 in the U.S., taking in $26.4 million on a limited release of 837 screens during its first weekend, beating "Fahrenheit 9/11" as the biggest opening weekend for a movie released in fewer than 1,000 cinemas. Cohen celebrated the release of the movie with a host of promotional 'in-character' interviews.
On November 9, 2006, the Russian Federal Agency for Culture and Cinematography issued an opinion, citing "it could offend viewers in relation to certain ethnic groups and religions."
The movie expanded its release on the second weekend to 2,566 screens, where it took in an additional $29 million.
In 2007, Cohen won a Golden Globe for "Best Performance by an Actor in a Motion Picture - Musical Or Comedy".
With a production budget of $18,000,000, the movie earned $128,501,044 in America and another $128,848,505 in the rest of the world. $257,349,549 in total as of March 2007.
In 2007, a book from Cohen was released entitled, "Touristic Guidings to Glorious Nation of Kazakhstan/ Touristic Guidings to Minor Nation of U.S. and A.", with humor about both countries in the same style as movie.
Though he pretends to speak Kazakh, Borat really speaks in Hebrew mixed with some Polish and other Slavic language phrases, such as "" and "" (Polish "how are you" and "thank you").
The Borat character also lapses into Hebrew while purporting to sing the Kazakhstani national anthem at a Savannah Sand Gnats game. He kept repeating a famous Hebrew folk song: (kum bachur atzel ve'tze la'avoda - "get up lazy guy and go to work [...]" ) [...] (kookooriku kookooriku ha'tarnegol kara) ("cock-a-doodle-do the cock has crowed"), and also called Kazakhstan a distant/desolate place (literally "hole" ()("hor")).
His producer Azamat Bagatov speaks only Armenian.
In the opening scenes in the town of Kuzcek, because these scenes were shot in Glod, Romania, the villagers speak Romanian. As in the rest of the movie, what is spoken does not match the translation given in the subtitles. For example, when Borat's wife Oksana speaks, the subtitles show her telling Borat to "Do something useful and dig his mother's grave," when she is actually telling him to go into "the devil's cunt."
Some say that Kazakhstan is not as bad as Borat says it is and that it is wrong of him to say such things.
In August 2004, the Chief Rabbi of Kazakhstan, at an international religious meeting in Brussels, stated that in 10 years in the country he had never faced anti-Semitism. He praised the Government of Kazakhstan for its treatment of the Jewish community.
On October 19, the Associated Press reported that Kazakhstan's Deputy Foreign Minister, Rakhat Aliyev, had invited Cohen to visit Kazakhstan to see how wrong he was about it. In an interview, Aliyev asserted that:
His trip could yield a lot of discoveries—that women not only travel inside buses but also drive their own cars, that we make wine from grapes, that Jews can freely attend synagogues and so on.
Borat's movie has frequently been accused of promoting antiziganism. The scenes supposedly filmed in Borat's Kazakhstani village were actually filmed in an impoverished Roma (gipsy) village of Glod in Romania. "USA Today" reports that poverty villagers were offered between $3.30 and $5.50 to bring animals into their houses and perform other acts some critics called humiliating. The studio contends that
participants were paid double the rate recommended by the Romanian movie office for extras.
Two villagers of Glod have hired reparation attorney Ed Fagan to sue the makers of the movie for $30 million for human rights abuses. Fagan intends to submit lawsuits in New York and Florida state courts, as well as in Frankfurt, Germany. Fagan said that he hoped to "teach Hollywood a very expensive lesson." The lawsuit was thrown out by U.S. District Judge Loretta Preska in a hearing in early December 2006 on the ground that the charges were too vague to stand up in court. Fagan plans to refile.
The Borat character has elicited some controversy, mostly related to his frequent displays of anti-Semitism and anti-Zionism.
Baron Cohen, who is himself Jewish, has explained his character's racism by stating that the segments show how people are sometimes racist because others around them are too and that it is important to stand up against racism.
When I was in university, there was this major historian of the Third Reich, Ian Kershaw, who said, 'The path to Auschwitz was paved with indifference.' I know it's not very funny being a comedian talking about the Holocaust, but it's an interesting idea that not everyone in Germany had to be a raving anti-Semite. They just had to be apathetic.
Regarding the enthusiastic response to his song "In My Country There is Problem" (detailed below), he says, "Did it reveal that they were anti-Semitic? Perhaps. But maybe it just revealed that they were indifferent to anti-Semitism."
However, the Anti-Defamation League, a U.S.-based group that “...combat[s] anti-Semitism and bigotry of all kinds”, complained to HBO after Borat performed a country western song titled "In My Country There Is Problem" that called on people to 'throw the Jew down the well', warning them that 'you must be careful of his teeth' and that 'you must grab him by his horns', to applause and joining in from some of the audience in Tucson, Arizona. The chorus goes: "Throw the Jew down the well/So my country can be free/You must grab him by his horns/Then we have a big party."
In another scene, Borat visits the Serengeti Range ranch in Texas, where the owner of the ranch confides that he believes the Holocaust was a necessity for Germany. He further implies that he would have no problem running a ranch where people can hunt, in Borat's words, "deer... then Jew."
An interview with James Broadwater, an evangelical Christian and Republican candidate for U.S. Congress from Mississippi, caused Broadwater to receive some hateful emails after an episode of "Da Ali G Show" aired in which Broadwater stated that Jews will go to Hell. He was told that the interview would be played in foreign countries to teach others about the American political system. Broadwater later posted a letter on his website against "Da Ali G Show," explaining that his statement referred to a theological belief that anyone that "accepts Jesus Christ as Lord and Saviour will spend eternity in Heaven, while everyone who rejects Him will spend eternity in Hell." Broadwater did not apologise for his comments. Instead, he insisted that "the liberal, anti-God media needs to be brought under the strict control of the FCC, and that as soon as possible."
In the movie, Borat continues to hate Jews. He does not like to fly while in America in case the Jews make another 9/11". Later, he finds himself in a hotel run by an old Jewish couple, he tries to "escape", and throws money at two bugs on the floor, afraid that the Jews have shapeshifted into the cockroaches.
Cohen later joked, upon receiving a British comedy award, that Borat was guest of honour at the International Conference to Review the Global Vision of the Holocaust in Tehran.
In January 2005, after pretending to be making a documentary, Cohen angered a crowd at a rodeo in Salem, Virginia. The crowd first cheered his statements of "support" for the Iraq war, including statements like "We is support your war of terror", and "May George Bush drink the blood of every single man, woman, and child of Iraq". However, the applause softened when he exclaimed "May you destroy their country so that for the next thousand years, not even a single lizard will survive in their desert!" The crowd then got infuriated when he sang the (fictional) Kazakhstan national anthem to an off-key version of the US national anthem.
"If he had been out there a minute longer, I think somebody would have shot him," said one witness. "People were booing him, flipping him off." For his own safety, Cohen was escorted from the venue. (Much of the event appears in the movie. A credulous news report about the incident, aired on a local television station, is included in the DVD extras).
Baron Cohen has also been accused of creating a derogatory image of Kazakhstan.
In November 2005, following Borat's hosting of the MTV Europe Music Awards in Lisbon, Kazakhstan's Foreign Ministry said he was worried about the character. Spokesman Yerzhan Ashykbayev told a news conference: "We view Mr Cohen's behaviour at the MTV Europe Music Awards as utterly unacceptable, being a concoction of bad taste and ill manners which is completely incompatible with the ethics and civilised behaviour of Kazakhstan's people", concluding "We reserve the right to any legal action to prevent new pranks of the kind."
Baron Cohen has since posted a video on the "Official Borat Homesite" where Borat responds to Ashykbayev in character. In the video, Borat states, in part:
In response to Mr. Ashykbayev's comments, I'd like to state I have no connection with Mr. Cohen and fully support my government's decision to sue this Jew. Since the 2003 Tuleyakiv reforms, Kazakhstan is as civilized as any other country in the world. Women can now travel on "inside" of bus, homosexuals no longer have to wear blue hats, and age of consent has been raised to eight years old. Please, captain of industry; I invite you to come to Kazakhstan where we have incredible natural resources, hardworking labour, and some of the cleanest prostitutes in whole of Central Asia. Goodbye! Dzienkuje!
Reuters quoted an unnamed Western diplomat as saying "They (the Government of Kazakhstan) are damned if they do [respond] and damned if they don't," he said. "It's sort of unfortunate that he hit upon Kazakhstan." Another unnamed source inside Kazakhstan's Washington embassy called Borat a "one-man diplomatic wrecking ball."
The next week, the government hired two Western public relations firms to counter Borat's claims, and ran a four-page advertisement in "The New York Times". The ad carried testimonials about the nation's democracy, education system and the power and influence enjoyed by women. On a previous occasion, Borat responded to such official complaints by issuing his own "press release", a bunch of random Cyrillic characters. He would again respond when promoting his movie in front of the Kazakhstani Embassy in Washington, roundly denouncing the advertisements as "Uzbek propaganda".
On December 13, 2005, the right to use the domain name www.borat.kz was suspended, and the site attached to it was closed down. The domain-issuing body said that they took this action since false names were given for the site's administrators, and also because the site www.borat.kz was hosted outside Kazakhstan. However, the stated underlying cause of the action was in order to censor the content of the site: "We've done this so he can't badmouth Kazakhstan under the .kz domain name," Nurlan Isin, President of the Association of Kazakh IT Companies, told Reuters. "He can go and do whatever he wants at other domains."
Reporters Without Borders petitioned the ICANN ombudsman to allow Borat to keep the website. Meanwhile, the "Official Borat Homesite" was moved to the .tv domain, where it remains. As of October 14, 2007, the former domain name was still suspended. The 2006 annual human rights report released by the US State Department cited the loss of the .kz website as evidence of the Kazakhstani government's efforts to stop free speech.
Borat has, however, recently been defended by Dariga Nazarbayeva, a politician and daughter of Kazakhstan's President Nursultan Nazarbayev. She stated on a national news programme "Karavan" that Cohen's website "damaged our image much less than its closure, which was covered by all global news agencies," and "We should not be afraid of humour and we shouldn't try to control everything, I think."
On September 28, 2006, Cohen appeared in character as Borat at the White House gates to give a press conference and invite "Supreme Warlord Premier George Walker Bush" to a screening of his forthcoming movie, along with "O.J. Simpson", "Melvin Gibsons" and other "American dignitaries", after which they would join him for drinks at Hooters. Secret Service Uniformed Division Officers would not admit him on to the grounds.
On October 18, 2006, European Centre for Antiziganism Research, which pleads against discrimination of Gypsies, filed a complaint with prosecutors based on Borat's comments about Gypsies in his movie. The complaint accuses him of spreading lies and inciting violence against the ethnic group.
At a press conference just hours before the live broadcast of the 2005 MTV Europe Music Awards, he shocked local and international journalists in Lisbon, Portugal, by bringing a bag of birds from Romania (the first European country to detect avian influenza) as a gift, then proceeded to say he was sorry that they had all died.
WAPT (Jackson, Mississippi) TV news producer Dharma Arthur states in "Newsweek" she lost her job as a result of her booking Borat on a local afternoon news program. At the time of the appearance, she was unaware of Cohen's act. During an interview with anchor Brad McMullan, Borat made sexual and scatological references, kissed McMullan, and later disrupted a live weather report. She said: "Because of him, my boss lost faith in my abilities and second-guessed everything I did... I spiralled into depression, and... was released from my contract... It took me three months to find another job, and now I'm thousands of dollars in debt and struggling to keep my house out of foreclosure... How upsetting that a man who leaves so much harm in his path is lauded as a comedic genius."
The broadcast, including the initial interview, the disrupted weather report, and several behind-the-scenes shots made by Borat's own movie crew, is seen in the "Borat" movie.
Not all hoax victims threaten to sue, however. Behind-the-scenes interviews with Randall Shelley ("Guide to Baseball"), Danny Passmore ("Guide to Hobbies USA"), Jennifer Defrancisco/Charles Di Cagno ("Guide to Acting"), Ken Goldberg ("Guide to Being a Real Man") and Peta Heskell ("Guide to English Gentlemen") have all resulted in the subjects deciding not to sue.
In the 2007 movie "Epic Movie", Danny Jacobs plays Borat at the end of the movie, and repeats the "NOT!" joke used in "".
The "30-Second Bunnies Theatre" has produced a parody of Borat, although in this case, he is from Bunzakhstan (a parody of Kazakhstan).

</doc>
<doc id="79624" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79624" title="Dermatology">
Dermatology

Dermatology is a branch of medicine that deals with skin, hair, sweat glands, etc. 
Dermatologists are doctors who diagnose and treat diseases and tumors of the skin, hair, and sweat glands.

</doc>
<doc id="79642" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79642" title="Maria Röhl">
Maria Röhl

Maria Christina Röhl, (1801-1875), was a Swedish artist. She was a sketch artist and drew portraits of many famous people. In Sweden, her name is spelled as Maria Röhl. 
Her paintings are displayed at the national museum at in Stockholm, and in the royal library, there are one thousand eight hundred of her portraits. 
She was born in a rich family, but in 1822, her parents died, and she became poor. She then thought that she would become a teacher, but the artist Christian Forsell taught her to draw portraits of people like an artist. 
She made portratis of friends of the rich family she lived with, and soon, it had become popular to go to her when you wanted to have a picture of yourself. This was before photography, and it was cheaper than having your portrait painted in oil.
The king made her a court-painter in 1843, and in 1843-1846, she studied in Paris. She worked as a portrait-drawer for thirty years. Eventually, however, the new art of photography led to less assignments for her. 

</doc>
<doc id="79645" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79645" title="Basil Hume">
Basil Hume

George Basil Cardinal Hume OSB, OM, MA, STL (2 March 1923 – 17 June 1999) was of a British prelate of the Roman Catholic Church. He served as Archbishop of Westminster from 1976 and President of the Catholic Bishops' Conference of England and Wales from 1979 until his death. Hume was elevated to the cardinalate in 1976.
George Haliburton Hume was born in Newcastle upon Tyne to Sir William Errington Hume and Marie Elizabeth Tisseyre. His father was a Protestant heart doctor from Scotland, and his mother the French Catholic daughter of an army officer. He had three sisters and one brother.
Hume joined the Benedictine monastery at Ampleforth Abbey in North Yorkshire at the age of 18. He took the name Basil when he made his final promise to be a monk 1945. He became a priest on July 23, 1950. 
On 9 February 1976, Pope Paul VI made Hume the Archbishop of Westminster, the highest ranking Catholic priest in England and Wales. He was the first monk to be archbishop since 1850 when Roman Catholic bishops returned to England.
Hume was told he was being appointed at dinner 
Cardinal Hume's time in office saw Catholicism become more accepted in Britain than it had been for 400 years. 1995 saw the first visit of Queen Elizabeth II to Westminster Cathedral. He also read from the Bible at the installation ceremony of Archbishop Robert Runcie as of Canterbury in 1980. It was also during his term in Westminster that Pope John Paul II made first ever visit of a pope to England.
In 1998, Hume asked John Paul II for permission to retire, so that he could go back to his monastery at Ampleforth and spend some time fly fishing and watching Newcastle United Football Club. The request was refused.
He was diagnosed with inoperable abdominal cancer in April 1999. On 2 June of that same year, Queen Elizabeth awarded him the Order of Merit. He died just over two weeks later in London, at age 76. His funeral was broadcast live on British national television and he was buried in Westminster Cathedral. John Paul II said he was a "shepherd of great spiritual and moral character".
Anthony Howard, "Basil Hume, the monk cardinal", Headline, 2005 (ISBN 0-7553-1247-3).

</doc>
<doc id="79647" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79647" title="Proteus (moon)">
Proteus (moon)

Proteus or Neptune VIII, is the second biggest moon of Neptune, and its biggest close moon. It is named after Proteus, the shape-changing sea god of Greek mythology. 
Proteus was found from the images taken by "Voyager 2" probe during the Neptune flyby in 1989. It got the designation S/1989 N 1. Stephen P. Synnott and Bradford A. Smith said (IAUC 4806) its discovery on July 7, 1989, speaking only of “17 frames taken over 21 days”, which gives a discovery date of sometime before June 16. The name was given on 16 September 1991.
Proteus is more than 400 kilometres in diameter, bigger than Nereid, another moon of Neptune. However, it was not found by Earth-based telescopes because it is so close to the planet that it is lost in the glare of reflected sunlight.
Proteus is one of the darkest objects in the solar system. Like Saturn's moon Phoebe, it reflects only 6 percent of the sunlight that hits it. Proteus is very cratered, showing no sign of any geological changes. It is also not a sphere; scientists believe Proteus is about as big as a body of its density can be without being pulled into a spherical shape by its own gravity. Saturn's moon Mimas has much more spherical shape despite being less massive than Proteus.

</doc>
<doc id="79658" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79658" title="Nereid (moon)">
Nereid (moon)

Nereid or Neptune II, is a moon of Neptune.
Nereid was found on 1 May 1949 by Gerard P. Kuiper, who suggested the name in the report of his discovery. It is named after the Nereids, sea-nymphs of Greek mythology. 
It was the farthest of Neptune's known moons for a long time (Halimede through Neso have since taken that honour), and is the third biggest, with a diameter of 340 km. Its orbit averages 5,513,400 km in radius, but is very eccentric and varies from 1,353,600 to 9,623,700 kilometres. For a long time this was the most highly eccentric orbit of any known moon in the solar system, but it has found that Bestla, a recently discovered moon of Saturn has a more eccentric orbit. The unusual orbit suggests that it may be a captured asteroid or Kuiper belt object, or possibly that it was perturbed during the capture of Neptune's largest moon Triton. Very little else is known of Nereid.
Nereid was too far to be properly imaged by the "Voyager 2" probe when it visited the Neptune system in 1989. Photos sent back show only its very non-spherical shape, and no surface features could be seen at the resolution available.

</doc>
<doc id="79662" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79662" title="38 (number)">
38 (number)

Thirty-eight is a number. It comes between thirty-seven and thirty-nine, and is an even number. It is divisible by 1, 2, 19, and 38.

</doc>
<doc id="79663" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79663" title="39 (number)">
39 (number)

Thirty-nine is a number. It comes between thirty-eight and forty, and is an odd number. It is divisible by 1, 3, 13, and 39.

</doc>
<doc id="79664" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79664" title="41 (number)">
41 (number)

Forty-one is a number. It comes between forty and forty-two, and is an odd number. It is also the 13th prime number, after 2, 3, 5, 7, 11, 13, 17, 19, 23, 29, 31, and 37.

</doc>
<doc id="79666" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79666" title="Ocean Springs, Mississippi">
Ocean Springs, Mississippi

Ocean Springs is a city in Jackson County, Mississippi, USA, about 2 miles east of Biloxi. It is part of the Pascagoula, Mississippi Metropolitan Statistical Area. The population was 17,225 at the 2000 census.

</doc>
<doc id="79667" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79667" title="42 (number)">
42 (number)

Forty-two is a number. It comes between forty-one and forty-three, and is an even number. It is divisible by 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 14, 21, and 42. 
42 is an extremely interesting number to mathematicians, because of its many features. For example:
There are at least a dozen more features of interest to number theory enthusiasts.
"42" is the "Answer to the Ultimate Question of Life, the Universe, and Everything" in Douglas Adams' "The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy" books. 
The number makes regular appearances in Lewis Carroll's writings, such as in "The Hunting of the Snark". Rule Forty-two in "Alice's Adventures in Wonderland" is "All persons more than a mile high to leave the court". Charles Dodgson was a mathematician.

</doc>
<doc id="79669" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79669" title="Gautier, Mississippi">
Gautier, Mississippi

Gautier is a city along the Gulf of Mexico, west of Pascagoula, in Jackson County, Mississippi, United States. It is part of the Pascagoula, Mississippi Metropolitan Statistical Area. The population was 11,681 at the 2000 census. Locally, the name is pronounced as "go-CHAY," reflecting its French origin. Descendants of the Gautier family, for whom it was named, still live in the area.

</doc>
<doc id="79670" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79670" title="Pascagoula, Mississippi">
Pascagoula, Mississippi

Pascagoula is a city in Jackson County, Mississippi, United States. It is the main city of the Pascagoula, Mississippi Metropolitan Statistical Area, as a part of the Gulfport-Biloxi-Pascagoula, Mississippi Combined Statistical Area. The population was 22,392 at the 2010 census. It is the county seat of Jackson County.

</doc>
<doc id="79673" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79673" title="43 (number)">
43 (number)

Forty-three is a number. It comes between forty-two and forty-four, and is an odd number. It is also the 14th prime number, after 2, 3, 5, 7, 11, 13, 17, 19, 23, 29, 31, 37, and 41.

</doc>
<doc id="79674" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79674" title="44 (number)">
44 (number)

Forty-four is a number. It comes between forty-three and forty-five, and is an even number. It is divisible by 1, 2, 4, 11, 22 and itself, 44.

</doc>
<doc id="79678" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79678" title="Sonoma County, California">
Sonoma County, California

Sonoma County is a county in the U.S. state of California. It is located north of the San Francisco Bay. It is the northernmost of the nine San Francisco Bay Area counties. Sonoma County is surrounded by 4 counties: Marin County to the south, Mendocino County to the north, Lake County to the northeast, and Napa County to the east. The county seat is in Santa Rosa. 
Sonoma County was one of the original counties formed when California became a state in 1850.
The U.S. Census Bureau estimates that the population was 500,292 in 2014.
Some of the cities in Sonoma County include:
<br>

</doc>
<doc id="79679" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79679" title="45 (number)">
45 (number)

Forty-five is a number. It comes between forty-four and forty-six, and is an odd number. It is divisible by 1, 3, 5, 9, 15, and 45.

</doc>
<doc id="79680" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79680" title="46 (number)">
46 (number)

Forty-six is a number. It comes between forty-five and forty-seven, and is an even number. It is divisible by 1, 2, 23, and 46.

</doc>
<doc id="79681" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79681" title="Russian River">
Russian River

The Russian River is the largest river and watercourse in Sonoma County, California. In addition to flowing through Sonoma, part of the river is also in Mendocino County, California. The mouth of the river is at the Pacific Ocean at Goat Rock Beach.

</doc>
<doc id="79682" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79682" title="47 (number)">
47 (number)

Forty-seven is a number. It comes between forty-six and forty-eight, and is an odd number. It is also the 15th prime number, after 2, 3, 5, 7, 11, 13, 17, 19, 23, 29, 31, 37, 41, and 43.

</doc>
<doc id="79685" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79685" title="Halimede (moon)">
Halimede (moon)

Halimede is a non-spherical moon of Neptune. It was found by Matthew J. Holman "et al." on August 14, 2002.
Halimede follows a very inclined and very eccentric orbit seen on the image in relation to other non-spherical moons of Neptune. 
Halimede is about 62 kilometres in diameter (assuming an albedo of 0.04) and appears neutral (grey) in the visible light. 
Given the very similar colour of the moon to that of Nereid together with a high probability (41%) of their collision in the lifespan of the Solar system, it has been suggested that the moon could be a piece of Nereid.
Halimede, or Neptune IX, like many of the farther moons of Neptune, is named after one of the Nereids, the fifty daughters of Nereus and Doris. Before the announcement of its name on February 3, 2007 (IAUC 8802), Halimede was known by the designation S/2002 N 1.

</doc>
<doc id="79688" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79688" title="Hurricane Katrina tornado outbreak">
Hurricane Katrina tornado outbreak

The Hurricane Katrina tornado outbreak was a tornado outbreak across the eastern United States from August 29 to 31, 2005, spawned mostly by the outer bands of Hurricane Katrina (or the remnants thereof).
One person was killed and numerous communities suffered damage of varying degrees from central Mississippi to Pennsylvania, with Georgia the hardest hit. It was the worst tornado outbreak ever in the month of August in that state.
There were a total of 44 confirmed tornadoes - 18 in Georgia, 11 in Mississippi, 5 each in Virginia and Pennsylvania, 4 in Alabama, and 1 isolated tornado in Florida three days before the main outbreak.

</doc>
<doc id="79691" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79691" title="Square number">
Square number

A square number, sometimes also called a perfect square, is the result of an integer multiplied by itself. 1, 4, 9, 16 and 25 are the first five square numbers.
In a formula, the square of a number "n" is denoted (exponentiation), usually pronounced as ""n" squared". The name square number comes from the name of the shape; see below.
Square numbers are non-negative. Another way of saying that a (non-negative) number is a square number, is that its square root is again an integer. For example,  = 3, so 9 is a square number.
The squares smaller than 60 are:
There are infinitely many square numbers, as there are infinitely many natural numbers.
The number "m" is a square number if and only if one can compose a square of "m" equal (lesser) squares:
A square with side length "n" has area .
The expression for the "n"th square number is "n". This is also equal to the sum of the first "n" odd numbers as can be seen in the above pictures, where a square results from the previous one by adding an odd number of points (shown in magenta). The formula follows:
So for example, .
A square number can end only with digits 0, 1, 4, 6, 9, or 25 in base 10, as follows:
A square number cannot be a perfect number.
All fourth powers, sixth powers, eighth powers and so on are perfect squares.
Squares of even numbers are even (and in fact divisible by 4), since .
Squares of odd numbers are odd, since .
It follows that square roots of even square numbers are even, and square roots of odd square numbers are odd.
As all even square numbers are divisible by 4, the even numbers of the form are not square numbers.
As all odd square numbers are of the form , the odd numbers of the form are not square numbers.
Squares of odd numbers are of the form , since and is an even number.

</doc>
<doc id="79694" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79694" title="Miami-Dade County, Florida">
Miami-Dade County, Florida

Miami-Dade County (formerly known as "Dade County" and many times referred to as simply "Miami" or "Dade") is a county in the southeastern part of the state of Florida. The United States Census Bureau estimates that in 2006, about 2,402,208 people lived in the county. That is more than any other county in Florida. Among all United States counties, it is in eighth place. The county seat is the city of Miami.

</doc>
<doc id="79698" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79698" title="Broward County, Florida">
Broward County, Florida

Broward County is a county in the U.S. state of Florida. As of 2000, 1,623,018 people lived there. This makes it the second most populated county in the state. According to 2006 U.S. Census estimates, 1,787,636 people lived there. Its county seat is Fort Lauderdale, Florida.

</doc>
<doc id="79700" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79700" title="Max Mayfield">
Max Mayfield

Britt Max Mayfield (born on September 19, 1948 in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma) is a meteorologist who served as the director of the National Hurricane Center from 2000 to 2007. As director, Mayfield became a trusted voice in preparing for weather-related disasters, particularly those involving tropical storms and hurricanes.

</doc>
<doc id="79701" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79701" title="Levee">
Levee

A levee, or levée, is a raised bank of a river. A levee (European name: dike) offers protection against floods. There are two types of levee's. Riverdikes and seadikes. The seadike was invented in Holland in the year 1277.
The first dikes where build in ancient Mesopotamia. The levee's they used where earth walls and gave protection against the meltwater. 3000 years ago They used levee's in ancient Egypt for their irrigation systems. 
'Levée' comes from the French verb "lever", "to raise". Other names are 'floodbank' or 'stopbank'. It is a natural or artificial wall, usually earthen and often parallels the course of a river. The term "levee" came into English use in New Orleans circa 1672. The word dike comes from the dutch language verb "dijk". 

</doc>
<doc id="79702" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79702" title="River delta">
River delta

A river delta is a landform where the mouth of a river flows into an ocean, sea, desert, estuary, lake or another river. It is formed by sediment carried by the river being deposited in the wider mouth. The flow of water is often slower-moving there. 
The word "delta" comes from the upper-case letter delta, Δ , in the Greek alphabet because a river delta resembles the shape of this letter.

</doc>
<doc id="79704" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79704" title="Lockheed C-5 Galaxy">
Lockheed C-5 Galaxy

The C-5 Galaxy is a very big military cargo aircraft made by Lockheed (now Lockheed Martin) used by the United States Air Force. It first flew in 1968 and was introduced in 1970. It is one of the biggest transports in the world. It is 247 feet (75 meters) long, 65 feet (19 meters) high, has a wingspan of 222 feet (67 meters), and can weigh up to 840,000 pounds (378,000 kilograms).
It is used to fly military equipment on to battlefields, and because of its size, it can even carry tanks and helicopters. Five C-5s have crashed.

</doc>
<doc id="79706" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79706" title="Template (word processing)">
Template (word processing)

The term template, when used in the context of word processing software, refers to a sample "fill-in-the-blank" document that can be completed either by hand or through an automated iterative process, such as a with a wizard. Once the template is completed, the user can edit, save and manage the result as an ordinary word processing document. Word processing templates give the ability to bypass the original setup and configuration time necessary to create standardized documents such as a resume. They also give the automatic configuration of the User Interface of the Word processing software, with features such as autocompletion, toolbars, thesaurus, and spelling options.

</doc>
<doc id="79707" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79707" title="Hurricane Betsy">
Hurricane Betsy

Hurricane Betsy was a strong hurricane of the 1965 Atlantic hurricane season which caused a lot of damage in the Bahamas, Florida, and Louisiana. Betsy made its most strongest landfall near the mouth of the Mississippi River, causing major flooding of the waters of Lake Pontchartrain into New Orleans; at the time it was the costliest hurricane in the history of the United States, and, as the first hurricane to cause over a billion dollars in damages, earned the nickname "Billion-Dollar Betsy".
It first hit the Lesser Ahtilles then Miami and New Orleans. 75 people died.

</doc>
<doc id="79708" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79708" title="Houston Chronicle">
Houston Chronicle

The Houston Chronicle is the largest daily newspaper in Texas, USA. As of March 2007, it is the ninth largest newspaper circulating in the United States. With the demise of its long-time rival the "Houston Post", its nearest major competitors are located in Dallas-Fort Worth.

</doc>
<doc id="79709" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79709" title="Delta wing">
Delta wing

A delta wing is a wing used on fixed-wing aircraft, mainly fighter aircraft. Delta wings are triangles. Some were "tailless" (which means they had no elevators) and others were "tailed." Many of the Dassault Aviation Mirages had delta wings (like the Mirage III, Mirage V, Mirage 50, and Mirage 2000).

</doc>
<doc id="79711" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79711" title="Popular Mechanics">
Popular Mechanics

Popular Mechanics is an American magazine devoted to science and technology. It was first published January 11, 1902 by H.H. Windsor, and has been owned since the 1950s by the Hearst Corporation There is also a Latin American edition that has been published for decades and a newly formed South African version available.
"Popular Mechanics" features regular sections on cars, trucks, science, technology, home how-to and outdoor adventures. A recurring column is "Jay Leno's Garage" featuring observations by the famed late-night talk show host and vehicle enthusiast.

</doc>
<doc id="79712" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79712" title="Scientific American">
Scientific American

Scientific American is a popular science magazine, published (first weekly and later monthly) since August 28, 1845, making it the oldest continuously published magazine in the United States. It brings articles about new and innovative research to the non-scientific audience.

</doc>
<doc id="79713" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79713" title="The Times-Picayune">
The Times-Picayune

The Times-Picayune is a tri-weekly newspaper published in New Orleans, Louisiana, United States.

</doc>
<doc id="79714" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79714" title="Poultry">
Poultry

Poultry is a group of domesticated birds kept for meat, eggs, and feathers. These usually include farm animals such as ducks, chickens, geese, turkeys, and among other types of birds.

</doc>
<doc id="79715" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79715" title="Gas station">
Gas station

A gas station, also known as a filling station, fueling station, service station or petrol station is a facility which sells fuel and lubricants for motor vehicles. The most common fuels sold are gasoline (petrol) or diesel fuel.
The fuel is dispensed by a gas pump. Some of the different kinds of fuel are:
Many gas stations have a convenience store close to the pumps, to make extra earnings.

</doc>
<doc id="79716" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79716" title="Warehouse">
Warehouse

A warehouse is a commercial building for storage of goods. Warehouses are used by manufacturers, importers, exporters, wholesalers, transport businesses, customs, etc. They are usually large plain buildings in industrial areas of cities and towns. They have loading docks to load and unload trucks; or sometimes are loaded directly from railways, airports, or seaports. They also often have cranes and forklifts for moving goods, which are usually placed on ISO standard pallets loaded into pallet racks.

</doc>
<doc id="79717" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79717" title="Nursery (horticulture)">
Nursery (horticulture)

A nursery is a place where plants are cultivated and grown to usable size. There are retail nurseries which sell to the general public, wholesale nurseries which sell only to other nurseries and to commercial landscape gardeners, and private nurseries which supply the needs of institutions or private estates. Some retail and wholesale nurseries sell by mail.

</doc>
<doc id="79718" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79718" title="Credit union">
Credit union

A credit union is a cooperative financial institution that is owned and controlled by its members. Credit unions differ from banks and other financial institutions in that the members who have accounts in the credit union are the owners of the credit union - there are no external shareholders. Profits from the operations of a credit union are distributed to members in the form of dividends.
The basic services of a credit union are to offer savings accounts and loans to members.

</doc>
<doc id="79730" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79730" title="Tettigoniidae">
Tettigoniidae

The family Tettigoniidae, known in American English as katydids and in British English as bush-crickets, contains more than 6,400 species. It is part of the suborder Ensifera.
They are also known as long-horned grasshoppers, though they are more closely related to crickets than to grasshoppers.
Their antennae may be longer than their own body length, those of the grasshoppers are always relatively short.
Katydids may disguise themselves brilliantly. Some look exactly like dead brown leaves, complete with holes, lying still on the forest floor of the rainforests of Asia and South America. Others act like green, living leaves fluttering from a branch. They even have vein-like markings like real leaves.

</doc>
<doc id="79734" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79734" title="Bills, Bills, Bills">
Bills, Bills, Bills

"Bills, Bills, Bills" was the first single (music) from Destiny's Child's second album "The Writing's on the Wall". A track which echoed the men-bashing sentiments of TLC's massive summer hit "No Scrubs", and even featured the same producer (Kevin She"kspere Briggs). The song provided the group with their first US chart-topper in July 1999, and also reached the UK Top 10. The album featured a greater creative input from the group, although they still relied on a production crew including Rodney Jerkins, Missy Elliott, Chad Elliot, and Dwayne Wiggins of Tony! Toni! Tone!

</doc>
<doc id="79741" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79741" title="Anna Maria Thelott">
Anna Maria Thelott

Anna Maria Thelott, (1683-1710), was a Swedish artist. She was one of the first professional female artists in Sweden and also in Scandinavia. She was an engraver, an illustrator, a woodcut-artist, and a miniaturist. 
Anna Maria was the daughter of the artist Philipp Jacob Thelott the Older, and sister of the artist Philip Jacob Thelott the Younger. When she was a child, she worked together with her brother and her father to illustrate the books ""Campus Elysii"" and ""Atlantica"", by Olof Rudbeck, and when she was grown up, she started to work alone and illustrate papers and maps and other things. She made miniature portraits of people, she drew animals, cities and landscapes. 
Her family lived in Uppsala until 1702, when the city burnt down, and they moved to Stockholm. 
In 1710, Anna Maria became one of the many victims of the last plague in Sweden.

</doc>
<doc id="79742" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79742" title="Justina Casagli">
Justina Casagli

Justina Kristina Casagli, (1794-1841), was a famous singer and actor. She was born in Sweden, but worked in all Europe, especially in Italy and Germany, were she became famous. 
She was born with the name Justina Kristina Wässelius. Her sister, Jeanette Wässelius, also became a singer, but she only worked in Sweden. Justina went to the theatre school Dramatens elevskola in 1805. When she graduated in 1812, she began to work at the theatre Royal Swedish Opera. The same year, she married the Italian dancer Ludovico Casagli, and got the name Justina Casagli. 
She left Sweden with her husband in 1818 and went to Italy. In Italy, she played in the play "Cerentola" in Turino in 1818, in the play "Donna del Lago" in Rome in 1823 and in Lucca 1827 in the play "Matrimonio Segreto". She was a great success, and then worked in Munich in Germany for several years. After that, she tried to get work in the Opera in Sweden again, but her place there was occupied by a new singer, Henriette Widerberg. 
The last years, she lived in Parma, where she died after she had fallen from a window.

</doc>
<doc id="79747" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79747" title="48 (number)">
48 (number)

Forty-eight is a number. It comes between forty-seven and forty-nine, and is an even number. It is divisible by 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 12, 16, 24, and 48.

</doc>
<doc id="79748" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79748" title="49 (number)">
49 (number)

Forty-nine is a number. It comes between forty-eight and fifty, and is an odd number. It is divisible by 7. 49 is the 7th square number after 1, 4, 9, 16, 25, and 36.

</doc>
<doc id="79751" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79751" title="Cynthia Lennon">
Cynthia Lennon

Cynthia Lillian Lennon (born Cynthia Lillian Powell 10 September 1939 - 1 April 2015) was the first wife of John Lennon. Cynthia divorced Lennon in 1968 after he left her for Yoko Ono. She is the mother of Lennon's elder son Julian. 
She was born in Blackpool, Lancashire and raised in Hoylake, Cheshire.

</doc>
<doc id="79755" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79755" title="51 (number)">
51 (number)

Fifty-one is a number. It comes between fifty and fifty-two, and is an odd number. It is divisible by 1, 3, 17, and 51.

</doc>
<doc id="79756" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79756" title="53 (number)">
53 (number)

Fifty-three is a number. It comes between fifty-two and fifty-four, and is an odd number. It is also the 16th prime number, after 2, 3, 5, 7, 11, 13, 17, 19, 23, 29, 31, 37, 41, 43, and 47.

</doc>
<doc id="79760" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79760" title="52 (number)">
52 (number)

Fifty-two is a number. It comes between fifty-one and fifty-three, and is an even number. It is divisible by 1, 2, 4, 13, 26, and 52.

</doc>
<doc id="79762" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79762" title="54 (number)">
54 (number)

Fifty-four is a number. It comes between fifty-three and fifty-five, and is an even number. It is divisible by 1, 2, 3, 6, 9, 18, 27, and 54.

</doc>
<doc id="79763" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79763" title="55 (number)">
55 (number)

Fifty-five is a number. It comes between fifty-four and fifty-six, and is an odd number. It is divisible by 1, 5, 11, and 55.

</doc>
<doc id="79792" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79792" title="Mandrill">
Mandrill

The mandrill ("Mandrillus sphinx") are the wold's largest monkeys. They are also the most colourful primates. The skin colours brighten as the animal gets more excited. Males live mostly on the forest floor, while females and young climb up into trees and bushes.
Males have an orange/yellow beard and an unmistakable bright red and blue snout and rump. Females and juveniles have a duller blue snout and a buff beard. Mandrills can live for 31 years in captivity. They feed on fruits, leaves, roots, seeds, nuts, greens and invertebrates.
Mandrills live in Cameroon, Gabon and the Congo. They live in dense rainforest and coastal forests, although they sometimes go onto the savannah. Mandrills live on the ground and in trees.
Mandrills seem to live in large, stable groups called "hordes". Hordes often number in the hundreds, possibly averaging around 620 individuals and reaching as many as 845. It is difficult to accurately estimate group size in the forest, but filming a group crossing a gap between two forest patches or crossing a road is a reliable way of estimating group size. The largest group verifiably observed in this way contained over 1,300 individuals, in Lopé National Park, Gabon—the largest aggregation of nonhuman primates ever recorded. These groups are made of adult females and their dependent offspring. 
Males live a solitary lifestyle, and only enter hordes when females are ready for mating, which lasts three months each year. All-male bachelor groups are not known to exist.

</doc>
<doc id="79795" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79795" title="Carburization">
Carburization

Carburization (often also called carburizing) is the process by which carbon is introduced into a metal. 
One does it to make the surface harder and more abrasion resistant. But because too great a concentration of carbon makes metal brittle and unworkable, metals are also often decarburized.
Depending on the amount of time and temperature, the affected area can vary in carbon content.
In earlier times, one used a direct application of charcoal packed onto the metal for carburization, but modern techniques use carbon-bearing gases or plasmas (such as carbon dioxide or methane). Carburization is mainly used to harden the surface of low alloy steel.

</doc>
<doc id="79801" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79801" title="56 (number)">
56 (number)

Fifty-six is a number. It comes between fifty-five and fifty-seven, and is an even number. It is divisible by 1, 2, 4, 7, 8, 14, 28, and 56.

</doc>
<doc id="79812" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79812" title="Sao (moon)">
Sao (moon)

Sao is a non-spherical moon of Neptune. It was found by Matthew J. Holman "et al." on August 14, 2002. 
Sao orbits Neptune at a distance of about 22.4 million km and is about 44 kilometers in diameter (assuming an albedo of 0.04).
Sao has a very inclined and eccentric orbit seen on the diagram in relation to other non-sperical moons of Neptune. 
Sao, or Neptune XI, like many of the farther moons of Neptune, is named after one of the Nereids; Sao was associated with sailing and is referred to as "The rescuer" or "Safety". Before the announcement of its name on February 3, 2007 (IAUC 8802), Sao was known provisionally as S/2002 N 2.

</doc>
<doc id="79816" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79816" title="Dresden University of Technology">
Dresden University of Technology

The Dresden University of Technology (; TUD) is a university in Dresden, in Germany. It is the largest university in the state of Saxony and one of the ten largest universities in Germany with around 35,000 students.
Dresden University is one of the oldest colleges of technology in Germany. In 1828, the Saxon Technical School was founded to teach workers in technological subjects such as mechanics and ship construction. In 1871, the institute was renamed the Royal Saxon Polytechnic, and other subjects, such as history and languages, were introduced. By the end of the 19th century the institute had grown into a university covering all subjects. It was given its current name in 1961.
The Dresden University of Technology is organised into 14 departments. Almost all departments are on the main campus south of the city centre, except for the Faculty of Medicine which has its own campus near the Elbe River, east of the city centre, and the Department of Forestry in a town nearby called Tharandt.
The university's annual budget is around €400 million.
The TU Dresden offers a wide range of courses and research. It has a high reputation in technical fields such as electrical engineering or computer science.
The university also has a strong research tradition in microelectronics and transport sciences in the Dresden area, and now is becoming more important in new fields of research such as biotechnology.
TU Dresden is a campus university, meaning most of its buildings are in one area rather than being spread out across the city. Some of its buildings are more than a hundred years old. In recent years these historic building have been complemented by modern buildings (e.g. the library, the main auditorium, the biochemistry department or the life sciences building).
About 60% of the students come from Saxony (about three-quarters live in Dresden), 19% from other eastern German states, 12% from the western German states and 10% from other countries.
In 2005/2006, there were 3,442 international students enrolled at TU Dresden. Most of the foreign students come from Europe (1,527), followed by Asia (1,404) and America (170). Ranked by countries the largest group of students comes from China (710), followed by Poland (294), Vietnam (196), Bulgaria (160) and Russia (154). The university is also quite popular among Central and East European countries such as the neighbouring Czech Republic (which is only away or Ukraine.
Because of the Erasmus programme and partnerships with universities in the United States, there are many English-, French- and Spanish-speaking students. But the language spoken during lessons is nearly always German. To prepare for the university, many international students attend German language courses at the university.
Sports are very popular among the TUD students. There are eight big students' clubs and the summer campus party is among the biggest in Germany. There are cafeterias as at most universities and the largest refectory can compete with some restaurants even as far as menu size.

</doc>
<doc id="79831" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79831" title="57 (number)">
57 (number)

Fifty-seven is a number. It comes between fifty-six and fifty-eight, and is an odd number. It is divisible by 1, 3, 19, and 57.

</doc>
<doc id="79832" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79832" title="58 (number)">
58 (number)

Fifty-eight is a number. It comes between fifty-seven and fifty-nine, and is an even number. It is divisible by 1, 2, 29, and 58.

</doc>
<doc id="79833" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79833" title="59 (number)">
59 (number)

Fifty-nine is a number. It comes between fifty-eight and sixty, and is an odd number. It is also a prime number.

</doc>
<doc id="79834" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79834" title="Laomedeia (moon)">
Laomedeia (moon)

Laomedeia also Neptune XII, is a non-spherical moon of Neptune. It was found by Matthew J. Holman, et al. on August 13, 2002. Before the announcement of its name on February 3, 2007 (IAUC 8802), it was known as S/2002 N 3.
It orbits Neptune at a distance of about 23,571,000 km and is about 42 kilometers in diameter (assuming albedo of 0.04). It is named after Laomedeia, one of the 50 Nereids.

</doc>
<doc id="79851" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79851" title="Tropical Storm Jerry (2007)">
Tropical Storm Jerry (2007)

Tropical Storm Jerry was the tenth named storm of the 2007 Atlantic hurricane season. It was a very short-lived storm over the north-central Atlantic Ocean. The storm lasted less than 48 hours, half of that time as a subtropical cyclone. It was never a threat to land.
The system that would later become Tropical Storm Jerry started as a non-tropical low pressure area over the central Atlantic Ocean on September 21. The system moved in a shaky path over the north-central Atlantic over the next two days. It slowly developed deeper convection and became more organized. On September 22, the system had become organized enough that the National Hurricane Center mentioned a possible tropical or subtropical development in the area. Late that evening, it had been determined that a subtropical depression had formed, as a warm core had developed but the system was still involved with an upper-level low and had its strongest winds well removed from the center. Early on September 23, both satellite estimates and QuikScat data determined that the depression had strengthened into Subtropical Storm Jerry, despite the lack of a well-defined inner core. The storm slowly acquired tropical characteristics including a better-defined warm core, and became fully tropical that evening as a weak and sheared tropical storm with 40 mph (65 km/h) winds over a small radius.
Jerry began to weaken once again early on September 24 as it accelerated northeastward over cooler waters with sea surface temperatures below 24°C (75°F). It remained a tropical storm until later that morning.Then it weakened to a tropical depression ahead of a powerful cold front with little deep convection remaining in the system. Jerry remained a tropical depression as the cold front approached and began to absorb the system that afternoon as it continued to accelerate northeastward. That evening, a QuikScat pass determined that Jerry had opened up into a trough which was being absorbed into the larger frontal system. It completely dissipated by early on September 25.
Jerry never came near land during its lifespan, and no damage or deaths were reported. No ships were impacted by Jerry.

</doc>
<doc id="79856" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79856" title="Jenner, California">
Jenner, California

Jenner is a small town in Sonoma County, California, U.S.. The town is small, with about 121 people. Just south of Jenner is Goat Rock Beach, a unit within the Sonoma Coast State Beach.

</doc>
<doc id="79860" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79860" title="Tropical Storm Ingrid (2007)">
Tropical Storm Ingrid (2007)

Tropical Storm Ingrid was a weak tropical storm that existed from September 12 – September 17, 2007. It was the ninth named storm of the 2007 Atlantic hurricane season. The storm developed as Tropical Depression Eight. Tropical Depression Nine appeared at the same time as Eight but was much quicker to develop. Tropical Depression Nine strengthened into Humberto–the next name on the list–before Eight became a named storm. Tropical Storm Ingrid was a weak storm. It only lasted for a short amount of time. The storm got weaker in the Atlantic because of high wind shear. Ingrid died out before reaching land areas. There was rain in Saint Martin and Antigua because of the storm.
The system formed from a big tropical wave that moved off the coast of west Africa on September 6. Because of strong wind shear, it did not get stronger over the next three days. On September 9, it developed an area of low pressure in the central Atlantic, between the coast of Africa and the Lesser Antilles. Slowly, the wind shear began to go away. Dvorak classifications were started on the weather system on September 11. By the morning of September 12, it had developed into Tropical Depression Eight. This took place about east of the Lesser Antilles. The same tropical wave eventually created another area of weather activity that became Tropical Depression Ten, with the help of other weather systems.
The system moved towards the west-northwest for almost all of its life. It stayed on the southern edge of a meteorological ridge. Wind shear slowed down development greatly. The system stayed a tropical depression for 24 hours before convection increased. The storm became a weak tropical storm early on September 13. The storm kept getting stronger that afternoon. It reached its highest strength of 45 mph (75 km/h) that evening.
The storm did not get stronger because of a very strong wind shear from a strong tropical upper tropospheric trough. Despite the high shear, Ingrid remained a weak tropical storm until the afternoon of September 15. It then weakened to a tropical depression while east of the Leeward Islands. Ingrid kept getting weaker as it passed to the northeast of the islands. The system stayed a tropical depression, because it continued to create strong thunderstorms. Ingrid became more organized for a short time on September 16. This event was short-lived. The storm became very disorganized once again that afternoon. It kept getting weaker. The final National Hurricane Center advisory was given out early on September 17 as the system weakened into a tropical wave while remaining north of the Leeward Islands. The remnant low turned to the northwest within the low-level steering flow. It died out on September 18 without any reforming.
Ingrid stayed just to the east and northeast of the Lesser Antilles. It weakened without impacting any land. Its remnants produced rain and thunder to Antigua. On Saint Martin, the system produced of rain in about an hour. This caused some roads to become flooded. No damage or deaths were caused by the storm. No ships reported tropical storm-force winds.
Because there was no damage from Tropical Storm Ingrid, the name "Ingrid" was not removed from the tropical cyclone names list, and will be used again during for the 2013 Atlantic hurricane season. This was the first time that the name "Ingrid" was used for a tropical cyclone in the Atlantic Ocean. However, the name has been used in other parts of the world.

</doc>
<doc id="79862" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79862" title="61 (number)">
61 (number)

Sixty-one is a number. It comes between sixty and sixty-two, and is an odd number. It is also a prime number.

</doc>
<doc id="79864" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79864" title="67 (number)">
67 (number)

Sixty-seven is a number. It comes between sixty-six and sixty-eight, and is an odd number. It is also a prime number.

</doc>
<doc id="79866" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79866" title="Psamathe (moon)">
Psamathe (moon)

Psamathe or Neptune X, is a non-spherical moon of Neptune.
Psamathe was found by Scott S. Sheppard and David C. Jewitt in 2003. It orbits Neptune at a distance of about 46,695,000 km and takes almost 25 Earth years to make one orbit. It is about 24 kilometers in diameter.
It is named after Psamathe, one of the Nereids. Before the announcement of its name on February 3, 2007 (IAUC 8802), it was known by the designation S/2003 N 1.
Given the similarity of the orbit's parameters with Neso (S/2002 N 4), it was suggested that both non-spherical moons could have been a bigger moon that broken up.

</doc>
<doc id="79867" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79867" title="62 (number)">
62 (number)

Sixty-two is a number. It comes between sixty-one and sixty-three, and is an even number. It is divisible by 1, 2, 31, and 62.

</doc>
<doc id="79868" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79868" title="63 (number)">
63 (number)

Sixty-three is a number. It comes between sixty-two and sixty-four, and is an odd number. It is divisible by 1, 3, 7, 9, 21, and 63.

</doc>
<doc id="79871" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79871" title="64 (number)">
64 (number)

Sixty-four is a number. It comes between sixty-three and sixty-five, and is an even number. It is divisible by 1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, and 64. 64 is the 8th square number after 1, 4, 9, 16, 25, 36, and 49. It is the fourth cube after 1, 8, and 27. There are sixty-four 1x1 squares on a chess, checkers and draughts board. It is also a power of two.

</doc>
<doc id="79872" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79872" title="65 (number)">
65 (number)

Sixty-five is a number. It comes between sixty-four and sixty-six, and is an odd number. It is divisible by 1, 5, 13, and 65.

</doc>
<doc id="79873" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79873" title="66 (number)">
66 (number)

Sixty-six is a number. It comes between sixty-five and sixty-seven, and is an even number. It is divisible by 1, 2, 3, 6, 11, 22, 33, and 66. In numerical form, it is "66". 

</doc>
<doc id="79874" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79874" title="Tropical Upper Tropospheric Trough">
Tropical Upper Tropospheric Trough

A Tropical Upper Tropospheric Trough (TUTT) is a trough in upper-level (at about 200 hPa) tropics. Its formation is usually caused by the expansion of the Trough of Westerlies Wind to the tropics. It can also develop from the inverted trough adjacent to a upper level anticyclone. TUTTs are different from mid-latitude troughs in the sense that they are maintained by subsidence warming near the tropopause which balances radiation cooling.
TUTTs sometimes bring a large amount of vertical wind shear over tropical disturbances and cyclones so TUTTs can reduce cyclone development. But, there are also times when TUTTs help start tropical cyclones or make them stronger by providing additional forced ascent near the storm center and an efficient outflow channel in the upper troposphere. Moreover, under specific circumstances, TUTTs can grow into upper cold lows and may enhance the development of low level disturbances.

</doc>
<doc id="79875" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79875" title="Leeward Islands">
Leeward Islands

The Leeward Islands are the northern islands of the Lesser Antilles chain of islands, part of the West Indies. They are situated where the Caribbean Sea meets the western Atlantic Ocean. The southern part of the Lesser Antilles chain is called the Windward Islands.

</doc>
<doc id="79876" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79876" title="68 (number)">
68 (number)

Sixty-eight is a number. It comes between sixty-seven and sixty-nine, and is an even number. It is divisible by 1, 2, 4, 17, 34, and 68.

</doc>
<doc id="79878" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79878" title="69 (number)">
69 (number)

Sixty-nine is a number. It comes between sixty-eight and seventy, and is an odd number. It is divisible by 1, 3, 23, and 69.

</doc>
<doc id="79879" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79879" title="Saint Martin">
Saint Martin

Saint Martin is a tropical island in the northeast Caribbean, approximately 300 km southeast of Puerto Rico. The 87 km² island is divided roughly in half between France and the Netherlands; it is the smallest inhabited sea island divided between two nations.
The main towns are Marigot (on the French part) and Philipsburg in the Dutch one.
About 60.000 people live on the island.

</doc>
<doc id="79880" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79880" title="Antigua">
Antigua

Antigua (IPA: /ænˈtiːgə//an-tee-gah) is an island in the West Indies, Leeward Islands in the Caribbean region, the main island of the country of Antigua and Barbuda. It is also known as Wadadli, which means approximately "our own". The island's circumference is about 87 kilometres (54 miles) and it has an area of 281 km² (108 square miles). It has a population of about 69,000 people as of July 2006. It is the largest of the Leeward Islands, and the most developed and prosperous due to its upscale tourism industry, internet gambling services and education services, including two medical schools.
Christopher Columbus was the first European to visit Antigua. Before he visited, there were other people living there like the Ciboney, Arawak and Carib Indian tribes. Columbus visited Antigua in the year 1632. He named it after Mary, the mother of Jesus. The British visited in 1632 and lived there. They brought slaves with them. The slaves farmed sugar cane. The slaves were allowed to stop being slaves in 1834. 
The island stopped being a part of Britain in 1981. It is now a country with Barbuda.

</doc>
<doc id="79881" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79881" title="Tropical Storm Melissa (2007)">
Tropical Storm Melissa (2007)

Tropical Storm Melissa was the thirteenth named storm of the 2007 Atlantic hurricane season. It was a short-lived storm that formed southwest of the Cape Verde islands, remaining weak because of high wind shear. It dissipated without affecting any land areas. It was only notable for being the eighth named storm of September 2007, which tied the record for the month of September.
The system began as a tropical wave that moved off the west coast of Africa on September 26. An area of low pressure formed on September 27 near Cape Verde in association with the wave, and convection slowly increased as a result of the low. Early on September 28, a rapid increase in convection and a well-organized outflow pattern allowed the low to develop into Tropical Depression Fourteen while about 115 miles (185 km) west-southwest of the southernmost Cape Verde Islands. Since the depression was far removed from the subtropical ridge and an upper-level low pressure area was sitting to the north, steering currents were weak at first and the depression moved very slowly on a general west-northwest track. Vertical wind shear from the west also slowed down development. Small amounts of strengthening took place early on September 29 as convection increased in the system, and the depression was upgraded to Tropical Storm Melissa.
Like previous storms Ingrid and Karen, high wind shear in the deep tropics delayed Melissa's development. Operationally, Melissa was briefly upgraded to 45 mph (75 km/h) late on September 29 as some satellite estimates showed a slightly stronger storm with deeper convection, but Melissa was found to have been weaker in the post-storm analysis, remaining at 40 mph (65 km/h). By early on September 30, wind shear began to severely increase and a weakening trend began. That morning, the increased shear, combined with cooler sea surface temperatures, weakened Melissa to a tropical depression with a poorly-defined surface center as it continued to move west-northwest at a somewhat faster speed. The system lost its deep convection and by the afternoon of September 30, Melissa degenerated into a remnant low as thunderstorm activity decreased. After the circulation dissipated, the remnant low continued its general west-northwest track south of a rebuilding subtropical ridge in the central Atlantic. The low produced discontinuous amounts convection until it was absorbed by a frontal zone late on October 5 northeast of the Leeward Islands.
Melissa remained away from land during its lifespan, never threatening any land areas. There were no ship reports of tropical storm-force winds as a result of Melissa. No damage or deaths were reported.
When Tropical Depression Fourteen was upgraded to Tropical Storm Melissa on September 29, it was the eighth named storm to form in the month of September. That tied a record for the month of September, which was first set in the 2002 season.

</doc>
<doc id="79882" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79882" title="71 (number)">
71 (number)

Seventy-one is a number. It comes between seventy and seventy-two, and is an odd number. It is also a prime number.

</doc>
<doc id="79883" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79883" title="Neso (moon)">
Neso (moon)

Neso also known as Neptune XIII, is the farthest non-spherical moon of Neptune. It was found by Matthew J. Holman, Brett J. Gladman, "et al." on August 14, 2002, though it went unnoticed until 2003. 
Neso orbits Neptune at a distance of more than 48 million km, making it the farthest known moon of any planet.
It follows a very inclined and very eccentric orbit illustrated on the diagram in relation to other irregular satellites of Neptune. 
Neso is about 60 km in diameter, and assuming the mean density of 1.5 g/cm. Its mass is estimated at 1.6 kg.
Given the similarity of the orbit's parameters with Psamathe (S/2003 N 1), it was suggested that both non-spherical moons could have been a bigger moon that broke up.
Neso is named after one of the Nereids. Before the announcement of its name on February 3, 2007 (IAUC 8802), Neso was known by its designation S/2002 N 4.

</doc>
<doc id="79886" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79886" title="Weather front">
Weather front

A weather front is a boundary in between two masses of air of different densities, and is the main cause of significant weather. In surface weather analyses, fronts are depicted using various colored lines and symbols. The air masses separated by a front usually differ in temperature and humidity.
Cold fronts may feature narrow bands of thunderstorms and severe weather, and may on occasion be preceded by squall lines or dry lines. Warm fronts are usually preceded by stratiform precipitation and fog. The weather usually quickly clears after a front passes. Some fronts produce no precipitation and little cloudiness, although there is usually a wind shift.

</doc>
<doc id="79887" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79887" title="Subtropical ridge">
Subtropical ridge

The subtropical ridge is a large belt of high pressure around 30ºN in the Northern Hemisphere and 30ºS in the Southern Hemisphere. It is characterized by mostly calm winds. Air flows out from its center toward the upper and lower latitudes of each hemisphere, creating both the trade winds and the westerlies.

</doc>
<doc id="79894" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79894" title="Vorticity">
Vorticity

Vorticity is a mathematical concept used in fluid dynamics. It can be related to the amount of "circulation" or "rotation" (or more strictly, the local angular rate of rotation) in a fluid.
The average vorticity in a small region of fluid flow is equal to the circulation formula_1 around the boundary of the small region, divided by the area A of the small region.
Notionally, the vorticity at a point in a fluid is the limit as the area of the small region of fluid approaches zero at the point:
Mathematically, the vorticity at a point is a vector and is defined as the curl of the velocity:
In the field of flow of a fluid, vorticity formula_5 is zero almost everywhere. It is only in special places, such as the boundary layer or the core of a vortex, that the vorticity is not zero.

</doc>
<doc id="79896" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79896" title="Barbuda">
Barbuda

Barbuda is an island in the eastern Caribbean, and forms part of the state of Antigua and Barbuda. It has a population of about 1,500, most of whom live in the town of Codrington.
Barbuda is located north of Antigua, in the middle of the Leeward Islands. To the south are the islands of Montserrat and Guadaloupe, and to the north and west are Nevis, St. Kitts, St. Barts, and St. Martin.

</doc>
<doc id="79899" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79899" title="Émile Durkheim">
Émile Durkheim

Émile Durkheim (April 15, 1858 – November 15, 1917) was a French sociologist. He is known for his contributions to sociology and anthropology. He is considered as one of the founding fathers of sociology. He thought that sociology should be scientific.
Durkheim was born in the eastern French province of Lorraine. He studied at École Normale Supérieure. He made contributions on topics such as education, crime, religion, suicide, and many other topics related to sociology.
Durkheim died in Paris, aged 59.

</doc>
<doc id="79901" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79901" title="Popcorn">
Popcorn

Popcorn is a snack food made by heating certain kinds of corn. There is a small amount of water inside the seeds, which causes them to explode. When the seed shell breaks a sharp noise is made. The name "pop" is because of this noise. After it pops it is white and fluffy.
Salt and melted butter is often added to popcorn. Sometimes caramel and other flavours are melted and mixed into the popcorn.
Popcorn is a popular food to eat at the cinema.

</doc>
<doc id="79902" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79902" title="Douglas SBD Dauntless">
Douglas SBD Dauntless

The SBD Dauntless (SBD means Scout Bomber Douglas) was a dive bomber made by Douglas Aircraft Company (now Boeing) during World War II. It first flew in 1940 and was introduced the same year. It was made from the Northrop BT. The Dauntless's first bombing in the war happened on December 10, 1941. The target was a Japanese submarine.
In the War, the Dauntless was used to take off aircraft carriers and attack enemy ships and submarines.
The SBD-5 (5th version) could go 255 miles per hour (410 kilometers per hour), and it had a Wright R-1820-60 Cyclone air-cooled radial piston engine with 1,200 horsepower. It had two 12.7 mm and two 7.62 mm machine guns and it could carry one bomb or torpedo. It weighed around 6,404 pounds (2,905 kilograms) to 10,699 pounds (4,853 kilograms). It could fly for 1,115 miles (1,795 kilometers) without running out of fuel. It could go as high as 25,525 feet (7,780 meters) above the ground.
The Dauntless was retired in the late 1940s.

</doc>
<doc id="79905" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79905" title="John Bardeen">
John Bardeen

John Bardeen (23 May 1908 – 30 January 1991) was an American physicist and electrical engineer. He is the only person to win two Nobel Prizes in Physics.
Bardeen was born in Madison, Wisconsin. His father, Charles Bardeen was a Professor at the Medical School of the University of Wisconsin. He completed his bachelor's degree and master's degree in Electrical Engineering at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. He completed his PhD in Physics at Princeton University in 1936.
Bardeen worked with William Shockley and Walter Brattain to invent the transistor on 23 December 1947. They shared the Nobel Prize in Physics for 1956.
Later, Bardeen worked with Leon Cooper and Robert Schrieffer. They created the BCS theory of superconductivity, named after them. For this work they shared the Nobel Prize in Physics for 1972.
Bardeen was a Professor of Electrical Engineering and Physics at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign from 1951 to 1991.

</doc>
<doc id="79913" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79913" title="Reconnaissance">
Reconnaissance

Reconnaissance, sometimes called scouting, is the act of exploring to gain military information. Often referred to as "recce" (UK, Canada and Australia, ) or "recon" (U.S., ), the associated formal verb is "reconnoitre" (British spelling) or "reconnoiter" (American spelling). In informal English, both "recce" and "recon" are often also used as a verb. The term is sometimes used in non military contexts.
Often, units sent out for reconnaissance are armed only for self-defense. They rely on stealth to gather information. Others are well-enough armed to also deny information to the enemy by fighting and or destroying their reconnaissance parties.
"Reconnaissance-in-force" (RIF) is a method of probing an enemy's position. An attack, even with a small force, may get a strong reaction by the enemy. Hopefully that reveals the enemy's strength, deployment, and other tactical information. The RIF commander can fall back with the information or expand the conflict into a full engagement. Other methods consist of hit-and-run tactics using moving very fast. In some cases light-armored vehicles are used for added fire superiority, as the need arises.

</doc>
<doc id="79915" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79915" title="Cape Verde-type hurricane">
Cape Verde-type hurricane

A Cape Verde-type hurricane is an Atlantic hurricane that develops near the Cape Verde islands, off the west coast of Africa. The average hurricane season has about two Cape Verde-type hurricanes, which are usually the strongest storms of the season because they often have plenty of warm open ocean over which to develop before coming across land.

</doc>
<doc id="79918" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79918" title="Windward Islands">
Windward Islands

The Windward Islands are the southern islands of the Lesser Antilles in the West Indies. They are south of the Leeward Islands.
The Antillean Windward Islands from north to south are:
Barbados and Trinidad and Tobago are not part of the Windward Islands.

</doc>
<doc id="79924" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79924" title="List of professional wrestlers">
List of professional wrestlers


</doc>
<doc id="79933" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79933" title="Birth certificate">
Birth certificate

A birth certificate is a vital record that documents the birth of a child. The certificate itself usually includes some or all of the following information:
Most countries have statutes and laws that regulate the registration of births. In the United States, it is the responsibility of the mother's physician, midwife, or a hospital administrator to prepare the official birth certificate.
The birth certificate itself is not proof of a person's identity, but only a record stating that a birth occurred at the time, date, and place stated on the certificate.
To prove one's identity, a person may need a photo ID, generally issued to an adult.

</doc>
<doc id="79934" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79934" title="Vital record">
Vital record

Vital records are records of life events. They include birth certificates, marriage licenses, and death certificates. In some jurisdictions, vital records may also include records of civil unions or domestic partnerships.

</doc>
<doc id="79951" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79951" title="Tzitzernavank Monastery">
Tzitzernavank Monastery

Tzitzernavank Monastery (, "Swallows Monastery") is an Armenian monastery in the region of Kashatagh (under control of the Nagorno Karabakh Republic). The monastery dates from the fourth to sixth centuries and recognized as a native Armenian example of an “oriental” architectural type.
The church of St. Gregory was reopened after a restoration in 1999-2000.

</doc>
<doc id="79963" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79963" title="Hérens (district)">
Hérens (district)

Hérens is a district in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.
It contains the following municipalities:

</doc>
<doc id="79966" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79966" title="Leuk (district)">
Leuk (district)

The district of Leuk in the canton of Valais contains the following municipalities:
The municipalities of Guttet and Feschel were combined on October 1, 2000

</doc>
<doc id="79967" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79967" title="Martigny (district)">
Martigny (district)

Martigny is a district in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.
It contains the following municipalities:

</doc>
<doc id="79988" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79988" title="Mariner 10">
Mariner 10

Mariner 10 was a robotic NASA space probe. It was launched on November 3, 1973, to fly by the planets Mercury and Venus. Mariner 10 is no longer working today but is still orbiting the Sun. It was launched about two years after Mariner 9 and was the last spacecraft in the Mariner program. Mariner 10 was the first space probe sent to Mercury.

</doc>
<doc id="80002" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80002" title="Saccharide">
Saccharide

Saccharide can mean different things:

</doc>
<doc id="80004" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80004" title="Fender">
Fender

Fender is a well known company that produces guitars. These are sold all over the world. The founder is Leo Fender. Fender makes the Stratocaster and Telecaster guitars.

</doc>
<doc id="80007" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80007" title="Myra">
Myra

Myra is an ancient town in Lycia. The small town of Kale (Demre) is situated near it today. It is in Antalya Province of Turkey. It was located on the river Myros (Demre Çay), in the fertile alluvial plain between Alaca Dağ, the Massikytos range and the Aegean Sea.
Nicholas of Myra (also known as "Saint Nicholas") did many things there.

</doc>
<doc id="80009" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80009" title="Metis (moon)">
Metis (moon)

Metis or , is Jupiter's closest moon.
Metis was found in 1979 by Stephen P. Synnott in images taken by the Voyager 1 probe. Its designation was . In 1983 it was named after the mythological Metis, a Titaness who was the first wife of Zeus (the Greek equivalent of Jupiter).
Metis not a sphere and measures 60×40×34 km across. The composition and mass of Metis are not known, but assuming that its mean density is like that of Amalthea (~0.86 g/cm³), its mass can be estimated as ~7×10 kg. Amalthea's density implies that moon is composed of water ice with a porosity of 10-15%, and Adrastea may be similar.
The surface of Metis is very cratered. It is dark and appears to be reddish in color.
Metis is the closest moon to Jupiter. It orbits Jupiter at a distance of ~1269,000 km. It has a very small orbital eccentricity (~0.0002) and inclination (~ 0.06°) relative to the equator of Jupiter.
The images taken by "Voyager 1" showed Metis only as a dot, and very little was known about Metis until the arrival of the "Galileo" spacecraft. "Galileo" took pictures of almost all of the surface of Metis and put constraints on its composition.

</doc>
<doc id="80011" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80011" title="Goblin Valley State Park, Utah">
Goblin Valley State Park, Utah

The Goblin Valley State Park is a State park in the southern Utah.
The valley, which is only about across and long, is full of thousands of mushroom-shaped pinnacles. These pinnacles are each a few meters high. Because of their height and shape, people referred to them as goblins. They are made of large orange-brown of hard rock on top of weaker sandy layers. The sandy layers have eroded more quickly causing their shape. The "Goblins" are well hidden from the nearby road. The land to the east is flat and empty. It is near a long narrow ridge with eroded layers of grey and red-brown rocks. The far side of this empty land gives the best views of the landscape. The Goblins look as if they join with the cliffs. This gives giving the look of a strange skeletal structure with skull-like rocks and bony ridges. 
There are several trails passing through the park. These trails are not easy to notice and people can walk almost anywhere. 
The land west of Goblin Valley State Park is part of the San Rafael Swell. It is similar to much of south Utah. The land is far away from most things and beautiful. It is crossed only by a few dirt tracks. 4WD vehicles are very useful here. There are many slot canyons in this area. Some of these, for example Little Wild Horse Canyon, may be explored easily.

</doc>
<doc id="80017" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80017" title="European Article Number">
European Article Number

The European Article Number (often shortened to "EAtN") is a standard to do it barcodes. Barcodes are machine-readable codes. They eat information. They can be found on many product packets in supermarkets. They are also found on most retail products (electronics, phones, computers, laptops, chromebooks, tablets, food, drink, clothes, movie tickets, concert tickets, cars, boats, planes, yachts, books etc.)

</doc>
<doc id="80019" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80019" title="Eta">
Eta

Eta or ETA may mean:
Words:
Abbreviations:

</doc>
<doc id="80021" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80021" title="Carrefour, Haiti">
Carrefour, Haiti

Carrefour is a poor district in the Ouest Department of Port-au-Prince, Haïti. Its population is 408,000. The neighborhood is very poor and ill-serviced however as of recently, small-scale construction has gone on in the area along with street renovations. A slum called Feuilles of Carrefour is notorious for the illegal execution of eleven young men that took place there in 1999.

</doc>
<doc id="80031" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80031" title="Mochi (food)">
Mochi (food)

Mochi is a type of Japanese confectionary made from pounded pasty rice and molded into shape. Mochi normally has a filling inside, such as ice cream, azuki (red bean) paste, and others. In Japan, mochi is often eaten in New Year's Day in one of two dishes: ozoni (お雑煮) or osiruko (おしるこ).
Mochitsuki is a traditional mochi-making ceremony in Japan. It requires two people. One person pounds steamed rice into the dough with a traditional mortar (臼:usu）and a mallet（杵:kine). The other person turns over rice each time it is pounded. They have to keep rhythm to make mochi well. These days, normal families rarely do classic mochitsuki, but it is still popular at community events or with children's groups.
Mochi can be dangerous food for old people because it is difficult to bite off and is sticky.
Many old people choke to death while eating mochi every year.
Japanese know mochi is dangerous traditional food, so the accident is one's own responsibility.

</doc>
<doc id="80032" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80032" title="Donkey Kong (video game)">
Donkey Kong (video game)

Donkey Kong is an arcade video game made by Nintendo in 1981. It was designed by Shigeru Miyamoto and Gunpei Yokoi after their other games failed in North America. It is the first game starring Mario (then called Jumpman) and Donkey Kong, where Mario has to climb a construction site to save his girlfriend Pauline from Donkey Kong, an escaped gorilla.
The player is Jumpman (Mario). He must climb to the top of the level to reach his girlfriend Pauline who has been kidnapped by Donkey Kong, who escaped from a zoo. There are four different levels, and Donkey Kong has different weapons in each. Donkey Kong rolls barrels down a busted construction site, and Mario has to climb ladders and jump over these barrels until he reaches the top. He can grab a hammer to defeat obstacles, and each level has three of Pauline's things that will give him bonus points.
When Mario beats the fourth level, it goes back to the first level and it gets harder. Like all arcade games with looping levels has an end level because the game cannot go farther than that. In this, Mario dies ten seconds into the final level.
The music was made by Hirokazu "Hip" Tanaka. Several remixes have been made of music from this game and used in "Super Smash Bros. Brawl".
Shigeru Miyamoto made "Donkey Kong" with the help of other people, such as Gunpei Yokoi. It was based on an older Nintendo game called "Radar Scope", which did not do very well in the United States, so Hiroshi Yamauchi, the president of Nintendo, asked Miyamoto to make a game to replace "Radar Scope".
There are a lot of rumors about where the name comes from. One rumor says that someone misheard or mistranslated the phrase "Monkey Kong" into "Donkey Kong" when talking over the phone or on a fax machine. Another rumor is that Miyamoto used a Japanese-to-English dictionary to find words that meant stubborn gorilla and came up with "Donkey Kong".
When "Donkey Kong" was first announced in America, game magazines thought it was not going to be a good game because it was not like other games being made at the time, which were mostly shooting games. But when it came out, it got great reviews and made a lot of money at the arcades. It is one of Nintendo's most famous games ever made.
There was a documentary made about the game called "" where someone tries to beat the high score for the game.
A lot of items from this game are used in "Super Smash Bros. Brawl". There is also a stage that copies the third level.
"Donkey Kong" has had many sequels. "Donkey Kong Jr." and "Donkey Kong 3" were sequels to this game. The playable character called Mario went on to become the biggest game character of all time, making Nintendo more than 1 billion dollars and releasing more than 200 games, more than any other series. Donkey Kong went on to have his own series apart from Mario, starting with "Donkey Kong Country" for the Super NES. Donkey Kong also starred in many more sequels, as well as spin-offs like the "Donkey Konga" music games.
"Donkey Kong" has been re-released many times; first on the Nintendo Entertainment System where it was the same game except that it does not have the second level. It has also appeared on other consoles including Atari consoles. A sequel came out for the Game Boy called "Donkey Kong", which has the first four levels and 100 new levels after that.
"Donkey Kong" appeared as a bonus game in the Frantic Factory level for "Donkey Kong 64".
This game has not to be confused with the Game & Watch "Donkey Kong Jr." portable game console, because the history of the game is a little different. In the Game & Watch version, the main character is Donkey Kong Jr., that has to save its father Donkey Kong from Mario. This game recently released for the Nintendo DSi as a downloadable for the cost of 200 Nintendo Points.

</doc>
<doc id="80033" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80033" title="Léogâne">
Léogâne

Léogâne is the name of both a coastal city and a district in Ouest Department, Haiti. The city of Léogâne is around . The arrondissement of Léogâne contains three communes: Petit-Goâve, Grand-Goâve, and the city of Léogâne. It is the closest town to the earthquake that struck Haiti on 12 January 2010.
The port town is about West of the Haitian capital Port-au-Prince. Léogâne is the birthplace of the Taíno queen Anacaona (the town was originally called the Amerindian name "Yaguana" and the city's name is a corruption of that) and of Marie-Claire Heureuse Félicité, the wife of the Haitian revolutionary Jean-Jacques Dessalines (1758).

</doc>
<doc id="80035" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80035" title="Atlantic Beach, Florida">
Atlantic Beach, Florida

Atlantic Beach is a city in Duval County, Florida, United States. When the majority of communities in Duval County consolidated with Jacksonville, Florida in 1968, Atlantic Beach, along with Jacksonville Beach, Neptune Beach, Ponte Vedra Beach and Baldwin, Florida, remained quasi-independent. Like the other towns, it maintains its own municipal government but its residents vote in the Jacksonville mayoral election and have representation on the Jacksonville city council. The population was 13,368 at the 2000 census. According to the U.S Census estimates of 2005, the city had a population of 13,436. 

</doc>
<doc id="80090" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80090" title="Pity">
Pity

Pity means feeling for others, particularly feelings of sadness or sorrow. In a positive sense it means "sympathy" and "empathy". More commonly Pity is a negative judgement of others and their situation. An example of pity is how most people feel about the homeless. Pity and compassion are closely related words but have subtle differences. The difference is that compassion usually involves some commitment to help. Pity does not usually require any personal involvement. Sometimes pity can also have feelings of contempt and dislike that go with it. In a positive sense, and especially as practiced in many religions, it can involve feelings the person does not deserve what has happened to him or her. In this case the person feeling pity feels sorry it happened.
<br>

</doc>
<doc id="80093" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80093" title="First ascent">
First ascent

In climbing, the first climb to reach the top of a mountain is called first ascent. 
The risks for the climbers are often very high, because the way to the top is not known. That is why first ascents are often carefully recorded as part of the history of a mountain and usually mentioned in books about that mountain. 
Some use the words "last ascent" as a joke for a way that was no pleasure and no one wants to do it like the first climbers.

</doc>
<doc id="80097" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80097" title="ZIP code">
ZIP code

The ZIP code is the system of postal codes used by the United States Postal Service (USPS). The letters "ZIP" is an acronym for Zone Improvement Plan. The letters are written properly in capital letters. The word ZIP was chosen to suggest that the mail travels more efficiently, and more quickly, when senders use it. The basic ZIP code is made up of five numbers. An extended ZIP + 4 code includes the five digits of the ZIP code, a hyphen and then four more digits. This lets a piece of mail to be sent to a more exact location than by the ZIP code alone. "ZIP Code" was a trademark of the U.S. Postal Service but its registration has since ended.
The postal service started the use of postal zones for large cities in 1943. By the early 1960s a more general system was needed. On July 1, 1963, ZIP codes were created for the whole country but they were not . In 1967, these were made mandatory for many types of mail. The system was soon used for all mail.
In 1983, the U.S. Postal Service began using an expanded ZIP code system called "ZIP + 4", often called "plus-four codes" or "add-on codes."
A ZIP + 4 code uses the basic five-digit code plus an additional four digits to identify a geographic area inside the five-digit delivery area, such as a group of apartments, or a location which gets a large amount of mail.
ZIP codes are numbered with the first number representing a certain group of U.S. states. The second and third numbers represent a region in that group of states or, in some cases, a large city. The fourth and fifth numbers representing a group of delivery addresses within that region. The main town in a region (if applicable) often gets the first ZIP codes for that region. Other towns are often given ZIP codes in numerical order alphabetically.
The first digit of the ZIP code is used as follows:

</doc>
<doc id="80099" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80099" title="Eastern European Time">
Eastern European Time

Eastern European Time (EET) is one of the names of UTC+2 time zone, 2 hours ahead of Coordinated Universal Time. It is used in some European, North African, and Middle Eastern countries. Most of them also use Eastern European Summer Time (UTC+3) as a summer daylight saving time.
Two countries uses Eastern European Time all the year: 
The following countries, parts of countries, and territories use Eastern European Time during the winter only:
Moscow used EET between 1922-30 and 1991-92. In Poland this time was used between 1918-22.
Turkey, used EET between 1910-2016 except for the years 1978-85 and has switched to Moscow Time all year long.
In time of World War II MET (CET) was used in eastern countries, occupied by Germany.

</doc>
<doc id="80107" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80107" title="Tom Clancy">
Tom Clancy

Thomas Leo "Tom" Clancy Jr. (April 12, 1947 - October 1, 2013) was an American writer and screenwriter. His books are thrillers about politics, spys and the military. Most of his books include many technical details about their subjects. Seventeen of his novels were best-sellers, with over 100 million copies in print. His stories take place during and after the Cold War. He owned with some other people a Major League Baseball team. Clancy also produced popular video games.
Thomas Leo Clancy Jr. was born on April 12, 1947, in Maryland. He finished school 1965. After school he studied English Literature at Loyola College in Baltimore and finished that in 1968. He said he studied English because he was not smart enough to do physics.
Clancy married his first wife, Wanda, in the 1970s. They have four children together and separated in 1998.
In 1993, Clancy bought with some other people the Baltimore Orioles (Baseball team) from Eli Jacobs.
In 1999, Clancy, at age 52, married the 32-year-old writer Alexandra Marie Llewellyn, on June 26. Llewellyn is a distant relative of Colin Powell.
Clancy is known to have been politically conservative, and gave over $200,000 to Republican Party politicians.
Clancy died October 1, 2013, after a brief illness at Johns Hopkins Hospital, near his Baltimore home. No cause of death was released. Clancy is survived by his wife, Alexandra; their daughter, Alexis; and four children from a previous marriage to Wanda King: Michelle Bandy, Christine Blocksidge, Kathleen Clancy and Thomas Clancy III. His cause of death was later confirmed to be heart failure.
From the books "The Hunt for Red October", "Patriot Games", "Clear and Present Danger", and "The Sum of All Fears" films were made, that many people wanted to see. The first NetForce book was filmed for television.
The website IMDB says that Tom Clancy's novel "Without Remorse" is to be made into a movie in 2008. No other details are available (27 June 2007).
Several books that are written by other writers have Tom Clancy's name on them, because the books are written in the same way and have the same stories as his own. These are:
Only two books of Clancy are not with Jack Ryan and/or John Clark.

</doc>
<doc id="80109" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80109" title="Mount Thor">
Mount Thor

Mount Thor is a mountain on Baffin Island, Nunavut, Canada. It is the steepest mountain on Earth. It has a straight drop at 1,250 m (4,100 feet), with an average angle of 150 degrees.

</doc>
<doc id="80112" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80112" title="Waluigi">
Waluigi

Waluigi is a character in Nintendo's series of Mario video games. He is the villain version of Luigi in the same way that Wario is the evil version of Mario. Waluigi is a very long, thin, tall man, who wears purple. However, Mario, Luigi, Wario, Waluigi, and Yoshi are all friends.
He was made as a partner for Wario in Mario Tennis and other Mario sports games and has no real story behind him. He can jump super high and step on people. He was in "Super Smash Bros. Brawl" as an Assist Trophy. Waluigi is known to be smarter than Wario, but acts sillier.
Waluigi was ranked in the tenth slot on GameDaily's top 10 Nintendo characters that deserve their own games. They also listed him as one of the top 25 video-game anti-heroes, saying that it was too bad that he has never had the spotlight.
However, he also ranked number one on the Top 10 Worst Mario Characters list from Game Daily, which said, "for every likable character there's one that continues to annoy us even years after we're done with the game they came from". Waluigi has been criticised by others as well. Cracked.com said that he was a lazy excuse to add a new villain to the spin-off games and even called him an "abomination".

</doc>
<doc id="80118" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80118" title="Alexander von Humboldt">
Alexander von Humboldt

Alexander von Humboldt (Berlin, 14 September 1769 – Berlin, 6 May 1859) was a Prussian naturalist and explorer. Humboldt's work on botanical geography was very important in the field of biogeography.
Humboldt was born in Berlin. His father, Alexander Georg von Humboldt, was a major in the Prussian Army. He married Maria Elizabeth von Colomb in 1766. The couple had two sons, the younger was Alexander. Alexander's elder brother was the Prussian minister, philosopher, and linguist Wilhelm von Humboldt. 
In his childhood Humboldt already liked to collect plants, shells, and insects. Humboldt's father died very early (in 1779). From that time on his mother took care of his education.
Between 1799 and 1804, Humboldt travelled to Latin America and was the first scientist who wrote about it. He was one of the first who said that South America and Africa was once one continent. Many places and species are named for him, as is the Humboldt Current.
Late in his life he attempted to bring together different fields of science in his work "Kosmos".

</doc>
<doc id="80120" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80120" title="Nike, Inc.">
Nike, Inc.

Nike, Incorporated is a company in the United States. It is based near Beaverton, Oregon. 
Nike is the world's biggest brand of sports shoes, clothes and equipment.
Nike has approximately 62,600 employees worldwide as of 2015.
Their net income is $2.7 billion and their revenue is $27.8 billion.
The company was founded on 25 January 1964. Nike was named Blue Ribbon Sports at first. The original founders of Nike are Bill Bowerman and Philip Knight. The company is named after Nike, the Greek goddess of victory .
Nike sells its products under its own name as well as Nike Golf, Nike Pro, Nike+, Air Jordan, and Team Starter. Nike also owns the brands Bauer, Cole Haan, Hurley International, and Converse. "Nike, Incorporated" also funds certain sports events such as the FIFA World Cup 2014.

</doc>
<doc id="80121" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80121" title="Pound sterling">
Pound sterling

The pound sterling (GBP; £ or ₤) is the official currency used in the United Kingdom. It is also used in British overseas territories, Isle of Man, Bailiwicks of Guernsey and Jersey. The pound is divided into 100 pence.
Today's coins are 1 penny, 2 pence, 5 pence, 10 pence, 20 pence, 50 pence, £1 and £2. The notes are £5, £10, £20 and £50.
A pound coin originally weighed one troy pound of sterling silver, giving the currency the name "pound sterling". "Sterling silver" means mixed metal that has 92.5% or more real silver. One pound sterling was originally divided by 240 sterling pence. This was because there are 240 pennyweights in a troy pound. So a single one–pound coin weighed one troy pound and a single 1–penny coin weighed one pennyweight.
The Latin word for "pound" is "libra". The £ or ₤ is a stylised writing of the letter L, a short way of writing "libra". This is similar to how a pound of mass is abbreviated "lb". Up until around the 1970s, especially on typewriters or keyboards without a "£" symbol, it was common to write "L" instead of "£".
The symbol for pennies is p (pronounced "pee" like the letter). The British write 50p or £0.50 and say it "fifty pee".
The pound has only been divided into 100 pence since 1971. Before this time it was divided into 20 shillings. Each shilling was divided into 12 pennies.
The symbols for shilling and penny came from Roman coins: "s" for shilling (from the Latin word "solidus") and "d" for penny (from the Latin "denarius"). The penny was divided into 4 farthings. The farthing became obsolete (was no longer used) in 1961 because it was worth so little.
Coins just before the change in 1971 were: 1/2d (ha'penny), 1d (one penny), 3d (threepence; the coin was called a "thrup'ny bit"); 6d (sixpence); 1s (one shilling, also called one "bob"); 2s (a florin); 2s6d (half a crown; the crown, 5s (a quarter of a pound sterling), was not used in modern times).
How prices were written and pronounced in the old system:
There was also a guinea. Originally the guinea was a gold coin. Although the coin had not been minted or circulated for a long time, prices were still sometimes given in guineas. A guinea was 21s (or £1 1s 0d). A price of 58 guineas was, in fact, £60 18s 0d, which sounds more than "58 guineas".
In circulation before 1971 were the halfpenny, penny, threepence, sixpence, shilling, florin, crown, sovereign, ten shilling note, and the one, five, 10, 20 and 50 pound notes.
The crown and sovereign were legal currency before 1971. By then they were commemorative coins and not commonly found in circulation. They are both still legal currency at a value of 25 pence and £1 respectively.
In 1971, the pound sterling of the United Kingdom and the Irish Pound of Ireland were decimalised (divided into 100). Most coins were de-monetised. £1 was equal to 100 pence after then. One shilling became 5 pence, remaining of £1. £1 stayed the same.

</doc>
<doc id="80132" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80132" title="Vestfold">
Vestfold

Vestfold is a county in Norway. It borders Buskerud and Telemark. The county administration is in the city of Tønsberg. Vestfold is west of the Oslo Fjord. The river Numedalslågen runs through the district. Many islands are at the coast. Vestfold is mostly lowland areas. It is among the best agricultural areas of Norway. 
Vestfold used to be a headquarters for whaling fleets. The economy of the coastal towns of Vestfold now is centered around fishing and shipbuilding. Some lumbering is done away from the coast. The district also has some of the best farmland in Norway. 
Vestfold County has a total of 14 municipalities:

</doc>
<doc id="80133" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80133" title="Buskerud">
Buskerud

Buskerud is one of Norway's 19 counties. Its main city is Drammen.

</doc>
<doc id="80134" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80134" title="Telemark">
Telemark

Telemark is a county in Norway. Skien is the main city in Telemark.

</doc>
<doc id="80136" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80136" title="Akershus">
Akershus

Akershus is one of the nineteen counties in Norway. It is bordered by Hedmark, Oppland, Buskerud, Oslo and Østfold. It has a short border with Sweden. Akershus is the second largest county in population after Oslo. It has more than half a million people living in it. The county is named after Akershus Fortress. The county administration is in Oslo, which is not part of the county.
Most of the county is in the districts Follo and Romerike. There are also the two smaller districts of Asker and Bærum which are west of Oslo. This happened when the municipality of Aker (surrounding Oslo) was moved from Akershus county to Oslo in 1948.
Akershus includes some of the lake Mjøsa and some of the river Glomma. Because it includes many suburbs of Oslo, notably Bærum, Akershus has a large number of people living in a small area. The main national railway lines into Oslo run through Akershus with many stations such as Asker, Ullensaker, Ski and Lillestrøm.
The county includes the historical place Eidsvoll, 48 km north of Oslo. This is where the National assembly voted the Norwegian constitution in 1814. South of Eidsvoll is the international airport of Oslo Airport at Gardermoen. The home of the crown prince is in Asker.
The county has a major international airport, the Oslo Airport. It also has two university hospitals, Akershus University Hospital and Sunnaas Hospital.
Akershus became a fief in the 16th century. At that time it included the current counties of Hedmark, Oppland, Buskerud and Oslo. It also included municipalities of Askim, Eidsberg and Trøgstad in the county of Østfold. In 1685 Buskerud was separated from Akershus. In 1768 Hedmark and Oppland were also separated from Akershus. In 1842 Christiania (Oslo) was made separate as well. In 1948 Aker was transferred to the county of Oslo.
The county is named after Akershus Fortress. The fortress was built in 1299. Its name means "the (fortified) house of (the district) Aker". 

</doc>
<doc id="80138" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80138" title="West Highland White Terrier">
West Highland White Terrier

The West Highland White Terrier or Westie is originally a Scottish dog. 
The Westie was first used for hunting foxes and otters. The breed is well known for high stamina, courage and agility. Westies have a double white coat which protects them from attacks and cold weather. They have dark black eyes.
They are small dogs and are lively, playful and alert. They are loyal to their owner, but can be stubborn at times. They are known to kill small animals, such as moles, squirrels, chipmunks and birds. They like to be outdoors.

</doc>
<doc id="80142" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80142" title="Soldier (song)">
Soldier (song)

"Soldier" is an R&B/hip hop song written by Beyoncé Knowles, Kelly Rowland, Michelle Williams, Rich Harrison, Sean Garrett, T.I., and Lil Wayne for Destiny's Child's fourth studio album, "Destiny Fulfilled" (2004). It was produced by Knowles and Harrison and released as the album's second single in fall 2004. The song reached number 3 in Australia and the United States. It became the group's tenth and final consecutive top 10 hit in the US. It peaked in the top 10 in New Zealand, the UK, Denmark, Ireland, Israel, Finland, Italy, Greece and Switzerland. The song also was nominated for a Grammy Award for Best Rap/Sung Collaboration category. It won the Soul Train Lady of Soul Award for Best R&B/Soul Single by a Group, Band or Duo.

</doc>
<doc id="80143" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80143" title="Abrasion">
Abrasion

In dermatology, an abrasion is a damage to the skin that affects only the surface, generally not deeper than the epidermis. But it can give mild bleeding. Mild abrasions, also known as 'grazes' do not scar, but deep abrasions may lead to the development of scarring tissue.
Abrasion injuries occur rather often when exposed skin comes into moving contact with a rough surface causing trauma to the upper layers of the epidermis.
Such injuries, where caused by abrasive contact with textiles or carpet, are sometimes referred to as 'rug burn' or 'carpet burn'. 

</doc>
<doc id="80150" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80150" title="Abrasion (disambiguation)">
Abrasion (disambiguation)

Abrasion may mean:

</doc>
<doc id="80153" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80153" title="Wear (erosion)">
Wear (erosion)

In materials science, wear is the erosion of material from a solid surface by the action of another solid. The study of the processes of wear is part of the discipline of tribology.
There are four principal wear processes:
The definition of wear does not include loss of dimension from plastic deformation, although wear can happen without loss of material. Also this definition does not include impact wear where there is no sliding motion or cavitation (also corrosion) where counterbody is a fluid.. 
Wear, along with other aging processes such as fatigue, creep, and fracture toughness, causes progressive degradation of materials with time leading to failure of material at an advanced age. Under normal circumstances, the property changes during usage normally occur in three different stages as follows:-
• Primary or early stage or run-in period, where rate of changes can be high. 
• Secondary or mid-age process where a steady rate of aging process is maintained. The useful or working life is at this stage.
• Tertiary or old-age stage, where rapid rate of aging leads to early failure.
With increasing severity of environmental conditions, such as, higher temperatures, strain rates, stress and sliding velocities, the secondary stage is shortened and the primary stage tends to merge with the tertiary stage, thus drastically reducing the working life. Surface engineering processes are used to minimize wear and extend working life of material.
Adhesive wear is also known as scoring, galling, or seizing. It happens when two solid surfaces slide over one another under pressure. 
This happens when material is removed by contact with hard particles. The particles either may be present at the surface of a second material or may exist as loose particles between two surfaces. 
Abrasive wear can be measured as loss of mass by the Taber Abrasion Test according to ISO 9352 or ASTM D 1044.
Often referred to simply as “corrosion”, corrosive wear is deterioration of useful properties in a material due to reactions with its environment.
Surface fatigue is a process by which the surface of a material is weakened by cyclic loading, which is one type of general material fatigue.

</doc>
<doc id="80154" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80154" title="Compacted oxide layer glaze">
Compacted oxide layer glaze

Compacted oxide layer glaze describes the often shiny, wear-protective layer of oxide formed when two metals (or a metal and ceramic) are slid against each other at high temperature in an oxygen-containing atmosphere. The layer forms on either or both the surfaces in contact and can protect against wear.

</doc>
<doc id="80155" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80155" title="Wear (disambiguation)">
Wear (disambiguation)

Wear can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="80157" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80157" title="Wound">
Wound

In medicine, a wound is a type of physical injury where in the skin is torn, cut or punctured (an "open" wound), or where blunt force trauma causes a bruise (a "closed" wound). In pathology, it specifically means a sharp injury which damages the dermis of the skin. A mortal wound is one that leads directly to the death of the victim.
To heal a wound, the body undertakes a series of actions collectively known as the wound healing process.

</doc>
<doc id="80165" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80165" title="Chick Corea">
Chick Corea

Armando Anthony "Chick" Corea (born June 12, 1941) is a multiple Grammy Award winning American jazz pianist/keyboardist and composer.

</doc>
<doc id="80170" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80170" title="Monthey (district)">
Monthey (district)

Monthey is a district of the canton of Valais in Switzerland.
It contains the following municipalities:

</doc>
<doc id="80171" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80171" title="Raron (district)">
Raron (district)

Raron is a district in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.
It contains the following municipalities:

</doc>
<doc id="80174" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80174" title="Street children">
Street children

Street children are children who work or live on the streets. They may live permanently on the streets with or without their families because they have no home. They may be children who work on the streets by doing errands or selling items. Street children may spend a lot of time in the streets, but sleep at home. 
According to the European Federation for Street Children, “They are an extremely vulnerable group of children living in most severe situations well beyond the usual notion of poverty; they face a gross violation of their human rights, such as violence, sexual exploitation and abuses, chemical addictions and various other human right violations".
Article 27 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC) asserts that “State parties recognize the right of every child to a standard of living adequate for the child's physical, mental, spiritual, moral and social development.” Homelessness denies each one of those rights. According to an Inter-NGO Program on street children and youth, a street child is “any girl or boy who has not reached adulthood, for whom the street (in the widest sense of the word, including unoccupied dwellings, wasteland, etc.) has become his or her habitual abode and/or source of livelihood, and who is inadequately protected, directed, and supervised by responsible adults.”
US AID has divided Street children into four categories:
In institutionalized care: children in this situation come from a situation of homelessness and are at risk of returning to a life on the street or facing at the child labour or child prostitution.

</doc>
<doc id="80177" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80177" title="Saint-Maurice (district)">
Saint-Maurice (district)

Saint-Maurice is a district in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.
It contains the following municipalities:

</doc>
<doc id="80178" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80178" title="Sierre (district)">
Sierre (district)

Sierre is a district of the canton of Valais in Switzerland.
It contains the following municipalities:

</doc>
<doc id="80180" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80180" title="Sion (district)">
Sion (district)

Sion is a district of the canton of Valais in Switzerland.
It contains the following municipalities:

</doc>
<doc id="80182" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80182" title="Visp (district)">
Visp (district)

Visp is a district in the canton of Valais in southern Switzerland. It contains the following municipalities:

</doc>
<doc id="80183" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80183" title="Steckborn (district)">
Steckborn (district)

Steckborn is a district of the canton of Thurgau. The capital city is Steckborn.
It contains the following municipalities:

</doc>
<doc id="80187" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80187" title="Frauenfeld (district)">
Frauenfeld (district)

Frauenfeld is a district of the canton of Thurgau. The capital city, and the capital of Thurgau, is the city of Frauenfeld.
It contains the following municipalities:

</doc>
<doc id="80188" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80188" title="American badger">
American badger

American badgers ("Taxidea taxus") are animals found primarily in the Great Plains area of North America. 
American badgers measure 520 to 875 mm from head to tail, with the tail making up only 100 to 155 mm of this length. They weigh 4 to 12 kg. The body is flattened, and the legs are short and stocky. The fur on the back and flanks of the animal ranges from greyish to reddish. The underside is a buff colour. The throat and chin are whitish, and the face has black patches with a white central stripe, which extends back over the head from the nose. In northern populations, this stripe ends near the shoulders, but in southern populations it continues along the back to the rump. Males are significantly larger than females, and animals from northern populations are larger than those from southern populations.
American badgers live in dry, open grasslands, fields, and pastures. They are found in many different places from high alpine meadows to sea level.
American badgers are excellent diggers, and can tunnel rapidly through the soil using their powerful forelimbs.
Badgers are carnivorous. Their dominant prey are Pocket gophers, Ground Squirrels, Moles, Marmots, Prairie dogs, Woodrats, Kangaroo rats, Deer mice, and Voles. They also prey on ground-nesting birds, such as Bank swallows and burrowing Owl, Lizards, Amphibians, Carrion, Fish, hibernating Skunks, Insects, including Bees and Honeycomb, and some plant foods, such as Corn and Sunflower seeds. Unlike many carnivores that stalk their prey in open country, badgers catch most of their food by digging. They can tunnel after ground dwelling rodents with amazing speed.

</doc>
<doc id="80191" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80191" title="Kreuzlingen (district)">
Kreuzlingen (district)

Kreuzlingen is a district of the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland. The capital city is Kreuzlingen.
It contains the following municipalities:

</doc>
<doc id="80192" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80192" title="Weinfelden (district)">
Weinfelden (district)

Weinfelden is one of the eight districts of the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland. The capital city is Weinfelden.
It contains the following municipalities:

</doc>
<doc id="80193" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80193" title="Bischofszell (district)">
Bischofszell (district)

Bischofszell is a district of the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland. The capital city is Bischofszell.
It contains the following municipalities:

</doc>
<doc id="80194" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80194" title="Diessenhofen (district)">
Diessenhofen (district)

Diessenhofen is a district of the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland. The capital city is Diessenhofen.
It contains the following municipalities:

</doc>
<doc id="80196" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80196" title="Münchwilen (district)">
Münchwilen (district)

Münchwilen is one of the eight districts of the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland. The capital city is Münchwilen.
It contains the following municipalities:

</doc>
<doc id="80197" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80197" title="Arbon (district)">
Arbon (district)

Arbon is a district of the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland. The capital city is Arbon.
It contains the following municipalities:

</doc>
<doc id="80199" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80199" title="Steckborn">
Steckborn

Steckborn is a municipality and the capital city of the district of Steckborn in the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland.
Steckborn is near Lake Constance. In 2005, 3,398 people lived there.
People lived in the area around Steckborn already in the 100s. There are also Roman ruins of walls and other buildings. Probably in the 800s, the village became part of the territory of the monastery of Reichenau. This is the period when it is first written about.

</doc>
<doc id="80201" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80201" title="Frauenfeld">
Frauenfeld

Frauenfeld is the capital city of the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland. It is also the capital city of the district of Frauenfeld.
The city is first written about in 1246. It grew up around the Frauenfeld castle on the land of the Reichenau convent.
In 1264, it became the property of the Habsburgs. In 1374, the Habsburgs bestowed the right of judgment for all of Thurgau (which then included St. Gallen) on the Duke of Frauenfeld.
Twice in the 1700s, Frauenfeld was partly destroyed by fire, in 1771 and in 1788.
The fall of the old Old Swiss Confederacy in 1798 as a result of the French invasion brought an end to the gatherings in Frauenfeld.
In 1919, the municipalities of Langdorf, Kurzdorf, Huben, Herten, and Horgenbach became part of Frauenfeld. In 1998, Gerlikon, Schönenhof, and Zelgli joined Frauenfeld.

</doc>
<doc id="80213" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80213" title="Benito Jeronimo Feijoo">
Benito Jeronimo Feijoo

Benito Jerónimo Feijoo y Montenegro (8 October 1676 - 26 September 1764) was a Galician neoclassical monk and scholar noted for encouraging scientific thought in Galicia and Spain.
He was born in Casdemiro, and joined the Benedictines at the age of 12, and had taken classes in Galicia, León, and Salamanca. He later taught theology and philosophy at the university of Oviedo, and died at Oviedo. Padre Feijoo studied in Salamanca, Spain, at the University of Oviedo, earning a professorship in theology. Feijoo was a prominent essayist for the Spanish, and his critiques, letters, and plays helped change the steadfast beliefs of many during the 18th century.
His two famous multi-volume collection of essays, "Teatro critico universal" (1726-1739) and "Cartas eruditas y curiosas" cover a range of subjects, from education, law, and medicine, to superstitions and popular beliefs. He is also of interest as a writer in the Galician language.
Father Feijoo was a debunker of myths. He had great interest in natural science and many of his essays touch on topics related to this subject and to the many myths about creatures and lands that abounded at that time. One example of how far his naturalistic bent went can be found in a story told by Julio A. Feijoo, one of his descendents, born in Cuba in 1910. Father Feijoo believed that demonic possession was a psychological phenomenon. Once he was called upon to perform an exorcism, and in order to demonstrate that this phenomenon was more due to suggestibility than anything else, in performing a spurious exorcism on the "possessed" subject, he read from Bocaccio's famous bawdy work the "Decameron". Upon hearing the Latin lines, the "possessed" individual settled down and declared himself to be free of demonic influence.

</doc>
<doc id="80227" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80227" title="Kreuzlingen">
Kreuzlingen

Kreuzlingen is a municipality in the district of Kreuzlingen in the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland. 
It is the second largest city of the canton, after Frauenfeld with a population of over 18,000.
In 1874, the municipality of Egelshofen was renamed "Kreuzlingen". It reached the present size with the adding of Kurzrickenbach in 1927 and Emmishofen in 1928.
It is located on Lake Constance.
It is halfway between Schaffhausen and Rorschach.
The name of the municipality stems from the Augustinian monastery "Crucelin", which was later renamed Kreuzlingen Abbey. It was built in 1125 by the Bishop of Constance, Ulrich I. In the Swabian War and the 30 Years' War after the siege of Constance by Swedish troops, Kreuzlingen Abbey was burned down by the people of Constance. The crime was blamed on the monks for having supported the enemy. In 1650, the monastery was rebuilt in its present location. Because of secularization in 1848, the buildings became a school. The chapel became a Catholic church
People already lived in the Kreuzlingen area during the Bronze Age. Celtic and Roman coins and artifacts show that people continued to be settled in the area pre-writing. Kurzrickenbach is first mentioned as "Rihinbah" in 830, Egelshofen is mentioned as "Eigolteshoven" in 1125, and Emmishofen is mentioned as "Eminshoven" in 1159. The territory of the municipality, except for the Augustinian monastery, belonged to the Bishop of Constance. 
Until the beginning of the 19th century, the current centre of Kreuzlingen was still largely agricultural. The first steamboats began to operate on Lake Constance in 1824. The first train line to Romanshorn was finished in 1871, and the second to Etzwilen in 1875. This brought commerce and industry to the area. In 1874, Kreuzlingen became the capital of the district, instead of the previous capital, Gottlieben. However, until World War I, Kreuzlingen was a kind of suburb of Constance. Most of its profits went to German firms. The war made Kreuzlingen more independent.
w:The Sanatorium of Bellevue (1857-1980), which occupied part of the old monastery, played an important role in the history of Kreuzlingen. In 1842, a man called Ignaz Vanotti from Constance bought a large area of land and constructed a building to house the emigrant press of Bellevue in 1843, which had been located in Römerburg before. In 1857, Ludwig Binswanger, a psychiatrist from Münsterlingen bought the property and opened a private sanatorium. The clinic was very modern and stayed in the control of the Binswanger family for nearly 120 years. Important psychiatric discoveries, particularly under the founder's grandson's control, especially in the development of existential psychotherapy, were made at the sanatorium. However, few of its buildings remain.
Earlier, most of the people in Kreuzlingen made a living in the wine industry. However, because of diseases and bad harvests, the last wine grapes were raised in Kreuzlingen in 1938.
Today, the local economy is mostly shopping and handcraft, with the largest employer being a clothing maker.

</doc>
<doc id="80228" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80228" title="Weinfelden">
Weinfelden

Weinfelden is a municipality in the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland. It is the capital of the district of the same name.
In December 2004 it had about 9500 people. Since it is in the middle of the canton, part of the canton's government is in the town. The Thurgau cantonal bank is also there. The grand council of the canton meets in Weinfelden during the winter.
Already in the year 124 AD, there was a Roman bridge over the Thur at Weinfelden. The name "Weinfelden" is first documented in 838.
Weinfelden was by far the biggest town in the canton of Thurgau. In 1798, Paul Reinhart and his committee led the area to freedom from the domination of the "Eidgenossen". In 1803, Thurgau became an independent canton, through the mediation of Napoleon, with Frauenfeld as capital.
In 1830, Thomas Bornhauser spoke to a large crowd in Weinfelden, demanding a liberal constitution for the canton. It is one of the first (if not the first) such document.
Portraits of both Paul Reinhart and Thomas Bornhauser hang in the "Rathaus".

</doc>
<doc id="80238" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80238" title="Bernardino de Sahagún">
Bernardino de Sahagún

Bernardino de Sahagún (1499 – October 23 1590), was a Franciscan missionary to the Aztec (Nahua) people of Mexico, best known as the compiler of the "Florentine Codex," also known as "" ("General History of the Things of New Spain").

</doc>
<doc id="80241" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80241" title="Bruise">
Bruise

A bruise, also called a contusion or an ecchymosis, is a visible bluish or purplish mark or patch appearing beneath the surface of the skin, resulting from blood that leaked out of the deeper layers of the tissues. Bruises are usually caused by a blow or pressure. In older people, bruises may also occur without a special reason.
Bruises often cause pain but are normally not dangerous. Sometimes bruises can be serious and lead to other more life-threatening forms of hematoma, or they can be associated with serious injuries such as fractures and internal bleeding. Minor bruises may be easily recognized, in people with light skin color, by their characteristic blue or purple appearance (idiomatically described as "black and blue") in the days following the injury.
Bruises change color over time. That is because the body is fixing the bruise by breaking down and reabsorbing the blood, which makes the bruise to go through many colors before it later disappears. The age of a bruise can be guessed by looking at its color.
Usually, a bruise takes about two weeks to fade away. Some people bruise easily, whereas others do not. This is because they may have more tough skin tissue, certain diseases or conditions, or they take certain kinds of medication.
Also, blood vessels tend to become fragile as people get older, which is why elderly people receive a bruise much more easily.
Applying cold when the bruise is discovered helps make it smaller, because it stops the blood that's flowing to the area. It also keeps the swelling down. It is best to apply ice to the bruise for half an hour to an hour at a time for a day or two after the bruise first appears. However, it is not advisable to place ice right on the skin. Putting some icecubes in a plastic bag and wrapping a towel around the bag is a better idea to stop the bruise from getting worse.
Another way to help heal the bruise is to put the bruised area above the level of the heart. This helps to slow the flow of the blood because more of the blood in the bruise will flow back toward the rest of the body instead of leaking out into the tissues. If this is not done, more blood will flow into the bruise and make it grow.
If the bruise causes pain, painkillers, such as NSAIDs may be used against the pain. Certain creams exist to help with bruises. These creams usually combine a substance that helps skin growth with one that acts against the pain. Gently massaging the area of the bruise may also help recovery, and stop the pain, according to the gate theory of pain. If the massage painful, it will not help the healing process. As for most injuries, these techniques should not be applied until at least three days after the initial damage to ensure all internal bleeding has stopped. Increasing blood flow will allow more healing factors into the area and encourage drainage, but if the injury is still bleeding this will also allow more blood to seep out of the wound and cause the bruise to become worse. In most cases hematomas spontaneously revert. In cases of large hematomas or those localized in certain organs (<nowiki>"e.g."</nowiki>, the brain), a physician may perform a puncture of the hematoma to allow the blood to exit.
Bruises that do not result from the application of force (blunt trauma) may be a symptom for other conditions: People with such bruises often have a problem with their blood.Platelet or coagulation disorders often lead to the increased bruising. Unexplained bruising may be a warning sign of child abuse, domestic abuse, or serious medical problems such as leukemia or meningoccocal infection. Unexplained bruising can also indicate internal bleeding or certain types of cancer.
During an autopsy, bruises accompanying abrasions indicate the abrasions occurred while the person was alive, as opposed to damage that occurred after death

</doc>
<doc id="80243" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80243" title="Leopoldo Alas">
Leopoldo Alas

Leopoldo Alas y Ureña (25 April 1851 – 13 May 1901), also known as Clarín, was a Spanish realist writer born in Zamora. He died in Oviedo.
Clarin spent his childhood living in León and Guadalajara, until he moved to Oviedo in 1865. There he studied "Bachillerato" (high school) and he started his law career. He lived in Madrid from 1871 to 1878, where he started his career as a journalist and he graduated with the thesis "El Derecho y la Moralidad" ("Law and Morality"). He taught in Zaragoza from 1882 to 1883. In 1883 he returned to Oviedo to take up a position as teacher of Roman law.
He wrote books including "La Regenta". It is a long work, similar to Flaubert's "Madame Bovary", one of the books that helped to inspire it. Other influences included Naturalism and "Kraussism", a philosophical trend which made cultural and moral change in Spain. He also wrote Nuevo viaje al Parnaso and La Literatura en 1881 (1882), working with Armando Palacio Valdes.
"La Regenta" is special for its great number of characters and other stories around the main story of the novel. The main character is shown in a way that is not very clear. On the other hand, the downfall of the provincial lady has place amidst two very different men who want to marry her: the most handsome man in the city, who is the winner in the end, and the cathedral's priest. The way the priest is shown is a very important part of the book.
For the description of the provincial setting and the city's collective life, Clarín used styles such as the internal monologue or the free indirect style, which makes the story be told by the characters, not the narrator.
In 1890, he published a new novel, "Su único hijo". Most critics do not think it is as good as "La Regenta". "Su único hijo" was originally meant to be the first of a series of three books, but these were not written. The only parts of them that exist are an outline and a few fragments of two of the novels. "Su único hijo" was Clarín's last long book.
Clarín also wrote some stories and some journalistic articles.
Clarin remains a rather unknown figure in the Spanish literary world. He searched for God and was Humanist at the same time. This strange mix has led to there being different views on the meaning of his writings. "La Regenta" in particular has many different views on what it could mean.

</doc>
<doc id="80246" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80246" title="Pasiphaë (moon)">
Pasiphaë (moon)

Pasiphaë is one of Jupiter's moons. It was found in 1908 by Philibert Jacques Melotte and was named after Pasiphaë from Greek mythology, the wife of Minos and mother of Minotaur.

</doc>
<doc id="80249" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80249" title="Anthe (moon)">
Anthe (moon)

Anthe is a very small moon of Saturn between the orbits of Mimas and Enceladus. It is also known as Saturn XLIX and its designation was S/2007 S 4. It is named after one of the Alkyonides; the name means "flowery".
It was found by the Cassini Imaging Team in images taken on May 30, 2007. Once the find was made, a search of older Cassini images showed this small moon in observations from as far back as June 2004. It was first announced on July 18, 2007.

</doc>
<doc id="80252" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80252" title="Kiviuq (moon)">
Kiviuq (moon)

Kiviuq is a non-spherical moon of Saturn. It was found by Brett J. Gladman in 2000, and given the designation S/2000 S 5.
It was named in 2003 after a "giant" of Inuit mythology. Kiviuq (also spelled Keeveeok, Qiviuq or Kivioq) is a legendary and heroic Inuk, a sort of Inuit Odysseus. He has lived very long (or has had several lives), has wandered and journeyed, living all sorts of adventures whose details depend on the story-teller's local tradition.
Kiviuq is about 16 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Saturn at an average distance of 11.1 million kilometers in 450 days. It is a member of the Inuit group of non-spherical moons.
Kiviuq displays "light-red" colours and the infrared spectrum very similar to Siarnaq and Paaliaq, further supporting the thesis of a possible common origin of the Inuit group in the break-up of a bigger body.

</doc>
<doc id="80257" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80257" title="Manchukuo">
Manchukuo

Manchukuo was a Japanese puppet state in Manchuria and eastern Inner Mongolia ruled by the former Emperor of China Henry Pu-yi. Despite Pu-yi being Emperor of Manchukuo, he practically had no power, but he was put in place by the Japanese to justify Japan's taking of Chinese land, since the region is home to the former Qing emperor's ancestors. It was created by Japan in 1932 because Japan wanted to occupy Manchuria's rich natural resources but did not wish to declare war on China yet. Most nations in the world did not recognize Manchukuo as a country. Manchukuo made its own money and it was called the Manchukuo yuan. The capital of Manchukuo was Shinkyō (Japanese: 新京, English: "New Capital"), which is modern-day Changchun.

</doc>
<doc id="80258" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80258" title="Ijiraq (moon)">
Ijiraq (moon)

Ijiraq is a non-spherical moon of Saturn. It was found by the team of
Brett Gladman, John J. Kavelaars, "et al." in 2000, and given the designation .
Ijiraq orbits Saturn at an average distance of 11,100,000 km in 451 days on an orbit very similar to Kiviuq's. The diagram illustrates its orbit in relation to other non-spherical moons of Saturn. The eccentricity of the orbits is represented by the yellow segments extending from the pericentre to the apocentre.
While Ijiraq is a member of the Inuit group non-spherical moons, recent observations revealed that Ijiraq is redder than Paaliaq, Siarnaq and Kiviuq.
Kavelaars, an astronomer at McMaster University, suggested this name to help astronomical nomenclature to get out of its Greco-Romano-Renaissance rut. He spent several months trying to find names that were both multi-cultural and Canadian, consulting Amerindian scholars without finding a name that seemed good. In March 2001, he was reading an Inuit story to his children and had a revelation. The ijiraq plays at hide-and-seek, which is what these small moons of Saturn do: they are hard to find, and cold like the Canadian Arctic (the team of discoverers includes Canadians, Norwegians and Icelanders—Nordicity is their common trait). Kavelaars contacted the author of the tale, Michael Kusugak, to get his assent, and the latter also suggested the names for Kiviuq and 90377 Sedna.

</doc>
<doc id="80259" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80259" title="Denial of the Armenian Genocide">
Denial of the Armenian Genocide

Denial of the Armenian Genocide is saying that the Armenian Genocide did not happen. 
From 1915-1917, in the Ottoman Empire, the Ottoman government tried to get rid of all the Armenian people in the Empire. The government did this by killing between 800,000 and 1,500,000 Armenian people. They also made many Armenians leave the Ottoman Empire (this is called deportation).
People who deny the Armenian Genocide say that these things never happened. They also say that the Ottoman government never, in an organized way, tried to commit genocide against the Armenian people. For example, the Republic of Turkey does not accept that the Ottoman government tried to get rid of all the Armenian people in the Empire.
In 1990, psychologist Robert Jay Lifton got a letter from the Turkish Ambassador to the United States. In the letter, the Ambassador asked Lifton how he could have talked about the Armenian Genocide in one of his books (because the Ambassador believed the Genocide never happened). By mistake, the Ambassador also included a draft of a letter written by scholar Heath Lowry, which told him how to keep the Armenian Genocide from being talked about in books. Lowry was later named to a chair (an important position) at Princeton University. Princeton had been given a $750,000 grant from the Republic of Turkey. This brought up many arguments about ethics in scholarship.
Open University of Israel scholar Yair Auron has talked about the different ways the Turkish government has tried to make it seem like the Armenian Genocide never happened:
University of California, Los Angeles scholar Leo Kuper, in a review on Ervin Staub's "The Roots of Evil: The Origins of Genocide and Other Group Violence" research, writes:
Some countries, including Argentina, Switzerland, and Uruguay, have created laws that punish people who deny the Armenian Genocide. France passed a law which made Armenian Genocide denial a crime, but then reversed it.
The first person found guilty by a court of law for denying the Armenian Genocide is Turkish politician Doğu Perinçek. He was found guilty by a Swiss district court in Lausanne in March 2007. Perinçek appealed the court's decision. Ferai Tinç, a writer for Turkey's Hurriyet newspaper, said, "we find these type of [laws] against freedom of opinion dangerous because we are struggling in our country to achieve freedom of thought."
After the court's decision, Perinçek said, "I defend my right to freedom of expression."
The Ankara Chamber of Commerce included DVDs, accusing the Armenian people of killing Turks, with their paid tourism advertisements in the June 6, 2005 edition of the magazine TIME Europe. Time Europe later apologized for allowing the DVDs to be included, and published a letter saying the DVDs were wrong, signed by five French organizations. The February 12, 2007 edition of TIME Europe included a page saying that the Armenian Genocide did really happen. It also included a DVD of a documentary by French director Laurence Jourdan about the Genocide.

</doc>
<doc id="80261" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80261" title="Paaliaq (moon)">
Paaliaq (moon)

Paaliaq is a non-spherical moon of Saturn. It was found by Brett J. Gladman, John J. Kavelaars, Jean-Marc Petit, Hans Scholl, Matthew J. Holman, Brian G. Marsden,
Philip D. Nicholson and Joseph A. Burns in early October 2000, and given the designation S/2000 S 2. It was named in August 2003 after a fictional shaman in the book "The Curse of the Shaman," written by Michael Kusugak, who supplied Kavelaars with the names of giants from Inuit mythology that were used for other Saturnian moons. 
Paaliaq is thought to be about 22 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Saturn at an average distance of 15,200,000 km in 687 days. It is a member of the Inuit group of non-spherical moons.
Together with Kiviuq and Siarnaq, Paaliaq has "light-red" colours, further supporting that the Inuit group might have been formed when a bigger body broken up.

</doc>
<doc id="80262" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80262" title="Hebrew Bible">
Hebrew Bible

The term Hebrew Bible means books of the Bible that were originally written in Hebrew, and of which people agree that they belong to the Biblical canon.
It means the same as the Jewish Tanakh and the Protestant Old Testament, but does not include the deuterocanonical portions of the Roman Catholic Old Testament and is meant for the text only, not for naming, numbering or ordering of books (what both Tanakh and Old Testament do).
"Hebrew Bible" is a term that refers to the common portions of the Jewish canon and the Christian canons. In its Latin form, "Biblia Hebraica", it is used as a title for printed editions of the masoretic text.
One uses the term "Hebrew Bible", when one wants to speak of the contents and not of the specific Jewish or Protestant edition of it.
On the one hand, the term is not much used among adherents of either Judaism or Christianity. On the other hand, it is widely used in academic writing and interfaith discussion. 

</doc>
<doc id="80264" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80264" title="Skathi (moon)">
Skathi (moon)

Skathi or Saturn XXVII, is a moon of Saturn. It was found by Brett Gladman,Kavelaars, et al. in 2000, and given the designation S/2000 S 8. 
Skathi is about 6.4 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Saturn at an average distance of 15,576,000 km in 725.784 days, at an inclination of 149° to the ecliptic (150° to Saturn's equator) with an eccentricity of 0.246.
Skathi may have been formed from debris knocked off of Phoebe by big impacts at some point in the solar system's history.
Its name comes from Norse mythology, where Skaði is a giantess (female giant) who is the wife of the Vanir god Niord.

</doc>
<doc id="80266" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80266" title="Targum">
Targum

A targum (, plural: "targumim") is an Aramaic translation of the Hebrew Bible (Tanakh) that was written or compiled in Palestine or in Babylonia from the Second Temple period until the early Middle Ages (late first millennium). 
Targum also means translation or interpretation. In Arabic Targem (verb) means to translate or interpret. (Mutargem = Translator/Interpreter).

</doc>
<doc id="80268" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80268" title="Adam Gilchrist">
Adam Gilchrist

Adam Craig Gilchrist (born 14 November 1971 in Bellingen, New South Wales) is a former Australian cricketer. He was a wicket keeper and a left handed batsman. In his test career, Gilchrist hit 100 sixes, something nobody else in history has done. He holds the record of the second fastest century maker in history.

</doc>
<doc id="80269" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80269" title="Department store">
Department store

A department store is a store that sells many different products. It does not sell the products of only one company, as some other stores do. In a department store a person can usually buy clothing, furniture, electronics, and sometimes paint, hardware, toiletries, cosmetics, photographic equipment, jewellery, toys, and sporting goods.
Some department stores sell products cheaper than other stores. They are then called discount department stores.

</doc>
<doc id="80270" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80270" title="The Princess Diaries 2">
The Princess Diaries 2

The Princess Diaries 2: Royal Engagement is a 2004 Disney movie based on the Princess Diaries book series by Meg Cabot. It is a sequel to the 2001 movie "The Princess Diaries". The movie is a romantic comedy movie about 21-year-old Amelia Mignomete Christos Thermopolis Grimaldi, Princess of Genovia, (Mia Thermopolis for short) who has to have an arranged marriage to become Queen. The movie stars Anne Hathaway, Julie Andrews, and Raven. It was directed by Garry Marshall.

</doc>
<doc id="80271" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80271" title="Bughouse chess">
Bughouse chess

Bughouse chess (also known as transfer chess or exchanged chess) is a version of the game chess. It is played by four people in two teams. Each team has two players. Teammates sit next to each other, and use opposite colored pieces. (This means that one player on a team will have white pieces and the other will have black pieces.) The game is played on two chess boards. Two chess clocks can also be used. Two games of chess are played in at the same time. If a player one game captures a piece, following the regular rules of chess, they give that piece to their partner to use in the other game. The partner can put the piece on the board instead of making a normal move. Pawns can not be placed in the first or last row but other pieces can be placed in any empty space. 
If one player wins, that team wins the match.
The game is usually played with a clock, which is often set from as short as one minute (usually when played online) to five minutes or longer. If a player runs out of time, that player's team loses.
There are many variations in how to play bughouse; most of these variations have to do with pawns.

</doc>
<doc id="80273" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80273" title="Harry Kewell">
Harry Kewell

Harry Kewell (born 22 September 1978 in Sydney) is an Australian football player. He currently plays for Melbourne Heart Football Club in the Australian A-League. He has played for the Socceroos.
He used to play for Leeds United in the Championship and then Galatasaray in the Süper Lig. His junior club was Marconi Stallions. He can play as a midfielder, a striker or a wing.
Harry Kewell started playing for Liverpool in 2003 before that he played for Leeds United. He was offered more money at other clubs such as Arsenal, Chelsea, Milan, Manchester United, Barcelona, Juventus and Real Madrid but eventually he chose to play at Liverpool. And Now Galatasaray
275||57||26||6||13||5||67||11||381||79
26||8||1||0||1||1||9||4||37||13
301||65||27||6||14||6||76||15||394||92
!Total||45||13

</doc>
<doc id="80275" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80275" title="Maiasaura">
Maiasaura

Maiasaura was a large, plant-eating, duck-billed dinosaur. Maiasaura was the first dinosaur that was found alongside its young, eggs, and nests. This suggests that Maiasaura nurtured its young.
Maiasaura lived about 80 to 65 million years ago in the late Cretaceous period. It was described as a kind and good natured dinosaur who ate plants, leaves and berries. It ate no meat at all since it was a herbivore. Its name Maiasaura means “Good Mother Lizard”. It was named this because scientists discovered that it looked after its young. Maiasaura measured about 9 metres long, 2-2.5 metres tall and weighed around 1800 kg.
Maiasaurs fossils were found in Montana, United States.

</doc>
<doc id="80277" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80277" title="Bait">
Bait

Bait is something used to attract prey. People have used it for thousands of years. Fishermen use bait to catch fish. There are many different types of bait depending on the kind of animal. Frequently the bait is cast using a fishing rod and reel. For a shark, adult squid is often used. When trying to get a salmon, crab is commonly used. Some fishermen use plastic bait. Recently, fishermen have been using electronic lures. Bait can be used to catch most animals. 

</doc>
<doc id="80278" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80278" title="Dennis Kucinich">
Dennis Kucinich

Dennis John Kucinich (born October 8, 1946) is a United States Representative from Ohio. He was a hopeful for President of the United States in 2008. He is a Democrat.

</doc>
<doc id="80280" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80280" title="Tusk">
Tusk

Tusks is a very long tooth that some animals have. Tusks are made of ivory. Ivory is very rare and expensive. Many elephants are killed for their tusks. Tusks are one third in the elephant head.

</doc>
<doc id="80281" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80281" title="Bill Richardson">
Bill Richardson

William Blaine "Bill" Richardson III (born November 15, 1947) is an American politician. He was the Governor of the United States state of New Mexico from 2003 until 2011. He was a candidate for President of the United States in the 2008 election. He was U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations and Energy Secretary in the Clinton administration. He is a Democrat.

</doc>
<doc id="80284" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80284" title="Mike Huckabee">
Mike Huckabee

Michael Dale "Mike" Huckabee (born August 24 1955) is a former governor of the U.S. state of Arkansas. He was governor from 1996 to 2007. He is a Republican. He is also a Southern Baptist minister. He wanted to be President of the United States in the 2008 election, but did not get picked by his party.
Huckabee was born in Hope, Arkansas. His parents were Mae Elder and Dorsey Huckabee. He studied at Ouachita Baptist University and at Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary.
In 1996, incumbent Democratic governor Jim Guy Tucker was convicted of fraud. Within a few hours, Tucker reinstated his resignation after Huckabee threatened to initiate impeachment proceedings against Tucker. Huckabee was sworn in as Governor of Arkansas on July 15, 1996.
In November 1998, Huckabee was elected to a full four-year term by defeating retired Colonel Gene McVay in the primary and Jonesboro attorney Bill Bristow in the general election, becoming the state's third elected Republican Governor since Reconstruction.
In November 2002, Huckabee was reelected to his second four-year term by defeating State Treasurer Jimmie Lou Fisher, garnering 53 percent of the vote. His reelection came despite the defeat in the general election of fellow Republican U.S. Senator Tim Hutchinson. By the end of his term, Huckabee held the third-longest tenure of any Arkansas Governor. Only Democrats Orval Faubus, who served six consecutive two-year terms (1955–1967), and Bill Clinton, who served 11 years, 11 months (1979–1981; 1983–1992), had longer tenures.
During his time as a governor Huckabee raised taxes 21 times for a net tax increase of $505 million.
Huckabee announced his run for the White House on "Meet the Press" on January 28, 2007. He lost the Republican primaries to John McCain.
On May 5, 2015, Huckabee announced that he will seek the 2016 Republican nomination for President of the United States. It will be his second run for the U.S. presidency. He suspended his campaign on February 1, 2016.
After 2008, he began hosting a news talk show on the Fox News television channel. The show, called "Huckabee", ran until 2015 when Huckabee retired. He has also written several books, many of which have been best sellers.
In his spare time, Huckabee plays guitar in a band. On his television show he has played guitar with a number of famous artists, including Willie Nelson, Def Leppard, and Ted Nugent.
Huckabee married Janet Huckabee in 1974. They have four children.

</doc>
<doc id="80285" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80285" title="Rudy Giuliani">
Rudy Giuliani

Rudolph William Louis "Rudy" Giuliani (born May 28, 1944) is a politician from New York in the United States. He is a Republican and campaigned to become President of the United States in 2008. Giuliani was mayor of New York City from January 1, 1994 to December 31, 2001. Giuliani became more well known during and after the September 11, 2001 attacks on the World Trade Center. In 2001, "Time" magazine named him "Person of the Year" and he received an honorary knighthood from Queen Elizabeth II in 2002.
Rudy was campaigning in 1993 with the show "Seinfeld" where he appeared as the NYC Mayor candidate as the "over count" cholesterol man by eating too much yogurt. This "product placement" of Mayor Giuliani is often referred to as an excellent example of electioneering and boosted his popularity accordingly.

</doc>
<doc id="80288" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80288" title="Albiorix (moon)">
Albiorix (moon)

Albiorix is a non-spherical moon of Saturn. It was found by Holman, et al. in 2000, and given the designation S/2000 S 11.
Albiorix is the biggest member of the Gallic group of non-spherical moons.
It was named in August 2003 from one of the Celtic names for the god of tribal unity, better known as Toutatis.
Albiorix orbits Saturn at a distance of about 16,000,000 km and its diameter is estimated at 32 kilometers, assuming an albedo of 0.04. A day on Albiorix is 13 hours and 19 minutes long. 
The diagram illustrates its orbit in relation to other prograde non-spherical moons of Saturn. The eccentricity of the orbits is represented by the yellow segments extending from the pericentre to the apocentre. 
Different colours seen recently suggest a possibility of a big crater, suggesting that Erriapo and Tarvos could be pieces of Albiorix following a near break-up collision with another body.

</doc>
<doc id="80290" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80290" title="S/2007 S 2">
S/2007 S 2

S/2007 S 2 is an unnamed moon of Saturn. Its discovery was announced by Scott S. Sheppard, David C. Jewitt, Jan Kleyna, and Brian G. Marsden on May 1, 2007, from observations taken between January 18 and April 19, 2007.
S/2007 S 2 is about 6 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Saturn at an average distance of 16,560,000 kilometres in 792.96 days, at an inclination of 176.68° to the ecliptic and with an eccentricity of 0.218.

</doc>
<doc id="80292" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80292" title="Bebhionn (moon)">
Bebhionn (moon)

Bebhionn or Saturn XXXVII (provisional designation S/2004 S 11) is a moon of Saturn. Its discovery was announced by Scott S. Sheppard, David C. Jewitt, Jan Kleyna, and Brian G. Marsden on May 4, 2005, from observations taken between December 12, 2004, and March 9, 2005.
Bebhionn is about 6 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Saturn at an average distance of 16,898,000 km in 820.130 days, at an inclination of 41° to the ecliptic (18° to Saturn's equator), and with an eccentricity of 0.333.
It was named in April 2007 after Bébinn, an early Irish mythology goddess of birth, renowned for her beauty.

</doc>
<doc id="80295" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80295" title="Erriapus (moon)">
Erriapus (moon)

Erriapus or Saturn XXVIII, is non-spherical moon of Saturn. It was found by Brett Gladman, John J. Kavelaars, et al. in 2000, and given the designation S/2000 S 10. It was named in August 2003 after Erriapo, a giant in Gaulish mythology. Later, the spelling was corrected to "Erriapus".
Erriapus is about 10 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Saturn at an average distance of 17,300,000 km in 871 days.
Erriapus is a member of the Gallic group of non-spherical, sharing a similar orbit and displaying a similar "light-red" colour, Erriapus is thought to have been formed in a break-up of a bigger body.

</doc>
<doc id="80297" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80297" title="Skoll (moon)">
Skoll (moon)

Skoll or Saturn XLVII (provisional designation S/2006 S 8) is non-spherical moon of Saturn. Its discovery was announced by Scott S. Sheppard, David C. Jewitt and Jan Kleyna on June 26, 2006, from observations taken between January 5 and April 30, 2006.
Skoll is about 6 kilometres in diameter (assuming an albedo of 0.04), and orbits Saturn at an average distance of 17,600,000 km in 869 days, following a highly eccentric and inclined orbit.
It was named in April 2007 after Sköll, a giant wolf from Norse mythology, son of Fenrisulfr and twin brother of Hati.

</doc>
<doc id="80303" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80303" title="Siarnaq (moon)">
Siarnaq (moon)

Siarnaq or Saturn XXIX, is a non-spherical moon of Saturn. It was found by Brett J. Gladman, et al. in 2000 and given the designation S/2000 S 3.
It was named in August 2003 after the giant Siarnaq (also known as Sedna) in Inuit mythology, it is the biggest member of the Inuit group of non-spherical moons.
Siarnaq is thought to be about 40 kilometres in diameter and orbits Saturn at an average distance of 17,500,000 km in 895 days.
The diagram illustrates its orbit in relation to other prograde non-spherical moons of Saturn. The eccentricity of the orbits is represented by the yellow segments extending from the pericentre to the apocentre.
Siarnaq has light-red colours very similar to Paaliaq and Kiviuq, supporting that the moons formed during a break up of a bigger body.

</doc>
<doc id="80305" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80305" title="Tarqeq (moon)">
Tarqeq (moon)

Tarqeq or Saturn LII (provisional designation S/2007 S 1) is a moon of Saturn. Its discovery was announced by Scott S. Sheppard, David C. Jewitt, Jan Kleyna, and Brian G. Marsden on April 13, 2007, from observations taken between January 5, 2006 and March 22, 2007.
The semi-major axis of Tarqeq is 17,910,000 km and it orbits Saturn in 894.86 days. The orbit is at an inclination of 49.90° (to the ecliptic; 49.77°to Saturn's equator), with an eccentricity of 0.1081. The diameter of the moon is 7 km. It is a member of the Inuit group of non-spherical moons.
Tarqeq is named after Tarqeq, the Inuit moon god.

</doc>
<doc id="80307" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80307" title="Brunswick, Georgia">
Brunswick, Georgia

Brunswick is a city in the U.S. state of Georgia and the county seat of Glynn County. In 2006, the city had an estimated population of 16,074 and an estimated metropolitan population of 100,613. Brunswick is the principal city of the "Brunswick, GA Metropolitan Statistical Area", which is often called "Metropolitan Brunswick".

</doc>
<doc id="80308" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80308" title="Cocoa Beach, Florida">
Cocoa Beach, Florida

Cocoa Beach is a city in Brevard County, Florida, United States. The population was 12,482 at the 2000 census. According to the U.S Census estimates of 2005, the city had a population of 12,435. .

</doc>
<doc id="80309" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80309" title="Santee River">
Santee River

The Santee River is a river of South Carolina in the United States, 143 mi (230 km long). The Santee and its tributaries give the main drainage and navigation for the central coastal plain of South Carolina, emptying into the Atlantic Ocean about 440 mi (710 km) from its farthest headwater on the Catawba River in North Carolina. Much of the upper river is in the expansive horn-shaped Lake Marion reservoir. The reservoir is made by the 8 mi (13 km) long Santee Dam. The dam was built during the 1930s as a WPA project to give a major source of hydroelectric power for the state.

</doc>
<doc id="80310" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80310" title="Federal Emergency Management Agency">
Federal Emergency Management Agency

The Federal Emergency Management Agency, or FEMA, is an agency of the United States Department of Homeland Security. The purpose of FEMA (begun by Presidential Order on March 30, 1979)
is to coordinate the response to a disaster which has occurred in the United States and which overwhelms the resources of local and state authorities. The governor of the state in which the disaster occurred must declare a state of emergency and formally request from the President that FEMA and the federal government respond to the disaster. The only exception is when an emergency or disaster occurs on federal property or to a federal asset, for example, the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, in the 1995 bombing, or the Space Shuttle Columbia in the 2003 return-flight disaster.

</doc>
<doc id="80312" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80312" title="Tropical Depression Ten (2005)">
Tropical Depression Ten (2005)

Tropical Depression Ten was the tenth tropical cyclone of the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season. The depression formed on August 13 from a tropical wave that entered the Atlantic Ocean on August 8. Because of strong wind shear, the depression stayed weak and did not strengthen much. The cyclone itself had no effect on land and did not cause any damage. It mostly died out on August 14, but its remains later helped to form another storm, Hurricane Katrina. Katrina became one of the worst hurricanes in the history of the United States.
The tropical depression began as a tropical wave that entered the Atlantic Ocean on August 8, 2005. The wave moved west. It began to show signs of becoming stronger on August 11. The system formed into Tropical Depression Ten at 1200 UTC on August 13. At the time, it was about to the east of Barbados. When the storm was first called a tropical depression, it had a large area of thunderstorms, with curved rainbands.
The depression slowly moved west, and wind shear stopped the storm from becoming much stronger. Late on August 13, a weather forecaster said that it was "beginning to look like Irene-junior". They said this because it was mid-level shear happening in the storm towards the southwest "beneath the otherwise favorable upper-level outflow pattern". This means that the storm looked similar to Hurricane Irene.
Early on August 14, the wind shear tore apart the storm. The center of the storm separated from the thunderstorm areas. Later that day, the cyclone became even weaker. The National Hurricane Center gave their final warning on Tropical Depression Ten, and the storm mostly disappeared. However, its remains produced a few bursts of thunderstorm activity for several days, before completely stopping on August 18.
Energy left over from Tropical Depression Ten helped to form Tropical Depression Twelve over the southeastern Bahamas on August 23. Normally, if a depression disappears and forms again, it keeps the same number. However, the formation of Tropical Depression Twelve involved other weather systems, including another tropical wave. Tropical Depression Twelve later became Hurricane Katrina.
Tropical Depression Ten did not hit land. Because of this, no tropical cyclone watches and warnings were given out. It did not damage anything or cause any people's deaths, and no ships reported strong winds. Also the depression never became a tropical storm, so it was not given a name by the National Hurricane Center. 
After the depression mostly died, part of its remains contributed to the formation of Tropical Depression Twelve, which later intensified into Hurricane Katrina. Katrina later became a Category 5 hurricane and made landfall in Louisiana, where it caused catastrophic damage. It was one of the worst hurricanes in the history of the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="80316" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80316" title="Utahraptor">
Utahraptor

Utahraptor was a large mid-Cretaceous dromaeosaurid predator with 9-15 inch middle-toe claws. 
It was a fast-moving, agile, bipedal (walked on two legs), bird-like dinosaur. It had a curved, flexible neck and a big head. Sharp, serrated teeth were set into very powerful jaws. Each of its three fingers on each arm had large, sharp, curved claw.
It had four-toed feet; the second toe had a 9-15 inch (23-38 cm) sickle-like claw and the other toes had smaller claws. Its long tail had bony rods running along the spine giving it rigidity; the tail was used for balance and fast turning ability. 
It had a relatively large brain and large, keen, eyes. Utahraptor was 16-23 feet (5-7 m) long and may have weighed about .5 ton.

</doc>
<doc id="80318" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80318" title="Albertosaurus">
Albertosaurus

Albertosaurus was a relative of "Tyrannosaurus". "Albertosaurus" was smaller than "T. rex" and lived a few million years earlier. "Albertosaurus" walked on two legs and had a large head with sharp, saw-toothed teeth. It had two-fingered hands on short arms. Its long tail provided balance and quick turning. It had powerful back legs with clawed, three-toed feet.
It was about 30 feet (9 m) long, about 11 feet (3.4 m) tall at the hips, and up to 3 tons in weight (averaging roughly 2500 kg). The lower jaw of "Albertosaurus" had from 14 and 16 teeth; the upper jaw had 17-19 teeth. It had one row of teeth in each jaw but had at least one replacement tooth growing up from under each tooth.
"Albertosaurus" was more lightly built than Tyrannosaurus, and therefore probably a faster mover in open spaces.

</doc>
<doc id="80319" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80319" title="Michael Clarke">
Michael Clarke

Michael John Clarke (born 2 April, 1981 in Liverpool, Sydney, New South Wales) is the former captain of the Australian cricket team. He is nicknamed 'Pup' or 'Clarkey', he is a right-handed batsman, highly-regarded fielder and occasional left-arm orthodox spin bowler. He captained the Australian team to a 5-0 whitewash in the 2013 Ashes series.

</doc>
<doc id="80320" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80320" title="S/2004 S 13">
S/2004 S 13

S/2004 S 13 is a moon of Saturn. Its discovery was announced by Scott S. Sheppard, David C. Jewitt, Jan Kleyna, and Brian G. Marsden on May 4, 2005, from observations taken between December 12, 2004, and March 9, 2005.
S/2004 S 13 is about 6 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Saturn at an average distance of 18,056,000 km in 905.848 days, at an inclination of 167° to the ecliptic (143° to Saturn's equator), with an eccentricity of 0.261.

</doc>
<doc id="80323" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80323" title="Greip (moon)">
Greip (moon)

Greip or Saturn LI (provisional designation S/2006 S 4) is a moon of Saturn. Its discovery was announced by Scott S. Sheppard, David C. Jewitt, Jan Kleyna, and Brian G. Marsden on June 26, 2006, from observations taken between January 5 and May 1, 2006.
Greip is about 6 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Saturn at an average distance of 18,066,000 km in 906.556 days, at an inclination of 172.7° to the ecliptic (159.2° to Saturn's equator), and with an eccentricity of 0.3735.
It is named after Greip, a giantess (female giant) in Norse mythology.

</doc>
<doc id="80325" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80325" title="Hyrrokkin (moon)">
Hyrrokkin (moon)

Hyrrokkin or Saturn XLIV (provisional designation S/2004 S 19) is a moon of Saturn. Its discovery was announced by Scott S. Sheppard, David C. Jewitt, Jan Kleyna, and Brian G. Marsden on June 26, 2006, from observations taken between December 12, 2004, and April 30, 2006.
Hyrrokkin is about 8 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Saturn at an average distance of 18,168,300 km in 914.292 days, at an inclination of 153.3° to the ecliptic (154.3° to Saturn's equator), with an eccentricity of 0.3604.
It was named in April 2007 after Hyrrokkin, a giantess (female giant) from Norse mythology, who launched Hringhorni, Baldr's funeral ship. It was originally listed as being spelled "Hyrokkin", but the spelling was later corrected.

</doc>
<doc id="80328" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80328" title="Jarnsaxa (moon)">
Jarnsaxa (moon)

Jarnsaxa or Saturn L (provisional designation S/2006 S 6) is a moon of Saturn. Its discovery was announced by Scott S. Sheppard, David C. Jewitt, Jan Kleyna, and Brian G. Marsden on June 26, 2006, from observations taken between January 5 and April 29, 2006.
Jarnsaxa is about 6 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Saturn at an average distance of 18,556,900 km in 943.784 days, at an inclination of 162.9° to the ecliptic (164.1° to Saturn's equator), with an eccentricity of 0.1918. It is a member of the Norse group of non-spherical moons.
It is named after Járnsaxa, a giantess (female giant) in Norse mythology.

</doc>
<doc id="80334" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80334" title="Tarvos (moon)">
Tarvos (moon)

Tarvos or Saturn XXI is a non-spherical moon of Saturn. It was found by John J. Kavelaars, et al. on September 23, 2000, and given the designation S/2000 S 4. The name, given in August 2003, is after Tarvos from Gaulish mythology.
Tarvos orbits Saturn at an average distance of 18 million km in 926 days and is about 15 km in diameter (assuming an albedo of 0.04).
It is a member of the Gallic group of non-spherical moons.
Sharing similar orbit and displaying similar "light-red" colour, Tarvos is thought to have been formed in a break-up of a bigger body or to be a piece of Albiorix. 

</doc>
<doc id="80340" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80340" title="1450">
1450

1450 was a common year in the 15th century.

</doc>
<doc id="80341" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80341" title="Product (business)">
Product (business)

A product is something that is made (produced) and often something that is sold.
In Economics, things that one person has and another person wants are called goods. If the thing was made by people, then it is called a product. If it is something that was found in nature, then it is called a natural resource.

</doc>
<doc id="80359" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80359" title="Yippee">
Yippee

Yippee is a 2006 documentary movie created by Jewish-American director Paul Mazursky. The movie follows a Jewish pilgrimage to the town of Uman in the Ukraine on Rosh Hashanah, the Jewish New Year. The city is the burial site of the founder of Bratslav Hasidism, Rabbi Nachman.

</doc>
<doc id="80369" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80369" title="Vung Tau">
Vung Tau

Vung Tau (Vietnamese: "Vũng Tàu") is a city in Ba Ria-Vung Tau Province, Vietnam. This city has a population of 240.000 and an area of 154.0 km2. This is a petroleum and tourism centre of Vietnam. Vung Tau is located about 120 km northeast of Ho Chi Minh City. Vung Tau town was founded by French colonists under the administration of Paul Doumer, then the Governor General of French Indochina. This city borders Vietnam Sea and has several beautiful beaches.

</doc>
<doc id="80370" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80370" title="Media Access Control">
Media Access Control

A Media Access Control address (often shortened to MAC address) is a 48-bit code which allows a computer to be part of a computer network. Usually, a computer has only one MAC address. Each computer has a MAC address which identifies it uniquely on the network. No other device on the Internet will have the same MAC address. A MAC address contains two pairs of 24-bit hexadecimals: the first pair is the international standard identifier of the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) and the last pair is the serial number for the network interface card to uniquely identify the card.

</doc>
<doc id="80376" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80376" title="Arabic Wikipedia">
Arabic Wikipedia

The Arabic Wikipedia () is the Arabic language version of Wikipedia. It started in September 2001. 
It was the 23rd largest edition of Wikipedia by article count, but grew to 21st largest edition.
As of August 2014, it has over 300,000 articles, over 1,350,000 pages, over 625,000 registered users and over 15,000 files. 
It has been blocked in Syria.

</doc>
<doc id="80378" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80378" title="French Wikipedia">
French Wikipedia

The French Wikipedia ( or ) is the French language edition of Wikipedia, spelled "Wikipédia". It started in March 2001. It is the largest Wikipedia in a Romance language. It was the third largest Wikipedia after the English language and German language editions, but dropped to sixth. 
This edition had over 1 739 000 articles as of 28 March 2016.

</doc>
<doc id="80379" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80379" title="German Wikipedia">
German Wikipedia

The German Wikipedia () is the German language edition of Wikipedia. Founded 16 March 2001, it is the second-oldest and the first non-English Wikipedia. It is the third largest Wikipedia, after the English Wikipedia and the Swedish Wikipedia. 
As of 14 July 2016, it had over 1,958,000 articles.

</doc>
<doc id="80384" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80384" title="Mundilfari (moon)">
Mundilfari (moon)

Mundilfari or Saturn XXV, is a moon of Saturn. It was found by Brett J. Gladman, et al. in 2000, and given the designation S/2000 S 9.
Mundilfari is about 5.6 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Saturn at an average distance of 18,360,000 km in 928.806 days, at an inclination of 170° to the ecliptic (150° to Saturn's equator), with an eccentricity of 0.198.
Mundilfari may have formed from debris knocked off of Phoebe by big impacts at some point in the solar system's history.
It was named in August 2003 from Norse mythology, where Mundilfari is a Jotun or giant who is the father of the goddess Sol and the god Mani.

</doc>
<doc id="80387" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80387" title="S/2006 S 1">
S/2006 S 1

S/2006 S 1 is an unnamed moon of Saturn. Its discovery was announced by Scott S. Sheppard, David C. Jewitt, Jan Kleyna, and Brian G. Marsden on June 26, 2006, from observations taken between January 4 and April 30, 2006.
S/2006 S 1 is about 6 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Saturn at an average distance of 18,930,200 km in 972.407 days, at an inclination of 154.2° to the ecliptic (175.4° to Saturn's equator), with an eccentricity of 0.1303.

</doc>
<doc id="80389" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80389" title="S/2004 S 17">
S/2004 S 17

S/2004 S 17 is an unnamed moon of Saturn. Its discovery was announced by Scott S. Sheppard, David C. Jewitt, Jan Kleyna, and Brian G. Marsden on May 4, 2005, from observations taken between December 13, 2004, and March 5, 2005.
S/2004 S 17 is about 4 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Saturn at an average distance of 19,099,000 km in 985.453 days, at an inclination of 167° to the ecliptic (162° to Saturn's equator), with an eccentricity of 0.226.

</doc>
<doc id="80391" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80391" title="Bergelmir (moon)">
Bergelmir (moon)

Bergelmir or Saturn XXXVIII (provisional designation S/2004 S 15) is a moon of Saturn. Its discovery was announced by Scott S. Sheppard, David C. Jewitt, Jan Kleyna, and Brian G. Marsden on May 4, 2005, from observations taken between December 12, 2004, and March 9, 2005.
Bergelmir is about 6 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Saturn at an average distance of 19,372,000 km in 1006.659 days, at an inclination of 157° to the ecliptic (134° to Saturn's equator), with an eccentricity of 0.152.
It was named in April 2007 after Bergelmir, a giant from Norse mythology and the grandson of Ymir, the primordial giant. Bergelmir and his wife alone among their kind were the only survivors of the enormous deluge of blood from Ymir's wounds when he was killed by Odin and his brothers at the dawn of time. Bergelmir then became the progenitor of a new race of giants.

</doc>
<doc id="80394" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80394" title="Narvi (moon)">
Narvi (moon)

Narvi ( ) or Saturn XXXI is a moon of Saturn. It was discovered by a team of astronomers led by Scott S. Sheppard in 2003, and given the designation S/2003 S 1.
Narvi is about 7 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Saturn at an average distance of 19,371,000 km in 1006.541 days, at an inclination of 137° to the ecliptic (109° to Saturn's equator), with an eccentricity of 0.320.
It was named in January 2005 after Narvi from Norse mythology, also known as Narfi or Nari, a son of Loki by Sigyn who was killed to punish Loki for his crimes. The gods turned his brother Váli into a slavering wolf who tore his throat out. His entrails were used to bind Loki to a stone slab for all eternity, or at least until Ragnarok. The name was approved by the IAU Working Group on Planetary System Nomenclature on January 21, 2005.

</doc>
<doc id="80396" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80396" title="Suttungr (moon)">
Suttungr (moon)

Suttungr or Saturn XXIII, is a moon of Saturn. It was found by Brett J. Gladman, et al. in 2000, and given the designation S/2000 S 12.
Suttungr is about 5.6 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Saturn at an average distance of 19,667,000 km in 1029.703 days, at an inclination of 174° to the ecliptic (151° to Saturn's equator), with an eccentricity of 0.131.
Suttungr may have formed from debris knocked off of Phoebe at some point in the past.
It was named in August 2003 from Norse mythology, where Suttung is a Jotun or giant who once owned the mead of poetry.
The name was said as Suttung in IAU Circular 8177. However, the IAU Working Group on Planetary System Nomenclature later decided to add the nominative case ending "-r" to the base form "Suttung". 

</doc>
<doc id="80403" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80403" title="Hati (moon)">
Hati (moon)

Hati or Saturn XLIII (provisional designation S/2004 S 14) is a moon of Saturn. Its discovery was announced by Scott S. Sheppard, David C. Jewitt, Jan Kleyna, and Brian G. Marsden on May 4, 2005, from observations taken between December 12, 2004, and March 11, 2005.
Hati is about 6 kilometers in diameter, and orbits Saturn at an average distance of 20,303,000 km in 1080.099 days, at an inclination of 163° to the ecliptic (165° to Saturn's equator), with an eccentricity of 0.291.
It was named in April 2007 after Hati, a giant wolf from Norse mythology, son of Fenrisulfr and twin brother of Skoll.

</doc>
<doc id="80405" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80405" title="S/2004 S 12">
S/2004 S 12

S/2004 S 12 is an unnamed moon of Saturn. Its discovery was announced by Scott S. Sheppard, David C. Jewitt, Jan Kleyna, and Brian G. Marsden on May 4, 2005, from observations taken between December 12, 2004, and March 9, 2005.
S/2004 S 12 is about 5 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Saturn at an average distance of 19,906,000 km in 1048.541 days, at an inclination of 164° to the ecliptic (162° to Saturn's equator), with an eccentricity of 0.396.

</doc>
<doc id="80408" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80408" title="Farbauti (moon)">
Farbauti (moon)

Farbauti or Saturn XL (also called S/2004 S 9) is a moon of Saturn. It was found by Scott S. Sheppard, David C. Jewitt, and Jan Kleyna on December 12, 2004. Farbauti was found using the Mauna Kea Observatory and is the 40th moon from Saturns surface. The public did not know about Farbauti until May 4, 2005.
Farbauti is 5 kilometres wide, and 20,291,000 kilometres from Saturns surface. Farbauti travels around Saturn (orbit) once every 1079 days.
The moon was named in April 2007 after the "storm giant" Fárbauti, father of Loki in Norse mythology.

</doc>
<doc id="80414" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80414" title="Thrymr (moon)">
Thrymr (moon)

Thrymr or Saturn XXX, is a moon of Saturn. It was found by Gladman, et al. in 2000, and given the designation S/2000 S 7.
Thrymr is about 5.6 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Saturn at an average distance of 20,810,000 km in 1120.809 days, at an inclination of 175° to the ecliptic (151° to Saturn's equator), with an eccentricity of 0.453.
Thrymr may have formed from debris knocked off of Phoebe at some point in the past.
Its name comes from Norse mythology, where Thrymr is a Jotun or frost giant.
The name was said as Thrym in IAU Circular 8177. However, the IAU Working Group on Planetary System Nomenclature later decided to add the nominative case ending "-r" to the root "Thrym". 

</doc>
<doc id="80428" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80428" title="Aegir (moon)">
Aegir (moon)

Aegir or Saturn XXXVI (provisional designation S/2004 S 10) is a moon of Saturn. Its discovery was announced by Scott S. Sheppard, David C. Jewitt, Jan Kleyna, and Brian G. Marsden on May 4, 2005, from observations taken between December 12, 2004, and March 11, 2005.
Aegir is about 6 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Saturn at an average distance of 19,618,000 km in 1025.908 days, at an inclination of 167° to the ecliptic (140° to Saturn's equator), with an eccentricity of 0.237.
It was named in April 2007 after Ægir, a giant from Norse mythology, the personification of tranquil seas, the one who soothes storms away. He is a son of Fornjót, and brother of Logi (fire, flame) and Kári (wind).

</doc>
<doc id="80433" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80433" title="S/2007 S 3">
S/2007 S 3

S/2007 S 3 is an unnamed moon of Saturn. Its discovery was announced by Scott S. Sheppard, David C. Jewitt, Jan Kleyna, and Brian G. Marsden on May 1, 2007, from observations taken between January 18 and April 19, 2007.
S/2007 S 3 is about 5 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Saturn at an average distance of 20,518,500 kilometres in about 1100 days, at an inclination of 177.22° to the ecliptic, with an eccentricity of 0.130.

</doc>
<doc id="80434" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80434" title="Porrentruy (district)">
Porrentruy (district)

The District of Porrentruy is one of the districts of the canton of Jura, Switzerland. The capital city is Porrentruy. The French-speaking district has a population of 24,012 (end of 2005).
Porrentruy is divided into 36 municipalities:

</doc>
<doc id="80437" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80437" title="Franches-Montagnes (district)">
Franches-Montagnes (district)

The District of Franches-Montagnes is a district of the canton of Jura, Switzerland. The capital city is Saignelégier. The French-speaking district has a population of 9,865 (end of 2005).
Franches-Montagnes contains 19 municipalities:

</doc>
<doc id="80438" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80438" title="Bestla (moon)">
Bestla (moon)

Bestla or Saturn XXXIX (provisional designation S/2004 S 18) is a moon of Saturn. Its discovery was announced by Scott S. Sheppard, David C. Jewitt, Jan Kleyna, and Brian G. Marsden on May 4, 2005, from observations taken between December 13, 2004, and March 5, 2005.
Bestla is about 7 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Saturn at an average distance of 19,959,000 km in 1052.722 days, at an inclination of 147° to the ecliptic (151° to Saturn's equator), with an eccentricity of 0.772. This moon has the most eccentric orbit of any moon in the solar system.
It was named in April 2007 after Bestla, a frost giantess (female giant) from Norse mythology, mother of Odin.

</doc>
<doc id="80440" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80440" title="S/2004 S 7">
S/2004 S 7

S/2004 S 7 is an unnamed moon of Saturn. Its discovery was announced by Scott S. Sheppard, David C. Jewitt, Jan Kleyna, and Brian G. Marsden on May 4, 2005, from observations taken between December 12, 2004, and March 8, 2005.
S/2004 S 7 is about 6 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Saturn at an average distance of 20,577,000 km in 1101.989 days, at an inclination of 166° to the ecliptic (166° to Saturn's equator), with an eccentricity of 0.554.

</doc>
<doc id="80444" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80444" title="Beckenried">
Beckenried

Beckenried is a municipality of the canton of Nidwalden in Switzerland. 
The main sights of Beckenried are: the church "St. Heinrich" and its cemetery chapel, the "Ridli" chapel, the chapel "St. Anna", the "Klewen" chapel, fun fair ("Älplerkilbi"), and the St. Nikolas market.

</doc>
<doc id="80445" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80445" title="Buochs">
Buochs

Buochs is a municipality in the canton of Nidwalden in Switzerland. 
The main sights of Buochs are the church "St. Martin", the "Loreto" chapel in "Ennerberg", a monument of Johann Melchior Wyrsch, and the quay.

</doc>
<doc id="80446" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80446" title="S/2006 S 3">
S/2006 S 3

S/2006 S 3 is an unnamed moon of Saturn. Its discovery was announced by Scott S. Sheppard, David C. Jewitt, Jan Kleyna, and Brian G. Marsden on June 26, 2006, from observations taken between January and April 2006.
S/2006 S 3 is about 6 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Saturn at an average distance of 21,076,300 km in 1142.366 days, at an inclination of 150.8° to the ecliptic (128.8° to Saturn's equator), with an eccentricity of 0.4710.

</doc>
<doc id="80451" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80451" title="Bern (disambiguation)">
Bern (disambiguation)

Bern can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="80455" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80455" title="Fenrir (moon)">
Fenrir (moon)

Fenrir or Saturn XLI (provisional designation S/2004 S 16) is a moon of Saturn. Its discovery was announced by Scott S. Sheppard, David C. Jewitt, Jan Kleyna, and Brian G. Marsden on May 4, 2005, from observations taken between December 13, 2004, and March 5, 2005.
Fenrir is about 4 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Saturn at an average distance of 22,611,000 km in 1269.362 days, at an inclination of 163° to the ecliptic (143° to Saturn's equator), with an eccentricity of 0.131.
It was named in April 2007 after Fenrisulfr, a giant wolf from Norse mythology, father of Hati and Skoll, son of Loki, destined to break its bonds for Ragnarök.

</doc>
<doc id="80463" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80463" title="Surtur (moon)">
Surtur (moon)

Surtur or Saturn XLVIII (also known as S/2006 S 7) is a moon of Saturn. It was discovered by Scott S. Sheppard, David C. Jewitt, Jan Kleyna, and Brian G. Marsden on June 26, 2006.
Surtur is about 6 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Saturn at an average distance of 22,243,600 km in 1238.575 days, at an inclination of 166.9° to the ecliptic (148.9° to Saturn's equator), with an eccentricity of 0.3680.
It was named in April 2007, after Surtr, leader of the fire giants of Norse mythology.

</doc>
<doc id="80467" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80467" title="Kari (moon)">
Kari (moon)

Kari or Saturn XLV (provisional designation S/2006 S 2) is a moon of Saturn. Its discovery was announced by Scott S. Sheppard, David C. Jewitt, Jan Kleyna, and Brian G. Marsden on June 26, 2006, from observations taken between January and April 2006.
Kari is about 7 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Saturn at an average distance of 22,305,100 km in 1243.71 days, at an inclination of 148.4° to the ecliptic (151.5° to Saturn's equator), with an eccentricity of 0.3405.
It was named in April 2007 after Kári, son of Fornjót, the personification of wind in Norse mythology.

</doc>
<doc id="80473" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80473" title="Ymir (moon)">
Ymir (moon)

Ymir ( ), or Saturn XIX is a moon of Saturn. It was found by Brett J. Gladman, et al. in 2000, and given the designation S/2000 S 1. It was named in August 2003, from Norse mythology, where Ymir is the ancestor of all the Jotuns or frost giants.
Ymir is about 16 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Saturn at an average distance of 23,175,000 km in 1317.137 days, at an inclination of 172° to the ecliptic (146° to Saturn's equator), with an eccentricity of 0.358.

</doc>
<doc id="80477" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80477" title="Loge (moon)">
Loge (moon)

Loge or Saturn XLVI (provisional designation S/2006 S 5) is a moon of Saturn. Its discovery was announced by Scott S. Sheppard, David C. Jewitt, Jan Kleyna, and Brian G. Marsden on June 26, 2006, from observations taken between January and April 2006.
Loge is about 6 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Saturn at an average distance of 23,142,000 km in 1314.364 days, at an inclination of 166.5° to the ecliptic (165.3° to Saturn's equator), with an eccentricity of 0.1390.
It was named in April 2007, after Loge (also spelled Logi), a fire giant from Norse mythology, son of Fornjót, sometimes confused with the god Loki.

</doc>
<doc id="80480" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80480" title="Fornjot (moon)">
Fornjot (moon)

Fornjot or Saturn XLII (provisional designation S/2004 S 8) is a moon of Saturn. Its discovery was announced by Scott S. Sheppard, David C. Jewitt, Jan Kleyna, and Brian G. Marsden on May 4, 2005, from observations taken between December 12, 2004, and March 11, 2005.
It is about 6 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Saturn at an average distance of 24,505,000 km in 1432 days at an inclination of 168° to the ecliptic (152° to Saturn's equator) with an eccentricity of 0.186. It is the farthest moon from Saturn.
It was named in April 2007, after Fornjót, a storm giant from Norse mythology, father of Ægir, Kári, and Loge.

</doc>
<doc id="80486" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80486" title="Cordelia (moon)">
Cordelia (moon)

Cordelia it the closest moon to Uranus. It was found from the images taken by "Voyager 2" on January 20, 1986, and was given the designation S/1986 U 7. It was not seen again until the Hubble Space Telescope observed it in 1997. Cordelia takes its name from the youngest daughter of Lear in William Shakespeare's "King Lear." It is also designated Uranus VI. This moon which is 14 km (9 mi) across is the same size of Deimos, Mars' smallest moon.
Other than its orbit, radius of 21 km and geometric albedo of 0.08, almost nothing is known about it. At the Voyager 2 images Cordelia appears as a stretched object, the major axis pointing towards Uranus.

</doc>
<doc id="80487" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80487" title="Leberkäse">
Leberkäse

The cook of the Bavarian duke Karl Theodor is said to have invented Leberkäse in 1776. Many people believe this to be false though. The word ""Leberkäse"" literally translates to ""liver-cheese"". In Bavaria there is neither cheese nor liver in the dish, though. Some linguists say, that the word may be related to the German word "Laib" (loaf). Perhaps it also contains the Slavic root "quas" (yeast).
According to German food laws, only products called "Bavarian Leberkäse" are allowed not to have liver in them; otherwise, there must be a minimum liver content of 4%. Some local variants must contain even more liver; for example, the liver content of "Stuttgarter Leberkäse" must be at least 5%.
There are several ways of eating Leberkäse:

</doc>
<doc id="80494" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80494" title="Albula (district)">
Albula (district)

Albula is one of the districts in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland. It has an area of 723.13 km² and a population of 8,720 people (as of December 2004). 
Albula contains 4 "Kreise" (sub-districts) Alvaschein, Belfort, Bergün and Surses, which contains 23 municipalities:

</doc>
<doc id="80495" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80495" title="Bernina (district)">
Bernina (district)

Bernina is a district in the canton of Graubünden, Switzerland. It has an area of 237.2 km² and a population of 4,687 people (as of December 2004).
Bernina consists of two "Kreise" (sub-districts) Brusio and Poschiavo, each of which contains a single municipality of the same name.

</doc>
<doc id="80496" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80496" title="Ophelia (moon)">
Ophelia (moon)

Ophelia is a closer moon of Uranus. It was found from the images taken by "Voyager 2" on January 20, 1986, and was given the designation S/1986 U 8. It was not seen until the Hubble Space Telescope saw it in 2003.
Ophelia was named after the daughter of Polonius, Ophelia, in William Shakespeare's play "Hamlet". It is also designated Uranus VII. 
Unfortunately, other than its orbit, radius of 23 km and geometric albedo of 0.08, almost nothing is known about it. At the Voyager 2 images Ophelia appears as a streched object, the major axis pointing towards Uranus.

</doc>
<doc id="80497" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80497" title="Hinterrhein (district)">
Hinterrhein (district)

Hinterrhein is a district of the canton of Graubünden, Switzerland. It has an area of 617.67 km² and a population of 12,508 people (as of December 2004). 
Hinterrhein consists of five "Kreise" (sub-districts) and 39 municipalities.
On 1 January 2006, Medels im Rheinwald became part of Splügen.
On 1 January 2003, the municipalities of Donath and Patzen-Fardün became part of Donat.

</doc>
<doc id="80500" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80500" title="Imboden (district)">
Imboden (district)

Imboden is a district of the canton of Graubünden, Switzerland. It has an area of 203.78 km² and a population of 17,528 people. (as of December 2004). 
It contains 2 "Kreise" (sub-districts) and seven municipalities:

</doc>
<doc id="80501" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80501" title="Inn (district)">
Inn (district)

Inn is a district of the canton of Graubünden, Switzerland. It has an area of 1,196.77 km² and a population of 9,371 people (as of December 2004). 
It contains 4 "Kreise" (sub-districts) and 18 municipalities:

</doc>
<doc id="80503" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80503" title="Landquart (district)">
Landquart (district)

Landquart is a district of the canton of Graubünden, Switzerland. It has an area of 193.91 km² and a population of 22,450 people as of December 2004.
It contains 2 "Kreise" (sub-districts) and 11 municipalities

</doc>
<doc id="80504" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80504" title="Maloja (district)">
Maloja (district)

Maloja () is a district of the canton of Graubünden, Switzerland. It has an area of and a population of 17,810 people (as of December 2004). Most of the population of Maloja speaks Italian.
It contains 2 "Kreise" (sub-districts) and 16 municipalities:

</doc>
<doc id="80505" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80505" title="Moesa (district)">
Moesa (district)

Moesa is a district of the canton of Graubünden, Switzerland. It has an area of 496.11 km² and a population of 7,640 people(as of December 2004). 
It contains 3 "Kreise" (sub-districts) and 17 municipalities:

</doc>
<doc id="80506" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80506" title="Plessur (district)">
Plessur (district)

Plessur is a district of the canton of Graubünden, Switzerland. It has an area of 266.73 km² and a population of 38,899 people (as of December 2004). The district is named after the river Plessur which crosses it. 
Plessur contains 3 "Kreise" (sub-districts) Chur, Churwalden and Schanfigg, which makes a total of 16 municipalities:

</doc>
<doc id="80507" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80507" title="Davos (district)">
Davos (district)

Davos is a district of the canton of Graubünden, Switzerland. It has an area of 823.95 km² and a population of 25,728 people (as of December 2004). 
It contains 7 "Kreise" (sub-districts) and 16 municipalities:
The sub-districts Davos, Jenaz, Klosters, Küblis and Luzein belonged until 1986 to the defunct district "Oberlandquart"; the sub-districts Schiers and Seewis to the defunct district "Unterlandquart".

</doc>
<doc id="80508" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80508" title="Adrastea (moon)">
Adrastea (moon)

Adrastea or ', is the second closest moon to Jupiter. It was found by David C. Jewitt and G. Edward Danielson in "Voyager 2" probe photographs taken in 1979 and received the designation '. In 1983, it was named after the mythological Adrastea, who was a daughter of Jupiter and Ananke. 
Adrastea was the first moon to be found from images taken by an interplanetary spacecraft, rather than through telescopic photography.
Adrastea is non-spherical and measures 20x16x14 km³ across. What Adrastea is made of and the mass of Adrastea are not known, but assuming that its mean density is like that of Amalthea (~0.86 g/cm³) its mass can be estimated at ~2×10 kg. Amalthea's density implies that moon is composed of water ice with a porosity of 10-15%, and Adrastea may be similar.
No surface details of Adrastea are known, due to the low resolution of available images.
Adrastea is the smallest and second closest member of the closer moons to Jupiter. It orbits Jupiter at ~129,000 km (1.806 Jupiter radii) within the planet's Main Ring. The orbital eccentricity of ~0.0015 and inclination of ~ 0.03° relative to the equator of Jupiter are very small.
Adrastea was found in "Voyager 1 and 2" images, but appeared only as a dot. The "Galileo" spacecraft was able to see its shape, but the images remain poor.

</doc>
<doc id="80509" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80509" title="Surselva (district)">
Surselva (district)

Surselva is a district of the canton of Graubünden, Switzerland. It has an area of 1,373.39 km² and a population of 22,381 people (as of December 2004).
It contains 5 "Kreise" (sub-districts) and 43 municipalities:

</doc>
<doc id="80511" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80511" title="Almens">
Almens

Almens is a municipality in the district of Hinterrhein in the Swiss canton of Graubünden. On 1 January 2015 the former municipalities of Almens, Paspels, Pratval, Rodels and Tomils merged into the new municipality of Domleschg.
German is the most common language in Almens.

</doc>
<doc id="80513" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80513" title="Bernese Jura">
Bernese Jura

Bernese Jura (German:"Berner Jura", French: "Jura Bernois") is a part of the canton of Bern in Switzerland. It is the French speaking part of the canton. It was made after the canton of Jura split from the canton of Bern. The Bernese Jura is made of three districts, Courtelary, La Neuveville and Moutier. The people living there are mainly protestants, they chose to stay with the canton of Bern in 1979.

</doc>
<doc id="80514" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80514" title="Alvaneu">
Alvaneu

Alvaneu is a municipality in the district of Albula in the canton of Graubünden in Switzerland.
It consists of Alvaneu-Dorf and Alvaneu-Bad. The area is 35.68 km² and the population is 421 people.
On 1 January 2015 the former municipalities of Alvaneu, Alvaschein, Brienz/Brinzauls, Mon, Stierva, Surava and Tiefencastel merged into the new municipality of Albula/Alvra.
This table shows the languages of Alvaneu:

</doc>
<doc id="80515" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80515" title="Birgisch">
Birgisch

Birgisch was a municipality in the district of Brig in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.
On 1 January 2013 the former municipalities of Birgisch and Mund merged into the municipality of Naters.

</doc>
<doc id="80516" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80516" title="Amalthea (moon)">
Amalthea (moon)

Amalthea is the third closest moon to Jupiter. It was found on September 9, 1892, by Edward Emerson Barnard and named after Amalthea, a nymph in Greek mythology. It is also known as .
On Amalthea, Jupiter would be an amazing sight in its sky, looking 92 times bigger than the Full Moon. Amalthea is the biggest of the closer moons of Jupiter. Non-spherical and reddish in colour, it is thought to have of water ice with unknown amounts of other materials. Its surface has big craters and high mountains.
Pictures of Amalthea were taken in 1979 and 1980 by the "Voyager 1 and 2" spacecraft, and later, in more detail, by the "Galileo" orbiter in the 1990s.
Amalthea was found on September 9, 1892 by Edward Emerson Barnard using the 36 inch (91 cm) telescope at Lick Observatory. It was the first new moon of Jupiter since Galileo Galilei's discovery of the Galilean moons in 1610.
The moon is named after the nymph Amalthea from Greek mythology who nursed the infant Zeus (the Greek equivalent of Jupiter) with goat's milk. Its Roman numeral designation is . The name "Amalthea" was not adopted by the IAU until 1975, although it had been in use for many decades. The name was suggested by Camille Flammarion. Before 1975, Amalthea was most commonly known simply as . The adjectival form of the name is "Amalthean".
Amalthea circles Jupiter at a distance of 181,000 km (2.54 Jupiter radii). The orbit of Amalthea has an eccentricity of 0.003 and an inclination of 0.37° relative to the equator of Jupiter.
The surface of Amalthea is very red The reddish color may be due to sulfur coming from Io or some other non ice material. Bright patches of green appear on the major slopes of Amalthea, but the nature of this color is currently unknown. The surface of Amalthea is a bit brighter than surfaces of other closer moons of Jupiter.
From Jupiter's surface —or rather, from just above its cloudtops— Amalthea would appear very bright, shining with a magnitude of −4.7, similar to that of Venus from Earth.
From the surface of Amalthea, Jupiter would look enormous: it would look 92 times bigger than the Full Moon.
In 1979-1980, the "Voyager 1 and 2" spacecraft made the first images of Amalthea, which resolved its surface. They also measured the moon's surface temperature. Later, the "Galileo" orbiter completed taking pictures of Amalthea's surface and a close flyby enabled it to constrain the moon's internal structure and composition.

</doc>
<doc id="80517" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80517" title="Eggerberg">
Eggerberg

Eggerberg is a municipality in the district of Brig in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="80518" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80518" title="Mund">
Mund

Mund was a municipality in the district of Brig in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.
On 1 January 2013 the former municipalities of Mund and Birgisch merged into the municipality of Naters.

</doc>
<doc id="80519" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80519" title="Dallenwil">
Dallenwil

Dallenwil is a municipality in the canton of Nidwalden in Switzerland.
The main sights of Dallenwil are the ski and summer resort "Wiesenberg/Wirzweli", the church "St. Laurentius", and the pilgrimage chapel "Wiesenberg".

</doc>
<doc id="80520" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80520" title="Emmetten">
Emmetten

Emmetten is a municipality in the canton of Nidwalden in Switzerland. 
The main sights of Emmetten are the "St. Anna" chapel in Schöneck, the church "St. Jakob und St. Theresia", the chapel of the holy cross with frescos of "danse macabre" in "Sagendorf", and the chapel in "Erlen".

</doc>
<doc id="80521" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80521" title="Ennetbürgen">
Ennetbürgen

Ennetbürgen is a municipality in the canton of Nidwalden in Switzerland.
The main sights of Ennetbürgen are the Saint Jost Chapel and the Church of Saint Anton.

</doc>
<doc id="80522" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80522" title="Ennetmoos">
Ennetmoos

Ennetmoos is a municipality in the canton of Nidwalden in Switzerland. 
The main sights of Ennetmoos are the chapels of Saint Jakob, Saint Leonhard (in Rohren), and Saint Magnus (in Allweg), a monument (Überfalldenkmal) in Allweg, ruins at Rotzberg, the Stanserhorn mountain and resort, and the pilgrimage route St. Jakobsweg.

</doc>
<doc id="80526" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80526" title="Carpo (moon)">
Carpo (moon)

Carpo or ', is a moon of Jupiter. It was found by a team of astronomers from the University of Hawaii led by Scott S. Sheppard in 2003, and was designated as ' until it got its name in early 2005.
Carpo is about 3 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Jupiter at an average distance of 17,145,000 km in 458.625 days, at an inclination of 56° to the ecliptic (55° to Jupiter's equator), and with an orbital eccentricity of 0.2736.
It was named in March 2005 after Carpo, one of the Horae, and a daughter of Zeus (Jupiter).

</doc>
<doc id="80536" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80536" title="Sari">
Sari

Sari () is the capital city of the Mazandaran province in Iran.

</doc>
<doc id="80538" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80538" title="Rasht">
Rasht

Rasht is the capital city of the Gilan province of Iran.(Town of Rain and Snow)

</doc>
<doc id="80539" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80539" title="Mazandaran Province">
Mazandaran Province

Mazandaran (Persian: مازندران) is a province in the north of Iran. It is to the south of Caspian Sea. It has borders with Golestan, Semnan, Tehran, Qazvin and Gilan provinces.

</doc>
<doc id="80541" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80541" title="Kallichore (moon)">
Kallichore (moon)

Kallichore or ', is a moon of Jupiter. It was found by a team of astronomers from the University of Hawaii led by Scott S. Sheppard, et al. in 2003. It got the designation '.
Kallichore is about 2 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Jupiter at an average distance of 23,112,000 km in 717.806 days, at an inclination of 165° to the ecliptic (164° to Jupiter's equator), with an orbital eccentricity of 0.2042.
It was named in March 2005 after the nymph Kallichore.
Kallichore belongs to the Carme group, made up of non-spherical retrograde moons orbiting Jupiter at a distance ranging between 23,000,000 and 24,000,000 km and at an inclination of about 165°.

</doc>
<doc id="80544" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80544" title="Eurydome (moon)">
Eurydome (moon)

Eurydome or ', is a List of Jupiter's moons of Jupiter. It was found by a team of astronomers from the University of Hawaii led by Scott S. Sheppard in 2001, and given the designation '.
Eurydome is about 3 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Jupiter at an average distance of 23,231,000 km in 723.359 days, at an inclination of 149° to the ecliptic (147° to Jupiter's equator), with an orbital eccentricity of 0.3770.
It was named in August 2003 after Eurydome in Greek mythology, who is sometimes described as the mother of the Graces by Zeus (Jupiter).
Eurydome belongs to the Pasiphaë group, non-spherical retrograde moons orbiting Jupiter at distances ranging between 22,800,000 and 24,100,000 km, and with inclinations ranging between 144.5° and 158.3°.

</doc>
<doc id="80546" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80546" title="Sari (clothing)">
Sari (clothing)

A Sari is a type of clothing for women. It is mostly used in India, Bangladesh, Nepal and Sri Lanka. It is a very long strip of cloth. Women wrap it around their body. 
There are different kinds of saris for different occasions.

</doc>
<doc id="80548" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80548" title="West Berlin">
West Berlin

West Berlin was the name of the western part of Berlin between 1949 and 1990. It was the American, British, and French occupied sectors that were created in 1945.
In many ways it was integrated (joined) with West Germany, but it was not a part of West Germany or East Germany. The Soviet sector became East Berlin, which East Germany claimed as its capital. The Western Allies never recognised this claim. They said that the whole city was still under four-power occupation. The building of the Berlin Wall in 1961 sealed the border between East Berlin and West Berlin.
West Berlin was called "Berlin (West)" by the West Germany government, and usually by the East German government. The east German spelling suggested that West Berlin was not really part of "Berlin" as a whole, but a separate place. East Berlin was officially called "Berlin, Hauptstadt der DDR" ("Berlin, Capital of the GDR"), or simply "Berlin," by East Germany.
The Potsdam Agreement of the four wartime allies decided on dividing up Germany. At first it was only a temporary measure, until a permanent way to reunite a peaceful Germany and Berlin could be worked out.
When the cold war began, the joint administration of Germany and Berlin broke down. Soon Soviet-occupied Berlin and western-occupied Berlin different separate governments.
In 1948, the Soviets tried to force the western allies out of Berlin by a blockade of the western sectors. The Soviets blocked roads, railways and waterways, but the Potsdam Agreement guaranteed air corridors to Berlin. Because the western allies flew in all the supplies that normally came by land, the Berlin Blockade is also known as the Berlin Airlift. The Blockade ended in May 1949. By the end of 1949, two new states had been created out of occupied Germany - the Federal Republic of Germany (West Germany) in the West and the German Democratic Republic (East Germany) in the East - with West Berlin an enclave that was not part of either.
According to the western allies, the occupation of most of Germany ended in 1949 when the Federal Republic of Germany and the German Democratic Republic were set up. But the occupation of Berlin could only be ended by a quadripartite (four power) agreement, so Berlin remained an occupied territory under the formal control of all the allies. This is why the "Grundgesetz" (constitution of the Federal Republic) never applied in West Berlin.
The Soviets declared the occupation of East Berlin ended when East Germany was set up. This move was not recognised by the western allies who continued to view all of Berlin as a jointly occupied territory belonging to neither of the two states.
However, in many ways, West Berlin functioned as the "de facto" 11th state of West Germany.
But the western allies remained the ultimate political authorities there. The allies could appoint the Mayor and city government at Rathaus Schöneberg, but they never chose anyone except the elected mayor.
There were differences between West Germany and West Berlin.
While West Berlin was separate from East Berlin after 1949, people could easily move between the two parts until 1961. In many ways Berlin worked as a single city. The U-Bahn and S-Bahn public transit networks, rebuilt after the war, spanned all occupation sectors. Many people lived in one half of the city and had family members, friends, and jobs in the other.
As the Cold War continued, many East Germans began leaving East Germany for the West. East Germany closed the borders between East and West Germany in 1952, but did not seal off West Berlin; because there was freedom of movement between West Berlin and West Germany, Easterners could use the city as a crossing point to the West. To stop this drain, the East German government built the Berlin Wall, thus physically closing off West Berlin from East Germany, on 13 August 1961. It was still possible to travel from West Berlin to West Germany by air and by specific rail and autobahn transit routes set aside for that purpose, but inhabitants of the two Berlins were now physically and legally separated from each other.
The Four Power Agreement on Berlin (September 1971) and the Transit Agreement (May 1972), helped to ease the tensions over West Berlin and made it a little easier for West Berliners to travel to East Germany and for Germans travelling along the road routes into the city instead of flying.
On 9 November 1989 the wall was opened, and the two cities were once again physically - but not legally - united. German reunification soon ended the western occupation of West Berlin. On 3 October 1990 West Berlin and East Berlin were united as the city of Berlin, which then joined the Federal Republic as a "state," along with the rest of East Germany. West Berlin and East Berlin thus both formally ceased to exist.
West Berlin comprised the following boroughs:
In the American Sector:
In the British Sector:
In the French Sector:

</doc>
<doc id="80550" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80550" title="Thyone (moon)">
Thyone (moon)

Thyone or ', is a non-spherical moon of Jupiter. It was found by a team of astronomers from the University of Hawaii led by Scott S. Sheppard, et al. in 2001, and given the designation '.
Thyone is about 4 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Jupiter at an average distance of 21,406,000 km in 639.803 days, at an inclination of 147° to the ecliptic (147° to Jupiter's equator) with an orbital eccentricity of 0.2526.
It was named in August 2003 after Thyone, better known as Semele, one of Zeus' conquests in Greek mythology.
Thyone belongs to the Ananke group, retrograde non-spherical moons which orbit Jupiter between 19,300,000 and 22,700,000 km, at inclinations of about 150°.

</doc>
<doc id="80555" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80555" title="Sukhoi Su-27">
Sukhoi Su-27

The Su-27 Flanker is a Soviet/Russian single-seat fighter aircraft made by Sukhoi. It first flew in 20 May 1977, and was introduced in 23 August 1990. It was first made by the Soviet Union as a fighter, but now it is in the Russian Air Force. It can hold up to 10 guided Air-to-Air medium-range R-27E or short-range R-73 or unguided Air-to-Ground missiles, unguided bombs and a GSh-301 30mm cannon with 150 bullets. It has two AL-31F turbofan engines, a multi-purpose onboard search and track radar, an optical infrared search and track station with a laser rangefinder linked to pilot's helmet-mounted target designator and with a wide-angle HUD.
The Su-27 was made to pair with the MiG-29 Fulcrum, but in the Eritrean-Ethiopian War, Ethiopian Su-27s shot down 5 Eritrean MiG-29s. It was also supposed to fight American fighters like the F-15 Eagle and F-16 Fighting Falcon. There are the prototype versions T10 Flanker-A and T10S, the version S Flanker-B for the Russian Air Force, the interceptor version P Flanker-B without Air-to-Ground weapons for the Russian Air Force, the two-seat trainer version UB Flanker-C for the Russian Air Force, the export versions SK and UBK, the upgraded export versions SKM and UBM. There are fighters similar to the Su-27, like the Su-33 Flanker-D and the Su-30 Flanker-C .
The Su-27 is still in service with the Russian Air Force and others. Russian Air Force has hundreds of aircraft.
Half the fleet -about 100 fighters- has been modernized in the SM version from 2004 to 2012. The SM version has improved avionics, guided Air-to-Ground missiles and guided bombs and a “glass” cockpit. Russian Air Force received 12 newly built modernized SM3 aircraft in 2011.

</doc>
<doc id="80561" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80561" title="F. W. Murnau">
F. W. Murnau

Friedrich Wilhelm "F. W." Murnau (28 December 1888 – 11 March 1931) was a German movie director. He was one of the most influential directors of the silent movie era. He was born in Bielefeld and attended the University of Heidelberg. He studied art history. He was openly gay. He was 6'11 (210 cm), He was said to have an icy disposition and an obsession with film. He was a combat pilot during World War I. He directed his first movie "Der Knabe in Blau" () in 1919.
Murnau's most famous movie is "Nosferatu" (1922). It was based on the book "Dracula". "Faust" was Murnau's last German movie. "Nosferatu" and "Faust" were two of the first films to have original music. Some of his German movies were considered to be Expressionist movies.
Murnau went to Hollywood in 1926. He joined the Fox Studio. He made "Sunrise" in 1927. It did not make a lot of money. It did receive an Academy Award in 1929. Murnau's next two movies were sound movies. They were not well received. Murnau was disappointed. He quit Fox. He went to the South Pacific. In Bora Bora he made "Tabu". The movie was censored in the United States for images of bare-breasted Polynesian women. Murnau died in an automobile accident in Santa Barbara, California. He is buried in Stahnsdorf near Berlin.

</doc>
<doc id="80562" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80562" title="Harpalyke (moon)">
Harpalyke (moon)

Harpalyke or ', is a non-spherical moon of Jupiter. It was found by a team of astronomers from the University of Hawaii led by Scott S. Sheppard in 2000, and given the designation '. In August 2003,the moon was named after Harpalyke, the incestuous daughter of Klymenos, who was in some accounts a lover of Zeus (Jupiter).
Harpalyke belongs to the Ananke group, believed to be the remnants of a break-up of a captured asteroid. It is about 4 kilometres in diameter and appears grey similar to C-type asteroids. The moon orbits Jupiter at an average distance of 21,064,000 km in 624.542 days, at an inclination of 147° to the ecliptic (147° to Jupiter's equator) with an orbital eccentricity of 0.2441.

</doc>
<doc id="80571" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80571" title="Giganotosaurus">
Giganotosaurus

Giganotosaurus is a large theropod dinosaur. It lived during the Upper Cretaceous, about 10095 million years ago in what is now Argentina. 70 percent of the skeleton has been found. "Giganotosaurus" was probably the second largest carnivorous dinosaur of all time. Another large carnivore, "Mapusaurus", also lived in the same territory. They were both relatives of the North African "Carcharodontosaurus". 
The largest specimen is long, and 12.8 feet [3.9m] feet tall at the hip. Its weight is estimated as . 
Titanosaur fossils belonging to "Andesaurus" and "Limaysaurus" have been found near the remains of "Giganotosaurus". The huge titanosaur "Argentinosaurus" also lived in the area. Probably, the titanosaurs were the main prey of the large theropods.

</doc>
<doc id="80572" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80572" title="Orthosie (moon)">
Orthosie (moon)

Orthosie or ', is a moon of Jupiter. It was found by a team of astronomers from the University of Hawaii led by Scott Sheppard in 2001, and given the designation '.
Orthosie is about 2 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Jupiter at an average distance of 20,568,000 km in 602.619 days, at an inclination of 142° to the ecliptic (143° to Jupiter's equator), with an orbital eccentricity of 0.2433.
It was named in August 2003 after Orthosie, the Greek goddess of prosperity and one of the Horae. The Horae (Hours) were daughters of Zeus and Themis.
Orthosie belongs to the Ananke group, retrograde non-spherical moons which orbit Jupiter between 19,300,000 and 22,700,000 km, at inclinations of about 150°.

</doc>
<doc id="80574" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80574" title="Eoraptor">
Eoraptor

Eoraptor is one of the earliest known saurischian dinosaurs. It was a very small omnivore or carnivore which lived at the start of the Upper Triassic, about 231.4 million years ago (mya). It is the only one of the early dinosaurs which can be exactly dated by a layer of volcanic ash close beneath the fossil. 
"Eoraptor" was a small, lightly-built dinosaur that walked on two long legs. It was about 3 feet long (1 m); it had light, hollow bones, a long head with dozens of small, sharp teeth, and five fingers on its grasping hands (two of the fingers on each hand were very small).
The fossil was found in the Ischigualasto Formation in the Argentine. This contains some of the oldest known dinosaur remains. They are of top quality, number and importance. It is the only place in the world where nearly all of the Triassic is represented in an undisturbed sequence of strata. What is now badlands was then a volcanically active floodplain dominated by rivers, with a strongly seasonal rainfall. 
Rhynchosaurs and cynodonts are by far the most common among the tetrapod fossils in the park. Dinosaurs make up only 6% of the findings, but these include early samples of the two major lineages of dinosaurs (ornithischians and saurischians). The carnivorous "Herrerasaurus" is the most numerous of these dinosaur fossils.
The teeth of Eoraptor are of two types. There are serrated, recurved teeth in the maxillae (upper jaws), like the teeth of theropods, and leaf-shaped teeth in the dentary (lower jaw), like the teeth of basal sauropodomorphs.
Below is a cladogram based on the phylogenetic analysis conducted by Sues et al. in 2011, showing the relationships of "Eoraptor":

</doc>
<doc id="80576" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80576" title="Expressionism">
Expressionism

Expressionism is an art and cultural movement of the 20th century.
Expressionist artists try to express a feeling with what they create. Colours and shapes are not used in a way people see them, but as the artist feels them. 
Expressionism emerged as an 'avant-garde movement' in poetry and painting before the First World War. In the Weimar years it was appreciated by a mass audience, peaking in popularity in 1920s Berlin.
Expressionism presents the world as subjective: how the artist feels it, not how it is scientifically. The art looks to get an emotional effect, and transmits personal moods and ideas. Expressionist artists sought to express the meaning of "being alive" and emotional experience rather than physical reality.
Expressionism is exhibited in many art forms, including: painting, literature, theatre, dance, film, architecture and music. The term often implies emotional angst. In a general sense, painters such El Greco could be called expressionist; in practice, the term is applied only to 20th century works.
The Expressionist stress on the individual perspective was also a reaction to positivism and other artistic movements such as naturalism and impressionism.
Typical modern expressionists are Edvard Munch ("The Scream"), August Macke, Ernst-Ludwig Kirchner, Emil Nolde, Marc Chagall, and others. The First World War, with the many young men who died, left deep impressions on artists' minds.

</doc>
<doc id="80577" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80577" title="Suchomimus">
Suchomimus

Suchomimus ("crocodile mimic") was a fish-eating (and meat-eating) large spinosaurid theropod dinosaur with a crocodile-like head. It lived 112 million years ago in the Lower Cretaceous period in what is now Africa.
It was about 36 feet (11 m) long, about 12 feet tall, and walked on two powerful hind legs. This carnivore had short clawed arms with three fingers.

</doc>
<doc id="80580" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80580" title="Kale (moon)">
Kale (moon)

Kale or ', is a non-spherical moon of Jupiter. It was found in 2001 by astronomers at the University of Hawaii, and was originally designated as '.
Kale is about 2 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Jupiter at an average distance of 22,409,000 km in 685.324 days, at an orbital inclination of 165° to the ecliptic (166° to Jupiter's equator), with an eccentricity of 0.2011.
It was named in August 2003 after one of the Charites (Greek Χάριτες, Latin "Gratiae", "Graces"), daughters of Zeus (Jupiter). Kale is the spouse of Hephaestus according to some authors (although most have Aphrodite play that role).
It belongs to the Carme group, made up of non-spherical retrograde moons orbiting Jupiter at a distance ranging between 23,000,000 and 24,000,000 km and at an inclination of about 165°.

</doc>
<doc id="80584" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80584" title="Celtic Reconstructionist Paganism">
Celtic Reconstructionist Paganism

Celtic Reconstructionist Paganism, which is sometimes just called by its initials, "CR", is a religion. People who belong to the religion call themselves "Celtic Reconstructionists" or "Celtic Reconstructionist Pagans". Sometimes they just call themseleves "CRs".
The Celts were the people who lived long ago in many parts of Europe, but mainly in the countries of Ireland, Scotland, Wales, and Gaul (modern-day France). The Modern Celts are the people who live in those countries now, or whose ancestors lived there.
Like the ancient Celts did before them, CRs believe in many gods and goddesses. This is called "polytheism". They believe in spirits and ancestors, too, and they often honour them with rituals and offerings. Offerings to the spirits might be food, or songs, or poetry. CRs often learn the languages spoken by the Celts, if they do not speak them already. These languages include the Irish language, Scottish Gaelic, the Welsh language and others.
Celtic Reconstructionists are a type of Pagan Reconstructionist. Reconstructionists believe in practicing a religion that is from one culture. They are different from eclectic Pagans, who mix parts of different cultures together.
Celtic Reconstructionist Paganism (CR) started in the 1980s, when people interested in the Celts and in Paganism were looking for an authentic religion. By the 1990s there were lots of CRs. Some of them met each other at Pagan gatherings, and later more people met each other on the Internet.
The first person to write about being a "Celtic Reconstructionist Pagan" was Kym Lambert ní Dhoireann. She wrote this in the Spring, 1992 issue of "Harvest" Magazine. She says she got the idea for the name from Kathryn Price NicDhàna, who had also written about it. Margot Adler's 1979 book, "Drawing Down the Moon" has a chapter on "Pagan Reconstructionists", and Kathryn NicDhàna says this is probably where she got the idea, even though the book does not mention Celtic Reconstructionists, just other kinds.
Celtic Reconstructionists base their religion on what we know of the Ancient Celtic people's religion, and also on Celtic folklore. They focus on a particular Celtic culture, such as the Gaelic Welsh or Gaulish. Many CRs are scholars, or mystics, though many believe it's important to be both. CRs read lots of books and do things like meditation, prayer, and rituals. CRs believe that honesty and honorable behaviour is important.
Many CRs view each act of daily life as a form of ritual, and they accompany daily activities with traditional prayers, chants and songs from sources such as the Scottish Gaelic "Carmina Gadelica" or manuscript collections of ancient Irish or Welsh poetry.
Community rituals are usually based on traditional community celebrations found in folkloric collections by authors such as Marian McNeill, Kevin Danaher or John Gregorson Campbell. These celebrations often involve bonfires, dances, songs, divination and children's games. More formal or mystical CR rituals are often based on traditional techniques of interacting with the Otherworld, such as the act of making offerings of food, drink and art to the spirits of the land, ancestral spirits, and the Celtic deities. CR ritual structures are based on the ancient Celtic idea of the "Three Realms" - Land, Sea and Sky - with the fire of inspiration seen as a central, uniting force. Many CRs have altars and shrines to the spirits and deities they believe in. They may place these altars at outdoor, natural locations such as wells, streams, and special trees. Some CRs practice divination, such as the taking of omens from the shapes of clouds or the behaviour of birds and animals.
While Celtic Reconstructionism was the earliest name in use, and is still used the most often, other names for a Celtic Reconstructionist approach have also come into use, with varying degrees of success.
Some CR groups have looked to Celtic languages for a more culturally specific name for the tradition, or for their branch of the tradition. There are groups who now described their traditions as "Pàganachd" ("Paganism, Heathenism" in Scottish Gaelic) or the Irish version, "Págánacht". Some Gaelic-oriented groups use the two terms somewhat interchangeably,<ref name="Paganachd/Paganacht"></ref> or further modify these terms to describe the CR sub-tradition practiced by their particular group, such as "Pàganachd Allaidh" (“Wild Paganism”) or "Pàganachd Bhandia" (“Paganism of Goddesses”),
both used by Gaelic Reconstructionist groups on the East Coast of the US.
In the late 1990s, members of Imbas, a Celtic Reconstructionist group in Seattle, began promoting the name "Senistrognata", which they say means "the ancestral customs of the Celtic peoples" in reconstructed Old Celtic.
Celtic Reconstructionists rely on primary mythological texts, as well as surviving folklore, for the basis of their religious practices. No list can completely cover all the recommended works, but this is a small sample of sources used.

</doc>
<doc id="80587" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80587" title="Hurricane Humberto (2007)">
Hurricane Humberto (2007)

Hurricane Humberto formed and strengthened faster than any other tropical cyclone on record within 18 hours of landfall; developing on September 12, 2007 in the northwestern Gulf of Mexico, the cyclone quickly strengthened and struck High Island, Texas, with winds of about 90 mph (150 km/h) early on September 13. It steadily weakened after moving ashore, and on September 14 it began dissipating over northwestern Georgia as it interacted with an approaching cold front. Humberto was the eighth named storm and third hurricane of the 2007 Atlantic hurricane season, and became the first hurricane to strike the United States since Hurricane Wilma of 2005. Damage was fairly light, estimated at about $50 million.

</doc>
<doc id="80588" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80588" title="High Island, Texas">
High Island, Texas

High Island is an unincorporated area in Galveston County, Texas. It is in the extreme eastern part of the county on Bolivar Peninsula, less than one mile from Chambers county and less than two miles from Jefferson county. As of 1990, 500 people resided in High Island.
In 2007, Hurricane Humberto made landfall near High Island.

</doc>
<doc id="80594" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80594" title="Preparations for Hurricane Katrina">
Preparations for Hurricane Katrina

This article covers the details of the preparations for Hurricane Katrina, a major category 5 hurricane that destroyed parts of Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama.
Many people living in the area were caught off guard when Katrina strengthened from a tropical storm to a Category 1 hurricane in one day and struck southern Florida on August 25. National Hurricane Center (NHC) forecasts had correctly predicted the strengthening, however, and hurricane watches and warnings were properly given out nearly 36 and 24 hours, before hurricane conditions were felt in the area.
On August 27, after Katrina crossed southern Florida and strengthened to a Category 3 storm, President George W. Bush declared a state of emergency in Louisiana, Alabama, and Mississippi two days before the hurricane made landfall.
On August 28, the National Weather Service in Slidell, Louisiana, issued a bulletin predicting "devastating" damage rivaling the intensity of Hurricane Camille. Necessary evacuations were issued for large areas of southeast Louisiana as well as coastal Mississippi and Alabama.
On Sunday, August 28, Canadian National Railway (CN) stopped all rail traffic on its lines south of McComb, Mississippi, (lines owned by its subsidiary Illinois Central Railroad that extend into New Orleans), expectating damage from the hurricane. To help continue services after the storm passes, CN also issued an embargo with the Association of American Railroads against all deliveries to points south of Osyka, Mississippi. CSX Transportation also suspended service south of Montgomery, Alabama until further notice.
Amtrak, America's rail passenger carrier, announced that the southbound "City of New Orleans" passenger trains from Chicago, Illinois, from August 29 through September 3, would stop at Memphis, Tennessee, rather than their usual destination of New Orleans. The trains traveling northbound would also start at Memphis. The southbound "Crescent" from New York City, for the same period, stopped in Atlanta, Georgia, with the northbound trains starting in Atlanta as well. Amtrak's westbound "Sunset Limited" started in San Antonio, Texas, rather than its usual starting point of Orlando, Florida. Amtrak announced that no alternate transportation options would be made available into or out of the affected area.
The Waterford nuclear power plant was also shut down on Sunday, August 28, before Katrina's arrival.
By August 26, the possibility of never-before-happened destruction and damage was already being considered. Some computer models were putting the city of New Orleans right in the center of their track probabilities, and the chances of a direct hit were forecast at 17% (with strike probability rising to 29% by August 28). This scenario was considered a potential disaster because 80% of the New Orleans metropolitan area is below sea level along Lake Pontchartrain. Since the storm surge produced by the hurricane's right-front quadrant (containing the strongest winds) was more than 20 ft (6 m) near Biloxi, emergency management officials in New Orleans feared that the storm surge could go over the tops of levees protecting the city, causing major flooding. This risk of devastation had been known for some time; previous studies by FEMA and the Army Corps of Engineers had warned that a direct hurricane strike on New Orleans could lead to massive flooding, which would lead to thousands of drowning deaths, as well as many more suffering from disease and dehydration, as the flood waters slowly retreated from the city.
At a news conference 10:00 AM on August 28, shortly after Katrina was upgraded to a Category 5 storm, New Orleans mayor Ray Nagin ordered the first ever mandatory evacuation of the city, calling Katrina, "a storm that most of us have long feared". To speed up the evacuations, authorities used contraflow lane reversal on Interstate 10 leading west of New Orleans, as well as on Interstate 55 and Interstate 59 leading north from the city. The city government also established several "refuges of last resort" for citizens who could not leave the city, including the massive Louisiana Superdome, which housed approximately 26,000 people with food and water for several days as the storm came ashore. The Louisiana National Guard delivered three truckloads of water and seven truckloads of MRE's to the Superdome, enough to supply 15,000 people for three days.
Louisiana's hurricane evacuation plan calls for local governments in areas along and near the coast to call for evacuations in three phases, starting with the immediate coast 50 hours before the start of tropical storm force winds. Persons in areas designated Phase II begin evacuating 40 hours before the onset of tropical storm winds and those in Phase III areas (including New Orleans) evacuate 30 hours before the start of such winds.
However, many parishes were not able to provide sufficient transportation for citizens who did not have private means of evacuation, and many private care-taking facilities who relied on the same bus companies and ambulance services for evacuation were unable to evacuate their charges. Fuel and rental cars were in short supply and many forms of public transportation had been shut down well before the storm arrived. The end result was that hundreds of thousands of residents and tourists were unable to evacuate and remained in the city. Nonetheless, some estimates claimed that 90-92% of the 1.3 million residents of the New Orleans metropolitan region evacuated including 80% of Orleans parish.

</doc>
<doc id="80595" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80595" title="Waterford Nuclear Generating Station">
Waterford Nuclear Generating Station

The Waterford Steam Electric Station, Unit 3, also known as Waterford 3, is a nuclear power station located on a 3,000-acre (12-km²) up-river from Hahnville, Louisiana, in St. Charles Parish.

</doc>
<doc id="80598" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80598" title="Passenger car">
Passenger car

A passenger car is a type of train that is designed to carry people to and from places.

</doc>
<doc id="80599" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80599" title="McComb, Mississippi">
McComb, Mississippi

McComb is a city in Pike County, Mississippi, about 80 miles south of Jackson, just off of Interstate 55. As of the 2000 census, 13,337 people lived there, about a thousand more than in the 1980 census (12,331). It is the principal city of the McComb, Mississippi Micropolitan Statistical Area.
Singer Britney Spears was born in McComb.

</doc>
<doc id="80601" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80601" title="Checkpoint Charlie">
Checkpoint Charlie

Checkpoint Charlie was one of three places where people could travel from the Western occupied sectors of Germany and Berlin to the Soviet occupied sectors.
These places were called checkpoints because they were places where passports and identities were checked.
As it was the only crossing point there were sometimes queues of people waiting to cross. But military traffic was never stopped, because Berlin was supposed to be under the control of all four wartime allies.
After the end of the Cold War, and the reunification of Germany the checkpoints were no longer needed. The big concrete buildings of Checkpoint Bravo are now used by the German Customs Service . Checkpoint Charlie was only a wooden hut in the street. It was moved to what is now the Allied Museum at 110 Clayallee, and a small replica put up in Kochstraße. The fake checkpoint is very popular with tourists who have their photographs taken in front of it.

</doc>
<doc id="80603" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80603" title="Customs">
Customs

Most countries have a Customs Service. The customs service works mostly at ports, airports and the countries borders to make sure that people do not bring things into the country which are banned, or that the right amount of tax has been paid on goods that can be "imported" (brought into the country).
Some customs officers work at a post office. They do not meet the public, they examine letters and parcels which have been sent from outside the country, to make sure nothing illegal is being brought into the country.
In the United Kingdom the customs service was called "Customs and Excise". This is because it was once two separate bodies. The Customs service collected tax (called customs duty) on goods being brought into the country, for example brandy from France or tea from India. The Excise service collected tax (called excise duty) on goods made in the country, for example Scotch whisky or Irish whiskey. Today all cars and lorries must pay a tax to be allowed to drive on the road. Although most people call this "road tax" or "car tax", it is officially called "vehicle excise duty".

</doc>
<doc id="80605" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80605" title="Whisky">
Whisky

Whisky, or whiskey, is an alcoholic drink distilled from grain and aged in wooden .
The name comes from a gaelic word. In Scotland and the rest of Great Britain, it is known as Scotch whisky or just Scotch. In Ireland, which has a different gaelic language, it is called whiskey, with an added letter 'e'. Whiskey made in the United States uses the Irish spelling.
There are many kinds of whisky, of which most important are:
Most whiskys contain around 40% alcohol.
Scotch whisky is legally defined by Scotch Whisky Order of 1990 (UK), and the Scotch Whisky Act of 1988.
These say that Scotch whisky must:
Alcohol is a favorite way to collect tax (called excise duty) in the United Kingdom. When Gordon Brown, a Scot, became Chancellor of the Exchequer, he concentrated on taxing beers and wines, and did not increased the duty on whisky. This, he said, was to help the Scotch whisky industry to recover, increase exports and make more money.

</doc>
<doc id="80607" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80607" title="Iocaste (moon)">
Iocaste (moon)

Iocaste or ', is a non-spherical moon of Jupiter. It was found by a team of astronomers from the University of Hawaii led by Scott S. Sheppard in 2000, and given the designation '.
Iocaste orbits Jupiter at an average distance of 20,723,000 km in 609.427 days, at an inclination of 147° to the ecliptic (146° to Jupiter's equator) with an orbital eccentricity of 0.2874.
It was named in October 2002 after Jocasta, the mother/wife of Oedipus in Greek mythology.
Iocaste belongs to the Ananke group, believed to be the remnants of a break-up of a captured asteroid.
The moon is about 5 kilometres in diameter and appears grey, similar to C-type asteroids.

</doc>
<doc id="80609" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80609" title="Chaldene (moon)">
Chaldene (moon)

Chaldene or ', is a non-spherical moon of Jupiter. It was found by a team of astronomers from the University of Hawaii led by Scott S. Sheppard, "et al." in 2000, and given the designation '.
Chaldene is about 3.8 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Jupiter at an average distance of 22,713,000 km in 699.327 days, at an inclination of 167° to the ecliptic (169° to Jupiter's equator), with an orbital eccentricity of 0.2916.
It was named in October 2002 after Chaldene, the mother of Solymos by Zeus in Greek mythology.
It belongs to the Carme group, made up of non-spherical retrograde moons orbiting Jupiter at a distance ranging between 23,000,000 and 24,000,000 km and at an inclination of about 165°.

</doc>
<doc id="80612" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80612" title="Amanda Jenssen">
Amanda Jenssen

Amanda Jenssen (born September 12, 1988) was the first runner up at Pop idol Sweden 2007. Her first album was released in 2008 and became a number 1 album on the charts.

</doc>
<doc id="80613" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80613" title="Erinome (moon)">
Erinome (moon)

Erinome or , is a non-spherical moon of Jupiter. It was found by a team of astronomers from the University of Hawaii led by Scott S. Sheppard "et al." in 2000, and given the designation "'.
Erinome is about 3.2 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Jupiter at an average distance of 22,986,000 km in 711.965 days, at an inclination of 164° to the ecliptic (162° to Jupiter's equator), with an orbital eccentricity of 0.2552.
It was named in October, 2002 after the Roman mythological Erinome, a lover of Jupiter.
Erinome belongs to the Carme group, made up of non-spherical retrograde moons orbiting Jupiter at a distance ranging between 23,000,000 and 24,000,000 km and at an inclination of about 165°.

</doc>
<doc id="80615" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80615" title="Aoede (moon)">
Aoede (moon)

Aoede or ', is a moon of Jupiter. It was found by a team of astronomers from the University of Hawaii led by Scott S. Sheppard in 2003. It received the designation '.
Aoede is about in diameter, and orbits Jupiter at an average distance of in 714.657 days, at an inclination of 160° to the ecliptic (162° to Jupiter's equator), with an of 0.6012.
It was named in March 2005 after Aœde, one of the three original Muses. Aœde was the Muse of song, and was a daughter of Zeus (Jupiter) by Mnemosyne.
Aoede belongs to the Pasiphaë group, non-spherical retrograde moons orbiting Jupiter at distances ranging between and , and with inclinations ranging between 144.5° and 158.3°.

</doc>
<doc id="80617" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80617" title="Italian Wikipedia">
Italian Wikipedia

The Italian Wikipedia (In Italian: "Wikipedia in Italiano") is the Italian-language edition of Wikipedia. This edition was started in January, 2002 and has over 1,230,000 articles. It is currently the 9th largest edition by article count.
Volunteers on the Italian Wikipedia decided they did not like a proposed law before the Italian Parliament. The proposal was from October 4 to October 6 2011. During this time, all of the site's articles were hidden. Wikipedia's administrators blocked the website which was being debated at the time in the Chamber of Deputies of the Italian parliament.
This was the first time that a Wikipedia had blanked all its content to protest. The Wikimedia Foundation released a statement on October 4. The Foundation Board officially supported the short closing of Italian Wikipedia. In October 2011, the manifesto, which replaced the Italian Wikipedia, had been viewed approximately 19 million times. On October 6, 2011, the website content was put back. Wikipedia added a banner across the top of each page explaining the reason for the protest.
Italian newspaper Il Tempo journalist Alberto Di Majo described the closure of the Italian-language Wikipedia as an "unexpected merit" of the proposed law. Some people questioned whether a non-profit United States foundation should try to change laws written in Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="80621" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80621" title="Quraysh">
Quraysh

Quraysh or Quraish was the dominant tribe of Mecca upon the appearance of the religion of Islam. 
It was the tribe to which the Islamic Prophet Muhammad belonged and which led the opposition to his message. Not very much of this tribe followed Islam.

</doc>
<doc id="80628" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80628" title="Arche (moon)">
Arche (moon)

Arche or ', is a moon of Jupiter. It was found by a team of astronomers from the University of Hawaii led by Scott S. Sheppard in 2002, and got the designation '.
Arche is about 3 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Jupiter at an average distance of 23,717,000 km in 746.185 days, at an inclination of 165° to the ecliptic (162° to Jupiter's equator), with an orbital eccentricity of 0.149.
It was named in 2005 after Arche, whom some Greek writers described as one of the four original Muses, an addition to the earlier three (Aoede, Melete, and Mneme).
Arche belongs to the Carme group, made up of non-spherical retrograde moons orbiting Jupiter at a distance ranging between 23,000,000 and 24,000,000 km and at an inclination of about 165°.

</doc>
<doc id="80630" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80630" title="Eukelade (moon)">
Eukelade (moon)

Eukelade or ', is a non-spherical moon of Jupiter. It was found by a team of astronomers from the University of Hawaii led by Scott S. Sheppard in 2003, and got the designation '.
Eukelade is about 4 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Jupiter at an average distance of 23,484,000 km in 735.200 days, at an inclination of 164° to the ecliptic (165° to Jupiter's equator), with an orbital eccentricity of 0.2829.
It was named in March 2005 after Eukelade, described by some Greek writers as one of the Muses, and thus a daughter of Zeus (Jupiter).
Eukelade belongs to the Carme group, made up of non-spherical retrograde moons orbiting Jupiter at a distance ranging between 23,000,000 and 24,000,000 km and at an inclination of about 165°.

</doc>
<doc id="80632" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80632" title="Quraish (sura)">
Quraish (sura)

Surat Quraysh (Arabic: سورة قريش ) (after the tribe of Quraysh) is the 106th chapter of the Qur'an. It is a Makkan sura that consists of four ayat. It urges the Quraysh tribe who dominated Mecca to serve Allah, who had protected them, for the sake of their own future.

</doc>
<doc id="80633" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80633" title="Sura">
Sura

Surah (sometimes spelt sura or surat ('), plural suwar ) is an Arabic term that literally means "something enclosed or surrounded by a fence or wall." 
A surah is a "chapter" of the Qur'an. They are traditionally ordered in order of length and begin with the shortest. Each surah is named for a word or name mentioned in an ayah (section), of that 'surah'. 
The 114 surahs are:

</doc>
<doc id="80634" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80634" title="Kore (moon)">
Kore (moon)

Kore or ' is a moon of Jupiter. It was found by a team of astronomers from the University of Hawaii led by Scott S. Sheppard in 2003 and given the designation '.
Kore is about 2 kilometers in diameter, and orbits Jupiter at an average distance of 23,239,000 km in 723.720 days, at an inclination of 141° to the ecliptic (139° to Jupiter's equator), with an orbital eccentricity of 0.2462.
It belongs, which is made up of non-spherical retrograde moon
It was named after Kore, another name for the Greek goddess Persephone (from the Greek κόρη, "daughter [of Demeter]").

</doc>
<doc id="80636" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80636" title="Chapter">
Chapter

Chapter could mean:
Chapter could also mean:

</doc>
<doc id="80638" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80638" title="Chapter (books)">
Chapter (books)

A chapter is one of the main divisions of a piece of writing of some length, such as a book. Chapters can be numbered in the case of such writings as law code (see "Chapter 7" or "Chapter 11") or they can be titled. For example, the first chapters of some well-known novels are titled:
Many novels of great length do not have chapters. Non-fiction books, especially those used for reference, almost always have chapters for ease of navigation. In these works, chapters are often subdivided into sections. The chapters of reference works are almost always listed in a table of contents. Novels sometimes use a table of contents, but not always.
In ancient civilizations, books were often in the form of papyrus scrolls, which contained about the same amount of text as a typical chapter in a modern book. This is the reason chapters in recent reproductions and translations of works of these periods are often presented as "Book 1", "Book 2", etc.
Tracks on a DVD or laserdisc are also called chapters.

</doc>
<doc id="80645" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80645" title="Sura (disambiguation)">
Sura (disambiguation)

Sura can refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="80653" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80653" title="632">
632


</doc>
<doc id="80655" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80655" title="Sponde (moon)">
Sponde (moon)

Sponde or ', is a moon of Jupiter. It was found by a team of astronomers from the University of Hawaii led by Scott S. Sheppard in 2001, and given the designation '.
Sponde is about 2 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Jupiter at an average distance of 24,253,000 km in 771.604 days, at an inclination of 154° to the ecliptic (156° to Jupiter's equator), with an orbital eccentricity of 0.443.
It was named in August 2003 after one of the Horae (Hours), which presided over the seventh hour (libations poured after lunch). The Hours, goddesses of the time of day but also of the seasons, were daughters of Zeus (Jupiter) and Themis.
It belongs to the Pasiphaë group, non-spherical retrograde moons orbiting Jupiter at distances ranging between 22,800,000 and 24,100,000 km, and with inclinations ranging between 144.5° and 158.3°.

</doc>
<doc id="80659" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80659" title="Battle of Uhud">
Battle of Uhud

The Battle of Uhud () was fought on 23 March 625 (3 Shawwal 3 AH in the Islamic calendar) at Mount Uhud, in what is now north-western Arabia. It occurred between a force from the Muslim community of Medina led by Muhammad, and a force led by Abu Sufyan from Mecca, the town from which many of the Muslims had previously emigrated ("hijra"). The Battle of Uhud was the second military encounter between the Meccans and the Muslims, after the Battle of Badr in 624, where a small Muslim army had defeated the larger Meccan army. 
For the Muslims, the battle was a big setback.
Muhammad had preached the religion of Islam in Mecca from 613 to 622. He had attracted a small community of followers, but also had opposition from the rest of the Quraysh, the clan that ruled Mecca and to which he belonged. The Muslims fled Mecca in 622 after years of persecution and established themselves at Medina (formerly known as "Yathrib"). They considered themselves to be in a state of war with Mecca and raided Meccan caravans. The Meccans sent out a small army to punish the Muslims and stop their raiding. At the Battle of Badr in 624, a small Muslim force defeated the much larger Meccan army. 
Many Muslims considered this beany victory a proof that they had been favored by God (Arabic: Allah), and believed they were assured such victories in the future.
<div class="references-small">

</doc>
<doc id="80661" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80661" title="625">
625


</doc>
<doc id="80662" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80662" title="Battle of Badr">
Battle of Badr

the Battle of Badr (), was fought March 17, 624 CE of western Arabia (present-day Saudi Arabia). It was a key battle in the early days of Islam and a turning point in Muhammad's struggle with his opponents among the Quraysh in Mecca. The battle has been passed down in Islamic history as a decisive victory because of divine intervention. Also, it is attributed to the genius of Muhammad. Although it is one of the few battles specifically mentioned in the Muslim holy book, the Qur'an, virtually all contemporary knowledge of the battle at Badr comes from traditional Islamic accounts, both hadiths and biographies of Muhammad, written decades after the battle.

</doc>
<doc id="80664" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80664" title="Hermippe (moon)">
Hermippe (moon)

Hermippe or ', is a moon of Jupiter. It was found by a team of astronomers from the University of Hawaii led by Scott S. Sheppard in 2001, and given the designation '.
Hermippe is about 4 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Jupiter at an average distance of 21,182,000 km in 629.809 days, at an orbital inclination of 151° to the ecliptic (149° to Jupiter's equator), with an eccentricity of 0.2290.
It was named in August 2003 by the IAU, after Hermippe, a lover of Zeus (Jupiter).
Hermippe belongs to the Ananke group, retrograde non-spherical moons which orbit Jupiter between 19,300,000 and 22,700,000 km, at inclinations of about 150°.

</doc>
<doc id="80667" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80667" title="Ceasefire">
Ceasefire

A ceasefire (or truce) is a stoppage of a war or any armed conflict, where each side of the conflict agrees with the other to stop aggressive actions for some time. Ceasefires may be declared as part of a formal treaty, but they have also been called part of an informal understanding between opposing forces.
On December 24, 1914, during World War I, there was an unofficial ceasefire as both the Germans and the British sought to observe Christmas (the "Christmas Truce"). There was no treaty signed, and after a few days the war resumed.
A ceasefire was reached on July 27, 1953 to halt the conflict of the Korean War and establish a demilitarized zone. But no peace treaty has been signed. Therefore, officially North and South Korea are still at war.
Pakistan's government has repeatedly claimed that the Republic of India is violating the Simla Agreement by constructing a fence along the cesefire line in the Kashmir Conflict. However, the Government of India maintains the fence has decreased armed infiltration into Indian-administered Kashmir.
Then-Pakistani President and ex-Army Chief of Army Staff (Pakistan) Pervez Musharraf promised in 2002 to curb infiltration into the Territorial dispute. After the November 2003 ceasefire line agreement, building resumed and was completed in late 2004. LoC fencing was completed in Kashmir Valley and Jammu region on 30 September 2004. According to Indian Military sources, the fence has reduced by 80% the numbers of militants who routinely cross into the occupied territory of the disputed state to attack Indian soldiers.
Another example of a ceasefire in the Israeli–Palestinian conflict was announced between the State of Israel and the Palestinian National Authority on February 8, 2005. When announced, chief Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erekat publicly defined the ceasefire as follows: "We have agreed that today President Mahmoud Abbas will declare a full cessation of violence against Israelis anywhere and Prime Minister Ariel Sharon will declare a full cessation of violence and military activities against Palestinians anywhere."

</doc>
<doc id="80670" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80670" title="Khalid ibn al-Walid">
Khalid ibn al-Walid

Khālid ibn al-Walīd (592–642) (Arabic: خالد بن الوليد) also known as Sayf-Allah al-Maslul (the Drawn Sword of God or Sword of Allah), was one of the two famous Arab generals of the Muslim army during the Muslim conquests of the 7th Century. 
He is famous for his military success, as he commanded the forces of Muhammad and of his immediate successors Abu Bakr and Umar ibn al-Khattab. He was undefeated in over a hundred battles against the numerically superior forces of the Byzantine Roman Empire, Sassanid Persian Empire, and their allies. Therefore he is regarded as one of the finest military commanders in history. His greatest strategic were his quick conquest of the Persian Empire and conquest of Roman Syria within three years from 633 to 636. His greatest tactical achievements were his successful double envelopment maneuver at Walaja and his victories at Ullais and Yarmouk.
Khalid ibn Walid was from the Meccan tribe of Quraysh, who opposed Muhammad, and he played a vital role in their victory at the Battle of Uhud. He converted, however, and joined Muhammad after the Treaty of Hudaybiyyah and commanded various expeditions for him. After Muhammad's death, he played a key role in commanding Medinan forces for Abu Bakr in the Ridda wars, the capture of the Sassanid Arab client Kingdom of Al-Hirah, and the defeat of the Sassanid Persian forces during his conquest of the Persian Empire.
Youth and approximately 590 root Khalid bin Walid was born in the year. His mother and father is Lübabe family Velid'dir sad. Family (tribe sad) specializing in military matters and is a privileged tribe of Quraysh. As a youth, spears, bows and swords were learning to use and cavalry. Personal weapon of choice was the sword.
Before the early years of Islam Islam Khalid bin Walid, corresponding to a soldier in his youth was notorious in pure Quraysh. Not participate in the war at the Battle of Badr Uhud Khalid fought against Muslims for the first time. Muslims in this battle orders to the rear of the cavalry deployed in a way that can sag. However, the path of Muhammad bin Abdullah, this horse and fifty archers for defense has hired. The beginning of the war on Muslims to come up with their position archers terkedince, Khalid bin Walid opportunity to evaluate and Muslim armies from the rear with the cavalry in order has stuck. Khalid ibn al-Walid with this movement changed the course of the war and has defeated the Muslims. This is the last time after the war against Muslims fought in the Battle of Trench. After agreement with previously Hudaybiyyah Muslim brother, Walid joined the ranks via

</doc>
<doc id="80671" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80671" title="Tactic">
Tactic

Tactic could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="80672" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80672" title="Military tactics">
Military tactics

Military tactics (Greek: "Taktikē", the art of organizing an army) are the techniques for using weapons or military units to fight an enemy in battle. It is distinct from strategy which concerns a longer time scale. Tactics have changed over time, mainly because of changes in military technology.
Tactics is the method to use military forces in combat. Tactics basically include many types of the military operations such as frontal assaults, attempts to flank the enemy, keeping troops in reserve and the use of ambushes. Specialized tactics exist for many situations, ranging from securing a room or individual building, to large-scale operations such as establishing air superiority over a region or the use of Shock tactics. Military tactics are employed at all levels of command, from individual and group up to entire armed forces. Military theorist Carl von Clausewitz said "tactics is the art of using troops in battle; strategy is the art of using battles to win the war." 

</doc>
<doc id="80673" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80673" title="Geneva Conference">
Geneva Conference

Several international or multinational conferences have been called the Geneva Conference, because they were held in the city of Geneva, Switzerland. These conferences include:

</doc>
<doc id="80676" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80676" title="Marching band">
Marching band

A marching band is a group of instrumental musicians who usually perform outdoors.
It combines movement – usually some type of marching and other movements – with their musical performance. Its instruments typically are brass instruments, woodwinds, and percussion instruments. The music usually has a strong rhythmic component suitable for marching. All marching bands use some kind of uniform.
In addition to traditional parade performances, many bands also perform field shows at special events (such as football games) or at competitions.

</doc>
<doc id="80677" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80677" title="Hergiswil">
Hergiswil

Hergiswil is a municipality in the canton of Nidwalden in Switzerland.
It was founded in 1378.
The main sights of Hergiswil are: an old clergy house, the church, the chapel "Maria zum guten Rat", old mansion "Thumigerhaus", and a glazier's workshop with museum. The workshop was established in 1817. It burned down on one occasion.
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>

</doc>
<doc id="80678" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80678" title="Max Bruch">
Max Bruch

Max Christian Friedrich Bruch (6 January 1838–2 October 1920) also known as Max Karl August Bruch, was a German Romantic composer and conductor who wrote over 200 works, including three violin concertos, one of which is a staple of the violin repertoire.
Bruch was born in Cologne. He had a long career as a teacher, conductor and composer, moving among musical posts in Germany: Mannheim (1862-1864), Koblenz (1865-1867), Sondershausen, (1867-1870) Berlin (1870-1872), Bonn, where he spent 1873 -1878 working privately. At the height of his reputation he spent three seasons as conductor of the Royal Liverpool Philharmonic Society (1880-83). He taught composition at the "Berlin Hochschule für Musik" (the Berlin Conservatoire) from 1890 until his retirement in 1910.
His conservatively structured works, in the German romantic musical tradition, placed him in the camp of Romantic classicism exemplified by Johannes Brahms, rather than the opposing "New Music" of Franz Liszt and Richard Wagner. In his time, he was known primarily as a choral composer.
His "Violin Concerto No. 1 in G minor", Op. 26 (1868) is one of the most popular Romantic violin concertos. It uses several techniques from Felix Mendelssohn's "Violin Concerto in E minor".

</doc>
<doc id="80681" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80681" title="Oberdorf, Nidwalden">
Oberdorf, Nidwalden

Oberdorf is a municipality of the canton of Nidwalden in Switzerland. 
The economy of Oberdorf is mainly based in agriculture. The main sight of Oberdorf is the Benedictine convent Maria-Rickenbach. The convent can only be reached by cable car.

</doc>
<doc id="80682" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80682" title="Postgraduate education">
Postgraduate education

Postgraduate is the name for someone who is doing further education, after he or she graduated from university. A typical form of this kind of education is a doctoral thesis, or Ph.D. Another such degree is probably the Master level of the revised Bologna system. Masters can be done in about 1.5 years after doing a bachelors degree, theses usually take 3–4 years, after the master level.

</doc>
<doc id="80685" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80685" title="Stans">
Stans

Stans is the capital city of the canton of Nidwalden in Switzerland. It has a population of 7,300 people. The area of Stans is 11 km².
Stans was first noted in 1172. In 1798, it was attacked by French troops, followed the decision of Nidwalden not to adapt a new constitution. Children whose parents were killed by this event were gathered by the teacher Johann Heinrich Pestalozzi for his first school. The open-air assembly ("Landsgemeinde") was held in Stans each year until 1997.
The main sights of Stans are:

</doc>
<doc id="80686" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80686" title="Stansstad">
Stansstad

Stansstad is a municipality of the canton of Nidwalden in Switzerland.
The main sights of Stansstad are: a museum of the buildings, a tower ("Schnitzturm"), and the chaper "Marie Linden" in "Kehrsiten".
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>

</doc>
<doc id="80687" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80687" title="Wolfenschiessen">
Wolfenschiessen

Wolfenschiessen is a municipality of the canton of Nidwalden in Switzerland.
The main sights of Wolfenschiessen are: the parish church "St. Maria", the chapel "St. Joder" in "Altzellen", the mansions "Hechhuis", and the "Grossitz" mansion.

</doc>
<doc id="80690" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80690" title="Bischofszell">
Bischofszell

Bischofszell is a municipality of the district of Bischofszell in the canton of Thurgau in the country of Switzerland. It has a population of 5,500 people.
The local industry is Bischofszell Konserven (now belonging to Migros, makes jams, fruit juices, various cans, convenience food, among them Anna's Best)). 

</doc>
<doc id="80691" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80691" title="Diessenhofen">
Diessenhofen

Diessenhofen is a municipality of the district of Diessenhofen in the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="80693" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80693" title="Münchwilen, Thurgau">
Münchwilen, Thurgau

Münchwilen is a municipality and capital city of the district of Münchwilen in the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="80694" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80694" title="Arbon">
Arbon

Arbon is a municipality and capital city of the district of Arbon in the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland.
The shores of Lake Constance near Arbon have been inhabited since the Stone Age. Archaeological digs in 1885 and 1944 have uncovered stilt houses from the Stone and Bronze Ages. At first, it was assumed that these were built over water, since they were raised on stilts. However, it is now known that they were on the shore and were built in this fashion because the ground was swampy.
During Roman times, "Bergli" was probably a Roman fort. The raised situation and view over the lake were strategically important. Since 1957, regular excavations have shown the remains of late Roman fortifications. The Latin name of Arbon, "Arbor Felix" (meaning "happy tree"), first appears in the "Itinerarium Antonini" in 300.
According to the chronicles of Ammianus Marcellinus, Emperor Gratian went to Arbon in 378, and stayed there until 401. 
In the 8th century, the area became part of the territory of the Franks.
In 610, Irish monks who were followers of Columban of Luxeuil settled in Arbon. They found a small Christian settlement called "Castrum" there. One of these monks was St. Gallus, the founder of the monastery of St. Gallen. He died in 627 in Arbon. In 720, a fortification on the site of the present castle was built by a Frankish troop. The foundations of this early fortress remain.
Ecclesiastically, Arbon belonged to the territory of the Bishop of Constance. In 1255, Bishop Eberhard von Waldburg gave Arbon a dispensation for market rights in the area and built the city wall. That century saw an influx of inhabitants from the surrounding farms. From 1262 to 1264, and again in 1266, the young Duke of Swabia, Conradin of Hohenstaufen, resided in Arbon because the Bishop of Constance was his guardian. The surrounding towns of Steinach, Mörschwil, Horn, Goldach, Egnach, Roggwil, and Steinebrunn all belonged to the parish of Arbon.
The 14th century saw further growth. Linen production and other crafts developed. Between 1322 and 1334, Bishop Rudolf von Montfort rebuilt the crumbling fortress. A fire of unknown cause in 1390 destroyed much of the "Altstadt". A second fire in 1494 was set by the sons of a hanged thief.
When Thurgau was conquered by the Swiss "Eidgenossen" in 1460, the Bishops of Constance retained Arbon. However, in the Swabian War of 1499, they lost civil rights over the territory, retaining only ecclesiastical supremacy. Arbon then became part of the Old Swiss Confederacy.
The castle of Arbon in its present form was built in 1515 by Bishop Hugo von Hohenlandenberg. The tower is older and dates to 993.
In 1525, the first stirrings of the Reformation reached Arbon. In 1537, the reformed congregation was forced to return the church of St. Martin to the Catholic Church and meet in the chapel in Erdhausen, although only a small minority of the population remained Catholic. Religious conflict continued until the 18th century. In 1712, Thurgau declared equality for the various faiths.
In the 18th century, the linen and embroidery industry was established in Arbon. The industrialists built attractive villas in the area, such as the «Rotes Haus» built in 1750.
In 1798, Thurgau was occupied by French troops, along with much of the rest of Switzerland. The adoption of the Swiss constitution ended Arbon's dependence on the Bishops of Constance. The Bishop's representative, Franz Xaver Wirz von Rudenz, was forced to leave the city. In 1803, Arbon became part of the new canton of Thurgau. From 1803 to 1815, Arbon and Horn (an exclave in the canton of St. Gallen) were united in one municipality.
In the 19th century, Arbon developed into an economic and manufacturing center. This occurred primarily because of the pioneering efforts of industrialist Franz Saurer, who move his foundry from St. Gallen to Arbon in 1863. Starting in 1888, his factory built all kinds of machinery and motors. Until 1983, the factory produced trucks and buses, and until 1986 military vehicles. Today, the factory produces only textile machinery. At its high point, the factory employed 5000 workers. The population grew from 660 in 1844 to over 10,000 at the turn of the century.
Since the beginning of the 20th century, Arbon has had a large non-Swiss minority. Tensions between ethnic groups led to riots with several fatalities in 1902.
In 1911, Arbon was the site of the International Socialist Congress. From the 1920s to the 1950s, the Social Democratic majority held power in the city, and it was known as "red Arbon".
The population of the city of Arbon is about 13,000 people.

</doc>
<doc id="80697" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80697" title="Aadorf">
Aadorf

Aadorf is a municipality of the district of Frauenfeld in the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland. 
With a population of 7,436 people (as of 2005), it is the canton's seventh largest municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="80699" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80699" title="Genius">
Genius

A genius is a person who is exceptionally intelligent. People may have different ideas of how clever one has to be in order to be called a “genius”. A genius may be extremely clever at maths or science or games such as chess, or they may be creative geniuses who are brilliant writers, musicians or artists. 
Albert Einstein is perhaps the world’s most famous genius. He was extraordinarily good at math, but in other areas, such as languages, he was not particularly good. Leonardo da Vinci and Johann Wolfgang von Goethe were geniuses who can also be described as polymaths because they were brilliant in lots of different subjects. Geniuses are usually child prodigies, i.e., they already show they are a genius when they are young children.
Genius is not quite the same as talent. Talent means the ability to learn a particular skill very quickly. A genius, on the other hand, is also very creative and able to do things that no one else has thought of.
Some geniuses, such as Goethe, are very sensible, reliable people who are good at organizing their lives. However, there are many geniuses who have unusual personalities. They may be very absent-minded, they may not have much common sense, or they may suffer at times from depression and changes of mood.

</doc>
<doc id="80701" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80701" title="Affeltrangen">
Affeltrangen

Affeltrangen is a municipality of the district of Münchwilen in the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="80702" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80702" title="Altnau">
Altnau

Altnau is a municipality of the district of Kreuzlingen in the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="80703" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80703" title="Amlikon-Bissegg">
Amlikon-Bissegg

Amlikon-Bissegg is a municipality of the district of Weinfelden in the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="80704" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80704" title="Amriswil">
Amriswil

Amriswil is a municipality of the district of Bischofszell in the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="80705" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80705" title="Taygete (moon)">
Taygete (moon)

Taygete or ' is a non-spherical moon of Jupiter. It was found by a team of astronomers from the University of Hawaii led by Scott S. Sheppard, "et al." in 2000, and given the designation '.
Taygete is about 5 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Jupiter at an average distance of 22,439,000 km in 686.675 days, at an inclination of 165° to the ecliptic (163° to Jupiter's equator), with an orbital eccentricity of 0.3678.
It was named in October 2002 after Taygete, one of the Pleiades, daughter of the Titan Atlas and mother of Lacedaemon by Zeus (Jupiter).
It belongs to the Carme group, made up of non-spherical retrograde moons orbiting Jupiter at a distance ranging between 23,000,000 and 24,000,000 km and at an inclination of about 165°.

</doc>
<doc id="80715" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80715" title="Glarus">
Glarus

Glarus could mean different places.

</doc>
<doc id="80718" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80718" title="Betschwanden">
Betschwanden

Betschwanden is a former municipality, in the municipality of Glarus Süd and canton of Glarus in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="80719" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80719" title="Glarus (canton)">
Glarus (canton)

Glarus is a canton in east Switzerland. The capital is Glarus. In 2010, the 25 communes were merged to only three: Glarus, Glarus Nord, and Glarus Süd. Officially, Glarus is a German-speaking canton; of the roughly 40.000 people, 83.6 percent are German-speaking, and 6.8 percent speak Italian. According to a statistical survey done in 2000, 44% of the population are Protestant (including Jehovas Witnesses, and the New Apostolic church), 37.3% are Roman Catholic, 6.5% are Muslims, 6.5% are non-believers, 2.3% are either Eastern orthodox or Oriental orthodox and 3.7% belonged to other communities or did not say.
The canton of Glarus is dominated by the deep valley of the Linth River. Most of the area is mountainous. The total area of the canton of Glarus is 685 km².
The history of this canton is dominated by religion. The people who lived in the Linth Valley were converted to Christianity in the 6th century by the Irish monk Saint Fridolin. He is still in the coat of arms of the canton today. He started Säckingen Abbey near Basel. The area around Glarus was owned by the abbey starting in the 9th century. By 1288, the Habsburgs slowly took over all the abbey's rights. Then the people of Glarus joined the Swiss Confederation in 1352.
Between 1506 and 1516, the reformer Huldrych Zwingli was a priest in Glarus. By 1564, all of Zwingli's followers were eliminated, but the Protestants and Catholics there still fought with each other. To make peace it was decided that each side should have its own assembly ("Landsgemeinde") in 1623. In 1683, each side was granted the right to have its own tribunals.
Between 1798 and 1803, Glarus was part of the Canton of Linth made by Napoleon. In 1836 the constitution was changed to unite the assemblies and establish only one "Landsgemeinde".
About two thirds of Glarus (593 buildings) were destroyed after a big fire in 1861. After the fire, Glarus was rebuilt in block fashion according to construction plans by Bernhard Simon and Johann Caspar Wolff.
On May 6, 2007 Glarus became the first Swiss canton to lower the voting age to 16.
The land of the canton helped to make slate works in the 1600s.
The 25 municipalities ("gemeinden") were:

</doc>
<doc id="80731" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80731" title="Mendrisio (district)">
Mendrisio (district)

The district of Mendrisio is the southernmost district of canton of Ticino and of Switzerland.
The district of Mendrisio has 27 municipalities divided in 5 circles ("circoli"):

</doc>
<doc id="80732" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80732" title="Chert">
Chert

Chert is a type of rock that includes flint and agate. It sometimes has fossils in it, usually shells. It is a sedimentary rock, and it is very hard. It is made from quartz. People used chert to make arrow heads because it was hard and sharp when broken. The color of chertz is usually white or gray, but can be red, yellow or dark grey. If there is a lot of iron oxide in the chert it can be dark red; this type of chert is called "jasper."

</doc>
<doc id="80733" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80733" title="Mendrisio">
Mendrisio

Mendrisio is a municipality of the district of Mendrisio in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="80734" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80734" title="Coldrerio">
Coldrerio

Coldrerio is a municipality of the district of Mendrisio in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="80735" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80735" title="Franciscan Assemblage">
Franciscan Assemblage

The Franciscan Assemblage is a term in geology that describes a group of rocks near the peninsula of San Francisco, California.

</doc>
<doc id="80736" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80736" title="Genestrerio">
Genestrerio

Genestrerio was a municipality, in the municipality of Mendrisio and district of Mendrisio in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="80743" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80743" title="Sonoma Coast State Beach">
Sonoma Coast State Beach

Sonoma Coast State Beach is a series of beaches in Sonoma County, California. The beaches are protected as the Sonoma Coast State Park. It extends for about along the Pacific Coast, from Bodega Head in Bodega to just north of Goat Rock Beach.
The nearest town is Jenner. The coastline consists of a number of named beaches, including Arched Rock Beach, Jenner Beach, Blind Beach, Goat Beach and Goat Rock Beach. Goat Beach is known for being one of the most dangerous surfing spots in California because of its powerful waves, and it is recommended to not go near the water when visiting the beach. Jenner Beach got attention in August 2004 when two Christian youth camp counselors, 22-year-old Lindsay Cutshall and 26-year-old Jason Allen, were found dead. Both had been shot in the head at close range. The murders have not been solved. 

</doc>
<doc id="80744" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80744" title="Bern (canton)">
Bern (canton)

The Swiss canton of Bern has about 947,000 people. The canton is in west-central Switzerland and the city of Bern is its capital.
As of April 2004, there are 398 municipalities of the canton of Bern within the following 26 administrative districts:

</doc>
<doc id="80745" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80745" title="Aarberg (district)">
Aarberg (district)

The district of Aarberg is a district of the canton of Bern, Switzerland. The capital is the town of Aarberg. There are 12 municipalities in the district covering an area of 153 km²:

</doc>
<doc id="80747" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80747" title="Aarberg">
Aarberg

Aarberg is a municipality of the administrative district of Seeland in the canton of Berne in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="80748" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80748" title="Bargen, Bern">
Bargen, Bern

Bargen is a municipality in the administrative district of Seeland in the canton of Bern in Switzerland.
It is a parish and is now part of the district of Aarberg. Its official language is German.

</doc>
<doc id="80751" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80751" title="Coast Miwok">
Coast Miwok

The Coast Miwok were a Native American tribe who lived in what is now Northern California.

</doc>
<doc id="80753" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80753" title="Pomo">
Pomo

The Pomo were a Native American tribe who lived in what is now Northern California by Russian River. Pomo is a language family that includeds seven languages, including Northern Pomo, Northeastern Pomo, Eastern Pomo, Southeastern Pomo, and Kashaya. The pomo tribe were hunters and gatherers. The men hunted meat and fish, while the women and the children gatherd nuts and berries. The Pomo villages might have had as few as 100 or moore than 1,500. They wove finely crafted baskets and sometimes decorated them with feathers and shell beads.

</doc>
<doc id="80760" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80760" title="Euporie (moon)">
Euporie (moon)

Euporie or ' is a moon of Jupiter. It was found by a team of astronomers from the University of Hawaii led by Scott S. Sheppard in 2001, and given the designation '.
Euporie is about 2 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Jupiter at an average distance of 19,088,000 km in 538.780 days, at an inclination of 145° to the ecliptic (145° to Jupiter's equator), with an orbital eccentricity of 0.0960.
It was named in August 2003 after Euporie, a Greek goddess of abundance and one of the Horae in Greek mythology (and thus a daughter of Zeus).
It is the closest member of the Ananke group, retrograde non-spherical moons which orbit Jupiter between 19,300,000 and 22,700,000 km, at inclinations of about 150°.

</doc>
<doc id="80762" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80762" title="Autonoe (moon)">
Autonoe (moon)

Autonoe or ', is a moon of Jupiter. It was found by a team of astronomers from the University of Hawaii led by Scott S. Sheppard in 2001, and given the designation '.
Autonoe is about 4 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Jupiter at an average distance of 24,264,000 km in 772.168 days, at an inclination of 151° to the ecliptic (150° to Jupiter's equator), with an orbital eccentricity of 0.369.
It belongs to the Pasiphaë group, non-spherical retrograde moons orbiting Jupiter at distances ranging between 22,800,000 and 24,100,000 km, and with inclinations ranging between 144.5° and 158.3°.
Autonoe was named in August 2003 after the Greek mythological figure Autonoe, conquest of Zeus (Jupiter), mother of the Charites (Gracies), according to some authors.

</doc>
<doc id="80764" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80764" title="Hegemone (moon)">
Hegemone (moon)

Hegemone or ', is a moon of Jupiter. It was found by a team of astronomers from the University of Hawaii led by Scott S. Sheppard in 2003, and given the designation '.
Hegemone is about 3 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Jupiter at an average distance of 23,703,000 km in 745.500 days, at an inclination of 153° to the ecliptic (151° to Jupiter's equator), with an orbital eccentricity of 0.4077.
It was named in March 2005 after Hegemone, one of the Graces, and a daughter of Zeus (Jupiter).
Hegemone belongs to the Pasiphaë group, non-spherical retrograde moons orbiting Jupiter at distances ranging between 22,800,000 and 24,100,000 km, and with inclinations ranging between 144.5° and 158.3°.

</doc>
<doc id="80768" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80768" title="Euanthe (moon)">
Euanthe (moon)

Euanthe or ' is a moon of Jupiter which is not fully round. It was found by a team of astronomers from the University of Hawaii led by Scott S. Sheppard in 2001. It was given the designation '.
Euanthe is about 3 kilometres in diameter. It orbits Jupiter at an average distance of 20,465,000 km in 598.093 days. This orbit is at an inclination of 143° to the ecliptic (142° to Jupiter's equator) with an orbital eccentricity of 0.2001.
It was named in August 2003 after Euanthe, who was the mother of the Graces, according to some Greek writers.
Euanthe is in the Ananke group, retrograde non-spherical moons which orbit Jupiter between 19,300,000 and 22,700,000 km, at inclinations of about 150°.

</doc>
<doc id="80771" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80771" title="Kalyke (moon)">
Kalyke (moon)

Kalyke or ', is a non-spherical moon of Jupiter. It was found by a team of astronomers from the University of Hawaii led by Scott S. Sheppard, et al. in 2000, and given the designation '.
Kalyke is about 5.2 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Jupiter at an average distance of 23,181,000 km in 721.021 days, at an inclination of 166° to the ecliptic (165° to Jupiter's equator), with an orbital eccentricity of 0.2140.
It was named in October 2002 after the Greek mythological figure Kalyke or Calyce.
It belongs to the Carme group, made up of non-spherical retrograde moons orbiting Jupiter at a distance ranging between 23,000,000 and 24,000,000 km and at an inclination of about 165°.

</doc>
<doc id="80775" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80775" title="Megaclite (moon)">
Megaclite (moon)

Megaclite or ', is a moon of Jupiter. It was found by a team of astronomers from the University of Hawaii led by Scott S. Sheppard in 2000, and given the designation '.
Megaclite is about 5.4 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Jupiter at an average distance of 24,687,000 km in 792.437 days, at an inclination of 150° to the ecliptic (148° to Jupiter's equator), with an orbital eccentricity of 0.308.
It was named in October 2002 after Megaclite, mother by Zeus (Jupiter) of Thebe and Locrus (although both of these are assigned a different father by other authors).
It belongs to the Pasiphaë group, non-spherical retrograde moons orbiting Jupiter at distances ranging between 22,800,000 and 24,100,000 km, and with inclinations ranging between 144.5° and 158.3°.

</doc>
<doc id="80780" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80780" title="Emerald (color)">
Emerald (color)

Emerald is a color that is a shade of green. It is light and bright, with a faint bluish cast. The name comes from the color of the gemstone emerald.
The first written use of "emerald" as a color name in English was in 1598.

</doc>
<doc id="80788" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80788" title="Isonoe (moon)">
Isonoe (moon)

Isonoe or ', is a non-spherical moon of Jupiter. It was found by a team of astronomers from the University of Hawaii led by Scott S. Sheppard in 2000, and given the designation '.
Isonoe is about 3.8 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Jupiter at an average distance of 23,833,000 km in 751.647 days, at an inclination of 166° to the ecliptic (169° to Jupiter's equator), with an orbital eccentricity of 0.166.
It was named in October 2002 after Isonoe, one of the Danaides in Greek mythology, and a lover of Zeus (Jupiter).
Isonoe belongs to the Carme group, made up of non-spherical retrograde moons orbiting Jupiter at a distance ranging between 23,000,000 and 24,000,000 km and at an inclination of about 165°.

</doc>
<doc id="80791" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80791" title="André-Marie Ampère">
André-Marie Ampère

André-Marie Ampère (20 January 1775 – 10 June 1836) was a French physicist and mathematician who helped discover electromagnetism. An electrical unit called the ampere is named after him.
Ampere was born in Lyon, France in 1775. During his childhood, Ampere's father taught him Latin, until he found out that his son was talented in mathematical studies. However, young Ampere continued his study on Latin, so that he could understand and master the works of Euler and Bernoulli. In his later life, Ampere began to distinguish himself in mathematics, but also he studied history, travels, poetry, philosophy, and the natural sciences.
During the French Revolution, a great sorrow came to Ampere's life; he lost his father who was executed by revolutionaries. The death of his father brought a huge impact to Ampere.
In 1796, he met the daughter of a blacksmith living near Lyon named Julie Carron, and married her in 1799. Afterward, Ampere worked as a professor in Lyon, giving lessons in mathematics, chemistry, languages, and physics. He continued working as a professor even after the death of his wife in 1803. However, her death bothered Ampere for the rest of his life. Ampere died at Marseille and buried in the Cimetiere de Montmartre, Paris. In his work "Journal et correspondence", we can see his amiability and childlike simplicity of character.
Ampere is most known for establishing the relationship between electricity and magnetism, and combining them into a new field called electromagnetism, or electrodynamics. On September 11, 1820, Ampere heard from the discovery of H.C.Orsted that a magnetic needle can be activated by a voltaic current. Only a week later, he came up with a much more advanced version of that kindred phenomena. It was such an amazing development. On the same day, he also discovered like charges repel and different charges come towards each other.

</doc>
<doc id="80794" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80794" title="Cyllene (moon)">
Cyllene (moon)

Cyllene or ', is a moon of Jupiter. It was found by a team of astronomers from the University of Hawaii led by Scott S. Sheppard in 2003, getting the designation '.
Cyllene is about 2 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Jupiter at an average distance of 23,396,000 km in 731.099 days, at an inclination of 140° to the ecliptic (140° to Jupiter's equator), with an orbital eccentricity of 0.4116.
It was named in March 2005 after Cyllene, a naiad (stream nymph) or oread (mountain nymph) associated with Mount Kyllini, Greece. She was a daughter of Zeus (Jupiter).
It belongs to the Pasiphaë group, non-spherical retrograde moons orbiting Jupiter at distances ranging between 22,800,000 and 24,100,000 km, and with inclinations ranging between 144.5° and 158.3°.

</doc>
<doc id="80799" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80799" title="Dive bomber">
Dive bomber

A dive bomber is a bomber aircraft that dives towards the ground so it can get very close to its targets so that it is more likely to hit them. This can also limit the chance of anti-aircraft fire hitting the plane.
Diving nearly vertically at the target, the aircraft will release the bombs very close to the target at high speed. This allows a dive bomber to drop bombs accurately on a relatively small target, or a moving target quite easily. Dive bombers were widely used to attack high value targets such as ships and bridges. This also had the advantage of attacking ships at a weak spot. A ship's armour was heaviest near the water. On the top of the ship, however, the armour was very thin, or there was no armour at all. Also, dive bombing allowed relatively small aeroplanes carrying a limited bomb load to do more damage than usual.
Because of better bombsights and better anti-aircraft warfare after World War II, dive bombers were replaced by attack aircraft. 

</doc>
<doc id="80801" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80801" title="Naters">
Naters

Naters is a municipality of the district of Brig in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="80802" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80802" title="Ried-Brig">
Ried-Brig

Ried-Brig is a municipality of the district of Brig in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="80803" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80803" title="Simplon">
Simplon

Simplon is a municipality of the district of Brig in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.
A member of the Swiss Federal Council Josef Escher was born in Simplon.

</doc>
<doc id="80807" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80807" title="Fiberglass">
Fiberglass

Fiberglass (also called fibreglass and glass fibre) is material made from extremely fine fibers of glass. 
It is used as a reinforcing material for many polymer products. The composite material, that is produced by this method is called "fiberglass" in popular usage. The proper names are fiber-reinforced polymer (FRP) or glass-reinforced plastic (GRP).
Glassmakers throughout history have experimented with glass fibers, but mass manufacture of fiberglass was only made possible when finer tools for machines were produced. 
Glass fiber is formed when thin of silica-based or other formulation glass is extruded into many fibers with small diameters that are suitable for textile processing. Glass is unlike other polymers because, even as a fiber, it has little crystalline structure (see amorphous solid). The properties of the structure of glass in its soft stage are very much like its properties when spun into fiber. 
Bare fiberglass can cause skin irritation and cuts when handled without gloves. There have been concerns that fiberglass can be accidentally inhaled into the lungs, where it can cause cancer and other lung problems, similar to asbestos. Fiberglass has been called "man-made asbestos". Substitutes for fiberglass building insulation, such as cellulose and aerogel, have started to appear.

</doc>
<doc id="80808" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80808" title="Composite material">
Composite material

Composite materials are made from two or more basic material mixed together. The materials can be natural or not, and keep their separate properties when mixed together. However, the composite material as a whole may behave differently from either of its parts. For example, reinforced concrete (made of concrete and steel) has resistance to pressure and to bending forces. Bullet-proof glass (made of glass and plastic) is more resistant to impact than either glass or plastic on their own.
Concrete itself is a composite material, one of the oldest man-made composites, used more than any other man-made material in the world.
Wood is a natural composite of cellulose fibres in a matrix of lignin. The earliest man-made composite materials were straw and mud combined to form bricks for building construction. This ancient brick-making process was documented by Egyptian tomb paintings.
Fibre-reinforced polymers are in wide use today, as is glass-reinforced plastic.
The most primitive composite materials were straw and mud in the form of bricks for building construction. The Biblical book of Exodus tells of the Israelites that were oppressed by Pharaoh and forced to make "bricks without straw". Today we use shower stalls and bath tubs made of fiberglass, a type of composite. 

</doc>
<doc id="80809" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80809" title="Fibre">
Fibre

A fibre or fiber is a piece of material that is long, thin and flexible, like a length of thread. Plant fibres are the basis of fabric such as cotton. Silk and wool fibres come from animals. In the 20th century many artificial fibres were invented like nylon and polyester.
They are very important in the structure of plants and animals, because they hold tissues together. 
There are many uses for fibres. They can be spun together into filaments, thread, string or rope. They can be woven in fabric or in composite materials. They can also be matted into sheets to make products such as paper or felt (as felt hats).synthetic fibres are the cheapest to make.

</doc>
<doc id="80810" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80810" title="Fibre-reinforced polymer">
Fibre-reinforced polymer

A fibre-reinforced polymer (also fibre-reinforced plastic ("FRP")) is a composite material that consists of a polymer matrix that is reinforced with fibres. The fibres are usually fibreglass, carbon, or aramid, the polymer is usually an epoxy, vinylester or polyester thermosetting plastic. FRPs are commonly used in the aerospace, automobile, marine, and construction industries.

</doc>
<doc id="80811" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80811" title="Glass-reinforced plastic">
Glass-reinforced plastic

Glass-reinforced plastic (GRP), is a composite material or fibre-reinforced polymer made of a plastic reinforced by fine fibers made of glass. Like carbon fibre reinforced plastic, the composite material is commonly referred to by the name of its reinforcing fibres (fibreglass). 
Other benefits include: 

</doc>
<doc id="80813" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80813" title="Carbon fiber reinforced plastic">
Carbon fiber reinforced plastic

Carbon fiber reinforced plastic (CFRP or CRP), is a very strong, light and expensive composite material or fiber-reinforced plastic. Similar to glass-reinforced plastic, one uses commonly the name of its reinforcing fibers (carbon fiber) for the composite material. The plastic is most often epoxy, but other plastics, such as polyester, vinyl ester or nylon, are also sometimes used. Some composites contain both carbon fiber and other fibres such as kevlar, aluminium and fiberglass reinforcement. Less commonly, the terms graphite-reinforced plastic or graphite fiber reinforced plastic (GFRP) are also used.
It has many applications in aerospace and automotive fields, as well as in sailboats, and notably in modern bicycles and motorcycles, where these qualities are of importance. It is becoming increasingly common in small consumer goods as well, such as laptop computers, tripods, fishing rods, paintball equipment, racquet sports frames, stringed instrument bodies, classical guitar strings, and drum shells.

</doc>
<doc id="80815" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80815" title="Carbon fiber">
Carbon fiber

Carbon fiber or Carbon fibre is also sometimes called graphite fiber. It has the highest compressive strength of all the reinforcing materials (composites), and it has a high strength to weight ratio and low coefficient of thermal expansion. The density of carbon fiber is also much lower than the density of steel. Carbon fiber is in the form of several thousand long, thin strands of material that is composed of mostly carbon atoms.
Carbon fiber is most notably used to reinforce composite materials, particularly carbon fiber reinforced polymers. Reinforced carbon-carbon (RCC) is used structurally in high-temperature applications. The fiber is also used to filter high-temperature gases.
Molding a thin layer of carbon fibers significantly improves fire resistance of polymers or thermoset composites. This works because a dense, compact layer of carbon fibers efficiently reflects heat.
The increasing use of carbon fiber composites is displacing aluminum from aerospace applications in favor of other metals.

</doc>
<doc id="80816" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80816" title="Coefficient">
Coefficient

In mathematics, a coefficient is a constant multiplicative factor of a certain object. For example, the coefficient in "9x" is "9". 
The object can be such things as a variable, a vector, a function, etc. In some cases, the objects and the coefficients are indexed in the same way, leading to expressions such as:
where "a" is the coefficient of the variable "x" for each "n" = 1, 2, 3, …

</doc>
<doc id="80817" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80817" title="Coefficient (disambiguation)">
Coefficient (disambiguation)

Coefficient could have one of the following meanings: 
Also,

</doc>
<doc id="80818" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80818" title="Enrico Fermi">
Enrico Fermi

Enrico Fermi (September 29, 1901 — November 28, 1954) was an Italian-American physicist who worked on the first nuclear reactor and helped make quantum theory. He also was important to particle physics, and statistical mechanics. Fermi won the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1938 for his work on induced radioactivity. He built the world's first nuclear reactor. Fermi was one of the greatest scientists of the 20th century.
Fermi was born in Rome and went to a local grammar school. He was very good at maths and science and won a prize from Scuola Normale Superiore of Pisa. He went to the University of Pisa where he studied physics. In 1923 he was given a scholarship from the Italian government and went to Göttingen for more study. He was given a Rockefeller scholarship in 1924 and studied in Leyden. He came back to Italy at the end of 1924 and became Lecturer in Mathematical Physics and Mechanics at the University of Florence.
In 1926, Fermi discovered the statistical laws, now called Fermi statistics. These laws explain the actions of the particles which are subject to the Pauli exclusion principle, which are now called fermions. These are different to the particles called bosons which are explained by Bose-Einstein statistics. In 1927 he became Professor of Theoretical Physics at the University of Rome. He spent time studying electrodynamics, and began to closely look at the atomic nucleus. In 1934, using discoveries made by Wolfgang Pauli, Frédéric Joliot, Irène Joliot-Curie, he was able to show changes in almost every element bombarded with neutrons. This led to the discovery of slow neutrons, nuclear fission and making elements that were not in the Periodic Table.

</doc>
<doc id="80819" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80819" title="Physical coefficient">
Physical coefficient

A physical coefficient is an important number that characterizes some physical property of a technical or scientific object.

</doc>
<doc id="80822" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80822" title="Coefficient of thermal expansion">
Coefficient of thermal expansion

Solids mostly expand in response to heating and contract on cooling. This response to temperature change is expressed as its coefficient of thermal expansion.
The coefficient of thermal expansion is used:
These characteristics are closely related. The volumetric thermal expansion coefficient can be measured for all substances of condensed matter (liquids and solid state). The linear thermal expansion can only be measured in the solid state and is common in engineering applications.
The expansion and contraction of material must be considered when designing large structures, when using tape or chain to measure distances for land surveys, when designing molds for casting hot material, and in other engineering applications when large changes in dimension due to temperature are expected. The range for α is from 10 for hard solids to 10 for organic liquids. α varies with the temperature and some materials have a very high variation. Some values for common materials, given in parts per million per Celsius degree: (NOTE: This can also be in kelvins as the changes in temperature are a 1:1 ratio)
For applications using the thermal expansion property, see bi-metal and mercury thermometer
Thermal expansion is also used in mechanical applications to fit parts over one another, e.g. a bushing can be fitted over a shaft by making its inner diameter slightly smaller than the diameter of the shaft, then heating it until it fits over the shaft, and allowing it to cool after it has been pushed over the shaft, thus achieving a 'shrink fit'
There exist some alloys with a very small CTE, used in applications that demand very small changes in physical dimension over a range of temperatures. One of these is Invar 36, with a coefficient in the 0.6x10 range. These alloys are useful in aerospace applications where wide temperature swings may occur.

</doc>
<doc id="80823" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80823" title="Surveying">
Surveying

Surveying is the technique and science of accurately finding out the position of points and the distances and angles between them. These points are usually, but not always, associated with positions on the surface of the Earth. They are often used to make land maps and boundaries for ownership of land. A person who does the surveying is called a surveyor. In order to find the information they need, surveyors use geometry, engineering, trigonometry, mathematics, physics, and law.
Surveying has been very important in the development of the human environment since the beginning of recorded history (ca. 5000 years ago) and it is a requirement planning of nearly every form of construction. Its most common uses are in the fields of transport, building and construction, communications, mapping, and the making of legal boundaries for land ownership.
Surveying has existed throughout much of our history. In ancient Egypt, when the Nile River overflowed its banks and washed out farm boundaries, the boundaries were recreated by surveyors using simple geometry. The construction of many of the pyramids, including the Great Pyramids of Giza, built c. 2700 BC, show us that the Egyptians' have always used surveying very efficiently.
A surveyor is a person who has the skills to accurately find out the position of points and the distances and angles between them. These points are usually, positions on the surface of the Earth. Finding these points is called "surveying". Surveyors are needed to make land maps and boundaries for ownership of land. In order to find the information they need, surveyors use geometry, engineering, trigonometry, mathematics, physics, and law.
There are different types of surveyor. A construction or building surveyor is the person who has to make sure that buildings are being put up in the correct place and fit in with planning and building laws. A quantity surveyor is the person who keeps track of costs on a building project. A hydrographic surveyor measures points to do with water, such as rivers, lakes and oceans. A marine surveyor is a person who inspects ships. A mine surveyor is the person who finds out the position of underground mines, for example gold mines or coal mines.

</doc>
<doc id="80826" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80826" title="Jorge Manrique">
Jorge Manrique

Jorge Manrique (c. 1440 – 1479) was a major Spanish poet, whose main work, the "Coplas a la muerte de su padre (Stanzas about the Death of his Father)", is still read today. He was a supporter of the great Spanish queen, Isabel I of Castile, and actively participated on her side in the civil war that broke out against her half-brother, Enrique IV, when the latter attempted to make his daughter, Juana, crown princess. Jorge died in 1479 during an attempt to take the castle of Garcimuñoz after Isabel gained the crown.
Manrique were one of major Spanish aristocratic families of the Jewish converso descent. See, Norman Roth, "Conversos, Inquisition, and the Expulsion of the Jews from Spain", Madison, WI: The University of Wisconcin Press, 1995, p. 333. Jorge Manrique was a great-nephew of Iñigo López de Mendoza (marquess of Santillana), a descendant of Pero López de Ayala, chancellor of Castile, and a nephew of Gómez Manrique, "corregidor" of Toledo, all important poets of the late fourteenth and fifteenth centuries. He was, therefore, a member of a noble family of great consequence.

</doc>
<doc id="80836" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80836" title="Minutes to Midnight">
Minutes to Midnight

Minutes to Midnight is third studio album by American nu metal band, Linkin Park. It was released on May 14, 2007 all over the world and on May 15, 2007 in North America. Rick Rubin and Mike Shinoda produced the album.
The name "Minutes to Midnight" comes from the Doomsday Clock.

</doc>
<doc id="80842" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80842" title="Thelxinoe (moon)">
Thelxinoe (moon)

Thelxinoe or ' is a moon of Jupiter. It was found by a team of astronomers from the University of Hawaii led by Scott S. Sheppard in 2004 from pictures taken in 2003, and originally got the designation '.
Thelxinoe is about 2 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Jupiter at an average distance of 20,454,000 km in 597.607 days, at an inclination of 151° to the ecliptic (153° to Jupiter's equator), with an orbital eccentricity of 0.2685.
It was named in March 2005 after Thelxinoe, one of the four original Muses according to some Greek writers, and a daughter of Zeus (Jupiter) by Mnemosyne.
Thelxinoe belongs to the Ananke group, retrograde non-spherical moons which orbit Jupiter between 19,300,000 and 22,700,000 km, at inclinations of about 150°.

</doc>
<doc id="80847" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80847" title="Oskar Lafontaine">
Oskar Lafontaine

Oskar Lafontaine (; born 16 September 1943 in Saarlouis-Roden) is a left-wing German politician and a founder member of the new political party "Die Linke".
Lafontaine studied physics at the Bonn University and the Saarland University from 1962 to 1969.
He is Roman Catholic and is married to Christa Müller who leads a campaign against genital mutilation in Africa. They have a son, Carl Maurice, born 1997.
Lafontaine's political career began locally as mayor of Saarbrücken. He became widely known as a critic of chancellor Helmut Schmidt's support for the NATO plan to put Pershing II missiles in Germany. From 1985 to 1998 he was Minister-President of the Saarland. As minister-president, Lafontaine tried to keep the traditional industries of steel production and coal mining in the state with subsidies. He was also President of the Bundesrat in 1992/93.
In the German federal election of 1990, Lafonntaine was the SPD's Chancellor candidate. The party lost because of support for the CDU who were the government during reunification. During the campaign he was attacked with a knife by a mentally deranged woman after a speech in Cologne. His carotid artery was slashed and he remained in a critical condition for several days.
At the "Mannheim convention" in 1995, Lafontaine was elected chairman of the SPD, replacing Rudolf Scharping. He was mainly responsible for bringing the whole of the SPD against Helmut Kohl and his CDU party, instead of cooperating with the CDU. Lafontaine said that any help given to Kohl would only help to keep the CDU in government.
This idea put the SPD ahead in the opinion polls in September 1998. He was appointed Federal Minister of Finance in the first government of Gerhard Schröder.
During his short time as Minister of Finance, Lafontaine was a figure of attack by UK Eurosceptics. This was especially because he wanted to make taxes the same in the European Union. This would have meant some UK taxes would increase.
On 11 March 1999, he resigned from all his official and party offices, saying that not getting any help from other members of the cabinet. Later he become known for his attacks against Angela Merkel's government in the tabloid Bild-Zeitung which is generally considered conservative.
On 24 May 2005 Lafontaine left the SPD. On 10 June, he said he would run as the lead candidate for The Left Party.PDS (Die Linkspartei), a coalition of the Electoral Alternative for Labour and Social Justice (WASG), which is based in western Germany, and the Party of Democratic Socialism (PDS), which was the successor to the East German communist party
He joined the WASG on 18 June 2005 and was selected to head their list for the 2005 Federal Election in North Rhine-Westphalia on the same day. He also stood in the Saarbrücken constituency, but lost. Nevertheless, the result of the Linkspartei in the Saarland was the best in any of the federal states in the West of Germany.
An article by Lafontaine on Erich Honecker, state and party leader of the GDR and a Saarländer like him, in the magazine Der Spiegel was criticized by many people who said it concentrated on a few good things Honecker did, and ignored the bad things. In the late 80s and early 90s he lost some support from left-wing people because he seemed to want pro-business policies and he called for a reduction of the influx of Germans from Eastern Europe and asylum-seekers.
Oskar LaFontaine: "The Heart Beats on the Left" Polity, ISBN 978-0-7456-2582-9

</doc>
<doc id="80849" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80849" title="Group (periodic table)">
Group (periodic table)

A group in the Periodic Table is any column of elements with common properties denoted by the electrons in the outermost layer. There are eight groups of elements in total: 

</doc>
<doc id="80852" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80852" title="Differential coefficient">
Differential coefficient

In mathematics, differential coefficient is a term out of use now. The former "differential coefficient" of a function "f"("x") is now called its derivative "df"("x")/"dx". It is the (not necessarily constant) multiplicative factor or "coefficient" of the differential "dx" in the differential "df"("x"). 
The differential coefficient of "f" is a constant function only if "f" is a linear function.
Early editions of Silvanus P. Thompson's "Calculus Made Easy" use the older term. In his 1998 update of this text, Martin Gardner puts "derivative" instead of "differential coefficient". He speaks of it only in context with Thompson's criticism of the term.

</doc>
<doc id="80854" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80854" title="Period (periodic table)">
Period (periodic table)

A period in the Periodic Table is any horizontal row of elements. The elements in a certain period all increase one by one in atomic numbers. The elements in the same period are very metallic on the left, and nonmetallic on the right. As you go across a period towards the right, the size of the atom gets larger, because protons and electrons are increasing.

</doc>
<doc id="80857" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80857" title="Atomic orbital">
Atomic orbital

Atomic orbitals are the places surrounding the nucleus of an atom where the electrons are most likely to be at any given time. It used to be believed that electrons behaved similarly to the solar system, where the nucleus is like the sun and the electrons orbit like the planets. However, electrons do not go in circles, they move in many different directions. The number of atomic orbitals in an element is defined by the period the element is in. Electrons move between orbitals depending on how fast they are moving and how many other electrons there are.

</doc>
<doc id="80866" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80866" title="Charlottenburg-Wilmersdorf">
Charlottenburg-Wilmersdorf

Charlottenburg-Wilmersdorf is a borough of Berlin, formed in 2001 by joining together the old boroughs of Charlottenburg and Wilmersdorf.
It has an area of and has, as of 2003, about 315,200 inhabitants.
Its current mayor is Monika Thiemen (SPD).
The Technical University of Berlin (Technische Universität Berlin), the Berlin University of the Arts (Universität der Künste), the opera (Deutsche Oper Berlin), the Charlottenburg Palace and the Olympic Stadium are located in Charlottenburg-Wilmersdorf.

</doc>
<doc id="80867" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80867" title="Friedrichshain-Kreuzberg">
Friedrichshain-Kreuzberg

Friedrichshain-Kreuzberg is a borough of Berlin. It is a new borough, only made in 2001 by joining the old boroughs of Friedrichshain and Kreuzberg.
It occupies and has a population of about 255,200 as of 2003.
Its current mayor is Franz Schulz (Green Party).

</doc>
<doc id="80868" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80868" title="Lichtenberg-Hohenschönhausen">
Lichtenberg-Hohenschönhausen

Lichtenberg is a borough of Berlin, Germany. In 2001 it took over the old borough of Hohenschönhausen. Lichtenberg now has an area of and a population (as of 2003) of about 260,200 inhabitants.
The present mayor of the borough is Christina Emmrich (Die Linke).
Lichtenberg contains the Tierpark Berlin, the larger of Berlin's two zoological parks. Lichtenberg was also the site of the headquarters of the Stasi, the East German intelligence service. The complex is now a museum.
The Berlin-Hohenschönhausen Memorial is on the site of the main prison of the Stasi.

</doc>
<doc id="80869" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80869" title="Proteaceae">
Proteaceae

Proteaceae is a family of flowering plants. Mainly restricted to the Southern Hemisphere, it is a fairly large family, with around 80 genera but fewer than 2000 species. Together with the Platanaceae and Nelumbonaceae they make up the order Proteales.
Traditionally divided in two subfamilies:Persoonioideae and Grevilleoideae. Recently, workers have recognized seven subfamilies: 

</doc>
<doc id="80872" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80872" title="Marzahn-Hellersdorf">
Marzahn-Hellersdorf

Marzahn-Hellersdorf is one of the 12 new boroughs of Berlin. It was created in 2001 when the old boroughs of Marzahn and Hellersdorf were merged (joined together).
Marzahn-Hellersdorf is in northeast Berlin. It has borders with Lichtenberg in the west, Treptow-Köpenick in the south and the state of Brandenburg in the east and north.
The borough contains of five former villages: Biesdorf, Hellersdorf, Kaulsdorf, Mahlsdorf and Marzahn, which became part of Berlin in 1920.
Marzahn-Hellersdorf has several twin towns:

</doc>
<doc id="80873" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80873" title="Billionaire">
Billionaire

A billionaire is somebody who has at least one billion units of currency (for example, British pounds £ or American dollars $). It is not clear how much a billion is. In Europe a billion is one million million (1,000,000,000,000) with 12 zeros. However, in the United States a billion is one thousand million (1,000,000,000) with 9 zeros. Some people in the United Kingdom, especially banks, also use the American way.
"Milliard" is used for 1,000,000,000 in countries that use one million million for billion.

</doc>
<doc id="80876" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80876" title="Neukölln">
Neukölln

Neukölln is a borough of Berlin. It has an area of and has, as of 2003, about 307,400 inhabitants and one of the highest percentage of foreigners in Berlin.
Its current mayor is Heinz Buschkowsky (SPD).
When it was first mentioned in 1360, the village was called "Richardsdorf" and owned by the Order of St. John
The coat of arms of the borough has a Maltese cross to remember this part of its history.
In 1737, Frederick William I of Prussia let Moravians from Bohemia settle in the area. They built their own church and houses off the village centre along the road to Berlin, which is now called "Richardstraße". The new Bohemian village was granted its own constitution in 1797.
When both parts of the village were reunited in 1874, the population was 8,000 inhabitants. It had nearly doubled, to 15,000 by the next year.
On 1 May 1899 the area, then the largest village of Prussia, became an independent city and got its current name in 1912. Its independence ended in 1920, when it was made part of Greater Berlin . Between 1966 and 1975, the "Gropiusstadt" was built. This city-within-a-city was designed by architect Walter Gropius. Gropius was the last director of the Bauhaus school of arts and architecture, which set up in Berlin when it moved from Dessau. Gropiusstadt has over 60,000 inhabitants.
Actress Mady Rahl and Lotte Ulbricht, wife of East German leader Walter Ulbricht, were born in Neukölln.

</doc>
<doc id="80877" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80877" title="Pankow">
Pankow

Pankow [] is one of the new borough of Berlin. In 2001, the old borough of Pankow was merged (joined) with the former boroughs of Prenzlauer Berg and Weißensee.
It has an area of and about 347,100 inhabitants. Pankow's current mayor is Matthias Koehne (SPD).
Between 1945-1960 many members of the government of East Germany lived in the Majakowskiring district of Pankow. Western writers often called Pankow capital of East Germany, or used Pankow as shorthand for the East German government.
The Rykestrasse Synagogue Germany's largest synagogue, is located in the Prenzlauer Berg neighbourhood of the Pankow district.

</doc>
<doc id="80879" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80879" title="Reinickendorf">
Reinickendorf

Reinickendorf is a borough of Berlin. It has an area of and has, as of December 31 2003, 246,577 inhabitants.
Reinickendorf was created in 1920 by the Greater Berlin Act, and was not changed in the borough reforms of 2001.
Its current mayor is Marlies Wanjura (CDU).
Reinickendorf is split in ten parts:
The last elections for the BVV (elections for the representatives in the boroughs parliament) were in October 2001.

</doc>
<doc id="80880" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80880" title="Pasithee (moon)">
Pasithee (moon)

Pasithee or ', is a non-spherical moon of Jupiter. It was found by a team of astronomers from the University of Hawaii led by Scott S. Sheppard in 2001, and given the designation '.
Pasithee is about 2 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Jupiter at an average distance of 23,307,000 km in 726.933 days, at an inclination of 166° to the ecliptic (164° to Jupiter's equator), with an orbital eccentricity of 0.3289.
It was named in August 2003 after Pasithee, one of the Charites, goddesses of charm, beauty, nature, human creativity and fertility, daughters of Zeus (Jupiter) by Eurynome. Pasithee, better known as Aglaea, is the spouse of Hypnos (Sleep) and presides to hallucinations and hallucinogens.
It belongs to the Carme group, made up of non-spherical retrograde moons orbiting Jupiter at a distance ranging between 23,000,000 and 24,000,000 km and at an inclination of about 165°.

</doc>
<doc id="80881" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80881" title="Steglitz-Zehlendorf">
Steglitz-Zehlendorf

Steglitz-Zehlendorf is a borough of Berlin. It was formed in 2001 when the former boroughs of Steglitz and Zehlendorf were joined together.
Steglitz-Zehlendorf has an area of and has, as of 2003, about 288,300 inhabitants. Its current mayor is Norbert Kopp (CDU).

</doc>
<doc id="80882" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80882" title="Thrillville">
Thrillville

Thrillville is a PlayStation 2, Xbox and PlayStation Portable game made by Lucasarts and Frontier. Players make their own theme park. They make roller coasters, game stalls, rides, race tracks, and food and drink shops. 
Uncle Mortimer, a strange scientist, puts the player in charge of Thrillville, a large theme park with roller coasters, games, rides, and racetracks. The player then picks a character. The character can be moved through each theme park. He must try to finish missions in the theme park before he can move on to the next one.
Garrison, a bad, rich, theme park owner, has his own theme park called Globo-joy. Globo-joy competes against Thrillville. The player must do difficult tasks to make Thrillville the best theme park.
Thrillville has many minigames that can be played in the theme park, or with up to four other players.
Entertainer: Players must hit the right button at the right time to make the cheerleaders dance to the music
RC wars: Players must drive remote-control cars into each other, to try to make the other car blow up.
Event Horizon: Players can pick between four space ships, each with a different weapon, to blast other enemy ships.
Robot Invasion, Hauntings, Pirate Raiders, and Wild Frontier: Players move around in a battle arena. They can shoot either the other players or robot enemies.
Star Sniper, Ghoul Gunner, Blackbeard's Booty, and Prospect Stakeout: Players shoot targets that pop out of certain areas.
Dune Buggy, Anti-Grav Racer, Go-karts, Monster Truck, and Formula Thrills: Players race to the finish on a race track.
Trojan Quest: Players can pick between four heroes, each with a different weapon, to kill enemy skeletons and evil monsters.
Luftwaffe 109: Players can pick between four airplanes, each with a different weapon, to shoot down enemy airplanes and bombers.
Trampolines: Players bounce on a trampoline, doing crazy tricks in the air.
Saucer Sumo: Players control a flying saucer and try to bump the other players off the edge of the ring.
Saucer Soccer: Players control a flying car and try to get the soccer ball and shoot it into the goal.
Minigolf: Players play a game of miniature golf, where they hit the ball lightly with a golf club and send the ball into a hole.
Sparkle Island: Players play as a cat-like hero and shoot blobs.
Mechanic: Players arrange tubes to fit on a board, to connect one part of a circuit board to another.
Groundskeeper: Players suck up the trash and wash the vomit that has collected in the theme parks.
Off the Rails, the second part of the series, came out in 2007 for the PlayStation 2, Wii, Xbox 360, Nintendo DS, PlayStation Portable and Microsoft Windows. "Off the Rails" allows roller coasters to crash, more minigames, more options, and more fun. Also, Off the Rails has a good amount of songs, such as "Parklife" by Blur and "Smile (Lily Allen song)" by Lily Allen.

</doc>
<doc id="80883" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80883" title="Volvo">
Volvo

Volvo is a Swedish car and truck maker founded in 1927.
Ford bought the "Volvo" car company in 1999. In 2010 Geely bought the Volvo Car Company.
Today there are two companies. 1: Volvo Cars that produces standard size cars. 2: Volvo Group that produces trucks, boat engines, buses and more. 
Volvo is now the leading producer in what most people would call safe family cars. 
One of the Volvo's cars, the Volvo S60 is used by police departments in some parts of Europe and the United Kingdom.
In March 2010, Ford signed a deal to sell Volvo to Chinese car maker Geely for $1.8 billion.
www.yourmum.com

</doc>
<doc id="80885" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80885" title="Tempelhof-Schöneberg">
Tempelhof-Schöneberg

Tempelhof-Schöneberg is one of the new borough of Berlin, formed in 2001 by merging the old boroughs of Tempelhof and Schöneberg.
Tempelhof-Schöneberg has an area of and has, as of November 2004, about 335.000 inhabitants. Its current mayor is Ekkehard Band (SPD).

</doc>
<doc id="80886" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80886" title="Treptow-Köpenick">
Treptow-Köpenick

Treptow-Köpenick is a borough of Berlin, formed in 2001 by merging the former boroughs of Treptow and Köpenick.
Treptow-Köpenick has an area of and has, as of 2003, about 233,700 inhabitants. It's current mayor is Gabriele Schöttler (SPD).

</doc>
<doc id="80887" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80887" title="Platanaceae">
Platanaceae

Platanaceae is a family of flowering plants. The family has only one genus "platanus". This genus has six to ten species of tall trees. The trees grow naturally in temperate and subtropical regions of the Northern Hemisphere. In all species, the flowers grow in dense groups of small flowers. The fruits are small achenes with hairs near the base.

</doc>
<doc id="80889" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80889" title="Microsoft Office Online">
Microsoft Office Online

Microsoft Office Online is the website of Microsoft Office. It has images, articles, templates, downloads and other attractions.
By November 2004, Microsoft Office Online received over 52 million visitors, with over 746 million page views, ranking it in the top 100 sites worldwide.

</doc>
<doc id="80892" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80892" title="Visual Studio Tools for Office">
Visual Studio Tools for Office

Visual Studio Tools for Office (Sometime written as "VSTO") is an add-on product for Microsoft's Visual Studio product that enables developers to create applications using Microsoft Office. 

</doc>
<doc id="80897" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80897" title="Callirrhoe (moon)">
Callirrhoe (moon)

Callirrhoe or ', is one of Jupiter's farthest named moons. It was found by Spacewatch on October 6, 1999 and originally designated as an asteroid (). It was found to be in orbit around Jupiter by Tim Spahr on July 18, 2000, and then given the designation '.
Callirrhoe is about 8.6 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Jupiter at an average distance of 24,356,000 km in 776.543 days, at an inclination of 141° to the ecliptic (140° to Jupiter's equator), with an orbital eccentricity of 0.264.
It was named in October 2002 after Callirhoe, daughter of the river god Achelous, one of Zeus' (Jupiter's) many conquests.
It belongs to the Pasiphaë group, non-spherical retrograde moons orbiting Jupiter at distances ranging between 22,800,000 and 24,100,000 km, and with inclinations ranging between 144.5° and 158.3°.
As a navigation exercise, the New Horizons spacecraft imaged it on January 10, 2007.

</doc>
<doc id="80905" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80905" title="Mneme (moon)">
Mneme (moon)

Mneme or , is a non-spherical moon of Jupiter. It was found by a team of astronomers from the University of Hawaii led by Scott S. Sheppard, et al. in 2003, and was designated S/2003 J 21.
Mneme is about 2 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Jupiter at an average distance of 21,427,000 km in 640.769 days, at an inclination of 149° to the ecliptic (148° to Jupiter's equator) with an orbital eccentricity of 0.2214.
It was named in March 2005 after Mneme, one of the three original Muses. She is sometimes confused with Mnemosyne, mother of the Muses (the three or the nine, depending on the author) by Zeus (Jupiter).
Mneme belongs to the Ananke group, retrograde non-spherical moons which orbit Jupiter between 19,300,000 and 22,700,000 km, at inclinations of about 150°.

</doc>
<doc id="80908" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80908" title="Lift Coefficient">
Lift Coefficient

The lift coefficient ("C" or "C") is coefficient without a dimension that relates the lift generated by an airfoil, the dynamic pressure of the fluid flow around the airfoil, and the planform area of the airfoil. It may also be described as the ratio of lift pressure to dynamic pressure.
The lift coefficient is a dimensionless number.

</doc>
<doc id="80911" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80911" title="Karl Dönitz">
Karl Dönitz

Karl Dönitz ( ) (16 September 1891 – 24 December 1980) was a German naval leader. He commanded the German Navy ("Kriegsmarine") during the second half of World War II. Dönitz was also President of Germany for 23 days after Adolf Hitler's suicide. For his role in World War II, Dönitz was referred to as "der Löwe" (the Lion).
Dönitz was born in Berlin. He entered the Imperial German Navy ("Kaiserliche Marine") in 1911. During World War I, he served on surface ships. Later he was transferred to submarines (U-boats). He remained in the navy after the war and rose through the ranks of the German Navy of the Weimar Republic ("Reichsmarine") and the German Navy of the Third Reich ("Kriegsmarine"). He became a "Großadmiral". He served as Commander of Submarines ("Befehlshaber der Unterseeboote", "B.d.U."). Later, he became Commander-in-Chief of the German Navy ("Oberbefehlshaber der Kriegsmarine"). He got this position, even though he never joined the Nazi Party. Under his command, the U-boat fleet fought the Battle of the Atlantic. He also served as "Reichspräsident" for 23 days after Adolf Hitler's suicide. He ended the war as a prisoner-of-war of the British.
After the war Dönitz was charged and convicted of "crimes against peace" and "war crimes" at the Nuremberg Trials. He served ten years in prison. He ordered the unrestricted submarine warfare which was done by Germany in the North Atlantic. With this, he caused Germany to be in breach of the Second London Naval Treaty of 1936.
At his trial, evidence was shown that the Allies had acted similarly. For this reason, this breach of international law had no impact on his sentence. After his release from prison, Dönitz moved to Aumühle, a small village near Hamburg. During his later years, he wrote two autobiographies. In them, he covered different periods in his life. He died of a heart attack on Christmas Eve, 1980.

</doc>
<doc id="80917" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80917" title="Helike (moon)">
Helike (moon)

Helike or ', is a moon of Jupiter. It was found by a team of astronomers from the University of Hawaii led by Scott S. Sheppard in 2003, and given the designation '.
Helike is about 4 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Jupiter at an average distance of 20,540,000 km in 601.402 Earth days, at an inclination of 155° to the ecliptic (156° to Jupiter's equator), with an orbital eccentricity of 0.1375.
It was named in March 2005 after Helike, one of the nymphs that nurtured Zeus (Jupiter) in his infancy on Crete.
Helike belongs to the Ananke group, retrograde non-spherical moons which orbit Jupiter between 19,300,000 and 22,700,000 km, at inclinations of about 150°.

</doc>
<doc id="80923" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80923" title="Turbulence">
Turbulence


</doc>
<doc id="80924" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80924" title="Praxidike (moon)">
Praxidike (moon)

Praxidike or ', is a non-spherical moon of Jupiter. It was found by a team of astronomers from the University of Hawaii led by Scott S. Sheppard in 2000, and given the designation '.
Praxidike orbits Jupiter at an average distance of 20,824,000 km in 613.904 days, at an inclination of 144° to the ecliptic (143° to Jupiter's equator), with an orbital eccentricity of 0.1840.
It was named in August 2003 after Praxidike, the Greek goddess of punishment.
Praxidike belongs to the Ananke group, believed to be the remnants of a break-up of a captured asteroid. With an estimated diameter of 7 km, Praxidike is the second biggest member of the group after Ananke itself (assumed albedo of 0.04)
The moon appears grey similar to C-type asteroids.

</doc>
<doc id="80925" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80925" title="Great Dark Spot">
Great Dark Spot

The Great Dark Spot (also known as GDS-89) is a dark spot on Neptune similar in appearance to Jupiter's Great Red Spot. It was discovered in 1989 by NASA's "Voyager 2" probe. Although it appears similar to Jupiter's spot, which is an anticyclonic storm (this is like a hurricane), it is believed that the Great Dark Spot is an atmospheric hole similar to the hole in Earth's ozone layer.
However, the insides of Great Dark Spots are mostly cloud-free, and unlike Jupiter's spot, which has lasted for hundreds of years, their lifetimes appear to be much shorter, forming and disappearing once every few years or so. Based on pictures taken by Voyager and since then with the Hubble Space Telescope, Neptune appears to spend a little bit more than half its time with a Great Dark Spot. 
The dark, elliptically-shaped spot (with initial dimensions of 13,000 × 6,600 km, or 8,100 × 4,100 mi) was about the same size as Earth, and was similar looking to Jupiter's Great Red Spot. Around the Great Dark Spot, winds were measured blowing up to 2,400 kilometers (1,500 miles) an hour, the fastest in the Solar System. The Great Dark Spot is thought to be a hole in the methane cloud deck of Neptune. The spot was seen at different times with different sizes and shapes. 
The Great Dark Spot generated large white clouds at or just below the tropopause layer similar to high-altitude cirrus clouds found on Earth. Unlike the clouds on Earth, however, which are made of mostly crystals of ice, Neptune's clouds are made up of crystals of frozen methane. And while Neptune's clouds usually form and then disappear within a period of a few hours, the clouds in the Great Dark Spot were still present after 36 hours, or two rotations of the planet.
Neptune's dark spots are thought to happen in the troposphere at lower heights (or altitudes) than the brighter upper cloud deck features. As they are stable features that can last for several months, they are thought to be vortex structures.
When pictures were going to be taken of the Great Dark Spot again in November 1994 by the Hubble Space Telescope, it had gone away completely, leaving astronomers to believe that it had either been covered up or that it had just disappeared. The persistence of companion clouds shows that some former dark spots may continue to exist as cyclones even though they are no longer able to be seen as a dark feature. Dark spots may disappear when they move too close to the equator or possibly through some other unknown way.
However, a new spot that looked very much like the old spot appeared in Neptune's northern hemisphere. This new spot, called the Northern Great Dark Spot (NGDS), has remained able to be seen for several years.

</doc>
<doc id="80926" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80926" title="Supersonic">
Supersonic

The term supersonic is used to describe a speed that is over the speed of sound (Mach 1). At a normal temperature like 70 degrees Fahrenheit (21.1 °C), the speed needed for something to be traveling at a faster than sound speed is about 344 m/s, 1,129 ft/s, 770 mph or 1,238 km/h. Speeds faster than 5 times the speed of sound are sometimes called hypersonic. Speeds where only some parts of the air around an object (like the propellor) reach supersonic speeds are called transonic (normally somewhere between Mach 0.8 and Mach 1.2).
It can be very hard to reach supersonic speeds, because drag increases a lot near these speeds. This slows a plane, and for years made control difficult. These problems were called the "sound barrier". Jet engines and other developments solved the problems in the middle 20th century.

</doc>
<doc id="80929" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80929" title="Small Dark Spot">
Small Dark Spot

The Small Dark Spot, sometimes also called Dark Spot 2 or The Wizard's Eye, was a southern cyclonic storm on the planet Neptune. It was the second strongest storm on the planet in 1989, when Voyager 2 flew by the planet. When first discovered, it was a dark cyclonic storm. As Voyager 2 approached the planet, a bright core of cloud activity developed. It disappeared in 1994.

</doc>
<doc id="80930" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80930" title="Aitne (moon)">
Aitne (moon)

Aitne or ', is a non-spherical moon of Jupiter. It was found by a team of astronomers from the University of Hawaii led by Scott S. Sheppard, "et al." in 2001, and given the designation '.
Aitne is about 3 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Jupiter at an average distance of 22,285,000 km in 679.641 days, at an inclination of 166° to the ecliptic (164° to Jupiter's equator), with an orbital eccentricity of 0.393.
It was named in August 2003 after Aitna or Aitne, the divine personification of Mount Etna, whose sons by Zeus (Jupiter) are the Palici, the twin sicilian gods of geysers (other authors have them descend from Thalia and/or Hephaistos).
Aitne belongs to the Carme group, made up of non-spherical irregular retrograde moons orbiting Jupiter at a distance ranging between 23,000,000 and 24,000,000 km and at an inclination of about 165°.

</doc>
<doc id="80932" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80932" title="William Lassell">
William Lassell

William Lassell (June 18 1799 – October 5 1880) was a British astronomer, born in Bolton, Lancashire, England. He died in Maidenhead in 1880.

</doc>
<doc id="80936" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80936" title="Roche limit">
Roche limit

The Roche limit (), sometimes referred to as the Roche radius, is the distance within which a celestial body, held together only by its own gravity, will disintegrate due to a second celestial body's tidal forces exceeding the first body's gravitational self-attraction. Inside the Roche limit, orbiting material will tend to disperse and form planetary rings, while outside the limit, material will tend to coalesce. The term is named after Édouard Roche, the French astronomer who first calculated this theoretical limit in 1848.

</doc>
<doc id="80937" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80937" title="Synchronous orbit">
Synchronous orbit

A synchronous orbit is an orbit in which an orbiting body (usually a satellite) has a period equal to the average rotational period of the body being orbited (usually a planet). Or in smaller words, the orbit above and the spinning planet below, go around once in the same amount of time. It orbits in the same direction of rotation as that body. So if you were on the orbiting body, you would always see the same side of the body being orbited. Or if you were on the body being orbited, the orbiting body would stay in the same part of the sky.

</doc>
<doc id="80940" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80940" title="François Arago">
François Arago

François Jean Dominique Arago (Catalan: Francesc Joan Dominic Aragó; February 26, 1786 – October 2, 1853) was a French mathematician, physicist, astronomer and politician.

</doc>
<doc id="80944" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80944" title="S/2003 J 2">
S/2003 J 2

It seems to belong to a group all of its own, with semi-major axis ~30,000,000 km and inclination ~160°.

</doc>
<doc id="80950" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80950" title="Santiago Rodríguez Province">
Santiago Rodríguez Province

Santiago Rodríguez is a province of the Dominican Republic. It is in the northwestern part of the country. Its capital city is San Ignacio de Sabaneta.
It was created on 1948. It was a municipality of the Monte Cristi province before being elevated to the category of province.
Santiago Rodríguez is in the region known as "Línea Noroeste" ("Northwestern Line"). The province has the Monte Cristi and Valverde provinces to the north, the Santiago province to the east, the San Juan and Elías Piña provinces to the south and the Dajabón province to the west.
"Santiago Rodríguez" was an officer of the Dominican army when the Dominican-Haitian War. He is one of the founder of the city of Sabaneta. He was an important military leader during the initial stages of the "Restoration War" (1863-1865).
Santiago Rodríguez has a total area of 1,111.14 km². It has 2.3% of the area of the Dominican Republic and it is ranked as the 22nd (out of 31 plus the National District) largest province.
There are three municipalities in the province. They are:
In 2010 (last national census), there were 57,476 people living in the Santiago Rodríguez province, and 27,559 (47.95%) living in towns and cities. The population density was 51.7 persons/km², one of the lowest in the country.
Its population represents 0.6% of the total population of the country and the province is ranked as the 30th (out of 31 plus the National District) province.
The largest city of the province is San Ignacio de Sabaneta, its head municipality or capital, with a population (in 2010) of 34,540 inhabitants, 60% of the total population of the province.
The Cordillera Central ("Central mountain chain") is in the southern part of the province, and the Sierra Samba (or Sierra Zamba), a chain of low hills, runs across the northern half.
The climate of the province is a tropical climate, hot most of the year, but it is cooler on the mountains.
The main rivers are Guayubín and Mao, both tributaries of the river Yaque del Norte.
The only economic activity of importance is farming.

</doc>
<doc id="80951" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80951" title="S/2003 J 5">
S/2003 J 5

It belongs to the Carme group, made up of non-spherical retrograde moons orbiting Jupiter at a distance ranging between 23,000,000 and 24,000,000 km and at an inclination of about 165°.

</doc>
<doc id="80955" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80955" title="Magnolia (tree)">
Magnolia (tree)

Magnolia is a genus of 210 species. The Angiosperm taxonomical names "Magnoliophyta" (division) and "Magnoliopsida" (class) come from this genus. Charles Plumier gave a flowering tree from the island of Martinique the genus name "Magnolia", after French botanist Pier Magnol.
Many magnolias that have pretty flowers are used as street trees.

</doc>
<doc id="80956" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80956" title="S/2003 J 4">
S/2003 J 4

It belongs to the Pasiphaë group, non-spherical retrograde moons orbiting Jupiter at distances ranging between 22,800,000 and 24,100,000 km, and with inclinations ranging between 144.5° and 158.3°.

</doc>
<doc id="80959" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80959" title="Mikoyan-Gurevich MiG-19">
Mikoyan-Gurevich MiG-19

The MiG-19 Farmer was a Soviet fighter aircraft made by Mikoyan. It first flew in 1953, and was introduced in 1955. It was meant to replace the older MiG-17 Fresco. During the Vietnam War, it was used a little by the North Vietnamese, but not as much as the MiG-17 or MiG-21 Fishbed.
It had 3 30mm cannon, and could carry 4 bombs or rockets. It weighed 11,397 pounds (5,170 kilograms) empty and could weigh up to 19,621 pounds (8,900 kilograms) at the heaviest. It was powered by 2 Tumansky RD-9 jet engines, each had 7,165 pounds (3250 kilograms) of thrust with afterburner. It was 12 feet (3.6576 meters) high, had a wingspan of 29.5 feet (9 meters), and was 42 feet 11 in (13.1 meters) long. It could go 903 miles per hour (1,450 kilometers per hour), and was the first supersonic Soviet fighter.
Eventually, it was replaced by the newer MiG-21.

</doc>
<doc id="80962" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80962" title="Camille Flammarion">
Camille Flammarion

Nicolas Camille Flammarion (February 26, 1842 – June 3, 1925) was a French astronomer and writer. He was usually credited as Camille Flammarion.

</doc>
<doc id="80965" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80965" title="Herse (moon)">
Herse (moon)

Herse is a moon of Jupiter. It was found by a team of astronomers led by Brett J. Gladman, "et al." in 2003 and called until 2009. 
Herse is about 2 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Jupiter at an average distance of 22,134,000 km in 672.752 days, at an inclination of 162° to the ecliptic (161° to Jupiter's equator), with an orbital eccentricity of 0.2379.
It is the closest member of the Carme group, made up of non-spherical retrograde moons orbiting Jupiter at a distance ranging between 23,000,000 and 24,000,000 km and at an inclination of about 165°.

</doc>
<doc id="80968" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80968" title="Johann Gottfried Galle">
Johann Gottfried Galle

Johann Gottfried Galle (9 June 1812 in Radis, Saxony-Anhalt–10 July 1910 in Potsdam, Brandenburg) was a German astronomer at the Berlin Observatory who, with the help of student Heinrich Louis d'Arrest, was the first person to view the planet Neptune, and know what he was looking at. He used the calculations of Urbain Le Verrier to know where to look.

</doc>
<doc id="80969" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80969" title="Voyager program">
Voyager program

The Voyager program is a space exploration program of the United States' NASA agency. It consists of a pair of unmanned scientific probes, "Voyager 1" and "Voyager 2". They were launched in 1977 to take advantage of a favorable planetary alignment of the late 1970s. Although they were officially used to study just Jupiter and Saturn, the two probes were able to continue their mission into the outer solar system. They have since continued out and exited the solar system. These probes were built at JPL and were funded by NASA.
Both missions have gathered large amounts of data about the gas giants of the solar system, of which little was known before. In addition, the spacecraft paths have been used to place limits on the existence of Planet X, a planet believed by some people to be farther from the Sun than Pluto.

</doc>
<doc id="80970" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80970" title="Neptune Trojan">
Neptune Trojan

A Neptune Trojan is an asteroid which is in the same orbit as the planet Neptune. 
Their name comes from the Trojan asteroids which have the same orbital period as a planet. As of March 2007, there are six known Neptune Trojans. They lie in the elongated, curved region around the L Lagrangian point 60° ahead of Neptune. The six Neptune Trojans are , , , , and .
The discovery of in a high inclination (>25°) orbit is significant because it suggests a ‘thick’ cloud of Trojans. It is believed that large (radius ≈ 100 km) Neptune Trojans could greatly outnumber the Jupiter Trojans. 
If any other L Neptune Trojans are discovered in the near future, it may be possible for the New Horizons spacecraft to investigate them as it passes through the region in 2014 while on its way to Pluto.

</doc>
<doc id="80973" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80973" title="Edward Guinan">
Edward Guinan

Edward Guinan is currently a professor in Villanova University's Department of Astronomy and Astrophysics. He and two colleagues discovered Neptune's ring system.

</doc>
<doc id="80974" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80974" title="Occultation">
Occultation

An occultation is an event that occurs when one object is hidden by another object that passes between it and the observer. A planet, for example, can pass in front of a star. Some occultations are eclipses. The word is often used in astronomy. It can also be used in a non-astronomical sense to describe when an object in the foreground "occults" (covers up) objects in the background.

</doc>
<doc id="80976" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80976" title="Flattening">
Flattening

The flattening, ellipticity, or oblateness of an oblate spheroid is the "squashing" of the spheroid's pole, down towards its equator.

</doc>
<doc id="80978" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80978" title="Adaptive optics">
Adaptive optics

Adaptive optics is a technology to improve the performance of optical systems by reducing the effects of rapidly changing optical distortion. It is commonly used on astronomical telescopes to remove the effects of atmospheric distortion, or astronomical seeing. Adaptive optics works by measuring the distortion and rapidly compensating for it either using deformable mirrors or material with variable refractive properties. While the technique was theoretically understood for some time, it was only advances in computer technology during the 1990s that finally made the technique practical. 
Adaptive optics should not be confused with active optics, which works on a longer timescale to correct the primary mirror geometry itself. The simplest form of adaptive optics is tip-tilt correction, which corresponds to correction of the tilts of the wavefront in two dimensions (equivalent to correction of the position offsets for the image). This is performed using a rapidly moving tip-tilt mirror which makes small rotations around two of its axes. A significant fraction of the aberration introduced by the atmosphere can be removed in this way. Tip-tilt mirrors are widely used in night time and solar telescopes, to correct the aberration introduced by Earth's atmosphere on the light path and improve image quality over what would be possible according to the atmospheric seeing. Tip-tilt mirrors are effectively segmented adaptive optics mirrors having only one segment which can tip and tilt, rather than having an array of multiple segments which can tip and tilt independently.

</doc>
<doc id="80979" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80979" title="Optical depth">
Optical depth

Optical depth is a measure of transparency. It is defined as the fraction of radiation (or light) that is scattered or absorbed on a path. One way of visualizing optical depth is to think of a fog. The fog between a person and an object that is immediately in front of them has an optical depth of zero. As the object moves away, the optical depth increases until it reaches a large value and the object is no longer visible.

</doc>
<doc id="80981" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80981" title="Opacity">
Opacity

Opacity or opaque means something that is difficult to see through or perceive. It can also mean:

</doc>
<doc id="80983" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80983" title="Xena: Warrior Princess">
Xena: Warrior Princess

Xena: Warrior Princess is an Emmy Award-winning American cult television series. It was first shown from September 15, 1995 until June 18, 2001. The series was created in 1995 by writer-producers Robert Tapert under his production tag, "Pacific Renaissance Pictures LTD". Later, there were co-executive producers. They were Sam Raimi and R. J. Stewart. The series is a spin-off from the TV series "" where Xena (Lucy Lawless) is a minor character. The series tells the story of Xena's quest to seek for her past sins as a ruthless warlord. She uses her fighting skills to help people. Gabrielle (Renee O'Connor) becomes Xena's greatest friend, her initial helps to balance Xena and helps her in seeing and fighting for the "greater good".
The series usually had between four and four million viewers on original airings. The series has positive reviews from many reviewers. It was ranked #10 on the list of "TV Guide"s Top 25 Cult TV Shows of All Time. It was nominated for Emmy awards.
"Xena"'s success has led to hundreds of tie-in products, including comics, and video games. The series has received attention in fandom (Uberfic), and has influenced the direction of other television series. The cult of the series (Fandom) remains active on the internet today.
The series is a spin-off of "Hercules: The Legendary Journeys". In fact, the saga began with three appearances Xena's special character in episodes of "Hercules: The Legendary Journeys", entitled "The Warrior Princess", "The Gauntlet" and "Unchained Heart". In the first episode, Xena is a killer, but in the third, she joins Hercules to defeat Darphus, who had taken her army. Aware that the character of Xena had been very successful among the public, producers of Hercules: The Legendary Journeys decided to make a series exclusively for it.
In "Hercules: The Legendary Journeys", Xena was played by New Zealand actress Lucy Lawless. The first actress considered to play the part was British actress Vanessa Angel, while actress Sunny Doench was thought to play the role of Gabrielle. However, neither could travel to New Zealand, the country where the series was shot entirely on location. Finally, Lucy Lawless was cast as Xena and Gabrielle was played by the American actress Renee O'Connor.
The American actor and writer Bruce Campbell played Autolycus, King of the alleged thieves, and appeared in eight episodes. After Lawless and O'Connor, Ted Raimi is the actor who plays Joxer, which has more appearances in the series: a total of 42. We continue to Kevin Tod Smith with 31 appearances, Hudson Leick and Karl Urban with 12 and Alexandra Tydings with 11. In the last episode, the eastern star Michelle Ang playing Akemi.
The theme music, composed by Joseph LoDuca, who also co-wrote the lyrics for the songs in "The Bitter Suite", was developed from the traditional Bulgarian folk song "Kaval Sviri", and was sung by "Le Mystere des Voix Bulgares". In the "Hercules: The Legendary Journeys" episode, "Unchained Heart", in which Xena is introduced, the original "Kaval Sviri" is the music used to announce Xena racing into battle.
The opening of "Xena" had two models during the series, the first was used during the first five seasons, and the second model was used only in the last season. The opening is composed of scenes from the series itself, there is background music to "Opening Sequence", combined with the voice of an announcer speaking a text that remained immutable.
"Xena Warrior Princess" and "Hercules: The Legendary Journeys" were filmed in New Zealand. Of course some places are confidential, but many scenes were recorded in places as spectacular in "Waitakere Ranges Regional Park", part of the Auckland Regional parks often credited at the end of the episodes. Most leases are on the west coast, and is approximately 30–40 miles from the centre of Auckland.
"Xena: Warrior Princess" is considered a simple television series of adventures whose key ingredients are the two protagonists in the series and their psychological development, attractive exterior in New Zealand and music composed by Joseph Loduca. Although the characters and stories in the series predate Christ, themes, emotions and relationships in the series are well connected with the world today. In addition, the series makes a particular interpretation of the ancient world. For example, represents the goddess of love and beauty, Aphrodite, as a girl silly and pampered.
One of the criticisms that more has been done to the series is the inverosimilitud the scenes of combat, as they give the characters impossible cartwheels, walk the walls and even move objects with the mind. Such scenes are inspired by action movies of Hong Kong.Too criticises the series because very often consciously mixing times, facts and historical characters. Thus, it is possible to see both the "Greek gods" as characters in biblical, Roman, Scandinavian and Eastern Arabs as well as facts so distant in time as the confrontation between David and Goliath, the birth of Jesus, or the battle of Maraton. Finally, another widespread weakness in the series are multiple inconsistencies in their arguments.
The first season of the series was addressed without many pretensions, because producers do not gambled much for her.During this season abounded plots based on Greek myths and became interested in defining the personality of the two protagonists. In the second season were improved special effects, was consolidated the relationship between Xena and Gabrielle and increased the strength of the stories. As a negative note of the third season, it should be noted that preference was given to the functionality of certain episodes at the expense of stories and the essence of the characters. However, in the fourth season, the level of the series returned to the first two years in terms of quality. This season could be seen a transformation in the structure of the stories and treatment of the characters. It accentuated the spiritual dimension of the series and the Greek myths lost relevance in the hatch. The fifth season was a downturn in the quality of the series. This contributed pregnancy main actress, Lucy Lawless, forcing producers to introduce a precipitous turn argumentative. The fifth season also means the start of the references to Christianity in the series. Finally, in the sixth season, the level of the series again back: improved special effects and stories, which were accompanied by excellent music by Joseph LoDuca.
"Xena: Warrior Princess" was influenced by many factors, as cultures and eras, one of the most widespread were the sources of action movies from Hong Kong, the jumps, breathing fire and the sounds of weapons in the battles were some of the things that mirrored movies. The scene of the lynching of Xena in "The Gauntlet" is almost identical to the movie "The Bride With White Hair". The fight on the stairs with Callisto on "Callisto" and the fight against Draco in head of villagers also has its roots in the genre, and the sequence "The Debt", which was almost completely influenced in the genus.
The show is a historical fantasy set in ancient Greece, although with a flexible time setting, and also features heavy Oriental, Egyptian and Medieval elements in various episodes. The series details the adventures of former Hercules villain Xena (Lucy Lawless), a reformed warlord on a quest to redeem her past sins. Xena is accompanied on her travels by Gabrielle (Renee O'Connor) a young woman who becomes her best friend and, eventually, most trusted ally.
The show freely borrows names and themes from various mythologies around the world, primarily the Greek, anachronistically adapting them to suit the demands of the storyline. Historical figures and events from a number of different historical eras and myths make numerous appearances, and the main characters are often credited with resolving important historical situations. These include an encounter with Homer, before he was famous, in which Gabrielle encourages his storytelling aspirations; the fall of Troy; and the capture of Caesar by pirates, with Xena cast as the pirate leader. This quirky mix of timelines and the amalgamation of historical and mythological elements fueled the rise of the show to cult status during the 1990s and early 2000s. It was one of the first shows to tap into its internet following, allowing for fans from all over the world to discuss and suggest things related to the show. The fandom continues to this day.
The show is a mixture of styles, ranging from high melodrama in one episode to slapstick comedy in another, from whimsical to all-out action and adventure in another. Although it is ostensibly set in ancient times, the themes of the show are essentially modern: taking responsibility for past misdeeds, the value of human life, personal liberty and sacrifice, and friendship. The flexible fantasy framework of the show accommodates a considerable range of styles, including an original musical episode, "The Bitter Suite". Although the show often addresses ethical dilemmas such as the morality of pacifism, the storylines rarely seek to provide unequivocal solutions.
There have been numerous "Xena" spin-offs into various media including movies, books, comics and video games.
In August 1997 "" a DTV animated movie was released, featuring the voices of a number of actors from both "Hercules: The Legendary Journeys" and "Xena: Warrior Princess". The movie plot involves Hercules' mother being kidnapped by Zeus and the release of the Titans. Xena and Gabrielle have supporting roles in the movie, and at one point Xena even bursts into song.
Since the end of the series rumors have circulated that a feature length movie was in the works. In 2003 Screenwriter Katherine Fugate was approached for the project, and was quoted saying that she expects the start of production to be three to five years away, which suggests a release sometime between 2006 and 2009. Actress Lucy Lawless has been quoted in several interviews as saying she would be interested in participating in a "Xena" movie as well.
Books have been released as tie-ins, including "Xena Warrior Princess: Complete Illustrated Companion". There have also been a number of novelizations by authors like Martin H. Greenberg.
A book was also released in 1998, "XENA: All I Need to Know I Learned From the Warrior Princess", allegedly written by Gabrielle, Bard of Poteidaia, and was "translated" by Josepha Sherman. It contains Gabrielle's viewpoint on many of the adventures she and Xena embarked on, and also includes eight pages of black-and-white photographs from the show. The book is basically Gabrielle talking about her view of the world on many different subjects. For example, in one of the chapters, "Anything can be a weapon- Anything!", she instructs the reader on fighting without traditional weapons, such as a sword or a staff, and in another, "Nobody likes a winer", she laments on the perils of alcohol.
It also launched the "The Official Guide to the Xenaverse", by Robert Weisbrot, with photographs in color and black and white, a complete and detailed episode guide to the first two seasons, a look behind the scenes, the intriguing story of the origin of "Xena: Warrior Princess", biographies of cast and crew and trivias about the show.
There is also the fictional books, how "The Empty Throne", "The Huntress and The Sphinx", "The Thief Of Hermes", and "Prophecy of Darkness." A recent academic monograph on the series is Wim Tigges' "Her Courage Will Change the World": An Appraisal of Xena: Warrior Princess", which was self-published through "lulu.com".
There have been a number of comic adaptations. The earliest ones were released by Dark Horse Comics and written by Ian Edginton and John Wagner. More recently the license has moved to Dynamite Entertainment.
"Anchor Bay Entertainment" has released all 6 Seasons as well as the 10th Anniversary Collection of "Xena: Warrior Princess" on DVD in Region 1 for the first time. The series has also been released on DVD in Region 2 & Region 4. Only Region 1 DVDs contain special features, Regions 2/3/4 do not have any bonus material on them. The Region 2 releases of Season 1 contain the episodes out of order, creating a number of continuity problems when watching them in the order in which they are presented. The order on these DVDs is episode 1, then episodes 10 through 19, then episode 2, then episodes 21 through 24, and finally episodes 3 through 9. There are also several small changes, such as headbutts and claps over the ears.
"Xena: Warrior Princess" has been referred to as a pop cultural phenomenon and feminist icon. The television series, which employed pop culture references as a frequent humorous device, has itself become a frequent pop culture reference in video games, comics and television shows, and has been frequently parodied and spoofed.
"Xena: Warrior Princess" has been credited by many, including "Buffy the Vampire Slayer" creator Joss Whedon, with blazing the trail for a new generation of female action heroes such as Buffy, Max of "Dark Angel", Sydney Bristow of Alias, and the Bride in Quentin Tarantino's "Kill Bill".
Xena and Gabrielle's relationship has been cited as one of the reasons why the series has been so popular, coupled with the denials of her character's lesbianism from Lawless while the series was running. U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice has been nicknamed "Warrior Princess" by her staff.
The popularity of "Xena: Warrior Princess" has led to websites, online discussion forums, works of Xena fan fiction and several unofficial fan-made productions.
In 2005, the team that discovered the dwarf planet nicknamed it "Xena" in honor of the TV character. On October 1, 2005, the team announced that had a moon, which they had nicknamed "Gabrielle". The objects were officially named Eris and Dysnomia by the International Astronomical Union on September 13, 2006. Although the official names have legitimate roots in Greek mythology, Dysnomia is also Greek for "lawlessness", perpetuating the link with Lucy Lawless.
"Xena" has enjoyed a particular cult status in the lesbian community. Some of the lesbian fan base sees Xena and Gabrielle as a couple and has embraced them as role models and lesbian icons. A group called The Marching Xenas has participated in many gay and lesbian pride parades.
A subject of much interest and debate among viewers is the question of whether Xena and Gabrielle are lovers. The issue is left deliberately ambiguous by the show's writers. Jokes, innuendo, and other subtle evidence of a romantic relationship between Xena and Gabrielle is referred to as "lesbian subtext" or simply "subtext" by fans. The issue of the true nature of the Xena/Gabrielle relationship caused intense debates in the fandom, which turned especially impassioned due to spillover from real-life debates about same-sex sexuality and gay rights.
Some fans felt that the sexual nature of Xena and Gabrielle's relationship was cemented by an interview given by Lucy Lawless to "Lesbian News" magazine in 2003. Lawless stated that after the series finale, where Gabrielle revives Xena with a mouth-to-mouth water transfer filmed to look like a full kiss, she had come to believe that Xena and Gabrielle's relationship was "definitely gay... there was always a 'well, she might be or she might not be' but when there was that drip of water passing between their lips in the very final scene, that cemented it for me. Now it wasn't just that Xena was bisexual and kinda liked her gal pal and they kind of fooled around sometimes, it was 'Nope, they're married, man'." However, in the interviews and commentaries on the DVD sets released in 2003-2005, the actors, writers and producers continued to stress the ambiguity of the relationship, and Ares was also considered at least as a potential love interest for Xena.
The "Xena" fandom also popularized the term Altfic (from "alternative fiction") to refer to same-sex romantic fan fiction. Many fans felt the term slash fiction carried the connotation of being about male/male couples only and was not a good description for romantic fan fiction about Xena and Gabrielle.
In 2006, Lucy Lawless donated her personal Xena costume to the Museum of American History. In an interview the same year with "Smithsonian" magazine, she was asked the question "Was the Warrior Princess outfit comfortable?" and she responded:
Uberfic is a kind of alternative universe fan fiction in which characters or events are portrayed somewhat closely to original canon but usually in a different time period, many times featuring the ancestors, descendants or reincarnations of canon characters. The term originated in "Xena: Warrior Princess" fandom. This sort of story was used by the series itself, beginning with the second season episode "The Xena Scrolls".

</doc>
<doc id="80987" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80987" title="English free settlers">
English free settlers

English free settlers were people that chose to go to Australia. They were not forced to go there, as the convicts were. The English free settlers went to Australia between the late 18th century and the early 19th century. When the English free settlers got to Australia, they landed in the southern part of the continent. That was the only colony created by the free settlers. 
The English free settlers went to Australia to be free. They wanted to make money as well. They also wanted to explore Australia. Most of them were families who wanted a better life with their children. Some people called the English Free settlers "pilgrims".

</doc>
<doc id="80990" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80990" title="Meter (poetry)">
Meter (poetry)

In poetry, meter (British English spelling: metre) means the rhythmic patterns in a verse.
The units of poetic meter, like rhyme, vary from language to language and between poetic traditions. They can involve arrangements of syllables into repeated patterns called "feet" within a line. English meter is founded on the patterns of stressed and unstressed syllables. In Latin and Greek verse, on the other hand, while the metrical units are similar, not syllable stresses but syllable lengths are the component parts of meter.

</doc>
<doc id="80991" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80991" title="Verse">
Verse

In poetry a verse is technically a single line in a poem. A poem is a "metrical composition".
However, in common use, a verse is a group of lines in a poem which make up a paragraph. It consists of several lines, either in print for reading, or in a song. In the poems and theatre of Ancient Greece these units were called strophes.

</doc>
<doc id="80992" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80992" title="Line (disambiguation)">
Line (disambiguation)

Line or lines could mean:
People:
In science and technology:
In transport:
In business:
In the military:
In sport:
In the arts:
The abbreviation LINE could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="80996" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80996" title="S/2003 J 9">
S/2003 J 9

It belongs to the Carme group, made up of non-spherical retrograde moons orbiting Jupiter at a distance ranging between 23,000,000 and 24,000,000 km and at an inclination of about 165°.

</doc>
<doc id="81008" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81008" title="Dynamic pressure">
Dynamic pressure

In fluid dynamics dynamic pressure depends on density and velocity of the fluid. 
It is defined by the following equation (with q standing for "dynamic pressure" or ""velocity pressure""):
where (using SI units):
Dynamic pressure is closely related to the kinetic energy of a fluid particle, since both quantities are proportional to the particle's mass (through the density, in the case of dynamic pressure) and square of the velocity. Dynamic pressure is in fact one of the terms of Bernoulli's equation, which is essentially an equation of energy conservation for a fluid in motion.

</doc>
<doc id="81015" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81015" title="Lichtenberg">
Lichtenberg

Lichtenberg was a borough in Berlin. Since the boundary changes of 2001, it has been a district of the new borough of Lichtenberg-Hohenschönhausen.
From 1945 to German Reunification Lichtenberg was part of East Berlin.

</doc>
<doc id="81016" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81016" title="Aaron Burr">
Aaron Burr

Aaron Burr, Jr. (February 6, 1756, – September 14, 1836) was an American politician, Revolutionary War hero and the third Vice President of the United States (1801 – 1805). He was born in Newark, province of New Jersey.
Burr fought in the American Revolutionary War, reaching the rank of Lieutenant Colonel.
Burr served in the New York State Assembly, as New York State Attorney General, and as a United States Senator before serving as Vice President.
Burr killed Alexander Hamilton in a duel in 1804, when Burr was still Vice President.
Burr conspired to form a new country in Mexico. He wanted to be present if and when Spain and Mexico went to war. Some people, including President Thomas Jefferson, who had picked a different Vice President for his second term, saw Burr's actions as treason. However, Burr was found innocent of the charges. He was often thought of by his enemies as unreliable. Burr died in 1836.

</doc>
<doc id="81020" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81020" title="Charlotte Lindström">
Charlotte Lindström

Charlotte Karin Lindström (born August 9, 1984 in Sollentuna, Sweden) is a former waitress, promotion model, and former prisoner. 
She was arrested on May 26, 2007, and had to spend three years in jail in Sydney, Australia. When she was arrested, people suspected she was trying to hire a hitman to kill two men who were about to testify against her boyfriend Steven Spaliviero in court.
Lindström arrived in Sydney in 2003 working as a part-time model as well as a waitress in the exclusive nightclub Hemmesphere in Sydney.
In Sydney Lindström met Steven Spaliviero and they soon started a relationship living in an apartment in Darling Harbour. Lindström later told the court that she soon realised that he was both a rich businessman and a drug dealer. In early 2007, investigators started to look into Spaliviero's business and soon found two witnesses who said they had information about the man's drug dealing business. At that time Spaliviero was already on bail from Melbourne in relation to another drug case. Spaliviero was arrested, refused bail and sent to Metropolitan Remand and Reception Center ("MRRC") in Silverwater, New South Wales.
In MRRC Spaliviero allegedly met another inmate who offered him to get witnesses in Spaliviero's case killed. In relation to this Spaliviero phoned Lindström from MRRC telling her to meet a "solicitor" and give him money. 
Lindström started acting upon instructions from Spaliviero. When Lindström finally met who she thought was a hitman, but who in reality was an undercover policeman, she was arrested. The policeman on the case stated that Lindström wanted to have two men to the "cemetery" which meant she wanted them dead. The price was agreed as AUD 100,000 for each contract.
Upon her arrest on May 26 Lindström was remanded in custody. Later an application for bail was made where Steven Spaliviero's mother, Dolores Spaliviero, offered to put up AUD 2,000,000 surety to get Lindström out from custody. In addition, Lindström's friend and employer, Justin Hemmes promising that if Lindström was set free on bail, he would let her continue her work at the Hemmesphere nightclub until trial. The application for bail was denied due to flight risk and Lindström was remanded in custody.
On September 18, having had a deal made with the prosecutors, Lindström pled guilty to the charges. On December 21, she pled guilty yet in another court in Sydney. Lindström appeared in a bullet-proof vest at her court hearings because of the alleged death threats against her life.
Lindström was initially sentenced to four years in jail being eligible for early parole on May 25 2009. Even though Lindström was given a hefty discount from her sentence because she had agreed to testify against Steven Spaliviero and two other men, the Crown appealed against the sentence as "manifestly inadequate". The criminal court of appeals heard the appeal on July 4 2008.
On 23 July 2008 her maximum sentence was increased from three years and 10 months to four years and nine months, making her eligible for parole in May, 2010.
On August 11 2008 Lindström started testifying against Spaliviero in his court case, among others reading a love letter to the court which she had written to him in February 2007 some months before her own arrest. Despite Lindström's extensive testimonies Spaliviero and two other defendants were found not guilty for the murder plot.
Lindström was released on parole from Long Bay jail in New South Wales on 25 May 2010 and deported the next day from Australia. Since her release from prison, Lindström has returned to her native home Sweden and is understood to have had ongoing threats against her life.
According to the Australian media, on 15 August 2010, Charlotte Lindström agreed to return to Australia to testify in the trial of her former boyfriend's associate. Due to an unspecified severe illness, she has not been allowed to travel to Australia. The upcoming trial has been postponed.
On 14 November 2010, Australian Channel 9 aired an exclusive interview of Charlotte Lindström named "Charlotte's web", in which she appeared with her face despite allegations that she is living under death threats.
As of 5 June 2011, all videos of Charlotte's interviews and her arrest are deleted from YouTube for no apparent reason. Video of Charlotte Lindström's arrest, obtained from the 's Street Safety Camera Program, can be viewed here.
Channel 9 in Australia will air a documentary on 6 September 2011 concentrating on Charlotte Lindström's murder plot. According to the article in Sydney Morning Herald Charlotte Lindström "no longer has feelings for" Steven Spaliviero.

</doc>
<doc id="81028" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81028" title="Bilten">
Bilten

Bilten is a municipality of the canton of Glarus in Switzerland. On 1 January 2011 the former municipalities of Bilten, Filzbach, Mollis, Mühlehorn, Näfels, Niederurnen, Oberurnen and Obstalden merged into the new municipality of Glarus Nord.
<br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br><br>

</doc>
<doc id="81029" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81029" title="Braunwald">
Braunwald

Braunwald is a former municipality, in the municipality of Glarus Süd and canton of Glarus in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="81030" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81030" title="Elm, Switzerland">
Elm, Switzerland

Elm is a former municipality, in the municipality of Glarus Süd and canton of Glarus in Switzerland.
It is the municipality farthest south in the valley of the Sernf.
Russian General Alexander Suvarov and his troops stayed the night in Elm before crossing Panix Pass to Pigniu on their retreat into Austria.
On September 11, 1881, an avalanche caused by too much mining of slate killed 114 people and buried 83 structures in the municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="81031" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81031" title="Engi">
Engi

Engi is a former municipality, in the municipality of Glarus Süd and canton of Glarus in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="81033" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81033" title="Ennenda">
Ennenda

Ennenda is a former municipality, in the municipality of Glarus and canton of Glarus in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="81034" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81034" title="Filzbach">
Filzbach

Filzbach is a former municipality in the municipality of Glarus Nord and canton of Glarus in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="81036" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81036" title="Glarus (city)">
Glarus (city)

Glarus (German: ) is the capital of the Canton of Glarus in Switzerland.
Glarus lies on the Linth River at the foot of the Glärnisch foothills. The municipality has about 57,00 people. 
The first mention of the town is from 1178.
It became the capital of the Linth valley in 1419. In the 1700s and 1800s, the valley began to be industrialized.
In 1864, the first European labor law to protect workers was introduced in Glarus, prohibiting requiring workers to work more than 12 hours a day.

</doc>
<doc id="81041" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81041" title="Haslen">
Haslen

Haslen is a municipality of the canton of Glarus in Switzerland. On July 1, 2006, Haslen merged with the municipalities of Leuggelbach and Nidfurn. On 1 January 2011 the former municipalities of Haslen, Betschwanden, Braunwald, Elm, Engi, Linthal, Luchsingen, Matt, Switzerland, Mitlödi, Rüti, Schwanden, Schwändi and Sool merged into the new municipality of Glarus Süd.

</doc>
<doc id="81042" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81042" title="Linthal">
Linthal

Linthal is a municipality of the canton of Glarus in Switzerland. On 1 January 2011 the former municipalities of Linthal, Betschwanden, Braunwald, Elm, Engi, Haslen, Luchsingen, Matt, Mitlödi, Rüti, Schwanden, Schwändi and Sool merged into the municipality of Glarus Süd.

</doc>
<doc id="81043" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81043" title="Luchsingen">
Luchsingen

Luchsingen is a former municipality, in the municipality of Glarus Süd and canton of Glarus in Switzerland.
Oberblegisee is in the municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="81045" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81045" title="Matt, Switzerland">
Matt, Switzerland

Matt is a former municipality, in the municipality of Glarus Süd and canton of Glarus in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="81050" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81050" title="Agno">
Agno

Agno is a municipality of the district of Lugano in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.
It is known for being the municipality where Lugano Airport is situated.
It is not far from the city of Lugano 

</doc>
<doc id="81052" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81052" title="Airolo">
Airolo

Airolo is a municipality of the district of Leventina in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.
Airolo is also a small ski-resort with 30km of ski slopes.

</doc>
<doc id="81053" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81053" title="Alto Malcantone">
Alto Malcantone

Alto Malcantone is a municipality of the district of Lugano in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland. It was formed on 13 March 2005 from the earlier municipalities of Arosio, Breno, Fescoggia, Mugena und Vezio. 

</doc>
<doc id="81054" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81054" title="Balerna">
Balerna

Balerna is a municipality of the district of Mendrisio in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="81055" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81055" title="Castel San Pietro">
Castel San Pietro

Castel San Pietro is a municipality of the district of Mendrisio in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="81056" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81056" title="Chiasso">
Chiasso

Chiasso is a municipality of the district of Mendrisio in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="81057" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81057" title="Morbio Inferiore">
Morbio Inferiore

Morbio Inferiore is a municipality of the canton of Ticino, Switzerland. It is in the hills above Chiasso. It is in the district of Mendrisio.

</doc>
<doc id="81062" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81062" title="Caneggio">
Caneggio

Caneggio is a municipality of the district of Mendrisio in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland. On 25 October 2009 the former municipalities of Caneggio, Bruzella, Cabbio, Morbio Superiore, Muggio and Sagno merged into the municipalities of Breggia.

</doc>
<doc id="81063" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81063" title="Cabbio">
Cabbio

Cabbio is a municipality, in the municipality of Breggia and district of Mendrisio in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="81064" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81064" title="Vacallo">
Vacallo

Vacallo is a municipality of the district of Mendrisio in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.
The current population is almost 3,000 people. The coat of arms of Vacallo is a V with three bunches of grapes. Each bunch of grapes symbolises the three parishes or 'frazione' of the municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="81065" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81065" title="Sagno">
Sagno

Sagno was a municipality, in the new municipality of Breggia and district of Mendrisio in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="81066" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81066" title="Aarwangen (district)">
Aarwangen (district)

Aarwangen is a district in the northeast corner of the canton of Bern in Switzerland.
The district includes the following 25 municipalities and has an area of 154 km²:

</doc>
<doc id="81068" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81068" title="Aarau (district)">
Aarau (district)

The district of Aarau in the Swiss Canton of Aargau has the following municipalities: 
<div style="padding:1em 20px 1em 20px; color:#000000;text-align:left;">

</doc>
<doc id="81072" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81072" title="Baden (district)">
Baden (district)

Baden is a district in the canton of Aargau, Switzerland. The capital city is the town of Baden. The largest municipality is Wettingen. The district has 26 municipalities, an area of 153.07 km², and a population of 121,071.

</doc>
<doc id="81073" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81073" title="Bremgarten (district)">
Bremgarten (district)

Bremgarten is a Swiss district in the Canton of Aargau.
It has a total of 25 municipalities, listed below:
<div style="padding:1em 20px 1em 20px; color:#000000;text-align:left;">

</doc>
<doc id="81078" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81078" title="Brugg (district)">
Brugg (district)

Brugg is a district in the Canton of Aargau, Switzerland, it is south of the Aare and the Aargauer Jura covers the district. The capital of the district is Brugg. 
It contains the following municipalities:
Localities of 

</doc>
<doc id="81079" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81079" title="Kulm (district)">
Kulm (district)

Kulm is an administrative district in the canton of Aargau, Switzerland. It is west of Lake Hallwil and covers parts of the Wyna and Suhre valleys. The principal town is Unterkulm; the largest municipality is Reinach. The district contains 17 municipalities, is 101.35 km² in area and has a total population of 36,700 people <small>(2005)<small>.

</doc>
<doc id="81081" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81081" title="Laufenburg (district)">
Laufenburg (district)

Laufenburg is a district of the canton of Aargau, Switzerland. The capital is the town of Laufenburg.
It contains the following municipalities:

</doc>
<doc id="81086" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81086" title="Chuck Norris">
Chuck Norris

Carlos Ray "Chuck" Norris (born March 10, 1940) is an American martial artist and actor. He served in the United States Air Force. He became famous as a martial artist and started his own school, Chun Kuk Do. Norris was cast in a number of action movies, such as "Way of the Dragon". He was The Cannon Group's star in the 1980s. He played Cordell Walker in the action television series "Walker, Texas Ranger" from 1993 to 2001.
Norris is a politically conservative. He has written books on Christianity and supports Republican candidates and causes. In 2007 and 2008, he campaigned for former Arkansas Governor Mike Huckabee, who was running for the Republican nomination for President in 2008. In the 2012 election he endorsed former Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich. Norris also writes a column for the conservative website "WorldNetDaily".

</doc>
<doc id="81094" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81094" title="George Clinton (vice president)">
George Clinton (vice president)

George Clinton (July 26, 1739 – April 20, 1812) was an American soldier and politician. He was the first (and longest-serving) Governor of New York. He then was Vice President of the United States under Thomas Jefferson and James Madison (1805–1812).
Clinton was born in the state of New York. Clinton fought with the British in the French and Indian War.
Clinton was a member of the Continental Congress and voted for the Declaration of Independence. He was a friend of George Washington and served with and supplied the Continental Army.
Clinton was a member of the Democratic-Republican Party. Clinton was vice president under two different presidents. He is one out of two vice presidents who did this; John C. Calhoun served under two presidents as well. Clinton was also a candidate for president in the 1808 election and did receive six electoral votes.
George Clinton has no known relation of 42nd President Bill Clinton, who took his stepfather's surname as a child. 

</doc>
<doc id="81095" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81095" title="Ignatius of Antioch">
Ignatius of Antioch

Saint Ignatius of Antioch (also known as Theophorus) (ca. 35-107) was the third Bishop or Patriarch of Antioch and a student of the Apostle John. En route to his martyrdom in Rome, Ignatius wrote a series of letters, including one to Polycarp, bishop of Smyrna, who had also known John. These letters are an example of the theology of the earliest Christians. Important topics addressed in these letters include ecclesiology, the sacraments, and the role of bishops.
Ignatius' feast day is observed on 17 October in Western Christianity and 20 December in Eastern Christianity.
Ignatius became Bishop of Antioch after Saint Peter and Evodius, who died around 67. 
Besides the Latin name, Ignatius, he also called himself Theophorus ("God Bearer"), and tradition says he was one of the children Jesus took in His arms and blessed. Ignatius was most likely a disciple of the Apostle John.
Ignatius is generally considered to be one of the Apostolic Fathers (the earliest authoritative group of the Church Fathers) and a saint by the Roman Catholic Church, Lutheran Church, Eastern Orthodox Church and Anglican/Episcopal Church who celebrate his feast day on October 17, and the Orthodox and Eastern Catholic churches, who celebrate his feast day on December 20. Ignatius based his authority on living his life in imitation of Christ.
Ignatius was arrested by the authorities and transported to Rome under trying conditions:
He died as a martyr in the arena. This was during the reign of Trajan. The Roman authorities hoped to make an example of him and thus discourage Christianity from spreading. Instead, he met with and encouraged Christians who flocked to meet him all along his route, and he wrote seven letters to the churches in the region and one to a fellow bishop.

</doc>
<doc id="81097" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81097" title="S/2003 J 3">
S/2003 J 3

It belongs to the Ananke group, retrograde non-spherical moons which orbit Jupiter between 19,300,000 and 22,700,000 km, at inclinations of about 150°.

</doc>
<doc id="81098" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81098" title="Stephen">
Stephen

Stephen or Steven (generally pronounced ) is an English masculine first name, comes the Latin form "Stephanus" and that from the Greek "Στέφανος" ("Stephanos"), which means "crown" or "wreath."
Other spellings are Stephan, Stefan, and Stevon. Steve is the common short form and various diminutives such as Stevie are also found. Many family names come from Stephen: the most common are Stephens/Stevens and Stephenson/Stevenson (others include Stephen, Stephan, Stefan, Stevin, and Stever).

</doc>
<doc id="81101" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81101" title="Lenzburg (district)">
Lenzburg (district)

Lenzburg is a district of the Canton of Aargau in Switzerland. The capital is the town of Lenzburg. The district contains a total of 20 municipalities:

</doc>
<doc id="81102" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81102" title="Muri (district)">
Muri (district)

Muri is a district in the Swiss Canton of Aargau with the capital of Muri.
It contains the following municipalities:

</doc>
<doc id="81103" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81103" title="Diminutive">
Diminutive

A diminutive is a formation of a word used to express smallness of the object or quality that is meant with the word the diminutive is formed from.
Diminutives are common in most dialects of English. Terms such as "undies" for underwear and "movie" for "moving picture" are frequently heard terms in English. 
Common diminutives are:

</doc>
<doc id="81104" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81104" title="Rheinfelden (district)">
Rheinfelden (district)

Rheinfelden is a district of the canton of Aargau in Switzerland. The capital is Rheinfelden. 
It contains 14 municipalities:

</doc>
<doc id="81107" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81107" title="Zofingen (district)">
Zofingen (district)

Zofingen is a district in the Swiss canton of Aargau. It is in the southwest corner of the canton. 
It contains the following municipalities:

</doc>
<doc id="81108" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81108" title="S/2003 J 16">
S/2003 J 16

It belongs to the Ananke group, retrograde non-spherical moons which orbit Jupiter between 19,300,000 and 22,700,000 km, at inclinations of about 150°.

</doc>
<doc id="81114" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81114" title="Licinius">
Licinius

Flavius Galerius Valerius Licinianus Licinius (c. 250 - 325) was Roman emperor from 308 to 324.
Licinius went with his close friend the Emperor Galerius on the Persian expedition in 297. After the death of Flavius Valerius Severus, Galerius declared Licinius emperor honorific in the West in 308. 
On the death of Galerius, in May 311, Licinius shared the entire empire with Maximinus Daia. The Hellespont and the Bosporus were the dividing line.
In 313 he married Flavia Julia Constantia, half-sister of Constantine, at Mediolanum (now Milan). Together with Constantine he issued the "Edict of Milan" that allowed Christianity to be in the empire. 
On April 30, Licinius won against Maximinus at the Battle of Tzirallum. So he became master of the East, while his brother-in-law, Constantine, was master in the West.
In 314, a civil war began between Licinius and Constantine. Constantine won at Cibalae in Pannonia and again 2 years later in Thrace. Then followed a period during which they worked together. But in 324 Constantine attacked him again and Licinius had to give up. Because his wife, Constantine's sister, asked for his survival he was not killed immediately. In 325 Constantine accused him of starting a conspiracy with the barbarians and had him killed.

</doc>
<doc id="81116" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81116" title="Zurzach (district)">
Zurzach (district)

Zurzach is a district in the Swiss Canton of Aargau with the capital of Zurzach. 
It contains the following municipalities:

</doc>
<doc id="81117" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81117" title="Aarau">
Aarau

Aarau is the capital of the northern Swiss canton of Aargau. The city is also the capital of the district of Aarau. Most of the people in the municipality speak German. To the west of Aarau is the canton of Solothurn. It is the third-largest city in Aargau after Wettingen and Baden. 
The old city of Aarau lies on a rocky cliff where the Aar river valley narrows at the southern foot of the Jura mountains. Newer parts of the city can be found farther south of the river valley.
The neighboring municipalities are Küttigen to the north, Rohr and Buchs to the east, Suhr to the south-east, Unterentfelden to the south, and Eppenberg-Wöschnau and Erlinsbach to the west.
Aarau and the other municipalities have merged over the years. The only exceptions are Unterentfelden and Eppenberg-Wöschnau to the south, whose places are divided from Aarau by the large forests of Gönhard and Zelgli.
A few artifacts from the Neolithic period were found in Aarau. Near the location of the present train station, the ruins of a settlement from the Bronze Age (about 1000 BC) have been excavated. The Roman road between Salodurum (Solothurn) and Vindonissa passed through the area, along the route now covered by the Bahnhofstrasse. In 1976 divers in the Aar found part of a seven-meter wide wooden bridge from the late Roman times.
Aarau was founded around 1240 A.D. by the counts of Kyburg. The first certain reference to the city dates to 1256. The town was ruled from the "Rore" tower, which has been incorporated into the modern city hall.
In 1273 the counts of Kyburg died out. Agnes of Kyburg, who had no male relations, sold the family's lands to King Rudolf I von Habsburg. He granted Aarau its city rights in 1283. In the 14th Century the city was expanded in two stages, and a second defesive wall was constructed. A deep ditch separated the city from its "suburb;" its location is today marked by a wide street named "Graben" (meaning Ditch).
In 1415 Bern invaded lower Aargau with the help of Solothurn. Aarau capitulated after a short resistance, and was forced to swear allegiance to the new rulers. In the 16th Century, the rights of the lower classes were abolished.
In March 1528 the citizens of Aarau allowed the introduction of Protestantism at the urging of the Bernese. A growth in population during the 16th Century led to taller buildings and more dense construction methods. Early forms of industry developed at this time; however, unlike in other cities, no guilds were formed in Aarau.
Starting in the early 18th century, the textile industry was established in Aarau. German immigration contributed to the city's favorable conditions, in that they introduced the cotton and silk factories. These highly educated immigrants were also responsible for education reform and the enlightened, revolutionary spirit that developed in Aarau.
On December 27, 1797, the last Tagsatzung of the Old Swiss Confederacy was held in Aarau. Two weeks later a French envoy continued to foment the revolutionary opinions of the city. The contrast between a high level of education and a low level of political rights was particarly great in Aarau, and the city refused to send troops to defend the Bernese border. By Mid-March 1798 Aarau was occupied by French troops.
On March 22, 1798 Aarau was declared the capital of the Helvetic Republic. It is therefore the first capital of a unified Switzerland. Parliament met in the city hall. On September 20, the capital was moved to Lucerne.
In 1803, Napoleon ordered the fusion of the cantons of Aargau, Baden and Fricktal. Aarau was declared the capital of the new, enlarged canton of Aargau. In 1820 the city wall was torn down, with exception of the individual towers and gates, and the defensive ditches were filled in.
The wooden bridge, dating from the Middle Ages, across the Aar was destroyed by floods three times in thirty years, and was replaced with a steel suspension bridge in 1851. This was replaced by a concrete bridge in 1952. The city connected to the Swiss Central Railroad in 1856.
The textile industry in Aarau broke down in about 1850 because of the protectionist tariff policies of neighboring states. Other industries had developed by that time to replace it, including the production of mathematical instruments, shoes and cement. Beginning in 1900, numerous electrical enterprises developed. By the 1960s, more citizens worked in service industries or for the canton-level government than in manufacturing. During the 1980s many of the industries left Aarau completely.
In 1802 the Canton School was established; it was the first non-parochial high school in Switzerland. It developed a good reputation, and was home to Nobel Prize winners Albert Einstein, Paul Karrer, and Werner Arber, as well as several Swiss politicians and authors.
The purchase of a manuscript collection in 1803 laid the foundation for what would become the Cantonal Library, which contains a Bible annotated by Huldrych Zwingli. More newspapers developed in the city, maintaining the revolutionary atmosphere of Aarau. Beginning in 1820, Aarau has been a refuge for political refugees.
The urban educational and cultural opportunities of Aarau have been extended through numerous new institutions. A Theater and Concert Hall was constructed in 1883, which was renovated and expanded in 1995-96. The Aargau Nature Museum opened in 1922. A former cloth warehouse was transformed into a small theater in 1974, and the alternative culture center KIFF (Culture in the fodder factory) was established in a former animal fodder factory.
The earliest use of the place name was in 1248 (in the form Arowe), and probably referred to the settlement in the area before the founding of the city. It comes, along with the name of the River Aar (which was called Arula, Arola, and Araris in early times), from the German Au, meaning floodplain.
The historic old city forms an irregular square, consisting of four parts (called Stoecke). To the south lies the "suburb", that is, the part of the town formerly outside the city wall. One special characteristic of the city is its painted gables, for which Aarau is sometimes called the "City of beautiful Gables".
The buildings in the old city originate, on the whole, from building projects during the 16th century, when nearly all the Middle Age period buildings were replaced or expanded. The architectural development of the city ended in the 18th century, when the city began to expand beyond its (still existing) wall. Most of the buildings in the "suburb" date from this time.
The "Schlössli" (small Castle), Rore Tower and the upper gate tower have remained nearly unchanged since the 13th century. The "Schlössli" is the oldest building in the city. It was already founded at the time of the establishment of the city shortly after 1200; the exact date is not known. City hall was built around Rore Tower in 1515.
The upper gate tower stands beside the southern gate in the city wall, along the road to Lucerne and Bern. The jail has been housed in it since the Middle Ages. A Carillon was erected in the tower in the middle of the 20th century, the bells for which were provided by the centuries-old bell manufacturers of Aarau.
The town church was built between 1471 and 1478. During the Reformation, in 1528, its twelve altars and accompanying pictures were destroyed. The "Justice fountain" (Gerechtskeitbrunnen) was built in 1634, and is made of French limestone; it includes a statue of Lady Justice made of sandstone, hence the name. It was originally in the street in front of city hall, but was moved to its present location in front of the town church in 1905 due to increased traffic.
The people that give the most jobs in Aarau is the canton government; most of their offices can be found throughout the city. 
One of the two head offices of the "Aargauer Zeitung", Switzerland's fifth largest newspaper, can be found in Aarau.
Kern & Co., founded in 1819, was an internationally known geodetic instrument manufacturer based in Aarau. However, it was taken over by Wild Leitz in 1988, and was closed in 1991.
More than half of the workers in Aarau live in the city's suburbs, or on the outskirts of the city. Aarau gets some jams of cars and buses sometimes during rush hour (the time of day when everyone leaves work to get home).
Things made in Aarau are: bells, mathematical instruments, electrical goods, cotton textiles, chemicals, shoes, and other products.

</doc>
<doc id="81118" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81118" title="S/2003 J 10">
S/2003 J 10

It belongs to the Carme group, made up of non-spherical retrograde moons orbiting Jupiter at a distance ranging between 23,000,000 and 24,000,000 km and at an inclination of about 165°.

</doc>
<doc id="81119" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81119" title="Aarburg">
Aarburg

Aarburg is a municipality of the district Zofingen in the canton of Aargau in Switzerland. 

</doc>
<doc id="81120" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81120" title="Abtwil, Aargau">
Abtwil, Aargau

Abtwil is a municipality of the district Muri in the canton of Aargau in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="81122" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81122" title="Ammerswil">
Ammerswil

Ammerswil is a municipality of the district Lenzburg in canton of Aargau in Switzerland. It is located 3 km south-east of the town of Lenzburg.

</doc>
<doc id="81125" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81125" title="Edict of Milan">
Edict of Milan

The Edict of Milan was a letter signed by the Roman emperors Constantine and Licinius, that religious toleration in the Roman Empire. The letter was issued in 313, shortly after the end of the persecution of Christians by the emperor Diocletian. 
With the Edict of Milan there began a period when Constantine granted favors to the Christian Church and its members. The exact words of the edict are no longer known.
The Edict of Milan was issued in 313 AD, in the names of the Roman Emperors Constantine I, who ruled the western parts of the Empire, and Licinius, who ruled the east. The two emperors were in Milan to celebrate the wedding of Constantine's sister with Licinius. 
There had been already an edict of toleration issued by the emperor Galerius in 311. They were granted an indulgence, not favors. 
Wherefore, for this our indulgence, they ought to pray to their God for our safety, for that of the republic, and for their own, that the commonwealth may continue uninjured on every side, and that they may be able to live securely in their homes.
But by the Edict of Milan the meeting places and other properties which had been taken from the Christians were to be returned: 
...the same shall be restored to the Christians without payment or any claim of recompense and without any kind of fraud or deception...

</doc>
<doc id="81127" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81127" title="Aristau">
Aristau

Aristau is a municipality of the district Muri in the canton of Aargau in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="81128" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81128" title="Arni, Aargau">
Arni, Aargau

Arni is a municipality of the district Bremgarten in the Swiss canton of Aargau.

</doc>
<doc id="81130" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81130" title="Religious toleration">
Religious toleration

Religious toleration is when people allow other people to think or practice other religions and beliefs. 
In a country with a state religion, "toleration" means that the government allows other religions to be there. In terms of moral science, you can include religious tolerance and respect, which are the most important parts that are never discussed.

</doc>
<doc id="81131" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81131" title="Attelwil">
Attelwil

Attelwil is a municipality of the district Zofingen in the canton of Aargau in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="81132" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81132" title="S/2003 J 19">
S/2003 J 19

It belongs to the Carme group, made up of non-spherical retrograde moons orbiting Jupiter at a distance ranging between 23,000,000 and 24,000,000 km and at an inclination of about 165°.

</doc>
<doc id="81134" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81134" title="Aigle (district)">
Aigle (district)

Aigle is a district of the canton of Vaud, Switzerland.
It contains the following municipalities: 

</doc>
<doc id="81137" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81137" title="Aubonne (district)">
Aubonne (district)

Aubonne is a district of the canton of Vaud in Switzerland. The capital is Aubonne.
It contains the following municipalities:

</doc>
<doc id="81138" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81138" title="Avenches (district)">
Avenches (district)

Avenches is a district of the Canton of Vaud, Switzerland. The capital is the town of Avenches.
It contains the following municipalities:

</doc>
<doc id="81139" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81139" title="Cossonay (district)">
Cossonay (district)

Cossonay is a district of the Canton of Vaud, Switzerland. The capital is the town of Cossonay.

</doc>
<doc id="81140" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81140" title="Echallens (district)">
Echallens (district)

Echallens is a district of the Canton of Vaud, Switzerland. The capital is the town of Echallens.
It contains the following municipalities:

</doc>
<doc id="81141" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81141" title="Grandson (district)">
Grandson (district)

Grandson is a district of the Canton of Vaud in Switzerland. The capital is the town of Grandson.
The following municipalities are found there:

</doc>
<doc id="81142" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81142" title="Theodosius I">
Theodosius I

Flavius Theodosius (January 11, 347 – January 17, 395), also called Theodosius I and Theodosius the Great, was Roman Emperor from 379-395. He reunited the Eastern and Western Roman Empire, but was the last emperor of both parts of the empire. After his death, the two parts split permanently. He is also known for making Christianity the official state religion of the Roman Empire. 

</doc>
<doc id="81143" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81143" title="Lausanne (district)">
Lausanne (district)

Lausanne is a district of the canton of Vaud, Switzerland. The capital is the city of Lausanne.
It contains the following municipalities:

</doc>
<doc id="81144" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81144" title="Ernest Shackleton">
Ernest Shackleton

Sir Ernest Henry Shackleton, CVO, OBE FRGS (15 February 1874 – 5 January 1922) was a polar explorer.
Shakleton led three British expeditions to the Antarctic. He was one of the principal figures of the "Heroic Age of Antarctic Exploration". The Shackletons were originally from Yorkshire, but Shackleton was born in County Kildare, Ireland. Shackleton and his Anglo-Irish family moved to Sydenham in suburban London when he was ten. 
His first experience of the polar regions was as third officer on Captain Robert Falcon Scott's Discovery Expedition, 1901–04, from which he was sent home early on health grounds. Determined to do better, he returned to Antarctica in 1907 as leader of the Nimrod Expedition. In January 1909, he and three companions made a southern march. They got a record farthest South latitude at 88° 23' S, 97 geographical miles (112 statute miles, 180 km) from the South Pole. This was by far the closest to the pole in exploration history up to that time. For this achievement, Shackleton was knighted by Edward VII on his return home.
Shackleton first went to the Antarctic on Captain Robert Scott's 1901-1904 expedition but he was sent home as he was ill. In 1907, he went back to the Antarctic and in January 1909 was part of a group who walked further south than anyone had ever been before, travelling to within 190 kilometres of the South Pole.
In 1912 the Norwegian explorer Roald Amundsen became the leader of the first group to reach the South Pole. Shackleton decided on a new target, he wanted to walk across Antarctica from one side to the other crossing the South Pole in the middle.
Disaster struck when his ship, "Endurance", was trapped in the ice. They spent 281 days on board waiting for the ice to break again, but the boat was slowly crushed to pieces. Shackleton and his men dragged their lifeboats over many miles of snow and ice to reach sea. They set sail in the lifeboats and eventually reached Elephant Island. In April 1916, Shackleton and four others sailed hundreds of miles to South Georgia to get help at the whaling station there. This was a journey of 1300 kilometres and took 16 days. Unfortunately the boat he was in landed on the wrong side of the island and they had to climb over the mountainous middle section to reach the whaling station. A rescue party saved everyone from Elephant Island in August 1916.
In 1921, Shackleton returned to the Antarctic, intending to carry out a programme of scientific activities. Before the expedition could begin this work, Shackleton died of a heart attack on 5 January 1922 while his ship, "Quest", was moored in South Georgia. At his wife's request, he was buried there.

</doc>
<doc id="81145" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81145" title="Lavaux (district)">
Lavaux (district)

Lavaux is a district of the canton of Vaud in Switzerland. The capital is Cully.
It contains the following municipalities:

</doc>
<doc id="81146" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81146" title="Morges (district)">
Morges (district)

Morges is a district of the canton of Vaud in Switzerland. The capital is the city of Morges.
It contains the following municipalities:

</doc>
<doc id="81148" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81148" title="Anzonico">
Anzonico

Anzonico is a municipality of the district of Leventina in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland. On 1 April 2012 the former municipalities of Anzonico, Calpiogna, Campello, Cavagnago, Chironico, Mairengo and Osco merged into the municipality of Faido.

</doc>
<doc id="81150" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81150" title="Aquila, Switzerland">
Aquila, Switzerland

Aquila is a municipality of the district of Blenio in the canton of Ticino in Switzerland. On 22 October 2006 the former municipalities of Aquila, Campo (Blenio), Ghirone, Olivone and Torre merged into the new municipality of Blenio.

</doc>
<doc id="81151" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81151" title="Aranno">
Aranno

Aranno is a municipality of the district of Lugano in the canton of Ticino in southern Switzerland. 

</doc>
<doc id="81152" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81152" title="Basadingen-Schlattingen">
Basadingen-Schlattingen

Basadingen-Schlattingen is a municipality of the district of Diessenhofen in the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="81153" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81153" title="Berg, Thurgau">
Berg, Thurgau

Berg is a municipality of the district of Weinfelden in the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="81154" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81154" title="Berlingen, Switzerland">
Berlingen, Switzerland

Berlingen is a municipality of the district of Steckborn in the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="81155" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81155" title="S/2003 J 15">
S/2003 J 15

It is the farthest member of the Ananke group, retrograde non-spherical moons which orbit Jupiter between 19,300,000 and 22,700,000 km, at inclinations of about 150°.

</doc>
<doc id="81161" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81161" title="S/2003 J 18">
S/2003 J 18

It belongs to the Ananke group, retrograde non-spherical moons which orbit Jupiter between 19,300,000 and 22,700,000 km, at inclinations of about 150°.

</doc>
<doc id="81166" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81166" title="Stanisław Wyspiański">
Stanisław Wyspiański

Stanisław Wyspiański (January 15, 1869, Kraków – November 28, 1907, Kraków) was a Polish writer, painter, and architect.

</doc>
<doc id="81185" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81185" title="Eustreptospondylus">
Eustreptospondylus

Eustreptospondylus (meaning "well-reversed vertebrae") was a megalosaurid tetanuran theropod (a large, bipedal meat-eater) about 23-30 ft (7-9 m) long, weighing about 440-550 pounds (200 kg to 250 kg). This predator had a large head, long, sharp serrated teeth, short arms and a primitive hip structure. It lived during the mid-Jurassic period, about 165 million years ago. Incomplete fossils have been found in England. Eustreptospondylus was named by Richard Owen in 1841. The type species is "E. oxoniensis", which was named by C. A. Walker in 1964.

</doc>
<doc id="81187" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81187" title="S/2003 J 23">
S/2003 J 23

It belongs to the Pasiphaë group, non-spherical retrograde moons orbiting Jupiter at distances ranging between 22,800,000 and 24,100,000 km, and with inclinations ranging between 144.5° and 158.3°.

</doc>
<doc id="81188" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81188" title="Megaraptor">
Megaraptor

Megaraptor was a large 20–26 feet (6–8 m) long late Cretaceous dinosaur. It had two large sickle-like claws on each hand. It was a lightly built biped, with a large head and sharp, serrated teeth in powerful jaws.
The first fossil of "Megaraptor" to be discovered was one of its claws. As they strongly resembled the claws seen in Dromeosaurs, it was thought that Megaraptor was a large member of that family. Later, a complete hand was discovered, revealing the main claw was on its thumb.
It is now classified either as a allosauroid carnosaur, related to "Neovenator", or right over on the other side of the Theropoda as a tyrannosauroid coelurosaur.

</doc>
<doc id="81207" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81207" title="2004 UP10">
2004 UP10

(385571) Otrera (also ) is a Neptune Trojan discovered by Scott S. Sheppard and Chadwick A. Trujillo in 2004. Only five others are known: , , , and . They have the same orbital period as Neptune and orbit at the L Lagrangian point about 60 degrees ahead of Neptune.

</doc>
<doc id="81208" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81208" title="2005 TN53">
2005 TN53


</doc>
<doc id="81209" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81209" title="2005 TO74">
2005 TO74


</doc>
<doc id="81210" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81210" title="2006 RJ103">
2006 RJ103


</doc>
<doc id="81211" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81211" title="2007 RW10">
2007 RW10


</doc>
<doc id="81212" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81212" title="Radiogenic">
Radiogenic

A radiogenic nuclide is a nuclide that is made by radioactive decay.

</doc>
<doc id="81213" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81213" title="Tropopause">
Tropopause

The tropopause is a boundary region in Earth's atmosphere between the troposphere and the stratosphere. Here the air ceases to cool at -56.5°C (-70°F), and the air becomes almost completely dry.
Most commercial aircraft are flown in the Tropopause.

</doc>
<doc id="81214" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81214" title="Gravity wave">
Gravity wave

In fluid dynamics, gravity waves are waves generated in a fluid medium or at the interface between two mediums (e.g. the atmosphere or ocean) which has the restoring force of gravity or buoyancy.

</doc>
<doc id="81216" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81216" title="Accretion disc">
Accretion disc

An accretion disc (or accretion disk) is an astronomical term. It describes a disc of material being drawn in by gravity to a centre of mass, such as a star or black hole. As the material comes in, it spins round the central body and radiates energy.
The central body is typically either a young star, a protostar, a white dwarf, a neutron star, or a black hole. As the material moves in, gravitational energy released in that process is transformed into heat and rotational movement. 
The energy emitted at the disk surface is in form of electromagnetic radiation. The frequency range of that radiation depends on the central object. Accretion discs of young stars and protostars radiate in the infrared, those around neutron stars and black holes in the X-ray part of the spectrum.

</doc>
<doc id="81220" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81220" title="Victoria Beckham">
Victoria Beckham

Victoria Caroline Beckham (born 17 April 1974) is an English singer and fashion designer. She used to be a member of a pop group called the Spice Girls. She receives a great deal of media coverage due to being married to football player David Beckham. Her nickname is Posh Spice. 
She has married David Beckham in July 1999. The couple have three sons: Brooklyn Joseph (born March 1999), Romeo James (born September 2002), Cruz David (born February 2005); and a daughter, Harper Seven (born July 2011).
She had a short solo career after the Spice Girls in 2001. After that, she created clothes and perfumes with her husband. 
She reunited with the Spice Girls for a world tour in 2007.

</doc>
<doc id="81221" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81221" title="Spice (album)">
Spice (album)

Spice was the first album by the Spice Girls. It was released in the United Kingdom in 1996, and in the United States in 1997. It was the most successful album by a girl group ever. It sold 23 million copies around the world.
There were five songs that were very successful from this album. The most successful was "Wannabe", which went to No. 1 on many music charts around the world.

</doc>
<doc id="81282" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81282" title="Head tie">
Head tie

A head tie is a west and southern African women’s head scarf, specifically an elaborate ornamental head covering.

</doc>
<doc id="81283" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81283" title="Dupatta">
Dupatta

Dupatta (, ) is a long scarf that is essential to many South Asian women's suits. Some "dupatta suits" include the salwar kameez, the trouser suit, and the kurta. The dupatta is also worn over the Hindu outfit of lehenga or ghaghra- choli. The dupatta has long been a symbol of modesty in South Asian dress. It is traditionally worn across both shoulders. However, the dupatta can also be worn like a cape around the entire torso. The material for the dupatta varies according to the suit: cotton, georgette, silk, chiffon, and more. The other names for dupatta are chunri and chunni (sometimes shortened to 'unni' by many Gujaratis).
There are various modes of wearing the unsewn dupatta. When not draped over the head in the traditional style, it is usually worn with the middle portion of the dupatta resting on the chest like a garland with both ends thrown over each respective shoulder. When the dupatta resting is worn along with the salwar-kameez it is casually allowed to flow down the front and back.
The use of the dupatta has definitely undergone a metamorphosis over time. In current fashions, the dupatta is frequently draped over one shoulder, and even over just the arms. Another recent trend is the short dupatta often seen with kurtas and Indo-Western clothing. Essentially, the dupatta is often treated as an accessory in current urban fashion. Nevertheless, the dupatta remains an integral part of Indian clothing and Pakistani clothing. Its nowadays a blend of fashion with the tradionalism. 

</doc>
<doc id="81302" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81302" title="Charles XII of Sweden">
Charles XII of Sweden

Charles XII (Swedish: Karl XII) was the king of Sweden from 1697 to 1718. He was born on June 27, 1682.
During his time as a king, he tried to expand Sweden's empire. He took part in the Nordic War (1700-1721), in which his enemies were Denmark, Poland and Russia. England and the Netherlands supported him and his armies won over the Danes during a sea battle.He also beat Peter I Russian Tsar. 
After these successes, he attacked Poland, where during this time Augustus II the Strong was the king. This war was closed by the peace of Altranstadt. 
Charles attacked Russia again in 1707 with the Ukrainian leader, hetman Mazeppa. After more than a 1000 km walk in 1709, the Swedish king suffered a defeat from the Tsar. Charles had to flee to Turkey. He could only return to Sweden in 1714. He tried to compensate for the lost territories by a war against Norway. During the battle he was shot in the head and died in 1718. The wars of Charles XII made Sweden weaker.

</doc>
<doc id="81309" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81309" title="Izanagi">
Izanagi

He and his wife Izanami created many islands, deities, and forefathers of Japan. When Izanami died while giving birth to a child, Izanagi tried (but failed) to retrieve her from Yomi (the underworld). In the cleansing rite after his return, he created Amaterasu (the sun goddess) from his left eye, Tsukuyomi (the moon god) from his right eye, and Susanoo (tempest or storm god) from his nose.
When Izanagi looks at his wife in Yomi, he sees her monstrous and hellish state and she is ashamed and angry. She chases him in order to kill him. She fails, but promises to kill a thousand of his people every day. Izanagi says that he will create a thousand and five hundred every day.

</doc>
<doc id="81326" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81326" title="S/2003 J 12">
S/2003 J 12

It is the closest of the farther non-spherical retrograde moons of Jupiter, and does not seem to belong to any group.

</doc>
<doc id="81329" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81329" title="Kurt Weill">
Kurt Weill

Kurt Weill (born Dessau, 2 March 1900; died New York, 3 April 1950), was a German composer who later became an American. Although he was trained as a composer of classical music he wrote many songs in a popular, jazzy style. He is particularly remembered for the music he wrote for the plays of the German dramatist Bertolt Brecht, as well as for musicals he wrote when he lived in New York. He also wrote symphonies and chamber music, especially during his early career.
Kurt Weill grew up in a religious Jewish family. During his teens he started to get experience working in a theatre in Dessau, where he learned a lot from the theatre conductor Albert Bing. When he was 20 he went to study at the Berlin Musikhochschule where he studied with the composer Humperdinck. He did not like it there, and soon started a three-year period studying with the composer Busoni. Busoni was a good teacher for him and encouraged him to study counterpoint carefully in order to be a good composer. Then he introduced Weill to the music publishers Universal, who published all his music for the next ten years.
In 1924, Busoni died. Weill started to work with the playwright Georg Kaiser who wrote plays in an Expressionistic style. Together they wrote an opera "Der Protagonist" (1926) which made Weill famous. The next year he worked with Bertolt Brecht. Together they wrote five songs which soon developed in a "Songspiel" under the title "Mahagonny". Between 1927 and 1929, Brecht and Weill wrote a new piece, an opera called "Aufstieg und Fall der Stadt Mahagonny" ("Rise and Fall of the City of Mahagonny"), in which five songs from the "Songspiel" were used again.
In 1924, he met the singer and actress Lotte Lenya. He married her in 1926, divorced her in 1933 and married her again in 1937.
In 1928, he wrote the music for a play by Brecht which was to become world-famous. It was called "Dreigroschenoper" ("The Threepenny Opera"). It was based on an opera called "The Beggar's Opera" which had been written in 1728 by John Gay. The "Threepenny Opera" includes a song which became Weill's most famous song, "Mack the Knife". Weill stopped working with Brecht in 1930 because they had political disagreements. Brecht was becoming more and more interested in Communism, but Weill did not want to be a “Communist composer”.
In Berlin, Weill taught composition to several young composers. He also gave many radio broadcasts. By 1929, he was well-known enough as a composer to make his living just from his compositions.
Weill had to flee from Nazi Germany in March 1933. As a famous and popular Jewish composer, he was a target of the Nazi authorities, who criticized and even interfered with performances of his later stage works, such as "Aufstieg und Fall der Stadt Mahagonny", "Die Bürgschaft" (1932), and "Der Silbersee" (1933). He went first to Paris, where he started a work with Jean Cocteau but it was not finished. He wrote one more work with Brecht: the ballet "The Seven Deadly Sins". In 1934, he completed his "Symphony No.2", his last purely orchestral work, conducted in Amsterdam and New York by Bruno Walter.
In 1935, Weill went to America with his wife Lotte Lenya. The rest of his life he spent writing for the American stage. He became a naturalized citizen of the United States in 1943. He thought most of his compositions in Germany had been destroyed by the Nazis. He never spoke German again except when writing to his parents who had escaped to Israel.
Weill changed his musical style. He wrote in a popular way, working with writers such as Ira Gershwin. He wrote an opera "Street Scene" for which he won an award. He took part in political movements, encouraging America to join in the war.
Weill died of a heart illness in New York City in 1950.

</doc>
<doc id="81331" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81331" title="S/2000 J 11">
S/2000 J 11

S/2000 J 11 was the second-farthest prograde non-spherical moon of Jupiter. It was found by a team of astronomers from the University of Hawaii led by Scott S. Sheppard in 2000.
S/2000 J 11 is about 4 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Jupiter at an average distance of 12,555,000 km in 287 days, at an inclination of 28° (to Jupiter's equator), and with an orbital eccentricity of 0.248.
The moon, has been included in the Himalia group. However, its orbit is not known with precision and the mean orbital elements have not been calculated.

</doc>
<doc id="81341" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81341" title="Sinope (moon)">
Sinope (moon)

Sinope is a non-spherical moon of Jupiter. It was found by Seth Barnes Nicholson at Lick Observatory in 1914, and is named after Sinope of Greek mythology.
Sinope did not get its present name until 1975; before then, it was simply known as . It was sometimes called "Hades" between 1955 and 1975.
Sinope was the farthest known moon of Jupiter until the discovery of Megaclite in 2000. The farthest moon of Jupiter now known is .
Sinope orbits Jupiter on a high eccentricity and high inclination retrograde orbit. The orbital elements are as of January 2000. They are changing a lot due to Solar and planetary perturbations. It is often believed to belong to the Pasiphaë group. However, given its mean inclination and different colour, Sinope could be also an independent object, captured independently, unrelated to the collision and break-up at the origin of the group. The diagram illustrates Sinope's orbital elements in relation to other moons of the group.
Sinope has an estimated diameter of 38 km (assuming an albedo of 0.04) The moon is red unlike Pasiphae which is grey.
Its infrared spectrum is similar to D-type asteroids also different from Pasiphae. These dissimilarities of the physical parameters suggest a different origin from the core members of the group.

</doc>
<doc id="81344" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81344" title="French press">
French press

A French press (also called press pot, coffee press, coffee plunger or cafetière) is a special machine used to make coffee. It is easy to operate. The coffee it can make is stronger than that produced by other means.
A French press has a round jug. This jug can be glass or clear plastic. The jug has a lid and a "plunger". The plunger fits in the jug very well. It usually has some kind of steel or plastic wire, that acts as a filter. Coffee is brewed by placing the coffee and water together, leaving to brew for a few minutes, then pushing the plunger down. This puts the coffee at the bottom of the jug.
The French press has different names around the world. In Australia, South Africa and Ireland it is known as a coffee "plunger" and coffee brewed in it is known as "plunger coffee". Its French name is "cafetière à piston". Sometimes it is also called a "melior" (from an old brand of makers of coffee pots of this type) or a "Bodum" (another brand). In the UK the device is known as a cafetière (the French word for "coffee pot").
Because the coffee grounds are in direct contact with the brewing water, coffee brewed with the French press gets more of the coffee's flavour and essential oils. These usually are trapped in a traditional drip brew machine's paper filters. French pressed coffee is often stronger and thicker than drip-brewed one. It also has more sediment. Because the grounds remain in the drink after brewing, French pressed coffee should be served quickly. Over time, the drink will develop a bitter taste. This is because the grounds still act on the water.
Coffee for use in a French press should be ground coarsely. The use of a burr mill grinder gives a better grind than the whirling blade variety. The ground coffee should be more coarse than that used for a drip brew coffee filter, and far coarser than that used for espresso. Anything other than a coarse grind will go through the press filter and into the coffee. A French press can also be used instead of a tea infuser to brew loose tea.
The French press is also more portable than other coffee makers. Special versions for travellers also exist. They are made of tough plastic instead of glass. They also have a sealed lid with a closable drinking hole. Some versions are marketed to hikers and backpackers. These people often do not want to carry a heavy metal percolator or a filter using drip brew.
Despite the name, the French press is not noticeably more popular in France than in other countries. In most French households, coffee is prepared by drip brewing, with an electric coffeemaker and paper filters. In bars and restaurants, an espresso machine is used.
Some studies have found that drinking large amounts of coffee made by the French press method increases LDL ("bad") cholesterol levels, while drinking filtered or drip coffee does not. The French press method allows certain Diterpenes, such as Cafestol and Kahweol, to remain in the coffee while other brewing methods either remove or limit these chemicals.

</doc>
<doc id="81349" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81349" title="Ananke (moon)">
Ananke (moon)

Ananke is a retrograde non-spherical moon of Jupiter. It was found by Seth Barnes Nicholson at Mount Wilson Observatory in 1951 and is named after the mythological Ananke, the mother of Adrastea by Jupiter. The adjectival form of the name is "Anankean".
Ananke did not get its present name until 1975; before then, it was simply known as . It was sometimes called "Adrastea" between 1955 and 1975. Note that Adrastea is now the name of another moon of Jupiter.
Ananke gives its name to the Ananke group, retrograde non-spherical moons which orbit Jupiter between 19,300,000 and 22,700,000 km, at inclinations of about 150°.
Ananke orbits Jupiter on a high eccentricity and high inclination retrograde orbit. Eight non-spherical moons found since 2000 follow similar orbits. The orbital elements are as of January 2000. They are changing a lot due to Solar and planetary perturbations. The diagram illustrates Ananke's orbit in relation to other retrograde non-spherical moons of Jupiter. The eccentricity of selected orbits is represented by the yellow segments (extending from the pericentre to the apocentre). The farthest spherical moon Callisto is located for reference.
Given these orbital elements and the physical characteristics known so far, Ananke is thought to be the biggest remnant of an original break-up forming the Ananke group.
In the visible spectrum, Ananke appears grey to light-red.
The infrared spectrum is similar to P-type asteroids but with a possible indication of water.

</doc>
<doc id="81353" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81353" title="Grind">
Grind

Grind might mean:

</doc>
<doc id="81364" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81364" title="Camptosaurus">
Camptosaurus

Camptosaurus (meaning "bent lizard") was a plant-eater from the Upper Jurassic (about 156 to 145 million years ago) that looked a lot like Iguanodon. 
It was a heavy ornithischian dinosaur that was about 16-23 feet (5-7 m) long and 3-4 feet (1 m) high at the hips, weighing roughly 2,200 pounds (1000 kg). It had a long snout, hundreds of teeth and a horny beak. Its legs were longer than its arms; it had four-toed feet and five-fingered arms, all with hooves. It could walk on two or four legs, it probably went on all four to graze for low-lying plants.

</doc>
<doc id="81369" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81369" title="Carme (moon)">
Carme (moon)

Carme is a retrograde non-spherical moon of Jupiter. It was found by Seth Barnes Nicholson at Mount Wilson Observatory in California in July 1938. It is named after the mythological Carme, mother by Zeus of Britomartis, a Cretan goddess.
Carme did not get its present name until 1975; before then, it was simply known as . It was sometimes called "Pan" between 1955 and 1975. Note that Pan is now the name of a moon of Saturn.
It gives its name to the Carme group, made up of non-spherical retrograde moons orbiting Jupiter at a distance ranging between 23,000,000 and 24,000,000 km and at an inclination of about 165°. Its orbital elements are as of January 2000. They are changing a lot due to Solar and planetary perturbations.

</doc>
<doc id="81372" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81372" title="Leda (moon)">
Leda (moon)

Leda or , is a prograde non-spherical moon of Jupiter. It was found by Charles T. Kowal at the Mount Palomar Observatory on September 14, 1974, after three nights' worth of photographic plates had been taken (September 11 through 13; Leda appears on all of them). It was named after Leda, who was a lover of Zeus, the Greek equivalent of Jupiter (who came to her in the form of a swan). Kowal suggested the name and the IAU supported it in 1975.
Leda belongs to the Himalia group, five moons orbiting between 11,000,000 and 13,000,000 km from Jupiter at an inclination of about 27.5°. The orbital elements given here are as of January 2000, but they are changing a lot due to Solar and planetary perturbations.

</doc>
<doc id="81384" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81384" title="Lysithea (moon)">
Lysithea (moon)

Lysithea ( , ; ) is a prograde non-spherical moon of Jupiter. It was found by Seth Barnes Nicholson in 1938 at Mount Wilson Observatory and is named after the mythological Lysithea, daughter of Oceanus and one of Zeus' lovers.
Lysithea did not get its present name until 1975; before then, it was simply known as . It was sometimes called "Demeter" from 1955 to 1975.
It belongs to the Himalia group, five moons orbiting between 11,000,000 and 13,000,000 km from Jupiter at an inclination of about 28.3°. Its orbital elements are as of January 2000. They are changing a lot due to Solar and planetary perturbations.

</doc>
<doc id="81386" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81386" title="Rust Belt">
Rust Belt

The Rust Belt refers to an area of the north central United States. The area is mostly the states near the Great Lakes. This area was once known for steel production and heavy industry. That industry has greatly decreased since the middle of the 20th century. Much of this decrease is because of the United States using manufacturers from other countries. 
Most Rust Belt cities, for example, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania and Youngstown, Ohio, have had very large decrease in population since the 1950s and 1960s. 
"Rust Belt" cities include:

</doc>
<doc id="81387" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81387" title="Pax Romana">
Pax Romana

Pax Romana was the time when there was peace in the Roman Empire. (Peace is when there is no war.) "Pax" means "peace" in the Latin language; "Romana" means "Roman" in Latin. So, "Pax Romana" means "Roman peace."
The Pax Romana lasted from 27 BCE until 180 CE. It started when Augustus Caesar was the emperor (ruler) of the Roman Empire.
The main good things that happened in this time were: 
The Emperors of the Pax Romana were:

</doc>
<doc id="81390" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81390" title="Bell UH-1 Iroquois">
Bell UH-1 Iroquois

The UH-1 Iroquois (although known mainly as the Huey) was a helicopter made by Bell Helicopters. It first flew in 1956 and was introduced in 1959. It was known for being in the Vietnam War. It could be used for transporting soldiers, cargo, support, helping lost soldiers or pilots, helping hurt people get to hospitals, or attacking enemies. One version, the UH-1V was made just for helping hurt people getting to hospitals. Some Hueys were given to civilians to help people get to hospitals. Now, the UH-60 Black Hawk is mainly used, but the Huey is still in service with countries.

</doc>
<doc id="81392" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81392" title="Terabyte">
Terabyte

A terabyte (TB) is a unit of measurement in computers and similar electronic devices. One terabyte holds 1000 gigabytes (GB) or a trillion (1,000,000,000,000) bytes, and 1000 terabytes make one petabyte. 
Large organizations use terabytes of storage to hold massive amounts of data. People at home might use terabytes for backups. An external hard drive can be several terabytes. Usually, one terabyte of space costs between $100 and $150.

</doc>
<doc id="81399" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81399" title="Meteora (album)">
Meteora (album)

Meteora is the second studio album by Linkin Park. It was released on March 25, 2003. The album has sold 5.5 million copies in the USA and over 15 million worldwide also.

</doc>
<doc id="81427" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81427" title="Say My Name">
Say My Name

"Say My Name" is a number-one single by American R&B group Destiny's Child for the Columbia Records label, released in early 2000. The single was the third of four singles from the group's 1999 album "The Writing's On The Wall", and the most successful of the four. It is considered to be one of their signature songs. It won a Grammy and an MTV Video Music Award.
Several remixes of "Say My Name" were issued alongside the original version. The two most notable alternate versions are a remix by Timbaland, which features different vocals and a guest appearance from Static of Playa; and the "Nitro Remix" (featuring Nitro and Chief, with production by Mista Maze), which uses the original vocals over a bass music-styled backing track.

</doc>
<doc id="81432" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81432" title="Veto">
Veto

A right of veto means that somebody can stop decisions or legislation. 
For example, the President of the United States has veto power over the USA's Congress. This can stop legislation from being passed. If the President vetoes a bill passed by the Congress, it only becomes a law if Congress passes it again, this time with at least twice as many members of each of the two houses voting for it than voting against it.
Similarly, the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council (the United States of America, the United Kingdom, China, Russia and France) each has veto power. Using this, they can stop the Security Council's decisions from being passed and becoming resolutions unless they all agree to them. These vetoes cannot be overturned by any more voting on that resolution; if there is a need to address the same issue again in the future, a new and separate resolution must be written, passed, and not vetoed.
The veto was invented in ancient times for the Roman tribunes so they could protect the people from bad laws made by the Roman Senate.

</doc>
<doc id="81443" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81443" title="Bettwiesen">
Bettwiesen

Bettwiesen is a municipality of the district of Münchwilen in the canton of Thurgau in northeast Switzerland, near Germany.

</doc>
<doc id="81445" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81445" title="Bichelsee-Balterswil">
Bichelsee-Balterswil

Bichelsee-Balterswil is a municipality of the district of Münchwilen in the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland. It was made from the union on January 1, 1996 of Bichelsee and Balterswil. The lake Bichelsee is in the municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="81446" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81446" title="Birwinken">
Birwinken

Birwinken is a municipality of the district of Weinfelden in the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="81447" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81447" title="Bottighofen">
Bottighofen

Bottighofen is a municipality of the district of Kreuzlingen in the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland.
It is located on Lake Constance.

</doc>
<doc id="81448" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81448" title="Braunau, Switzerland">
Braunau, Switzerland

Braunau is a municipality of the district of Münchwilen in the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="81450" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81450" title="Bürglen, Thurgau">
Bürglen, Thurgau

Bürglen is a municipality of the district of Weinfelden in the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="81451" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81451" title="Elbridge Gerry">
Elbridge Gerry

Elbridge Thomas Gerry (July 17, 1744 – November 23, 1814) was an American politician from Massachusetts. As a Democratic-Republican he was elected the fifth Vice President of the United States, serving under James Madison, from March 4, 1813, until his death a year and a half later.
Gerry was a member of the Continental Congress and was a signer of both the Declaration of Independence and the Articles of Confederation.
He was a delegate to the United States Constitutional Convention in 1787 but did not sign it.
Gerry was elected to the House of Representatives and served there from 1789 to 1793.
Gerry was elected Governor of Massachusetts in 1810 and served for two years. While serving as governor, Gerry supported a plan that would re-create voting districts in Massachusetts to give more power to the political party that he belonged to. The word gerrymander used today when a party tries to create more favourable voting districts was named for Elbridge Gerry.
Gerry was Vice President under James Madison and died in office on November 23, 1814.

</doc>
<doc id="81452" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81452" title="Bussnang">
Bussnang

Bussnang is a municipality of the district of Weinfelden in the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="81462" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81462" title="Piltdown Man">
Piltdown Man

Piltdown Man ("Eoanthropus dawsoni") was once thought to be a "missing link" between man and ape. The first Piltdown fragments were discovered in 1912. Thereafter, over 500 scientific essays were written on the Piltdown Man in a 40-year period. The discovery was proven to be a deliberate hoax in 1953.
Piltdown Man consisted of two human skulls, an orangutan jaw, an elephant molar, a hippopotamus tooth, and a canine tooth from a chimpanzee. Sir Kenneth Oakley has determined the human skulls to be approximately 620 years old. They may have belonged to Ona Indians from Patagonia, as the skulls were unusually thick. Thick skulls are a common trait among Ona Indians. The orangutan jaw is around 500 years old, perhaps from Sarawak. The elephant molar is thought to be from Tunisia. The hippopotamus tooth is thought to have come from Malta or perhaps Sicily. The canine tooth belonged to a Pleistocene Chimpanzee. The Piltdown remains were purposefully scattered around a quarry in Piltdown, England, so that they could be "discovered" later as evidence for evolution and the development of man from ape. The skulls had been treated with acid. All of the fossil remains were stained with an iron sulfate solution. The canine tooth was painted brown and patched with bubble gum. The molars were filed down. The portion of the orangutan jaw that connected the jaw to its skull was carefully broken so as not to show evidence that this jaw did not belong to a human skull.
The Piltdown Man hoax is thought to have been perpetrated by Charles Dawson, an archaeologist, geologist and fossil collector for the British Museum. However, no one is quite certain who was involved. There are a number of other suspects, including Sir Arthur Smith Woodward, Keeper of the British Museum's Natural History department, and Pierre Teilhard de Chardin, a paleontologist and Jesuit theologian.

</doc>
<doc id="81463" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81463" title="Dozwil">
Dozwil

Dozwil is a municipality of the district of Arbon in the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="81464" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81464" title="Egnach">
Egnach

Egnach is a municipality of the district of Arbon in the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland.
It is on Lake Constance.

</doc>
<doc id="81465" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81465" title="Erlen">
Erlen

Erlen is a municipality of the district of Bischofszell in the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="81466" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81466" title="Ermatingen">
Ermatingen

Ermatingen is a municipality of the district of Kreuzlingen in the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="81468" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81468" title="Eschenz">
Eschenz

Eschenz is a municipality of the district of Steckborn in the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="81469" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81469" title="Eschlikon">
Eschlikon

Eschlikon is a municipality of the district of Münchwilen in the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="81475" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81475" title="Felben-Wellhausen">
Felben-Wellhausen

Felben-Wellhausen is a municipality of the district of Frauenfeld in the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="81476" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81476" title="Fischingen, Switzerland">
Fischingen, Switzerland

Fischingen is a municipality of the district of Münchwilen in the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="81477" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81477" title="Gachnang">
Gachnang

Gachnang is a municipality of the district of Frauenfeld in the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="81478" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81478" title="Gottlieben">
Gottlieben

Gottlieben is a municipality of the district of Kreuzlingen in the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="81479" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81479" title="Güttingen">
Güttingen

Güttingen is a municipality of the district of Kreuzlingen in the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="81482" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81482" title="TNT (couriers)">
TNT (couriers)

TNT is a delivery company that delivers packages either world-wide or within a country by couriers. The company picks up parcels from the sender and then delivers them to the addressee. TNT Airways, based in Liège Airport, is the airline of TNT, using more than 40 planes to reach 70 destinations in Europe every night.
TNT N.V., through its two divisions, Express and Mail, is part of the global transportation and distribution industry, and dedicated to providing delivery solutions to its customers. TNT serves more than 200 countries and employs around 160,000 people.
Over 2009, TNT reported €10.4 billion in revenues, an operating income of €648 million and cash from operating activities of €1 billion. TNT N.V. is listed and traded on Euronext Amsterdam by NYSE Euronext (ticker "TNT").
TNT has a history spanning more than 250 years. Its Dutch roots can be traced back to 1752. But it wasn’t until 1946 that the company known as TNT was born, on the other side of the world, in Australia. In the 60 years since then, TNT has grown into a global enterprise, even operating its own aircraft. Much of this growth has come from take-overs and acquisitions. In 1996, TNT was acquired by the Dutch company KPN (formerly PTT Post).
All packages are delivered to a local warehouse. A courier collects the packages from the warehouse and delivers them to the address on the package. Couriers will also collect packages from a certain area and take them to the warehouse where they can be sorted and sent to the warehouse nearest the receiver’s address.
In the United Kingdom, couriers are often part-time workers, delivering packages using their own cars. They collect and deliver packages to any house in a certain postcode area. This way, the TNT company can be sure of delivering to any house in the area.

</doc>
<doc id="81484" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81484" title="TNT">
TNT

The letters TNT can mean many things:

</doc>
<doc id="81496" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81496" title="The Bad Beginning">
The Bad Beginning

The Bad Beginning is a book by Lemony Snicket. It is the first book in a series called "A Series of Unfortunate Events". The book was released in 1999.
Violet, Klaus and Sunny Baudelaire were enjoying a day at Briny Beach. Mr. Poe, a banker and friend of the family, went to the beach to them that their parents had died in a fire which also destroyed their home. Mr. Poe is the executor of the Baudelaire fortune. It is his responsibility to put the children with a guardian and take care of their money until Violet turns eighteen (the legal age to handle money).
The Baudelaire children were taken to their new guardian Count Olaf. Olaf is a distant relative of the children. He works as an actor. On their way, they met Justice Strauss. Strauss is a kind and friendly judge who lives in the house next to them. She tells the children that they are welcome in her home anytime, which has a library in it. Count Olaf is a very cruel, filthy man. He has one long eyebrow and a strange tattoo of an eye on his left ankle. Olaf lives in a dirty musty house. Most importantly, he only adopted the children to get their money. He constantly made them do chores and other things, while only giving them with one bed to sleep in. Count Olaf also refers them as "orphans" instead of "children".
Olaf's theatre troupe was coming to his house that night to practice. Olaf told the children that they had to make dinner for everyone. There was no food in the house, so the children went to the marketplace with Justice Strauss to buy the ingredients for Pasta Puttanesca. Count Olaf complained that he wanted roast beef but he had never told them this. He became very mad and hit Klaus across the face. The children went to Mr. Poe at his bank in order to get help. Mr. Poe told them that Olaf may raise them however he wants. He then called Olaf to tell him of the Baudelaires' visit. When they got back to their home, Olaf told the children that he was sorry. He also told them that they would be in an upcoming play, called "The Marvelous Marriage" written by Al Funcoot. Olaf would play the groom, Violet would be the bride, and Klaus and Sunny would be people in the audience.
The children spent the day at Justice Strauss's home. While Violet and Sunny were helping in the garden, Klaus was reading law books in the library. He took a book on nuptial law out of the library with him when they return home. Klaus spent the entire night reading about how they could stop Count Olaf's plan to get their money. He learned that two people can be married if they sign a document and say their wedding vows in the presence of a legal judge. Olaf planned to marry Violet during the play to get control of the money. When Klaus talked to Count Olaf about this, he only smiled and laughed. Klaus ran to wake up his sisters but Sunny was not there. Violet and Klaus followed Olaf outside. They learned that Sunny was being held inside a birdcage at the top of the tower.
Count Olaf told them that one of his henchmen had kidnapped Sunny while they were sleeping. He warned them that if they did not do what he told them to do during the play, the cage will be released and Sunny would fall to her death. That night, Violet made a grappling hook to reach the top of the tower but she was kept captive with Klaus until the play began.
The play was performed. Olaf stopped it after the wedding scene to say that he and Violet were now married. Justice Strauss said that Violet could not marry because she was not old enough. Olaf said that she could be married if her parent or guardian allowed it. As her guardian, he allowed to get married. Sunny was returned to them. Violet said that she was right-handed but signed the document with her left hand. Judge Strauss said that this made the marriage not legal. Olaf escaped when one of his henchmen turned off the theater's lights. Just as Violet was about to turn the lights back on, Olaf quietly said that he would always be after them, and that when he got their fortune, he would kill them with his own hands. Justice Strauss was willing to adopt the Baudelaires, but Mr. Poe told her that their parents' will said a relative must care for them. They got into Mr. Poe's car and it drove away as Justice Strauss waved goodbye.

</doc>
<doc id="81497" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81497" title="Count Olaf">
Count Olaf

Count Olaf or Al Funcoot is the principal villain from Lemony Snicket's "A Series of Unfortunate Events". His main goal throughout the series is to inherit or steal the Baudelaire fortune. He attempts numerous acts to try to get that fortune, such as trying to marry Violet, kidnap Sunny, and trip Klaus to have him fall and break his glasses (Miserable Mill) etc. He has a tattoo of an eye on his ankle.

</doc>
<doc id="81504" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81504" title="Warhammer 40,000">
Warhammer 40,000

Warhammer 40,000 also called 40K is a table-top game in which model armies fight against each other on miniature terrain. It is played using dice to decide what happens and a ruler to tell how far a unit moves.
Each army has many types of weaponry. Each type has different strengths and armor piercing value (AP). There are also different types of units in each army. All units have different statistics which the players use to their advantage when playing.
Two or more players are needed for a game. Each player takes it in turns to (in order) move, shoot, then assault. Each unit has a rating for "ballistic skill", "weapon skill", "strength", "toughness", "wounds", "initiative", "leadership" and "armor save" skill.
The armies include: Necrons, Tyranids, Space Marines, Chaos Space Marines, Eldar, Dark Eldar, Tau, Orks, Witchunters, Daemonhunters and Imperial Guard.
The Necrons are the greatest race in the galaxy. Nothing will destroy them and in the end they shall win over everything. Necrons are mysterious, silent and skeleton-like warriors who are enslaved to the ancient star gods called the C'tan (Pronounced Ki-Tan).
60 Million years ago (60,000,000) they were a living race called the Necrontyr (Pronounced Neck-cron-tir), who were cursed with a cancer which made all of their lives really short. They got jealous of a race called the Old Ones (not much is known about them) who could live for a very long time, but the Necrontyr had better technology. Then they discovered the Star Gods (C'tan). The first one they managed to contact is called "The Nightbringer". The Nightbringer Started eating all of the Necrontyr's souls. The Necrontyr grew fearful, but managed to make The Nightbringer believe that other races existed. They offered to give The Nightbringer a physical "Living Metal" body (see below) (as it was a being of pure energy). Then they managed to find other C'tan, who were less hungry. After a while a C'tan called The Deceiver (who delights in trickery and mischief) convinced the Necrontyr to make themselves bodies made out of living metal. Most of them accepted. But what they did not know is that they were tricked, most of them (except a few; The Necron Lords) lost their souls and memories, and become slaves to the C'tan. The C'tan used them to "Harvest" all the other races that existed around that time to feed the C'tan. Then the Deceiver convinced the other C'tan that they tasted really good, and all of the C'tan started eating each other. After a while only 4 Remained, The Nightbringer, The Deceiver, The Outsider (God of Craziness) and The Void Dragon (God of Technology). Eventually they realized they were losing the war with the Old Ones and all the other Races, and escaped to "Tombs Worlds" places where no life exists, they then went to sleep.60 Million years later, they have begun to awaken...
Necrons have powerful technology and armour, their armour and weaponry is made from something called "Living Metal", which can change and shape its form, allowing it to fix itself. The Necrons are one of most ancient races in the Warhammer 40,000 universe. They can be compared to traditional Undead such as vampires, skeletons and zombies. They are most likely based on the robots in the Terminator movies.
In the storyline the Tyranids are merciless predators from another galaxy. They completely eat whole planets before moving on. Tyranids can be compared to the Alien in Ridley Scott's Alien movies.
The Space Marines are an army of super humans. They were genetically changed to defend humanity in the Warhammer 40,000 universe. There are lots of different groups of Space Marines. These groups are called chapters. All of the chapters are separate from each other. Each chapter has 1000 soldiers in it, and its own uniform, history and equipment. Some chapters have special rules in the game and types of soldier that only they can use. Chapters get and train their own recruits separately. The Space Marine in charge of each chapter is called the Chapter Master.
A lot of Space Marine equipment is very old and very holy. Mostly No-one knows in the Imperium apart from parts of the "Cult of the Machine god", how to make any more of some things they use, like the powerful Dreadnought armour, which is why the space marines send off mechanically gifted Space marines to the "Adputus Mechanicus" to train in order to become an elite of the machine god, and in battle they repair and recover such things as their Rhino Troop Carriers, or their other tanks. Space Marines wear special suits of armour, often holy, called power armour, to help them fight better. All Space Marines are genetically engineered to be very tough. They can live for a very long time, and have an extra heart and an extra set of lungs. They are also trained to be very brave and religious, as well as being trained to be good at shooting and fighting. Some Space Marines have psychic powers (think magic powers) - these are called Librarians in most chapters, they can have powers such as in the case of one from the "Dark Angles" Chapter, shoot what appears to be flamethrower blasts from his eyes and mouth. There are also Space Marines who act like priests, called Chaplains, who forward the worship of the God Emperor of Man.
A Space Marine army generally includes:
Chaos Space Marines must kill everything and let the galaxies burn. They are Space Marines who went evil 10,000 years ago. Their leader, the warmaster Horus, decided that he was stronger and more just than the Emperor, and they had a great war, the Horus Heresy, that destroyed many planets. Horus nearly won, but the Emperor was stronger. In the end, Horus was killed by the Emperor's sacrifice and the Space Marines that had followed him went to the Eye of Terror, where they still live. Chaos Marines look extremely different to regular Space Marines, and often have spiky protrusions, skulls and mutations. They also have special units that are dedicated to their gods and are useful in different roles. 
Daemons are evil spirits of Chaos that have come into our universe to destroy stuff. Depending on which god they serve, they can look and play very different - Khorne, the blood god, has vicious fighters, who use large Swords and Axes, while Tzeentch, the Magic god, has demons with constantly changing body parts, that can shoot magical fire. Nurgle, the Plague god, has really tough demons, which mostly look like one horned zombies, and Slannesh, the god of Sin, drugs and pleasure, has really fast demons, which look like barely dressed women.

</doc>
<doc id="81508" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81508" title="Hauptwil-Gottshaus">
Hauptwil-Gottshaus

Hauptwil-Gottshaus is a municipality in the district of Bischofszell in the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="81509" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81509" title="Hefenhofen">
Hefenhofen

Hefenhofen is a municipality of the district of Arbon in the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="81510" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81510" title="Herdern">
Herdern

Herdern is a municipality of the district of Steckborn in the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="81511" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81511" title="Hohentannen">
Hohentannen

Hohentannen is a municipality of the district of Bischofszell in the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="81513" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81513" title="Homburg, Switzerland">
Homburg, Switzerland

Homburg is a municipality of the district of Steckborn in the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="81514" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81514" title="Horn, Switzerland">
Horn, Switzerland

Horn is a municipality of the district of Arbon in the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="81515" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81515" title="Termen">
Termen

Termen is a municipality of the district of Brig in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="81516" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81516" title="Zwischbergen">
Zwischbergen

Zwischbergen is a municipality of the district of Brig in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="81517" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81517" title="Daspletosaurus">
Daspletosaurus

Daspletosaurus ("frightful lizard") was a tyrannosaurid theropod dinosaur that was 26-33 feet (8-10 m) long and weighed perhaps 2-3 tons (3000 kg). 
It had tiny horns behind its eyes and its arms were a bit longer than those of "T. rex". It may have been an ancestor of "Tyrannosaurus". This bipedal meat-eater lived in marshes by streams in what is now Alberta, Canada, during the Upper Cretaceous period, 76-72 million years ago. It may have preyed upon Triceratops. It was named by D.A. Russell in 1970. The type species is "D. torosus".

</doc>
<doc id="81521" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81521" title="1447">
1447

Year 1447 was a common year starting on Sunday.

</doc>
<doc id="81523" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81523" title="1268">
1268


</doc>
<doc id="81534" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81534" title="Mitte">
Mitte

Mitte was the most central locality of Berlin ("Mitte" is German for centre). It was set up in 1920, when Groß-Berlin was set up, and in 2001 it was joined with Wedding and Tiergarten to make a new borough called Bezirk Mitte.
Mitte was in East Berlin, and had a lot of Berlin's historic sites. The Pergamon Museum, Unter den Linden and the Brandenburg Gate were in Mitte.
In 2001 Mitte was joined with two boroughs from West Berlin. This helped to break down the idea of a divided city, and put the important tourist centre of Berlin under one local government.

</doc>
<doc id="81538" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81538" title="Groß-Berlin">
Groß-Berlin

Groß-Berlin or Greater Berlin was created by an act of the Prussian parliament made on 27 April 1920. The act was called the Greater Berlin Act () for short. Its full name was the "Law Regarding the Reconstruction of the New Local Authority of Berlin" ().
The act said that on 1 October 1920 "Greater Berlin" should be taken away from the Province of Brandenburg and become a new district.
The new district was made up of:
The new Berlin was 13 times bigger than the old. Its area went from to and the population doubled from approximately 1.9 million to near 4 million, with almost 1.2 million of these new inhabitants coming from the 7 surrounding towns alone.
Groß-Berlin was divided into 20 boroughs ("Verwaltungsbezirke"):
Apart from minor changes, the city boundary defined in the law is the same as today, except for some changes made during the time of the Berlin Wall. During the 1970s and 1980s three new boroughs were made in East Berlin when other boroughs were split up.

</doc>
<doc id="81542" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81542" title="Pardon">
Pardon

A pardon is a decision to allow a convicted person to be free. Pardons are sometimes given to people who are wrongly convicted. In that case, the person is cleared of that conviction, as if never convicted.
The practice varies greatly between countries. In the United States pardon may be granted by the President.

</doc>
<doc id="81543" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81543" title="Medellín, Spain">
Medellín, Spain

Medellín is a village in the province of Badajoz, Extremadura, Spain. It is notable as the birthplace of Hernán Cortés in 1485 and the site of the Battle of Medellín, during the Peninsular War. 
The city was named after the Roman general Quintus Caecilius Metellus Pius who founded it as a military base for his operations in western Iberia. It was originally called Metellinum. 

</doc>
<doc id="81544" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81544" title="Sean Watkins">
Sean Watkins

Sean Watkins (b. February 18, 1977) is an American guitarist. He is best known as a member of the Californian acoustic trio Nickel Creek. 

</doc>
<doc id="81545" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81545" title="Sara Watkins">
Sara Watkins

Sara Watkins (June 8, 1981) is an American violinist. She is most famous as a member of Californian bluegrass band Nickel Creek. 

</doc>
<doc id="81547" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81547" title="Elara (moon)">
Elara (moon)

Elara is a non-spherical moon of Jupiter. It was found by Charles Dillon Perrine at Lick Observatory in 1905 and is named after the mother by Zeus of the giant Tityus.
Elara did not get its present name until 1975; before then, it was simply known as . It was sometimes called "Hera" between 1955 and 1975.
Elara belongs to the Himalia group, five moons orbiting between 11,000,000 and 13,000,000 km from Jupiter at an inclination of about 27.5°. Its orbital elements are as of January 2000. They are changing a lot due to Solar and planetary perturbations.
In February and March 2007, the New Horizons spacecraft to Pluto made a number of pictures of Elara, culminating in photos from a distance of five million miles.

</doc>
<doc id="81548" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81548" title="Crochet hook">
Crochet hook

A crochet hook is a tool used for making crochet fabric. The hook at the end is used to grab yarn. The tool also has a flat part for fingers to hold during work. Crochet hooks come in different sizes for different sizes of yarn.

</doc>
<doc id="81550" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81550" title="Pterodaustro">
Pterodaustro

Pterodaustro was a pterosaur. It is found in the Lower Cretaceous of South America. "Pterodaustro" most likely fed on tiny invertebrates: zooplankton and krill. 
Pterodaustro was medium sized, having a wing-span about two meters in length and having only been found in Brazil.
"Pterodaustro" probably waded in shallow water like flamingos, straining food with its tooth comb, a method called "filter feeding". Once it caught its food, "Pterodaustro" probably mashed it with the small, globular teeth present in its upper jaw.
At least two specimens have been found with gizzard stones in the stomach cavity, the first ever reported for any pterosaur. These clusters of small stones with angled edges support the idea that "Pterodaustro" ate mainly small, hard-shelled aquatic crustaceans using filter-feeding. Such invertebrates are abundant in the sediment of the fossil site
In 2004 a "Pterodaustro" embryo in an egg was reported. The egg was elongated, six centimetres long and 22 millimetres across and its mainly flexible shell was covered with a thin layer, 0.3 mm thick, of calcite.
Comparisons between the scleral rings (bony ring round edge of eye) of "Pterodaustro" and modern birds and reptiles suggest that it may have been nocturnal, and may have had similar activity patterns to those modern ducks which feed at night.

</doc>
<doc id="81552" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81552" title="Dsungaripterus">
Dsungaripterus

Dsungaripterus ("Wing of Junggar Basin") was a pterosaur with a wingspan of 10 feet (3 m). It had an unusual bony crest running along its snout and long, narrow, curved jaws with a pointed tip. The crest may have acted as a rudder when flying or may have been a secondary sex characteristic. 
"Dsungaripterus"'s head and neck were together almost a metre long. Its most notable feature are its long, narrow, upcurved jaws with a pointed tip, making the animal look like a pair of flying tweezers. It had no teeth in the front part of its jaws, which were probably used to remove shellfish and worms from cracks in rocks or from sandy, muddy beaches. It had knobbly flat teeth more to the back of the jaw that were well suited for crushing shellfish.

</doc>
<doc id="81556" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81556" title="Himalia (moon)">
Himalia (moon)

Himalia is the biggest non-spherical moon of Jupiter. It was found by Charles Dillon Perrine at the Lick Observatory on December 3 1904. It is named after the nymph Himalia who bore three sons of Zeus (the Greek equivalent of Jupiter).
Himalia did not get its present name until 1975; before then, it was simply known as or Jupiter Satellite VI, although calls for a full name appeared shortly after its and Elara's discovery; A.C.D. Crommelin wrote in 1905,
Unfortunately the numeration of Jupiter's satellites is now in precisely the same confusion as that of Saturn's system was before the numbers were abandoned and names substituted. A similar course would seem to be advisable here; the designation V for the inner satellite was tolerated for a time, as it was considered to be in a class by itself; but it has now got companions, so that this subterfuge disappears. The substitution of names for numerals is certainly more poetic.
The moon was sometimes called Hestia, after the Greek goddess, from 1955 to 1975.
It is the biggest member of the group that bears its name, the moons orbiting between 11.4 and 13 million kilometers from Jupiter at an inclination of about 27.5°. The orbital elements are as of January 2000. They are changing a lot due to Solar and planetary perturbations.
A day on Himalia is only about 7 3/4 hours long. Himalia appears grey, like the other members of its group, similar to a C-type asteroid. Measurements by "Cassini" confirm a featureless spectrum, with a slight absorption at 3 μm which could indicate the presence of water.
In November 2000, the Cassini spacecraft, going to Saturn, made a number of pictures of Himalia, including photos from a distance as close as 4.4 million km. The moon covers only a few pixels, but seems to be a stretched object with axes 150 ± 20 and 120 ± 20 km, close to the Earth-based estimations.
In February and March 2007, the New Horizons spacecraft to Pluto made a series of pictures of Himalia, culminating in photos from a distance of eight million km. Again, Himalia appears only a few pixels across.

</doc>
<doc id="81565" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81565" title="Brachychiton">
Brachychiton

Brachychiton (Bottletree or Kurrajong) is a genus of 31 species of trees and large shrubs. They grow naturally in Australia and New Guinea. Fossils from New South Wales and New Zealand are believed to be 50 million years old. The name "Brachychiton" is comes from the Greek "brachys", meaning "short", and "chiton", meaning "tunic". This refers to its loose seed coverings.
They grow to 4–30m tall. All species have separate male and female flowers on the same plant. The female flowers have five separate carpels that can each form a woody fruit that has several seeds.

</doc>
<doc id="81568" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81568" title="Themisto (moon)">
Themisto (moon)

Themisto or , is a small prograde non-spherical moon of Jupiter. It was found in 1975, lost, and then refound in 2000.
Themisto was first found by Charles T. Kowal and Elizabeth Roemer on September 30, 1975, reported on October 3, 1975 and designated . However, not enough observations were made to establish an orbit and it was subsequently lost.
Themisto appeared as a footnote in astronomy textbooks into the 1980s. Then, in 2000, a seemingly new moon was found by Scott S. Sheppard, David C. Jewitt, Yanga R. Fernández and Eugene A. Magnier, and was designated . It was soon confirmed that this was the same as the 1975 object. The Sheppard et al. announcement was immediately correlated with an August 6 2000 observation by the team of Brett J. Gladman, John J. Kavelaars, Jean-Marc Petit, Hans Scholl, Matthew J. Holman, Brian G. Marsden, Philip D. Nicholson and Joseph A. Burns — an observation that was reported to the Minor Planet Center but not published as an IAU Circular (IAUC).
In October 2002 it was officially named after Themisto, daughter of the river god Inachus by Zeus (Jupiter) in Greek mythology.
Themisto's orbit is unusual. Unlike most of Jupiter's moons, which orbit in groups, Themisto orbits alone, midway between the Galilean moons and the first group of prograde irregulars.
Themisto is about 8 kilometers in diameter (assuming an albedo of 0.04)

</doc>
<doc id="81570" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81570" title="Thebe (moon)">
Thebe (moon)

Thebe or ', is the fourth of Jupiter's known moons (by distance from the planet). It was found by Stephen P. Synnott in images from the "Voyager 1" space probe taken on March 5, 1979 and was given the designation '. Later, it was found on images dating back to February 27, 1979. In 1983 it was officially named after the mythological nymph Thebe who was the daughter of the river god Asopus and a lover of Zeus (the Greek equivalent of Jupiter).
Thebe is the farthest of the inner Jovian moons. It orbits Jupiter at a distance of ~222,000 km (3.11 Jupiter radii). The orbit of Thebe has an orbital eccentricity of ~0.018 and an inclination of ~1.08° relative to the equator of Jupiter. These values are unusually high for a closer moon and can be explained by the past influence of the closest Galilean satellite Io; in the past, several mean motion resonances with Io would have passed through Thebe's orbit as Io gradually moved away from Jupiter, and these excited Thebe's orbit.
Thebe is not a sphere, with the closest ellipsoidal approximation being 116x98x84 km. Its bulk density and mass are not known but assuming that it mean density is like that of Amalthea (~0.86 g/cm³) its mass can be estimated at ~4.3×10 kg.
The surface of Thebe is dark and appears to be reddish in color.
Thebe was found in "Voyager 1" images by Steve Synnott, a member of the Voyager navigation team. However, before the "Galileo" spacecraft arrived at Jupiter, little was known about it. "Galileo" imaged almost all of the surface of Thebe and put constraints on its composition.

</doc>
<doc id="81573" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81573" title="Antagonist">
Antagonist

An antagonist is the character in a story who has evil intent. The antagonist(s) is the opposing character to a protagonist, which are the characters that have good intent. Antagonists normally have reasoning for committing acts of evil. Though it is rare, it is possible for an antagonist to be an evil doer committing acts of which a protagonist might through acts which may seem evil, which throw off most readers and characters of a story.
As an example, in the Disney movie "The Lion King", the main antagonist is Scar.
A secondary antagonist is an evil doer who serves to a main antagonist, or a character who is a minor enemy of the protagonist. This does not, however, mean that this character is necessarily evil, just annoying or against the hero or heroine.
It is possible for a protagonist to become an antagonist. A well-known example of this is in the "Star Wars" movie series, when Anakin Skywalker turns from a Jedi to a Sith, to become Darth Vader.

</doc>
<doc id="81579" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81579" title="Joe Grant">
Joe Grant

Joe Grant (May 15, 1908 - May 9, 2005) was an American animator, writer and illustrator. He worked for Walt Disney between 1933 and 1949 and again from 1989 until his death just a few days before his 97th birthday.
Joe Grant was born at 1908 in New York City. After school, he began his career as a caricaturist. In 1933, he was hired by Disney for the Mickey Mouse short movie "Mickey's Gala Premiere". In the next years, he, Albert Hurter, Dick Huemer and Fred Moore were the studios' most important character animator. He created the witch in "Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs" (1937). Grant and Huemer created books for "Fantasia" and "Dumbo". Later, he was the head of the "Character Animation Department" at Disney. This department was closed in 1949 and Grant left Disney.
40 years later, in 1989, Grant began working for Disney again. He created characters and sketches for Disney's "Beauty and the Beast", (1991). The movie was the first animated movie which was nominated for the Academy Award for "Best Picture". He was the only person who worked on "Fantasia" (1940) and "Fantasia 2000".
In 2005, his animation short movie "Lorenzo" was nominated for an Academy Award. Just a few weeks later, Joe Grant died while working with his drawing board at the age of 96 in Glendale, California.

</doc>
<doc id="81581" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81581" title="Ganymede (moon)">
Ganymede (moon)

Ganymede is the largest moon of Jupiter. It is also the largest moon in the Solar System. Ganymede is larger in diameter than Mercury, but has only about half its mass. Ganymede is much less dense. Ganymede is part of a group called the Galilean Satellites. These also include Io, Europa and Callisto.
Galileo Galilei discovered this moon in 1610. Simon Marius suggested the name Ganymede soon after. In Greek mythology, Ganymede was Zeus' cup-bearer. This name and the names of the other Galilean satellites were not favoured for a long time, and were not put into common use until the mid-20th century. Instead, it is simply referred to by its Roman numeral designation (a system that was introduced by Galileo) as or as the "third satellite of Jupiter". Ganymede is the only Galilean moon of Jupiter named after a male figure.
Ganymede is composed of roughly equal amounts of silicate rock and water ice. Its body has an iron-rich, liquid core, and an internal ocean that may contain more water than all of Earth's oceans together. Its surface has dark regions, with impact craters dated to four billion years ago. This covers about a third of the satellite. Lighter regions, crosscut by grooves and ridges and only slightly less ancient, cover the rest. The cause of the light terrain's disrupted geology is not fully known, but was likely the result of tectonic activity caused by tidal heating.

</doc>
<doc id="81583" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81583" title="Callisto (moon)">
Callisto (moon)

Callisto is a moon of the planet Jupiter, discovered in 1610 by Galileo Galilei. It is the second largest moon orbiting Jupiter, after Ganymede, and the third largest moon in the Solar System. Callisto is almost the same size as the planet Mercury, being 99% the diameter of the planet, but is much less massive. Of the four Galilean moons of Jupiter, Callisto is the farthest out, with an orbital radius of about 1,880,000 kilometres. It does not form part of the orbital resonance that affects three inner Galilean satellites, Io, Europa and Ganymede. Like the Earth's Moon, Callisto rotates synchronously with its orbital period. This means that one side is always turned toward Jupiter, while the other side never sees the face of the planet. Callisto's surface is less affected by Jupiter's magnetosphere than the seven moons nearer the planet.
Callisto has about equal amounts of rock and ices, with an average density of about 1.83 g/cm³. Compounds on the surface include water ice, carbon dioxide, silicates, and organics. The Galileo spacecraft made investigations of the moon, and revealed that Callisto may have a small silicate core and possibly a subsurface ocean of liquid water more than 100 kilometers deep.
The surface of Callisto is heavily cratered and extremely old. The surface does not show any sign of processes occurring below the surface such as plate tectonics, earthquakes or volcanoes, and is thought to have evolved mainly under the influence of meteorite impacts. Notable surface features include multi-ring structures, impact craters in different shapes, and chains of craters (known as catenae) and associated scarps, ridges and deposits. On a smaller scale, the surface is varied. It is made up of frost on hill tops, surrounded by a smooth blanket of dark material in valleys. This is thought to result from the degradation of small landforms, caused by sublimation. This is supported by the few small impact craters, and the presence of numerous small knobs which are thought to be their remains. The absolute ages of the landforms are not known. 
Callisto is surrounded by an extremely thin atmosphere made out of carbon dioxide and probably oxygen molecules. There is also a rather intense ionosphere. An ocean is thought to exist within Callisto. This may mean that life might exist. However, this is less likely than on nearby Europa. Various space probes from Pioneers 10–11 to Galileo and Cassini−Huygens have studied the moon. Callisto is considered the most suitable place for humans to settle for future exploration of the Jovian system.

</doc>
<doc id="81592" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81592" title="Garth Brooks">
Garth Brooks

Troyal Garth Brooks (born February 7, 1962) is an American country music singer and songwriter. He uses rock elements into his recordings and live performances. Brooks was successful in the country singles and country album charts and later also proved popular in the mainstream pop arena, exposing country music to a larger audience.
Brooks has had one of the most successful careers in popular music history, with over 70 hit singles and 15 charted albums to his credit. Throughout the 1990s he broke records for both sales and concert attendance. In 1999, looking to expand his career boundaries, Brooks began a multimedia project involving a fictitious alter ego known as Chris Gaines.
In 2001, Brooks officially retired from recording and performing, after having conflicts between his career and family. During this time he has sold millions of albums through an exclusive distribution deal with Wal-Mart and has released new singles from time to time. 
On November 6, 2007, "The Ultimate Hits" was released. Brooks came out of retirement in 2007 when he opened a new arena in Kansas City, Missouri. He left retirement again in 2013 to play at the Encore Casino in Las Vegas.

</doc>
<doc id="81593" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81593" title="Baden">
Baden

Baden is a historical state in south-west Germany.
The Margraviate of Baden () was made in 1112. From 1190 to 1771, Baden was broken up into different smaller states. When the Holy Roman Empire ended in 1806, the Margraviate of Baden became the larger and more powerful Grand Duchy of Baden (). After World War I ended in 1918, the monarchy in Baden ended so Baden became a republic. 
After World War II ended in 1945, Baden was cut in half: the north half became part of Württemberg-Baden and the south half became South Baden. South Baden changed its name to "Baden" in 1947. Baden was one of the original states of the Federal Republic of Germany. In 1952, it joined with Württemberg-Baden and Württemberg-Hohenzollern to make the state of Baden-Württemberg.

</doc>
<doc id="81603" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81603" title="Hüttlingen, Switzerland">
Hüttlingen, Switzerland

Hüttlingen is a municipality of the district of Frauenfeld, in the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="81604" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81604" title="Hüttwilen">
Hüttwilen

Hüttwilen is a municipality of the district of Steckborn in the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland.
The lakes Nussbaumersee, Hüttwilersee and Hasensee are found in the municipality.

</doc>
<doc id="81605" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81605" title="Kemmental">
Kemmental

Kemmental is a municipality of the district of Kreuzlingen in the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland.
The municipality was created on January 1, 1996 by mergxer of the formar municipalities of Alterswilen, Altishausen, Ellighausen, Lippoldswilen, Neuwilen, Siegershausen, Dotnacht and Hugelshofen. 

</doc>
<doc id="81606" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81606" title="Kesswil">
Kesswil

Kesswil is a municipality of the district of Arbon in the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland.
The village was the birthplace of the psychiatrist Carl Jung.

</doc>
<doc id="81607" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81607" title="Kradolf-Schönenberg">
Kradolf-Schönenberg

Kradolf-Schönenberg is a municipality of the district of Bischofszell in the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="81608" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81608" title="Langrickenbach">
Langrickenbach

Langrickenbach is a municipality of the district of Kreuzlingen in the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="81609" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81609" title="Lengwil">
Lengwil

Lengwil is a municipality of the district of Kreuzlingen in the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="81632" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81632" title="Mitsubishi Model A">
Mitsubishi Model A

The Mitsubishi Model A is the only car built by the Mitsubishi Shipbuilding Company, a member of the Mitsubishi "keiretsu" which would later become Mitsubishi Motors, and the first automobile made in Japan. Based on the Fiat "Tipo 3", it was a four-door seven-seat sedan powered by a front-mounted 26kW 2.8 litre straight-4 engine driving the rear wheels, and could drive as fast as 20 mph. 22 were built at the company's Kobe shipyard between 1917 and 1921.

</doc>
<doc id="81653" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81653" title="Gopher (search engine)">
Gopher (search engine)

Gopher is a protocol. It was designed for distributing, searching, and retrieving documents over the Internet. Gopher represented an early alternative to the World Wide Web.
The gopher protocol has some things HTTP-based clients do not have. It is based on menus. An item selected from a menu will either open another menu, or a document.
Because of concern over possible licensing fees, and the relative flexibility of the World Wide Web, the protocol did not get much use. There are less than 200 gopher servers still actively maintained. Many of the remaining gopher servers are run by individuals. Most of them are rarely updated except for the ones run by enthusiasts of the protocol. A handful of new servers are set up every year by hobbyists - over 50 have been set up and added to Floodgap's list since 1999. Today Gopher exists as an almost forgotten corner of the Internet. - one can publish email addresses in plaintext without having to worry about spam, and publish large amounts of data without the risk of the server's bandwidth becoming saturated by overuse.
In the early stages of mobile Internet access, some suggested that the simple interface of Gopher would be a good match for mobile phones and Personal digital assistants (PDAs). Web-based solutions also won in the mobile space, with technologies like Wireless Markup Language (WML)/Wireless Application Protocol (WAP), DoCoMo i-mode, XHTML Basic or other adaptations of HTML and XML. 
Several server software packages are still maintained and updated for the Gopher protocol. For example, the PyGopherd Gopher server provides a built-in WML front-end to Gopher sites served with it. The Motsognir Gopher server provides PHP5 and Plugin support.
Many current web-browsers have stopped supporting the gopher protocol directly, such as Mozilla Firefox. But 3rd-party addons and plugins are still available to replace browser-based Gopher functionality.

</doc>
<doc id="81655" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81655" title="Inner moons of Jupiter">
Inner moons of Jupiter

The inner moons of Jupiter are four small moons that orbit close to Jupiter. These moons are closely interconnected with the rings of Jupiter and serve as both sources and sinks of the ring's material. Their semi-major axes range between 128,000 and 222,000 km.
The members of the group are (in order from closest to farthest):
Metis and Adrastea each orbit Jupiter in less than one Jovian day (the time it takes for Jupiter to rotate once). Phobos, a moon of Mars, is the only other moon known to orbit its planet in less than the length of that planet's day.

</doc>
<doc id="81658" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81658" title="Galilean moons">
Galilean moons

The Galilean moons are the four satellites of Jupiter found by Galileo Galilei: Io, Europa, Ganymede, and Callisto. They are by far the biggest of the many moons of Jupiter.
Galileo Galilei found what came to be known as the Galilean moons around December 1609 or January 1610. As a result of improvements he made to the telescope, Galileo was able to see celestial bodies better than ever before in human history. Using his improved telescope, Galileo was the first to see four moons of Jupiter.
On January 7, 1610, Galileo wrote a letter containing the first mention of Jupiter’s moons. At the time, he only saw three of them, and he believed them to be fixed stars near Jupiter. He continued to look at them from January 8 through March 2. In these observations, he found a fourth body, and also observed that the four were not fixed stars, but rather were orbiting Jupiter.<ref name="Galilei/Helden, 15-16">Galilei/Helden, 15-16.</ref>
Galileo’s discovery proved the importance of the telescope as a tool for astronomers. It showed there were objects in space to be found, which were not seen by the naked eye. More importantly, the discovery of celestial bodies orbiting something other than the Earth dealt a blow to the then-accepted Ptolemaic world system. This held that the Earth was at the center of the universe and all other celestial bodies revolved around it. That Jupiter has four moons while Earth has only one further undercut the near-universal belief that the Earth was the center of the universe both in position and in importance. Galileo's "Sidereus Nuncius" ("Starry Messenger"), which announced celestial observations through his telescope, does not mention Copernican heliocentrism, a theory that placed the Sun at the center of the universe. Nevertheless, Galileo believed in the Copernican theory.
Galileo also developed a method of determining longitude based on the timing of the orbits of the Galilean moons.
A Chinese historian of astronomy claims that Chinese astronomer Gan De observed one of Jupiter's moons in 362 BC, but without a telescope it is difficult to see how this was done.
Galileo called his discovery the Cosmica Sidera ('Cosimo's stars'), in honour of Cosimo II de' Medici (1590–1621), grand-duke of Tuscany, whose patronage he wanted. At the grand-duke's suggestion, Galileo changed the name to Medicea Sidera ('the Medici stars'), honouring all four Medici brothers (Cosimo, Francesco, Carlo, and Lorenzo). The discovery was announced in the "Sidereus Nuncius" ('Starry Messenger'), published in Venice in March 1610, less than two months after the first observations.
Other names put forward, but the names which eventually prevailed were chosen by Simon Marius. Marius claimed to have found the moons at the same time as Galileo: he named them after lovers of the god Zeus (the Greek equivalent of Jupiter): "Io", "Europa", "Ganymede" and "Callisto", in his "Mundus Jovialis", published in 1614.
Galileo refused to use Marius's names and invented the numbering scheme that is still used nowadays, in parallel with proper moon names. 
The numbers run from Jupiter outward, thus I, II, III and IV for Io, Europa, Ganymede and Callisto respectively. Galileo used this system in his notebooks but never actually published it.
The Galilean moons are, in order from closest to Jupiter to farthest away:
All four Galilean moons are bright enough that they could, if they were farther away from Jupiter, be seen without a telescope. They have apparent magnitudes between 4.6 and 5.6 when Jupiter is in opposition with the Sun, and about one unit of magnitude dimmer when Jupiter is in conjunction. The main thing that is hard in observing them is due to the fact that they are very close to Jupiter, and are masked by its brightness. Their maximum angular separations from Jupiter are between 2 and 8 minutes of arc, close to the limit of human visual acuity. Ganymede and Callisto, at their maximum separation, are the likeliest targets for possible naked-eye observation. The easiest way to observe them is to cover Jupiter with an object, e.g. a tree limb or a power line that is perpendicular to the plane of moons' orbits.

</doc>
<doc id="81659" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81659" title="Passion cantata">
Passion cantata

A Passion cantata is a cantata. The cantata takes its theme from the Passion of Jesus Christ, in other words his suffering until his death at the cross. Larger cantatas with this theme are known as oratorios.
Today, most of them are performed in the week before Easter.
In the English repertoire, the two classics are "The Crucifixion" (1887) by Sir John Stainer and "Olivet to Calvary" (1904) by John Henry Maunder. Other works include Sir Arthur Somervell's "The Passion of Christ" (1914), Charles Wood's "St. Mark Passion" (1921) and Eric Thiman's "The Last Supper" (1930).
The most famous Passion cantatas are probably the two composed by Johann Sebastian Bach: the "St John Passion" (1724) and the "St Matthew Passion" (1727). A t first it was believed, St Luke Passion (1730) was also written by him. Now it is thought that he simply rearranged an earlier work.
One notable work in Latin is Arvo Pärt's "Passio Domini Nostri Jesu Christi secundum Joannem" ("The Passion of Our Lord Jesus Christ according to John") of 1982.

</doc>
<doc id="81660" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81660" title="Aberdeen Grammar School">
Aberdeen Grammar School

Aberdeen Grammar School is one of the twelve secondary schools run by the government in the City of Aberdeen, Scotland. It is run by the Aberdeen City Council education department. It is the oldest school in the city. It is one of oldest grammar schools in the United Kingdom. It is around 750 years old. Lord Byron went to the Aberdeen Grammar School. A statue of him has been placed in front of the school. 

</doc>
<doc id="81663" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81663" title="Wireless Application Protocol">
Wireless Application Protocol

The Wireless Application Protocol ("WAP") is a protocol. It was made to allow devices like mobile phones to access the internet. 

</doc>
<doc id="81666" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81666" title="Himalia group">
Himalia group

The Himalia group is a group of prograde non-spherical moons of Jupiter that follow similar orbits to Himalia and are thought to have a common origin.
The known members of the group are (in order from closest to farthest from Jupiter):
The orbit estimate of the recently found moon S/2000 J 11 also qualified it as a member of the group (it appeared to have the same inclination, and a slightly bigger semi-major axis)
but its orbit is not known exactly and the mean orbital elements have not yet been calculated.
The International Astronomical Union (IAU) reserves names in -a for the moons in this group.
The objects in the Himalia group have semi-major axes (distances from Jupiter) in the range of 11,150,000 and 11,750,000 km, inclinations between 26.6° and 28.3°, and eccentricities of between 0.11 and 0.25.
All moons in the group are grey similar to C-type asteroids. It has been suggested that the group could be a remnant of the break-up of an asteroid from the main asteroid belt. The radius of the parent asteroid was probably about 89 km, only a bit bigger than that of Himalia, which retains approximately 87% of the mass of the original body. This indicates the asteroid was not heavily disturbed.

</doc>
