<doc id="198083" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198083" title="The West Wing">
The West Wing

The West Wing is an American television drama created by Aaron Sorkin that was originally shown from September 22, 1999 to May 14, 2006. The series is set in the West Wing of the White House—where the Oval Office and offices of presidential staff are—during the fictional presidency of Josiah Bartlet (played by Martin Sheen).
It first aired on NBC in 1999, and has been shown on many networks in several other countries. The series ended its seven years on television on May 14, 2006.
The show received positive reviews from critics, political science teachers, and former White House workers. In total, "The West Wing" won three Golden Globe Awards and 27 Emmy Awards, including the award for Outstanding Drama Series, which it won four times in a row from 2000 through 2003. The show's ratings were lower in later years, series creator Aaron Sorkin (who wrote or co-wrote 85 of the first 88 episodes) left the show after the fourth season. It was still popular with viewers who have a high-income.
The series was created by Aaron Sorkin. Sorkin served as executive producer for the first episode with director Thomas Schlamme and John Wells. Kristin Harms and Llewellyn Wells were producers for the first episode. Michael Hissrich acted as a co-producer.
The first season proper saw the return of all of the pilot production team along with the addition of Ron Osborn and Jeff Reno as consulting producers and Rick Cleveland as a second co-producer with Robert W. Glass as an associate producer. Glass left the production team after only five episodes. Osborn and Reno departed after nine episodes. Paul Redford served as a story editor throughout the first season. Lawrence O'Donnell, Jr. worked as executive story editor for the second half of the season.
With the second season Kevin Falls became a co-executive producer. Cleveland left the production team and Redford and O'Donnell were promoted to co-producer. Peter Parnell, and Patrick Caddell became co-producers and Julie Herlocker and Mindy Kanaskie became associate producers. O'Donnell was promoted again to producer five episodes into the season and Hissrich joined him twelve episodes into the season.
The third season saw the departure of Parnell, Caddell, and Herlocker and the temporary absence of O'Donnell. Director Christopher Misiano became a supervising producer and Patrick Ward came aboard as an associate producer. Redford was promoted to producer. With the thirteenth episode of the third season director Alex Graves became an additional supervising producer and Eli Attie joined the writing staff as a story editor.
The fourth season marked the temporary departure of Hissrich. Misiano and Graves became co-executive producers alongside Falls. Attie was promoted to executive story editor and Debora Cahn became a staff writer. The fourteenth episode of the season saw Redford promoted to supervising producer and Kanaskie, Ward and Attie promoted to co-producers.
The fifth season saw the departure of both Sorkin and Schlamme as executive producers. Schlamme remained attached to the series as an executive consultant. John Wells remained the sole executive producer and showrunner. Co-executive producer Kevin Falls also left the show. O'Donnell rejoined the production team as a consulting producer. Wells also added Carol Flint, Alexa Junge, Peter Noah and John Sacret Young as consulting producers. Andrew Stearn came aboard as a producer and Attie was promoted to producer. Cahn became story editor and Josh Singer replaced her as staff writer. With the tenth episode Flint, Junge, Noah and Sacret Young became supervising producers.
With the sixth season Misiano and Graves were promoted to executive producers. Redford and Junge left the production team and Dylan K. Massin became a co-producer. Cahn was promoted to executive story editor and Singer replaced her as story editor. Lauren Schmidt filled the staff writer role. The fourth episode saw the departure of original crew member Llewellyn Wells. Debora Cahn was promoted to co-producer with the fourteenth episode.
The seventh season saw Noah and O'Donnell promoted again, this time becoming additional executive producers. Attie became a supervising producer. Hissrich returned to his role as producer for the final season.
"The West Wing" employed a broad ensemble cast to portray the many positions involved in the daily work of the federal government. The President, the First Lady, and the President's senior staff and advisors form the core cast. Many secondary characters, appearing intermittently, complement storylines that generally revolve around this core group.
Each of the main actors made about $75,000 an episode, with Sheen's most recently confirmed salary being $300,000. Rob Lowe also had a six-figure salary, reported to be $100,000, because his character originally was supposed to have a more central role. Disparities in cast salaries led to very public contract disputes, particularly by Janney, Schiff, Spencer, and Whitford. During contract negotiations in 2001, the four were threatened with breach of contract suits by Warner Bros. However, by banding together, they were able to persuade the studio to more than double their salaries. Two years later, the four again demanded a doubling of their salaries, a few months after Warner Bros. had signed new licensing deals with NBC and Bravo.
John Spencer, who played Leo McGarry, died from a heart attack on December 16, 2005 — about a year after his character experienced a nearly fatal heart attack on the show. A brief memorial message from Martin Sheen ran before "Running Mates", the first new episode that aired after Spencer's death. The loss of Spencer's character was addressed by the series beginning with the episode "Election Day", which aired on April 2, 2006.
Different performers had been originally considered for many of the roles. Bradley Whitford states in an interview on the Season 1 DVD that he was originally cast as Sam, though the character of Josh was the role Whitford had wanted and for which he had auditioned. In addition, Josh's character had been written specifically for him by Aaron Sorkin. In the same interview, Janel Moloney states that she had originally auditioned for the role of C.J., and that the role she eventually received, Donna, was not meant to be a recurring character. Other actors who were seriously considered included Alan Alda and Sidney Poitier for the President, Judd Hirsch for Leo, Eugene Levy for Toby, and CCH Pounder for C.J.
"The West Wing", like many serial dramas, stretches storylines over several episodes or entire seasons. In addition to these larger storylines, each episode also contains smaller arcs which usually begin and end within an episode.
Most episodes follow President Bartlet and his staff through particular legislative or political issues. Plots can range from behind-closed-doors negotiating with Congress ("Five Votes Down") to personal issues like sex ("Pilot", "Take out the Trash Day") and personal drug use (a major plotline throughout the first and second seasons). The typical episode loosely follows the president and his staff through their day, generally following several plots connected by some idea or theme. A large, fully connected set of the White House allows the producers to create shots with very few cuts and long, continuous master shots of staff members walking and talking through the hallways. These "walk and talks" became a trademark of the show. The final two seasons presented a narrative change, with the focus of the show divided between plots in the West Wing with President Bartlet and his remaining senior staffers and plots revolving around the rest of the main cast on the campaign trail for the 2006 election.
The series developed following the success of 1995 theatrical film "The American President", for which Aaron Sorkin wrote the screenplay, and Martin Sheen played the White House Chief of Staff. Unused plot elements from the film and a suggestion from Akiva Goldsman inspired Sorkin to create "The West Wing". 
According to the DVD commentary, Sorkin intended to center the show on Sam Seaborn and the other senior staff with the president in an unseen or a secondary role. However, Bartlet's screen time gradually increased, and his role expanded as the series progressed. Positive critical and public reaction to Sheen's performance raised his character's profile, decreasing Lowe's perceived significance. In addition, according to Sorkin, the storylines began to focus less on Sam and more on Josh Lyman, the deputy chief of staff. This shift is one of the reasons for Lowe's eventual departure from the show in the fourth season.
For the first four seasons, Sorkin wrote almost every episode of the series, occasionally reusing plot elements, episode titles, character names, and actors from his previous work, "Sports Night", a sitcom in which he began to develop his signature dialogue style of rhythmic, snappy, and intellectual banter. Fellow executive producer and director Thomas Schlamme championed the "walk and talk," a continuous shot tracking in front of the characters as they walk from one place to another that became part of "The West Wing"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s signature visual style. Sorkin's hectic writing schedule often led to cost overruns and schedule slips, and he opted to leave the show after the fourth season, following increasing personal problems, including an arrest for possession of illegal drugs. Thomas Schlamme also left the show after the fourth season. John Wells, the remaining executive producer, took the helm after their departure.
The show aired its series finale on Sunday, May 14, 2006. It had suffered a significant ratings fall after being placed in the same timeslot as ABC's Top 20 hit "", and CBS' Top 30 hit "Cold Case".
"The West Wing" offers a rare glimpse into the inner workings of the White House, and the show's legitimacy, political slant, and film merits have generated considerable discussion.
"The West Wing" is not completely accurate in its portrayal of the actual West Wing; however, former White House staffers agree that the show "captures the feel [of the West Wing], shorn of a thousand undramatic details."
Former White House Press Secretary Dee Dee Myers as well as expert pollster Patrick Caddell served as consultants for the show from the beginning, helping writers and actors depict the West Wing accurately. Other former White House staffers, such as Peggy Noonan and Gene Sperling, have served as consultants for brief periods.
A documentary special in the third season compared the show's depiction of the West Wing to the real thing. Many former West Wing denizens applauded the show's depiction of the West Wing, including advisor David Gergen, Press Secretary Dee Dee Myers, Secretary of State Henry Kissinger, Chief of Staff Leon Panetta, Deputy Chief of Staff Karl Rove, and former Presidents Gerald Ford, Jimmy Carter, and Bill Clinton.
While critics often praised "The West Wing" for its writing, others faulted the show as unrealistically optimistic. A large part of this criticism came from the perceived naiveté of the characters. Television critic Heather Havrilesky asked "What rock did these morally pure creatures crawl out from under and, more important, how do you go from innocent millipede to White House staffer without becoming soiled or disillusioned by the dirty realities of politics along the way?"
Despite acclaim for the veracity of the series, Sorkin believed, "our responsibility is to captivate you for however long we've asked for your attention." Former White House aide Matthew Miller noted that Sorkin "captivates viewers by making the human side of politics more real than life — or at least more real than the picture we get from the news." Miller also noted that by portraying politicians with empathy, the show created a "subversive competitor" to the cynical views of politics in media. In the essay ""The West Wing" and the West Wing", author Myron Levine agreed, stating that the series "presents an essentially positive view of public service and a healthy corrective to anti-Washington stereotypes and public cynicism."
Dr. Staci L. Beavers, associate professor of political science at California State University, San Marcos, wrote a short essay, "The West Wing as a Pedagogical Tool", concerning the viability of "The West Wing" as a teaching tool. She concluded, "While the series’ purpose is for-profit entertainment, "The West Wing" presents great pedagogical potential." "The West Wing", in her opinion, gave greater depth to the political process usually espoused only in stilted talking points on shows like "Face the Nation" and "Meet the Press". However, the merits of a particular argument may be obscured by the viewer's opinion of the character. Beavers also noted that characters with opposing viewpoints were often set up to be "bad people" in the viewer's eyes. These characters were assigned undesirable characteristics having nothing to do with their political opinions, such as being romantically involved with a main character's love interest. In Beavers's opinion, a critical analysis of the show's political views can present a worthwhile learning experience to the viewer.
One of the stranger impacts of the show occurred on January 31, 2006, when "The West Wing" was said to have played a hand in defeating Tony Blair's government in the British House of Commons, during the so called ""West Wing" Plot". The plan was allegedly hatched after a Conservative Member of Parliament watched the episode, "A Good Day", in which Democrats block a bill aimed at limiting stem cell research, by hiding in an office until the Republican Speaker calls the vote.
"The West Wing" was sometimes called "The Left Wing" by detractors because of its portrayal of an ideal liberal administration and its alleged demonization of conservatives. Chris Lehmann, senior editor of Washington Post Bookworld, characterized the show as a revisionist look at the Clinton presidency: an attempt to solidify the Clinton legacy and to make America forget the Whitewater and Lewinsky scandals. On the other hand, some Republicans have admired the show since its inception, before even the departure of Sorkin and the show's resulting shift toward the center. In his 2001 article "Real Liberals versus the "West Wing"", Mackubin Thomas Owens wrote,
Journalist Matthew Miller wrote, "although the show indeed has a liberal bias on issues, it presents a truer, more human picture of the people behind the headlines than most of today's Washington journalists."
In its first season, "The West Wing" attracted critical attention in the television community with a record nine Emmy wins. The show has been praised for its high production values and repeatedly recognized for its cinematic achievements. With a budget of $6 million per episode, many consider each week's show to be a small feature film. However, many in the television community believe that the true genius of the show was Sorkin's rapid-fire and witty scripts.
"The West Wing" is noted for developing the "walk-and-talk"—long Steadicam tracking shots showing characters walking down hallways while involved in long conversations. In a typical "walk-and-talk" shot, the camera leads two characters down a hallway as they speak to each other. One of these characters generally breaks off and the remaining character is then joined by another character, who initiates another conversation as they continue walking. These "walk-and-talks" create a dynamic feel for what would otherwise be long expository dialogue, and have become a staple for dialogue-intensive television show scenes.
In its first year, "The West Wing" received nine Emmys, a record for most won by a series in a single season. The show also received the Emmy Award for Outstanding Drama Series in 2000, 2001, 2002, and 2003, tying "Hill Street Blues" and "L.A. Law" for most won in this category. Each of its seven seasons was nominated for the award. "The West Wing" ranks 8th all-time in number of Emmy Awards won by a show.
The show shares the Emmy Award record for most acting nominations by regular cast members for a single show in one year. (Both "Hill Street Blues" and "L.A. Law" also hold that record). For the 2001–2002 season nine cast members were nominated for Emmys. Allison Janney, John Spencer and Stockard Channing each won an Emmy (for Lead Actress, Supporting Actor and Supporting Actress). The others nominated were Martin Sheen (for Lead Actor), Richard Schiff, Dule Hill and Bradley Whitford (for Supporting Actor), and Janel Moloney and Mary-Louise Parker (for Supporting Actress). In that same year, Mark Harmon, Tim Matheson and Ron Silver were each nominated in the Guest Actor category (but none won the award). This gave the show an Emmy Award record for most acting nominations total (including guest performer category) in a single year, with 12 acting nominations.
Twenty Emmys were awarded to writers, actors, and crew members. Allison Janney is the record holder for most wins by a cast member, with a total of four Emmys.
In addition to its Emmys, the show won two Screen Actors Guild (SAG) Awards, in 2000 and 2001, for Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Drama Series. Martin Sheen is the only cast member to have won a Golden Globe, and he and Allison Janney are the only cast members to win a SAG award (for best actor and best actress). In both 1999 and 2000, "The West Wing" was awarded the Peabody Award for excellence in broadcasting.
This table shows award wins by cast members:
W.G. "Snuffy" Walden received an Emmy Award for Main Title Theme Music in 2000 for "The West Wing Opening Theme".
Many cast members have been Emmy-nominated for their work on "The West Wing" but have not won, including Martin Sheen—who was nominated each year for all seven seasons of the series without receiving the award—as well as Janel Moloney, who was nominated twice, and Dulé Hill, Rob Lowe, and Mary-Louise Parker, who were all nominated once. Matthew Perry, Oliver Platt, Ron Silver, Tim Matheson, and Mark Harmon have also received Emmy nominations for guest starring on the show.
"The West Wing" often features extensive discussion of current or recent political issues. After the real-world election of Republican President George W. Bush in 2000, many wondered whether the liberal show could retain its relevance and topicality. However, by exploring many of the same issues facing the Bush administration from a Democratic point of view, the show continued to appeal to a broad audience of both Democrats and Republicans.
In its second season episode "The Midterms", President Bartlet admonishes fictional radio host Dr. Jenna Jacobs for her views regarding homosexuality at a private gathering at the White House. Dr. Jacobs is a caricature of radio personality Dr. Laura Schlessinger, who strongly disapproves of homosexuality. Many of the president's biblical references in his comments to Dr. Jacobs appear to have come from an open letter to Dr. Schlessinger, circulated online in early May 2000.
The Bartlet administration experiences a scandal during the second and third seasons that has been compared to the Monica Lewinsky affair. President Bartlet was diagnosed with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (MS) in 1992. The scandal centers around President Bartlet's nondisclosure of his illness to the electorate during the election. He is investigated by an opposition Congress for defrauding the public and eventually accepts Congressional censure. Multiple sclerosis advocacy groups have praised the show for its accurate portrayal of the symptoms of MS and stressing that it is not fatal. The National MS Society commented:
Following the September 11, 2001 attacks, the start of the third season was postponed for a week, as were most American television premieres that year. A script for a special episode was quickly written and began filming on September 21. The episode "Isaac and Ishmael" aired on October 3 and addresses the sobering reality of terrorism in America and the wider world, albeit with no specific reference to September 11. While "Isaac and Ishmael" received mixed critical reviews, it illustrated the show's flexibility in addressing current events. The cast of the show state during the opening of the episode that it is not part of "The West Wing" continuity.
While the September 11 attacks do not occur in "The West Wing" continuity, the country does enter into a variation of the War on Terrorism. The war begins during the show's third season, when a plot to blow up the Golden Gate Bridge was uncovered; in response, the President orders the assassination of terrorist leader Abdul ibn Shareef. This storyline draws similarities to the real-world U.S. invasion of Afghanistan as well as U.S. relations with Saudi Arabia, as it brings the Middle East to the forefront of U.S. foreign relations and elevated terrorism as a serious threat in "The West Wing" universe. In Seasons 3, 4 and 5, the fictional Bahji terror group seems to act as a fictional stand-in for the real world Al Qaeda, but in Seasons 6 and 7, characters mention Al Qaeda itself as a threat, despite no clearly stated history of Al Qaeda terror attacks in "The West Wing" continuity (although Nancy McNally does refer to Osama Bin Laden as a potential threat at the beginning of Season 2.)
In the middle of the fourth season, Bartlet's White House is confronted with the genocide in the fictional African country of Equatorial Kundu which was compared to the Rwandan Genocide of 1994. The result was new foreign policy doctrine for Bartlet Administration and military intervention to stop the violence, which came after much hesitation and reluctance to call the conflict a genocide. In reality, the Clinton Administration didn't intervene in Rwanda, making series events look like a moral imperative.
In the sixth and seventh seasons, "The West Wing" explores a leak of top-secret information by a senior staffer at the White House. This leak has been compared to the events surrounding the Valerie Plame affair. In the storyline, the International Space Station is damaged and can no longer produce oxygen for the astronauts to breathe. With no other methods of rescue available, the president is reminded of the existence of a top-secret military space shuttle. Following the president's inaction, the shuttle story is leaked to a White House reporter, Greg Brock (analogous to Judith Miller), who prints the story in "The New York Times". Brock will not reveal his source and goes to jail for failing to do so, as did Miller. In order to stop the investigation, in which authorities suspect Chief of Staff C.J. Cregg, Toby Ziegler admits leaking the information, and the President is forced to dismiss him. In comparison, the Plame affair resulted in the arrest and conviction of Lewis Libby, the vice president's chief of staff. However, Libby was convicted of perjury in testimony to a grand jury. No one was convicted for "blowing the cover" of Plame. (Richard Armitage, an official in the Bush State Department, acknowledged leaking information about Plame to reporters but was never charged with a crime.) Libby's two and a half year prison sentence was later commuted by President Bush, though the other facet of his sentence ($250,000 fine) stands until Libby's appeals were to be considered.
Other issues explored in "The West Wing" include:
All contemporary domestic government officials in "The West Wing" universe have been fictional. President Bartlet has made three appointments to the fictional Supreme Court and maintains a full cabinet, although the names and terms of all members have not been revealed. Some cabinet members, such as the Secretary of Defense, appear more often than others. Many other government officials, such as mayors, governors, judges, representatives, and senators, have been mentioned and seen as well.
Fictional locations inside the United States have been created to loosely represent certain places:
San Andreo is a fictional California city. It is near San Diego. It has 42,000 people. The San Andreo Nuclear Generating Station is there.
A near meltdown at the nuclear plant becomes the focus of an October surprise for Republican nominee Senator Arnold Vinick during the 2006 presidential election, due to Vinick's strong pro-nuclear stance and revelations of his active lobbying for the construction of the plant. This was seen to be a key factor in Vinick's narrow defeat in the election by Democratic nominee Congressman Matt Santos.
Hartsfield's Landing is a fictional town in New Hampshire. It is stated to be a very small community of only 63 people, of whom 42 are registered voters, that votes at one minute past midnight on the day of the New Hampshire primary, hours before the rest of the state, and has accurately predicted the winner of every presidential election since William Howard Taft in 1908. It is based on the true New Hampshire communities of Hart's Location and Dixville Notch, which in real life do vote before the rest of the state during the primaries, and also loosely upon the concept of "bellwether states" in US presidential elections.
Kennison State is a fictional university in Iowa that was used as the setting of a bombing in the beginning of the fourth season.
While several real-world leaders exist in the show's universe, most foreign countries have fictional rulers. Real people mentioned in "The West Wing" include Muammar al-Gaddafi, Yasser Arafat, Fidel Castro, Queen Elizabeth II, King Bhumibol Adulyadej, King Carl Gustaf, Thabo Mbeki and Osama bin Laden. However, when a peace accord was worked out between Israel and the Palestinian Authority at the start of the show's sixth season, the Chairman of the Palestinian Authority was the fictional Nizar Farad, not Arafat. (By that time in the real world, Arafat was dead and a successor, Rawhi Fattuh, had been elected.)
Entire countries are invented as composite pictures that epitomize many of the problems that plague real nations in certain areas of the world:
Qumar, a fictional oil-rich, terrorist-sponsoring Middle Eastern state, is repeatedly a source of trouble for the Bartlet administration. According to maps on the show, Qumar is in southern Iran, directly across the important Strait of Hormuz. After the September 11 attacks, it became the main venue for the show's terrorism subplots.
Jabal Nafusah (also the name of a real-life Libyan city) seems to be the largest city and the capital, according to maps shown of the country. Qumar is an absolute monarchy, ruled by a sultan and his family. The country is a former British protectorate. The nation was first introduced in the third season where it was mentioned as a close ally of the United States. Qumar continues on the show to be a U.S. ally, though the sultan and other officials were extremely troubled by the Bartlet administration's assassination of Defense Minister Abdul ibn Shareef, and a bombing campaign and invasion that followed Zoey Bartlet's abduction by Qumari extremists (ostensibly in retaliation for Shareef's murder). As a result of the air strikes, gas pipelines were damaged, leading to economic troubles for the country and its European allies.
During the final season episode "The Cold", a situation room map shows the Persian Gulf clearly, but omits Qumar.
Equatorial Kundu is a fictional African nation blighted by AIDS and a civil war resembling the 1994 Rwandan genocide.
When Kundu was first mentioned in season 2, it is led by President Nimbala who is executed by the end of the episode. In January 2003 of the series' timeline ("Inauguration, Part I"), the Arkutu-run government of President Nzele (described as a "sadistic madman") begins an ethnic cleansing campaign against the Induye in Bitanga, killing 200 people. The violence soon spreads outside Bitanga and into the countryside. In President Josiah Bartlet's second inaugural address ("Inauguration Over There"), he announces the new Bartlet Doctrine for the use of force: America shall intervene whenever there are humanitarian interests at stake. With that new doctrine, Bartlet sends a brigade of the 82nd Airborne Division, the 101st Airborne Division, and a Marine Expeditionary Unit, a force of 11,000 troops in total, to Kundu ("The California 47th"). As of the episode "Twenty Five," US forces are still operating in Kundu.
In its original appearance, Kundu's location is somewhat ambiguous. President Nimbala and his aide appear to speak Setswana, a Bantu language spoken in South Africa and Botswana, which would imply a Southern African setting. The Season 4 appearance seems to more firmly place the country in West Africa, near to the Ivory Coast and Ghana. Its capital city is Bitanga, which contains a major airport, TV station and a radio station.
In general, "The West Wing" attempts to create an alternative reality, in which there is a subtly different set of historical truths in the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s. In particular, the show tries to suggest that the last "real" president in its timeline is Richard Nixon, and to chart the careers of its principal players in the light of that decision. Nevertheless, there are occasions in which more contemporary presidents are implied.
However, through timeline analysis, it can be assumed that while Richard Nixon was the last President to hold a real-life presidential term, Ronald Reagan was the last real-life President. These are the Presidents and their terms in the West Wing universe:
Fictional Presidents who served between Nixon and Bartlet include one-term Democrat D. Wire Newman (James Cromwell) and two-term Republican Owen Lassiter.
Leo McGarry is mentioned as being Labor Secretary in the administration that was in office in 1993 and 1995. In the first season, an outgoing Supreme Court Justice tells President Bartlet that he had been wanting to retire for 5 years, but waited "for a Democrat." The season four episode "Debate Camp" features a flashback to the days just before Bartlet's inauguration, as Donna Moss meets with her Republican predecessor, Jeff Johnson, who makes it clear that the outgoing Republican administration has been in office for eight years. In season six Leo says that the Republicans have been "out of power for eight years", and Republicans at their convention say "eight (years) is enough".
The passage of time on the show relative to that of the real world is somewhat ambiguous when marked by events of shorter duration (e.g., votes, campaigns). Sorkin has noted in a DVD commentary track for the second season episode "18th and Potomac" that he has tried to avoid tying "The West Wing" to a specific period of time. Despite this, real years are occasionally mentioned, usually in the context of elections and President Bartlet's two-term administration.
The show's presidential elections are held in 2002 and 2006, which are the years of the midterm elections in reality. The election timeline in "The West Wing" matches up with that of the real world until early in the sixth season, when it appears that a year is lost. For example, the filing deadline for the New Hampshire primary, which would normally fall in January 2006, appears in an episode airing in January 2005.
In an interview, John Wells stated that the series began one and a half years into Bartlet's first term and that the election to replace Bartlet was being held at the correct time.
In the season 5 episode "Access", it is mentioned that the Casey Creek crisis occurred during Bartlet's first term, and network footage of the crisis carries the date of November 2001.
Bartlet's first campaign for president is never significantly explored in the series. Bartlet won the election with 48% of the popular vote, 48 million votes, and a 303–235 margin in the Electoral College. Bartlet faced three debates with his Republican opponent, who is assumed to be Lewis D. Eisenhower, the Vice President under Owen Lassiter and an immediate relative to former President Dwight D. Eisenhower. It is mentioned that Bartlet won the third and final debate, which was held eight days before election day in St. Louis, Missouri, and that this helped swing a close election in his favor. Josh Lyman said in the days prior to the election "Bartlet was punching brick walls" as the result seemed too close to call, before the result broke his way. Leo McGarry said the same thing in "Bartlet for America" when he said "It was eight days to go, and we were too close to call".
The campaign for the Democratic nomination is extensively addressed. In the episodes "In the Shadow of Two Gunmen" and "Bartlet for America", flashbacks are used to tell how Bartlet defeated Texas Senator John Hoynes (Tim Matheson) and Washington Senator William Wiley for the Democratic nomination. The flashbacks also reveal how Leo McGarry persuaded Bartlet, who was then governor of New Hampshire, to run for president and how Bartlet ultimately selected John Hoynes as his choice as running mate.
"The West Wing"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s 2002 presidential election pits Bartlet and Vice President John Hoynes against Florida Governor Robert Ritchie (James Brolin) and his running mate, Jeff Heston. Bartlet faces no known opposition for renomination, though Democratic Senator Stackhouse does launch a brief independent campaign for the presidency. Ritchie, not originally expected to contend for the nomination, emerges from a field of seven other Republican candidates by appealing to the party's conservative base with simple, "homey" sound bites.
Bartlet's staff contemplates replacing Vice President John Hoynes on the ticket with Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Admiral Percy Fitzwallace (John Amos), among others. After it is clear that Ritchie will be the Republican nominee, Bartlet dismisses the idea, declaring that he wants Hoynes in the number two spot because of "four words," which he writes down and hands to his staffers to read: "Because I could die."
Throughout the season it is anticipated that the race will be close, but a stellar performance by Bartlet in the sole debate between the candidates helps give Bartlet a landslide victory in both the popular and electoral vote.
A speed-up in "The West Wing"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s timeline, in part due to the expiration of many cast members' contracts and a desire to continue the program with lower production costs, resulted in the omission of the 2004 midterm elections and an election during the seventh season. The sixth season extensively details the Democratic and Republican primaries. The seventh season covers the lead-up to the general election, the election, and the transition to a new administration. The timeline slows down to concentrate on the general election race. The election, normally held in November, takes place across two episodes originally broadcast on April 2 and April 9, 2006.
Congressman Matt Santos (D-TX) (Jimmy Smits) is nominated on the fourth ballot at the Democratic National Convention, during the sixth season finale. Santos was planning to leave Congress before being recruited to run for the presidency by Josh Lyman. Santos polled in the low single digits in the Iowa caucus and was virtually out of the running in the New Hampshire primary before a last-ditch direct television appeal vaults him to a third-place finish with 19% of the vote. Josh Lyman, Santos's campaign manager, convinces Leo McGarry to become Santos' running mate.
Senator Arnold Vinick (R-CA) (Alan Alda) secures the Republican nomination, defeating Glen Allen Walken (John Goodman) and the Reverend Don Butler (Don S. Davis), among others. Initially, Vinick wants Butler to become his running mate. However, Butler does not want to be considered because of Vinick's stance on abortion. Instead, West Virginia Governor Ray Sullivan (Brett Cullen) is chosen as Vinick's running mate. Vinick is portrayed throughout the sixth season as virtually unbeatable because of his popularity in California, a typically Democratic state, his moderate views, and his wide crossover appeal. Vinick, however, faces difficulty with the pro-life members of his party as a pro-choice candidate, and criticism for his support of nuclear power following a serious accident at a Californian nuclear power station.
On the evening of the election, Leo McGarry suffers a massive heart attack and is pronounced dead at the hospital, with the polls still open on the West Coast. The Santos campaign releases the information immediately, while Arnold Vinick refuses to use Leo's death as a "stepstool" to the presidency. Santos emerges as the winner in his home state of Texas, while Vinick wins his home state of California. The election comes down to Nevada, where both candidates need a victory to secure the presidency. Vinick tells his staff repeatedly that he will not allow his campaign to demand a recount of the votes if Santos is declared the winner. Josh Lyman is seen giving Santos the same advice, although the Santos campaign does send a team of lawyers down to Nevada. Santos is pronounced the winner of the election, having won Nevada by 30,000 votes, with an electoral margin of 272–266.
Santos organizes his administration, choosing Josh Lyman as Chief of Staff, who in turn calls on former colleague Sam Seaborn to be Deputy Chief of Staff. In need of experienced cabinet members, Santos taps Arnold Vinick as Secretary of State, believing the senior statesman to be one of the best strategists available and respected by foreign leaders.
President Bartlet's final act as President of the United States is pardoning Toby Ziegler. The series ends with Bartlet returning to New Hampshire. Having said his goodbyes to his closest staff, former President Bartlet tells President Santos, "Make me proud, Mr. President", to which Santos responds, "I'll do my best, Mr. President."
According to executive producer Lawrence O'Donnell, Jr., the writers originally intended for Vinick to win the election. However, the death of Spencer forced him and his colleagues to consider the emotional strain that would result from having Santos lose both his running mate and the election. It was eventually decided that the last episodes would be rescripted by John Wells. Other statements from John Wells, however, have contradicted O'Donnell's claims about a previously planned Vinick victory. The script showing Santos winning was written long before the death of John Spencer. In 2008 O'Donnell stated to camera "We actually planned at the outset for Jimmy Smits to win, that was our .. just .. plan of how this was all going to work, but the Vinick character came on so strong in the show, and was so effective, it became a real contest ... and it became a real contest in the West Wing writer's room."
Similarities between the fictional 2006 election and the real-life 2008 U.S. presidential election have been noted in the media: young minority Democratic candidate (Matthew Santos on the show, Barack Obama in real life) has a gruelling but successful primary campaign against a more experienced candidate (Bob Russell on the show, Hillary Clinton in real life) and chooses an experienced Washington insider as his running mate (Leo McGarry on the show, Joe Biden in real life), whereas the Republican contest is determined early in the primary season with an aging maverick senator of a Western state being the nominee (Arnold Vinick on the show, John McCain in real life), defeating an ordained minister as the closest competitor (Reverend Butler on the show, Mike Huckabee in real life), and then selecting a socially conservative running mate from a small Republican state (West Virginia Governor Ray Sullivan on the show, Alaska Governor Sarah Palin in real life).
Writer Eli Attie called David Axelrod to talk about Obama after Obama's 2004 Democratic National Convention speech and says that he "drew inspiration from [Obama] in drawing [the Santos] character," while actor Jimmy Smits says that Obama "was one of the people that I looked to draw upon." Writer and producer Lawrence O'Donnell says that he partly modeled Vinick after McCain. Obama's Chief of Staff, Rahm Emanuel, is said to be the basis of the Josh Lyman character, who became Santos' Chief of Staff.

</doc>
<doc id="198088" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198088" title="Servite College">
Servite College

Servite College is a high school in Perth, Western Australia. It is in the suburb of Tuart Hill. The school is Roman Catholic and teaches both boys and girls.
Members of the Servite Order came to Australia in late 1951 and by 1958 had established St. Philip’s Regional High School for Boys in Tuart Hill. In 1968, the name was changed to Servite College. In 1973, it became the first co-educational Catholic secondary school in Western Australia.

</doc>
<doc id="198123" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198123" title="1139">
1139


</doc>
<doc id="198134" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198134" title="Afonso I of Portugal">
Afonso I of Portugal

Alphonse I or Alphonzo I ( 25 July 1109 - 6 December 1185), in Portuguese Afonso I, was the first king of Portugal. He is best known by his prince name Afonso Henriques. 
Afonso Henriques was the son of Henry of Burgundy, Count of Portugal and Teresa of León. 
He became King on 25 July 1139, after winning the Battle of Ourique. He doubled the area of Portugal with the "Reconquista" and was nicknamed "the Conqueror" (Port. "o Conquistador"). He died on 6 December 1185 in Coimbra.

</doc>
<doc id="198138" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198138" title="Amália Rodrigues">
Amália Rodrigues

Amália da Piedade Rebordão Rodrigues, known just by Amália Rodrigues (July 23, 1920 – October 6, 1999) was a Portuguese singer and actress. She was called the "Rainha do Fado" ("Queen of Fado") and she was very important in making the fado popular all over the world. 

</doc>
<doc id="198143" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198143" title="Ted Kaufman">
Ted Kaufman

Edward E. "Ted" Kaufman (born March 15, 1939) is an American politician. He was a U.S. Senator from Delaware. He used to work for Joe Biden when Biden was a Senator. Kaufman replaced Biden as Senator when Biden became Vice President of the United States in 2009.

</doc>
<doc id="198144" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198144" title="Orrin Hatch">
Orrin Hatch

Orrin Hatch (born March 22, 1934) is a U.S. Senator from Utah. He is a Republican and a Mormon. After the Republicans won control of the Senate during the 2014 midterms, Hatch became President pro tempore on January 6, 2015 after the 114th United States Congress was sworn in.
Hatch was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania on March 22, 1934. His parents were Jesse Hatch and Helen Frances. Hatch studied at Brigham Young University and at the University of Pittsburgh. He worked as an attorney in Pittsburgh and in Utah.
In 1976, in his first run for public office, Hatch was elected to the United States Senate, defeating Democrat Frank Moss, a three-term incumbent. Among other issues, Hatch criticized Moss' 18-year tenure in the Senate, saying "What do you call a Senator who's served in office for 18 years? You call him home." Hatch argued that many Senators, including Moss, had lost touch with their constituents. Hatch himself has now been in office for 38 years.
In 1995 Hatch was the leading figure behind the senate's anti-terrorism bill, to a large extent a response to the Oklahoma City Bombing. As a senior member of the Senate Select Intelligence Committee, Hatch was also instrumental in the 2008 extension of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. He said, "This bipartisan bill will help defeat terrorism and keep America safe. No, the legislation is not perfect, but it ensures that the increased expansion of the judiciary into foreign intelligence gathering doesn’t unnecessarily hamper our intelligence community.”
Hatch has been a longtime advocate of amending the United States Constitution to require that total spending of the federal government for any fiscal year not exceed total receipts. He proposed the DREAM Act, which would provide a pathway to citizenship for the children of undocumented immigrants, who were children when their parents came to the United States.
Senator Hatch co-sponsored the Restoring the 10th Amendment Act (S. 4020 111th Congress), which would strengthen state rights under the 10th Amendment. The bill would provide special standing for state officials in challenging proposed regulations.
Hatch has long expressed interest in serving on the U.S. Supreme Court, but due to his age decided not to express any interest anymore. It was reported that he was on Ronald Reagan's short list of candidates to succeed Lewis F. Powell, Jr. on the United States Supreme Court, but was passed over at least in part because of the Ineligibility Clause. Despite that, he vocally supported Robert Bork, who was chosen instead. After Bork's and Douglas H. Ginsburg's nominations to the seat faltered, Anthony Kennedy was confirmed to fill the vacancy.
In 2000, Hatch made a failed bid for the Republican presidential nomination, losing to then-Texas Governor George W. Bush. During the first Republican debate, Hatch made web usability a campaign issue, a first for a presidential candidate. He claimed his website was more user-friendly than Bush's. At least one web usability expert agreed.
Hatch married Elaine Hansen on August 28, 1957. They are the parents of six children.
Hatch is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Hatch serves as a member of the board of directors of the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum.

</doc>
<doc id="198145" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198145" title="Committees of the United States Senate">
Committees of the United States Senate

Much of the work of the United States Senate is done in committees, or groups of about 15 Senators. Each committee deals with a certain subject, such as farming or roads. In general, most laws start in a committee before they are voted on by the Senate. Also, when the Senate wants to ask the President or another important person questions, they usually do it in a committee.

</doc>
<doc id="198146" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198146" title="Johnny Rozsa">
Johnny Rozsa

Johnny Rozsa is a well known New York photographer. Rozsa was born and raised in Nairobi. He arrived in London in the 1960s and, after college, ran a vintage shop in Covent Garden. Here he met fashion editors, models, actors, and photographers on a daily basis. . 
Rozsa photographed famous people including:Hugh Grant, Halle Berry, Janet Jackson, Nicholas Cage, John Malkovich and Natasha Richardson
Rozsa published a book in 2009 called "Untouched", which included many of his photographs.

</doc>
<doc id="198155" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198155" title="Lichen">
Lichen

Lichens are a symbiosis of at least two quite different organisms. The partnership always involves a fungus, which lives with one or more partners which can do photosynthesis. The photobiont partner may be a green alga and/or a cyanobacterium. 
The algae or bacteria live inside the fungus, and exchange nutrients with it. The lichen is different in shape and mode of life from any of the partners. It is a distinct form of life. Botanists did not know this until about 1875.
Lichens pose a problem for biological classification, because the three types of organism concerned come from three different kingdoms. After long debate, lichen are now classified as fungi, under the genus and species of the host fungus. This allows specimens to be put into boxes and labelled. By having specific names, researchers know what they are working on: that is one of the basic functions of taxonomy. The system still has its problems. In those fungi which may associate either with an alga, or with a cyanobacterium, the resulting forms (called "photomorphs") may look quite different, yet are now referred to by the same name.
20% (one in five) of fungal species live in lichens. Lichen fungi belong to several different groups of fungi. Most common (over 40%) are Ascomycetes, which produce spores in a sac-shaped container, the "ascus". Only a few types of alga occur within lichens; these algae also have their own names. Algae may be sometimes the dominant partner in so-called 'jelly lichens', "Collema" and "Leptogium", but this is rare. More usually, the algae are the green alga "Trebouxia". Other species are the orange "Trentepohli", and the cyanobacterium "Nostoc".
The life habit of lichens is to stick closely onto surfaces.
Lichens can occur anywhere on land, and some can live in aquatic environments. The nearest rock, wall or roof probably has lichen on it. Often the lichen is mat-like, and clings to the surface. Some are like little bushes: see the photos. Lichens are famous for not needing a regular supply of water; their metabolism can go into suspension, and later revive. When growing on mineral surfaces, some lichens slowly break down the substrate, and extract tiny amounts of mineral nutrient. Fungi form the main part of the thallus (body), with the photobiont contributing 20% or less. The photobiont is usually on the inside of the thallus.
Lichen thalli may grow together and fuse, and this may happen between different species and genera. These are called 'mechanical hybrids'. They get noticed when the two forms are differently coloured. 
Lichen do survive extreme conditions. They are found in some of the most extreme places on Earth – the frozen north, hot deserts, rocky coasts. They are common as epiphytes on leaves and branches in rain forests and temperate woods. They can live on bare rock, walls and gravestones, and on exposed soil surfaces. There are about 200 different kinds of lichens in Antarctica. In the Horlick Mountains, at 86 degrees south, there are six different kinds of lichen. In the Himalayas, they grow at altitudes up to 18,000 feet (~5500m). 
The European Space Agency discovered that lichen can survive unprotected in space. Two species of lichen were sealed in a capsule and launched on a Russian Soyuz rocket. Once in orbit the capsules were opened. Two species of lichen were exposed to the vacuum of space, to cosmic radiation and huge swings of temperature. After 15 days the lichens were retrieved and were found to be in full health: no damage was found.
There are a huge number of lichen species in rainforests, far outnumbering flowering plants. The lichen are mostly epiphytes, living on trees. A single site in Costa Rica yielded about 300 species of lichen on leaves, in the understory of the rain forest; a single fallen "Elaeocarpus" tree in New Guinea held 173 species; the evergreen laurel "Ocotea atirrensis" was found with 50–80 lichen species on a "single leaf".
When partnerships are very close, it is difficult to assign benefits to either partner. Their success is as a pair (or trio). Sometimes the partners can exist as separate organisms: certainly their close relatives can. Probably most of the algae and all of the cyanobacteria can survive on their own, though in more restricted habitats. The details vary according to the specific species or strains involved. The man who first realised the nature of lichen, Simon Schwedener, thought of the partnership as one of controlled parasitism. Obviously, the photobiont provides photosynthetic products: carbohydrates as sugar alcohols (green algae) or glucose (cyanobacteria). The bacteria also convert atmospheric nitrogen (N) to ammonium ions (NH) which the fungus can use in amino acids for proteins. 
The alga certainly benefits from a supply of water (which the fungus is good at storing). There is also general mechanical protection. Algae get protection from ultraviolet light, which in some environments is quite significant. Probably, algae get access to the minute amounts of minerals, which the fungus gets from the substrate or from dust settling on the thallus. Algal cells are sometimes destroyed in the course of nutrient exchange, though the algal cells divide and replace them. Above all, the partnership is a resounding success, and gets to places where few other plants can survive.
Many lichens reproduce without sex (asexual reproduction). They make small groups of algal cells surrounded by fungal filaments. These "soridia" can be blown by wind. Some lichens just break up into fragments when they dry. Wind carries the pieces, which grow when moisture returns. Also, lichen fungi can reproduce sexually by forming fruiting bodies containing spores. These fruiting bodies are usually perennial, and may be long-lasting: some in the Swiss Alps have lived for over 50 years. After dispersal by wind, such fungal spores must meet with an algal partner to form a lichen.
The fossil record for lichen dates back 400 million year for certain, and the signs are that earlier forms existed 600 million years ago. They must have been one of the earliest life-forms on land. It is thought, from the number of fungal and algal species involved, that the symbiosis must have taken place many times between different species.
It has been suggested that some or all of the Ediacaran biota might be lichen. The proposal has been received with some skepticism.
Many lichen are sensitive to changes around them. For this reason, they are used by scientists to show changes in the environment, such as air pollution, ozone depletion, and metal contamination. Lichens have also been used to make dyes, perfumes, and herbal medicines.
Some lichen produce natural antibiotics that kill bacteria. Humans have used these compounds as natural antibiotics. Extracts from many "Usnea" species were used to treat wounds in Russia in the mid-twentieth century.
The map lichen "Rhizocarpon geographicum" grows extremely slowly, and can reach an age of over 1000 years. It may be used for dating: the diameter of the largest lichen of a species on a rock surface shows the time that the rock has been exposed.
Lichen are the main winter food for reindeer. The deer can get at shrubby lichen under the snow. In summer they have much more choice of food. Some lichen are eaten by humans. A kind of lichen, which is called "Iwatake" in Japanese and "Seogi" in Korean language, is collected from cliffs, and used in various Korean and Japanese foods. Lichen have a high level of acid. Care must be taken, as there are at least two kinds of lichen that are toxic.
The bacterial or algal partners produce pigments that absorb sunlight in photosynthesis. There are reports dating back almost 2000 years of purple and red colours being extracted from lichens. Lichens of the family Roccellaceae are commonly called 'orchella weed' . They have been important in history, because they could supply orcein, a dye. "Rocella tinctoria" is the source of the pH indicator litmus. Orcein is got by boiling the lichen, and litmus is produced by adding ammonia and air. Orcein is also used as a food dye, with the E number E121.
Today, dyes based on lichens have largely been replaced by synthetic ones.

</doc>
<doc id="198166" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198166" title="History of the Earth">
History of the Earth

The history of the Earth describes the most important events and fundamental stages in the development of the planet Earth from its formation to the present day.
The age of the Earth is about 4.56 billion years. Nearly all branches of science have helped us understand the main events of the Earth's past. The Earth is about one third the age of the universe.
The formation of Earth occurred as part of the formation of the Solar System. It started as a large rotating cloud of dust and gas. This cloud, the solar nebula, was composed of hydrogen and helium produced in the Big Bang, as well as heavier elements produced in supernovas. Then, about 4.68×10 years ago, the solar nebula began to contract, rotate and gain angular momentum. This may have been triggered by a star in the region exploding as a supernova, and sending a shock wave through the solar nebula.
As the cloud rotated, it became a flat disc perpendicular to its axis of rotation. Most of the mass concentrated in the middle and began to heat up. Meanwhile, the rest of the disc began to break up into rings, with gravity causing matter to condense around dust particles. Small fragments collided to become larger fragments, including one collection about 150 million kilometers from the center: this would become the Earth. As the Sun condensed and heated, nuclear fusion started, and the solar wind cleared out most of the material in the disc, which had not yet condensed, into larger bodies.
The Earth's relatively large natural satellite, the Moon, is unique. During the Apollo program, rocks from the Moon's surface were brought to Earth. Radiometric dating of these rocks has shown the Moon to be 4527 ± 10 million years old, about 30 to 55 million years younger than other bodies in the solar system. New evidence suggests the Moon formed even later, 4.48±0.02 Ga, or 70–110 Ma after the start of the Solar System. Another notable feature is the relatively low density of the Moon, which must mean it does not have a large metallic core, like all other terrestrial bodies in the solar system. The Moon has a bulk composition closely resembling the Earth's mantle and crust together, without the Earth's core. This has led to the giant impact hypothesis: the idea that the Moon was formed during a giant impact of the proto-Earth with another protoplanet.
The impactor, sometimes named Theia, is thought to have been a little smaller than the current planet Mars. Theia finally collided with Earth about 4.533 Ga.
Models reveal that when an impactor this size struck the proto-Earth at a low angle and relatively low speed (8–20 km/sec), much material from the mantles (and proto-crusts) of the proto-Earth and the impactor was ejected into space, where much of it stayed in orbit around the Earth. This material would eventually form the Moon. However, the metallic cores of the impactor would have sunk through the Earth's mantle to fuse with the Earth's core, depleting the Moon of metallic material. The giant impact hypothesis thus explains the Moon's abnormal composition. The ejecta in orbit around the Earth could have condensed into a single body within a couple of weeks. Under the influence of its own gravity, the ejected material became a more spherical body: the Moon.
The radiometric ages show the Earth existed already for at least 10 million years before the impact, enough time to allow for differentiation of the Earth's primitive mantle and core. Then, when the impact occurred, only material from the mantle was ejected, leaving the Earth's core of heavy elements untouched.
The impact had some important consequences for the young Earth. It released an enormous amount of energy, causing both the Earth and Moon to be completely molten. Immediately after the impact, the Earth's mantle was vigorously convecting, the surface was a large magma ocean. The planet's first atmosphere must have been completely blown away by the enormous amount of energy released. The impact is also thought to have changed Earth’s axis to produce the large 23.5° axial tilt that is responsible for Earth’s seasons (a simple, ideal model of the planets’ origins would have axial tilts of 0° with no recognizable seasons). It may also have sped up Earth’s rotation.
At the beginning of the Archaean, the Earth's heat flow was nearly three times higher than it is today, and was still twice the current level by the beginning of the Proterozoic. Thus, tectonic and volcanic activity were considerably more active than they are today; the Earth's crust was not only thinner than is today, but probably broken up into many more tectonic plates, with numerous hot spots, rift valleys, and transform faults. The existence of plate tectonics in this eon is disputed: it is an active area of modern research.
There were no large continents until late in the Archean; small protocontinents were the norm, prevented from coalescing into larger units by the high rate of geologic activity. These felsic protocontinents probably formed at hot spots rather than subduction zones, from a variety of sources: mafic magma melting more felsic rocks, partial melting of mafic rock, and from the metamorphic alteration of felsic sedimentary rocks.
The Archean atmosphere apparently lacked free oxygen. Temperatures appear to have been near modern levels, although astronomers think that the sun was about one-third dimmer. This is thought to reflect larger amounts of greenhouse gases than later in Earth history.
The oldest rock formations exposed on the surface of the Earth are Archean or slightly older. Archean rocks are known from Greenland, the Canadian Shield, western Australia, and southern Africa. Although the first continents formed during this eon, rock this age makes up only 7% of the world's current cratons; even allowing for erosion and destruction of past formations, evidence suggests that only 5-40% of the present continental crust formed during the Archean.
In contrast to the Proterozoic, Archean rocks are often heavily metamorphized deep-water sediments, such as greywackes, mudstones, volcanic sediments, and banded iron formations. Greenstone belts are typical Archean formations, consisting of alternating high and low-grade metamorphic rocks. The high-grade rocks were derived from volcanic island arcs, while the low-grade metamorphic rocks represent deep-sea sediments eroded from from the neighboring island arcs and deposited in a forearc basin. In short, greenstone belts represent sutured protocontinents.
Fossils of cyanobacterial mats (stromatolites) are found throughout the Archean—becoming especially common late in the eon—while a few other probable bacterial fossils are known from chert beds. In addition to bacteria, microfossils of the extremophilic archaea have also been identified.
There are no known eukaryote fossils. No fossil evidence yet exists for viruses.
The geologic record of the Proterozoic is much better than that for the preceding Archaean. In contrast to the deep-water deposits of the Archean, the Proterozoic features many strata that were laid down in extensive, shallow epicontinental seas; furthermore, many of these rocks are less metamorphosed than Archean-age ones, and plenty are in fact unaltered. Study of these rocks show that the eon featured rapid continental accretion (unique to the Proterozoic), supercontinent cycles, and wholly-modern orogenic activity.
The first known glaciations occurred during the Proterozoic. One ice age began shortly after the beginning of the eon. There were at least four during the Neoproterozoic, climaxing with the "Snowball Earth" of the Varangian glaciation.
One of the most important events of the Proterozoic was the accumulation of oxygen in the Earth's atmosphere. Though oxygen was undoubtedly released by photosynthesis well back in Archean times, it could not build up to any significant degree until chemical sinks--unoxidized sulfur and iron—had been filled; until roughly 2.3 billion years ago, oxygen was probably only 1 to 2% of its current level.(Stanley, 323) Banded iron formations, which provide most of the world's iron ore, were also a prominent chemical sink; most accumulation ceased after 1.9 billion years ago, either due to an increase in oxygen or a more thorough mixing of the oceanic water column.
Red beds, which are coloured by haematite, indicate an increase in atmospheric oxygen after 2 billion years ago; they are not found in older rocks.(Stanley, 324) The oxygen build-up was probably due to two factors: a filling of the chemical sinks, and an increase in carbon burial, which stored organic compounds which would have otherwise been oxidized by the atmosphere.
The first advanced single-celled and multi-cellular life roughly coincides with the oxygen accumulation; this may have been due to an increase in the oxidized nitrates that eukaryotes use, as opposed to cyanobacteria.(Stanley, 325) It was also during the Proterozoic that the first symbiotic relationship between mitochondria (for animals and protists) and chloroplasts (for plants) and their hosts evolved.
Eukaryotes such as acritarchs blossomed, as did cyanobacteria; in fact, stromatolites reached their greatest abundance and diversity during the Proterozoic, peaking roughly 1.2 billion years ago.
Classically, the boundary between the Proterozoic and the Paleozoic was set at the base of the Cambrian period when the first fossils of animals known as trilobites appeared. In the second half of the 20th century, a number of fossil forms have been found in Proterozoic rocks, but the boundary of the Proterozoic has remained fixed at the base of the Cambrian—currently placed at 542 Ma.
The Paleozoic covers the time from the first appearance of abundant, hard-shelled fossils to the time when the continents were beginning to be dominated by large, relatively sophisticated reptiles and relatively modern plants.
The upper (youngest) boundary is set at a major extinction event 250 million years later, known as the Permian–Triassic extinction event. Modern practice sets the older boundary at the first appearance of a distinctive trace fossil called "Phycodes pedum".
Geologically, the Paleozoic starts shortly after the breakup of a supercontinent called Rodinia and at the end of a global ice age (Snowball Earth). Throughout the early Palaeozoic, the Earth's landmass was broken up into a substantial number of relatively small continents. Toward the end of the era, the continents gathered together into a supercontinent called Pangaea, which included most of the Earth's land area.
At the start of the era, life was confined to bacteria, algae, sponges and a variety of somewhat enigmatic forms known collectively as the Ediacaran fauna. A large number of body plans appeared nearly simultaneously at the start of the era—a phenomenon known as the Cambrian Explosion.
There is some evidence that simple life may already have invaded the land at the start of the Palaeozoic, but substantial plants and animals did not take to the land until the Silurian and did not thrive until the Devonian. Although primitive vertebrates are known near the start of the Palaeozoic, animal forms were dominated by invertebrates until the mid-Palaeozoic. Fish populations exploded in the Devonian. During the late Palaeozoic, great forests of primitive plants thrived on land forming the great coal beds of Europe and eastern North America. By the end of the era, the first large, sophisticated reptiles and the first modern plants (conifers) had developed.
The Mesozoic covers the time when life was dominated by large sophisticated reptiles. The lower (oldest) boundary is set by the P/Tr extinction event. The upper (youngest) boundary is set at the K/T extinction event.
Geologically, the Mesozoic starts with almost all the Earth's land collected into a supercontinent called Pangaea. During the era, Pangaea split into the northern continent Laurasia and the southern continent Gondwana. Laurasia then split into North America and Eurasia. Gondwana broke up progressively into continents: South America, Africa, Madagascar, India, Australia and Antarctica.
The Mesozoic is known as the Age of Dinosaurs. It also saw the development of early birds and mammals and, later, flowering plants (angiosperms). At the end of the Mesozoic, all the major body plans of modern life were in place, though in some cases notably the mammals the forms that existed at the end of the Cretaceous were relatively primitive.
The Cainozoic is the age of mammals. During the Cainozoic, mammals diverged from a few small, simple, generalized forms into a diverse collection of terrestrial, marine, and flying animals. Flowering plants and birds also evolved substantially in the Cainozoic.
Geologically, the Cainozoic is the era when continents moved into their current positions. Africa and Australasia split from Gondwana to drift north, and India collided with Southeast Asia; Antarctica moved into its current position over the South Pole; the Atlantic Ocean widened and, late in the era, South America became attached to North America.

</doc>
<doc id="198175" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198175" title="Tomo Sugawara">
Tomo Sugawara

Tomo Sugawara (born 3 June 1976) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Tokyo Verdy.
271||4||16||0||48||0||1||0||335||4
1||0||||||||||||||1||0
272||4||16||0||48||0||1||0||336||4

</doc>
<doc id="198176" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198176" title="Shin Kanazawa">
Shin Kanazawa

Shin Kanazawa (born 9 September 1983) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Omiya Ardija.
194||8||14||0||13||0||2||0||223||8
194||8||14||0||13||0||2||0||223||8

</doc>
<doc id="198177" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198177" title="Donizete Francisco de Oliveira">
Donizete Francisco de Oliveira

Donizete Francisco de Oliveira (born 21 February 1968) is a former Brazilian football player. He has played for Brazil national team.
245||5
7||0
252||5
!Total||6||0

</doc>
<doc id="198202" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198202" title="Harrow School">
Harrow School

Harrow School, often called simply "Harrow", is a secondary school for boys in Harrow in London, England. Harrow has educated boys since 1243 but was officially founded by John Lyon under a Royal Charter of Elizabeth I in 1572. Harrow is located in Harrow on the Hill, now in the London Borough of Harrow. The school has about 800 students. They live across twelve boarding houses, and all of them board full time.
Harrow is an independent fee-paying school, of the type known in Britain as "public schools". The equivalent term in the US would probably be "private schools" (see discussion at public school). The annual fees at Harrow are at present £33,285 per year, which includes board, tuition and textbooks. 
The Harrow Foundation also runs an independent Grammar School in Harrow, called the John Lyon School, and several international schools. The John Lyon School is also fee-paying and academically selective. 
In 2013 66% of pupils got 5 A*-C GCSE grades including English and Maths. 14.1% of students go to Cambridge or Oxford. 
In 2013 a TV series called Harrow: a Very British School started. It follows boys and staff of West Acre of the West Acre boarding house for a year 
Famous men who went to Harrow include Benedict Cumberbatch, eight prime ministers (seven UK and the first Prime Minister of India), Lord Byron, James Blunt, C. W. Alcock, and John Amery. 

</doc>
<doc id="198208" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198208" title="Harrow">
Harrow

Harrow can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="198209" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198209" title="Roger Wicker">
Roger Wicker

Roger Frederick Wicker (born July 5, 1951 in Pontotoc, Mississippi, United States) is a United States Senator from Mississippi. He took over Mississippi's first congressional district soon after Jamie L. Whitten's death in 1995.

</doc>
<doc id="198218" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198218" title="The Return of Jafar">
The Return of Jafar

The Return of Jafar is a 1994 direct-to-video animated movie, released on VHS by Buena Vista Pictures, and the sequel to the 1992 Disney animated movie "Aladdin". The movie is about Jafar getting revenge on Aladdin for making a fool out of him.

</doc>
<doc id="198219" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198219" title="Aladdin and the King of Thieves">
Aladdin and the King of Thieves

Aladdin and the King of Thieves is a 1996 Disney animated movie, and the second sequel to the 1992 Disney animated movie "Aladdin". The story is about Aladdin finding his father. This movie is also the sequel to "The Return of Jafar".

</doc>
<doc id="198220" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198220" title="Ja, vi elsker dette landet">
Ja, vi elsker dette landet

"Ja, vi elsker dette landet", in English, "Yes, we love this country" is the Norwegian national anthem.
It is commonly referred to as only "Ja, vi elsker", "Yes, we love". The lyrics were written by Bjørnstjerne Bjørnson, and melody by his cousin, Rikard Nordraak.
The first verse goes like this:
""Ja, vi elsker dette landet,"
"som det stiger frem,"
"furet, værbitt over vannet,"
"med de tusen hjem,"
"elsker, elsker det og tenker,"
"på vår far og mor,"
"på den saganatt som senker, "
"drømmer på vår jord,"
"på den saganatt som senker,"
"senker drømmer på vår jord.""
Roughly translated to English:
""Yes, we love this country,"
"as it rises forth,"
"wrinkled, weather-beaten over the water,"
"with the thousand homes,"
"loving it, loving it and thinking,"
"of our father and mother,"
"of the saga night that lowers,"
"dreams upon our earth,"
"of the saga night that lowers,"
"lowers dreams upon our earth.""

</doc>
<doc id="198226" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198226" title="Mass number">
Mass number

The mass number (symbol: A) of an atom is the sum of the number of protons and the number of neutrons in the nucleus. The mass number is different for each isotope of a chemical element.
We write the mass number after the element name or as a superscript to the left of an element's symbol. For example, the most common isotope of carbon has 6 protons and 6 neutrons. Its mass number is written as: carbon-12 or C.
Mass number is not the same as:
The difference between the mass number and the atomic number gives the number of neutrons ("N") in a given nucleus: "N "= "A "− "Z".
The mass number is not shown on the periodic table. For each element, what is shown is the "standard atomic weight" and the "atomic number".

</doc>
<doc id="198227" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198227" title="J. Caleb Boggs">
J. Caleb Boggs

James Caleb Boggs (May 15, 1909 - March 26, 1993) was a Republican U.S. Senator from Delaware. He also served as a governor and a Congressman. He was defeated in 1972 by future Vice President of the United States, Joe Biden.

</doc>
<doc id="198240" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198240" title="LazyTown">
LazyTown

LazyTown is a television programme aimed at young children. The show is educational and teaches children to be healthy and exercise. The programme was created by people from Iceland, the United Kingdom and the United States of America.
The show has been very successful, and has aired in many countries around the world, and dubbed into many languages. The show ran from 2004 to 2007, but the United Kingdom has continued the series with "LazyTown Extra", a spin-off of "LazyTown".
The show features live-action actors and puppet characters set in a colourful town called LazyTown. At the start of the show, the town's citizens are very lazy, but the mayor's niece Stephanie arrives to change that. She is aided by an athletic superhero named Sportacus, who teaches the children of the town to eat healthy food and exercise each day. However, their fun is often stopped by the town's laziest man, Robbie Rotten, who spends large amounts of time attempting to make the children lazy again and trying to remove Sportacus and Stephanie from the town, usually by dressing up in disguises to fool the children. Robbie's plans often fail. The show's episodes often involve an educational or important message for viewers, and songs or dance numbers performed by the characters, usually Stephanie being the lead singer or dancer. 

</doc>
<doc id="198243" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198243" title="Blockland">
Blockland

Blockland is a multiplayer computer game made on the Torque Game Engine, where people make things using blocks. Blockland has around 35,500 players. People could build up to 128,000 bricks on every server to keep the game running best. In 2009, Lego were talking to Eric "Badspot" Hartman about selling Blockland. It has been talked about by "The Screen Savers" and Shack News. In 2005, when "Blockland" was in beta, "Blockland" was on an article on "Globe and Mail" in which Eric says 20,000 people downloaded "Blockland" in the ten days since it "became big". Right now, the full game costs $20.

</doc>
<doc id="198246" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198246" title="Tarzan II">
Tarzan II

Tarzan II is a direct-to-video midquel to the 1999 Disney animated movie "Tarzan", released on June 14, 2005. The movie tells the story of a young Tarzan's adventure to discover who he really is. It features two new songs from Phil Collins and takes place during the song "Son of Man" from the first movie. It is the last film in the chronology of Walt Disney's version of Tarzan.

</doc>
<doc id="198254" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198254" title="Tactical victory">
Tactical victory

A tactical victory happens when the winning side in a battle loses fewer troops than the other side.

</doc>
<doc id="198260" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198260" title="Terminal velocity">
Terminal velocity

Terminal velocity is the speed when a falling object is no longer getting faster. Velocity means how fast something is changing position in both speed and direction.
Terminal velocity happens at the moment in time that the force, because of gravity, called weight, is the same as the opposite force of air resistance or friction. In other words, terminal velocity is the point at which the velocity (speed of change of the falling object) is no longer getting greater. The gravitational force minus the force of drag (or air resistance) equals zero.
An object continues to fall steadily until air resistance becomes so great that it equals with the pull of gravity and the object can fall no faster. 
The terminal velocity of a skydiver in a belly-to-earth (i.e., face down) position is about 195 km/h (122 mph or 54 m/s). This velocity is the limit of the acceleration process. The forces on the body balance each other more and more closely as the terminal velocity is approached. In this example, a speed of 50% of terminal velocity is reached after only about 3 seconds, while it takes 8 seconds to reach 90%, 15 seconds to reach 99% and so on.
Higher speeds are achieved if the skydiver pulls in his or her limbs (see also freeflying). In this case, the terminal velocity increases to about 320 km/h (200 mph or 90 m/s), which is almost the terminal velocity of the Peregrine Falcon diving down on its prey.

</doc>
<doc id="198264" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198264" title="Babe (movie)">
Babe (movie)

Babe is an Australian-American movie which was made in 1995. It was nominated for seven Academy Awards including the Academy Award for Best Picture in 1996. It won the Academy Award for Visual Effects. It tells the story of a pig who learns how to look after sheep and becomes Australia's champion sheep dog. The movie stars Magda Szubanski, James Cromwell, and Zoe Burton. Some of the voices used by the animal characters were by Christine Cavanaugh and Hugo Weaving.
"Babe" was made by Kennedy Miller Productions, the producer was George Miller and the director was Chris Noonan. Noonan and Miller also wrote the story. "Babe" was released by Universal Pictures. Babe was filmed at Robertson, New South Wales.
A second movie about Babe the sheep pig was made called "".

</doc>
<doc id="198267" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198267" title="Swedish Empire">
Swedish Empire

Swedish Empire was, between 1611 and 1718, one of the great powers of Europe. In modern historiography this period is known as the Swedish Empire, or "stormaktstiden" ("the era of great power").

</doc>
<doc id="198268" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198268" title="Mountain View, California">
Mountain View, California

Mountain View is a city in California in the San Francisco Bay Area. It is north of San Jose and south of San Francisco. It is next to the cities of Palo Alto and Sunnyvale. 
Companies in Mountain View include Google and Mozilla.

</doc>
<doc id="198269" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198269" title="Estonians">
Estonians

Estonians (, previously ) are a Finnic people closely related to the Finns and inhabiting, primarily, the country of Estonia. The Estonians speak a Finno-Ugric language, known as Estonian. Although Estonia is traditionally grouped as one of the Baltic countries, Estonians are linguistically and ethnically unrelated to the Baltic peoples of Latvia and Lithuania.

</doc>
<doc id="198271" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198271" title="Menlo Park, California">
Menlo Park, California

Menlo Park is a city in California in the San Francisco Bay area. Menlo Park is on the peninsula between San Jose and San Francisco. To the south are Stanford and Palo Alto. To the north is Atherton.
Menlo Park has various school districts. It has the schools La Entrada, Hillview, Oak Knoll, and Las Lomitas.

</doc>
<doc id="198275" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198275" title="Estonian Soviet Socialist Republic">
Estonian Soviet Socialist Republic

The Estonian Soviet Socialist Republic, or Estonian SSR or ESSR, was a republic of the Soviet Union. It was administered by and subordinated to the Government of the Soviet Union. 
The ESSR replaced the Republic of Estonia on 21 July 1940, after the invasion of Soviet troops on 17 June 1940. A puppet government backed by the Soviet Union, declared Estonia to be a Soviet state. The Estonian SSR was taken into the USSR on 9 August 1940. The independence of the Republic of Estonia was reestablished on 20 August 1991.

</doc>
<doc id="198278" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198278" title="National Film and Sound Archive">
National Film and Sound Archive

The National Film and Sound Archive (NFSA) is Australia’s audiovisual archive. This is where all Australia's old movies and sound recordings are kept. The NFSA is responsible for developing, saving, looking after, promoting and providing access to a national collection of movie and sound materials. The collection has works made in the late 19th century when the recorded sound and movie industries were just beginning to those made in the present day.
The NFSA started in 1935 as the National Historical Film and Speaking Record Library which was then part of the Commonwealth National Library. It became an independent statutory authority as the National Film and Sound Archive of Australia in 2008.
It is located in Canberra, Australia's capital city.

</doc>
<doc id="198281" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198281" title="Ice Cube">
Ice Cube

O'Shea Jackson (born June 15, 1969), better known by his stage name Ice Cube, is an American rapper, actor, screenwriter, and producer. He was a member of the legendary rap group N.W.A., who is best known for popularizing the gangsta rap genre with "Straight Outta Compton" (1988). After leaving N.W.A. in 1989, he began doing solo work.

</doc>
<doc id="198282" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198282" title="West Coast hip hop">
West Coast hip hop

West Coast hip hop is a style of hip hop music that originated in California in the early 1980s. It has since grown into a major force in hip hop and has developed several creative centers. West Coast hip hop musicians include 2pac, Snoop Dogg, and Xzibit.

</doc>
<doc id="198283" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198283" title="Gangsta rap">
Gangsta rap

Gangsta rap (also called Gangster rap, Gansta rap, G rap Gangsta hip hop) is a subgenre of hip hop that reflects the violent lifestyles of some inner-city youths. "Gangsta" is a non-rhotic pronunciation of the word "gangster". The genre was pioneered in the mid 1980s by rappers such as Afroman and Ice Cube, and was popularized in the later part of the 1980s by groups like N.W.A. After the national attention that Ice-T and N.W.A created in the late 1980s and early 1990s, gangsta rap became the most commercially lucrative subgenre of hip hop.

</doc>
<doc id="198284" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198284" title="Political hip hop">
Political hip hop

Political hip hop (also called political rap, conscious hip hop or conscious rap) is a form of hip hop music that focuses on social issues and politics. It developed during the 1980s, being inspired by 1970s political preachers such as The Last Poets and Gil Scott-Heron. Public Enemy were the first political hip hop group. Grandmaster Flash and the Furious Five released the first well-known sociopolitical rap song in 1982 called "The Message", which inspired numerous rappers to address social and political subjects.
Conscious hip hop also called Socially Conscious hip hop or Conscious rap is sub-genre of Hip hop that focuses on social issues. It was created by music critics and fans rather that the artists themselves.

</doc>
<doc id="198289" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198289" title="Waltzing Matilda">
Waltzing Matilda

"Waltzing Matilda" is one of Australia's best known songs. The bush ballad, a country folk song, has been called "the unofficial national anthem of Australia".
The title, Waltzing Matilda, is Australian slang for walking through the country looking for work, with one's goods in a "Matilda" (bag) carried over one's back.
The song tells the story of a traveling farm worker making a drink of tea at a bush camp and capturing a sheep to eat. When the sheep's owner arrives with three policemen to arrest the worker for taking the sheep (a crime punishable by hanging), the worker drowns himself in a small watering hole. The worker's ghost stays to haunt the site.
The words to the song were written in 1895 by a poet and nationalist Banjo Paterson. It was first printed as sheet music in 1903. There are many stories about the song and how it was written. The song has its own museum, the Waltzing Matilda Centre in Winton, Queensland.
The music, based on a folk song, was written by Christina Macpherson. Paterson wrote the words while staying at the Dagworth Homestead, farm in Queensland. While he was there the owners played him an old Celtic folk tune called "The Craigeelee". Paterson decided that it would be a good tune to write words for and completed during his stay at the farm.
The tune is probably the Scottish song "Thou Bonnie Wood Of Craigielea", which Macpherson heard played by a band at the Warrnambool steeplechase. Robert Tannahill wrote the words in 1805 and James Barr wrote the music in 1818. In 1893 it was arranged for brass band by Thomas Bulch. The tune may have been based on the melody of "Go to the Devil and Shake Yourself", written by John Field (1782–1837) sometime before 1812. It is sometimes also called: "When Sick Is It Tea You Want?" (London 1798) or "The Penniless Traveller" (O'Neill's 1850 collection).
There is also an idea that tune may be similar to "The Bold Fusilier" (also called "Marching through Rochester"), a song sung to the same tune and dated by some back to the eighteenth century but first printed in 1900.
<poem>A bold fusilier came marching back through Rochester
Off from the wars in the north country,
And he sang as he marched
Through the crowded streets of Rochester,
Who'll be a soldier for Marlboro and me?</poem>
There are no "official" words to "Waltzing Matilda", and slight differences can be found in the sources. This version uses the famous "You'll never catch me alive said he" variation introduced by the Billy Tea company. Paterson's original words use 'drowning', which the tea company felt was too negative.
<poem>
Once a jolly swagman camped by a billabong
Under the shade of a coolibah tree,
And he sang as he watched and waited 'til his billy boiled
"You'll come a-Waltzing Matilda, with me"
Waltzing Matilda, Waltzing Matilda
"You'll come a-Waltzing Matilda, with me"
And he sang as he watched and waited 'til his billy boiled,
"You'll come a-Waltzing Matilda, with me".
Down came a jumbuck to drink at that billabong, 
Up jumped the swagman and grabbed him with glee, 
And he sang as he shoved that jumbuck in his tucker bag, 
"You'll come a-Waltzing Matilda, with me".
Waltzing Matilda, Waltzing Matilda
"You'll come a-Waltzing Matilda, with me"
And he sang as he shoved that jumbuck in his tucker bag,
"You'll come a-Waltzing Matilda, with me".
Up rode the squatter, mounted on his thoroughbred,
Down came the troopers, one, two, three,
"Where's that jolly jumbuck you've got in your tucker bag?"
"You'll come a-Waltzing Matilda, with me".
Waltzing Matilda, Waltzing Matilda
"You'll come a-Waltzing Matilda, with me"
"Where's that jolly jumbuck you've got in your tucker bag?",
"You'll come a-Waltzing Matilda, with me".
Up jumped the swagman and sprang into the billabong,
"You'll never catch me alive", said he,
And his ghost may be heard as you pass by that billabong,
"You'll come a-Waltzing Matilda, with me".
Waltzing Matilda, Waltzing Matilda
"You'll come a-Waltzing Matilda, with me"
And his ghost may be heard as you pass by that billabong,
"You'll come a-Waltzing Matilda, with me." 
"Oh, You'll come a-Waltzing Matilda, with me."
</poem>

</doc>
<doc id="198316" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198316" title="Wolfgang Paul">
Wolfgang Paul

Wolfgang Paul (born in Lorenzkirch, Germany 1913 - Bonn 1993) was a German professor awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1989.
Paul was born on August 10 of 1913 in the German city of Lorenzkirch, Saxony. When he was young, his family moved to Munich, where his father taught pharmaceutical chemistry at the University of Munich. In 1932, he began his studies of physics at the Superior School in Munich, and soon moved to the 1934 at the headquarters of Berlin, getting his doctorate in 1939.
In 1944, he began his teaching at the University of Göttingen and 1952 was hired at the University of Bonn as director of its Institute of Experimental Physics, a position he kept until his death.
Wolfgang Paul died December 7 of 1993 at his residence in Bonn.
During WWII he investigated the separation of isotopes, which is necessary to produce material to make nuclear fission for use in nuclear weapons.
He started his research into ions, developing the so-called ion trap. 
For this discovery, in 1989 he was awarded half of the Nobel Prize in Physics, shared with Hans G. Dehmelt.
Between 1965 and 1967, he was appointed Director of the Division of Nuclear Physics at CERN.

</doc>
<doc id="198320" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198320" title="Babe: Pig in the City">
Babe: Pig in the City

Babe: Pig in the city is a 1998 sequel to the 1995 movie "Babe". It takes place in the fictional city of Metropolis. Because of the unexpected darker and more grown up subject matter (the movie includes a scene in which a dog almost drowns while hanging from a bridge), the movie was not received as well critically as the first "Babe" movie was, and reviews were generally mixed. However, it was also praised by some, and gained a cult following.
Voice Cast
Live-Action Cast
The score is again by Nigel Westlake, it also includes sound clips taken from the movie. There is also a big band classic "Chattanooga Choo Choo" by Glenn Miller, and "That's Amore" by Dean Martin. More tracks including "That'll Do", the Academy Award-nominated theme song, and a song at the end sung by Babe's voice actress.

</doc>
<doc id="198359" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198359" title="Rod Barajas">
Rod Barajas

Rodrigo "Rod" Richard Barajas (born September 5, 1975) is a former professional baseball player. He played in Major League Baseball for the Arizona Diamondbacks, Texas Rangers, Philadelphia Phillies, Toronto Blue Jays, New York Mets, Los Angeles Dodgers and Pittsburgh Pirates. Barajas has also played with the Mexico national baseball team.

</doc>
<doc id="198360" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198360" title="Norway, Maine">
Norway, Maine

Norway is a town in Oxford County, Maine, United States. It is home to Lake Pennesseewassee, a recreation area.
Norway was once called the "Snowshoe Capital of the World" because of the many snowshoes made here. 

</doc>
<doc id="198364" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198364" title="Westbrook, Maine">
Westbrook, Maine

Westbrook is a small town in the U.S. state of Maine.
Professional wrestler Scott Garland better known by his ring name, "Scotty 2 Hotty" was born in Westbrook.

</doc>
<doc id="198365" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198365" title="John Rocker">
John Rocker

John Rocker (born October 17, 1974) is a retired pitcher for the Atlanta Braves in Major League Baseball.

</doc>
<doc id="198367" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198367" title="Belkin">
Belkin

Belkin is a company that makes computer routers.

</doc>
<doc id="198369" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198369" title="Dell Curry">
Dell Curry

Wardell Stephen "Dell" Curry (born June 25, 1964) is a retired American professional basketball player. He played at the shooting guard and the small forward positions. He went to school at Virginia Tech. He then played in the National Basketball Association from 1986 until 2002.
Curry was selected 15th overall by the Utah Jazz in the 1986 NBA Draft. He also played for the Cleveland Cavaliers, Milwaukee Bucks, Charlotte Hornets, and Toronto Raptors.
In 2004, he was added into the Virginia Sports Hall of Fame.

</doc>
<doc id="198371" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198371" title="Franklin (disambiguation)">
Franklin (disambiguation)

Franklin most often means Benjamin Franklin, one of the people who started America. Other things it can refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="198395" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198395" title="Adriano Gerlin da Silva">
Adriano Gerlin da Silva

Adriano Gerlin da Silva (born 20 September 1974) is a former Brazilian football player.
22||6||3||1||25||7
22||6||3||1||25||7

</doc>
<doc id="198396" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198396" title="Andrzej Kubica">
Andrzej Kubica

Andrzej Kubica (born 7 July 1972) is a former Polish football player.
69||14
48||11
25||9
13||2
129||54
45||17
329||107

</doc>
<doc id="198397" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198397" title="Fernando Picun">
Fernando Picun

Fernando Picun (born 14 February 1972) is a former Uruguayan football player. He has played for Uruguay national team.
36||3
33||1
69||4
!Total||9||0

</doc>
<doc id="198401" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198401" title="Campeonato Brasileiro Série B">
Campeonato Brasileiro Série B

Campeonato Brasileiro Série B is a football league which is second division in Brazil.

</doc>
<doc id="198404" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198404" title="Bangu A.C.">
Bangu A.C.

Bangu A.C. is a football club which plays in Brazil.

</doc>
<doc id="198405" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198405" title="E.C. Vitória">
E.C. Vitória

E.C. Vitória is a football club which plays in Brazil.

</doc>
<doc id="198406" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198406" title="Rubén Olivera">
Rubén Olivera

Rubén Olivera (born 4 May 1983) is an Uruguayan football player. He has played for the Uruguayan national team.
61||26
62||8
2||0
125||34
!Total||18||0

</doc>
<doc id="198407" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198407" title="Mike Havenaar">
Mike Havenaar

85||22||2||2||10||1||97||25
52||7||0||0||10||1||62||8
!Total||5||2

</doc>
<doc id="198411" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198411" title="C.A. Bragantino">
C.A. Bragantino

C.A. Bragantino is a football club which plays in Brazil.

</doc>
<doc id="198412" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198412" title="Associação Portuguesa de Desportos">
Associação Portuguesa de Desportos

Associação Portuguesa de Desportos is a football club which plays in Brazil.

</doc>
<doc id="198413" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198413" title="A.D. São Caetano">
A.D. São Caetano

A.D. São Caetano is a football club which plays in Brazil.

</doc>
<doc id="198414" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198414" title="Jorge Pereira da Silva">
Jorge Pereira da Silva

Jorge Pereira da Silva (born 4 December 1985) is a Brazilian football player.
73||18||2||0||3||0||78||18
73||18||2||0||3||0||78||18

</doc>
<doc id="198415" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198415" title="Ryosuke Kijima">
Ryosuke Kijima

Ryosuke Kijima (born 29 May 1979) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Roasso Kumamoto.
153||20||12||1||18||2||183||23
153||20||12||1||18||2||183||23

</doc>
<doc id="198417" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198417" title="Željko Milinovič">
Željko Milinovič

Željko Milinovič (born 12 October 1969) is a former Slovenian football player. He has played for Slovenia national team.
206||10||||||||||206||10
130||7||||||||||130||7
103||8||11||0||16||3||130||11
439||25||11||0||16||3||466||28
!Total||38||3

</doc>
<doc id="198425" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198425" title="Days of Thunder">
Days of Thunder

Days of Thunder is a 1990 American auto racing movie that was produced by Don Simpson and Jerry Bruckheimer and was directed by Tony Scott. Days of Thunder was released on June 27, 1990 in North America. The movie received mixed reviews with a 40% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and a 60 out of 100 from Metacritic. The movie had two video games based on it.

</doc>
<doc id="198427" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198427" title="Robber">
Robber

A robber is a person who steals or takes something belonging to someone else. Robbers use force or threats to take what they want. A bank robber is someone who steals money from a bank. When the robber takes something, this is called a robbery. One famous robbery was the Great Train Robbery in England. Armed robbery means that the robber used weapons such as a gun in the robbery. Many robbers have become infamous, such as Jesse James in America and Ben Hall in Australia. Australian robbers used to be called bushrangers.
The word "rob" comes from a Latin word, "deraubare". This word came from a German word "raub" which means clothes. Before clothes were made in factories and became cheap, robbers often took a person's clothes.

</doc>
<doc id="198465" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198465" title="1965 Atlantic hurricane season">
1965 Atlantic hurricane season

The 1965 Atlantic hurricane season was the first hurricane season to have the bounds from June 1, 1965 to November 30, 1965. The 1965 Atlantic hurricane season did not have very many storms. A famous hurricane from this season would be Hurricane Betsy. Hurricane Betsy was the first hurricane to cause a billion dollors or more in damage, without being changed to the value of the dollar today.
This is a list of all the names set aside for use in the 1965 Atlantic hurricane season. The names not used are in .
After the season Betsy and Carol were retired. Carol was retired not because of the 1965 storm but because of the 1954 storm. Blanche and Camille were used instead of Betsy and Carol in 1969.

</doc>
<doc id="198470" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198470" title="1964 Atlantic hurricane season">
1964 Atlantic hurricane season

The 1964 Atlantic hurricane season was the last hurricane season to last from June 15, 1964 to November 15, 1964. A tropical storm did form before June 15, however. This season was just short of normal. All hurricanes of the 1964 Atlantic hurricane season became major hurricanes (category 3+). Famous hurricanes from this season were: Hurricane Cleo, Dora, and Hilda.
The following names were used for named storms (tropical storms and hurricanes) that formed in the North Atlantic in 1964. A storm was named Isbell for the first time in 1964. Names that were not assigned are marked in .
After the season the names Cleo, Dora, and Hilda were retired. Candy, Dolly, and Hannah were used in 1968 instead of Cleo, Dora, and Hilda.

</doc>
<doc id="198483" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198483" title="Carnegie Hall Tower">
Carnegie Hall Tower

Carnegie Hall Tower is a 60-story skyscraper on 57th Street in New York City. The tower is 231 meters (757 ft) tall and was completed in 1991.

</doc>
<doc id="198596" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198596" title="Josep Samitier">
Josep Samitier

Josep Samitier (2 February 1902 – 4 May 1972) is a former Spanish football player. He has played for Spain national team.
36||24
36||24
!Total||21||2

</doc>
<doc id="198597" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198597" title="László Kubala">
László Kubala

László Kubala (10 June 1927 – 17 May 2002) was a Slovak-Hungarian-Spanish football player. He has played for Czechoslovakia national team, Hungary national team and Spain national team.
78||45
33||14
194||126
1||0
38||10
344||195
!Total||6||4
!Total||3||0
!Total||19||11

</doc>
<doc id="198598" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198598" title="Ricardo Zamora">
Ricardo Zamora

Ricardo Zamora (21 January 1901 – 15 September 1978) is a former Spanish football player. He has played for Spain national team.
123||0
123||0
!Total||46||0

</doc>
<doc id="198602" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198602" title="Morgan De Sanctis">
Morgan De Sanctis

Morgan De Sanctis (born 26 March 1977) is an Italian football player. He plays for Napoli.
271||0
8||0
31||0
310||0
!Total||3||0

</doc>
<doc id="198626" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198626" title="Hips Don't Lie">
Hips Don't Lie

Hips Don't Lie is a 2006 Latin pop hit song by Colombian singer Shakira and Wyclef Jean. It came out in her album "Oral Fixation Vol. 2". The song has Latin style drums and Wyclef's rap. The song became Number 1 in many countries.

</doc>
<doc id="198627" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198627" title="She Wolf (song)">
She Wolf (song)

She Wolf is a 2009 song by Shakira from her album "She Wolf". There is also a Spanish version of the song titled Loba.

</doc>
<doc id="198636" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198636" title="Federation of Australia">
Federation of Australia

The federation of Australia was the way that the six separate British colonies of New South Wales, Queensland, South Australia, Tasmania, Victoria and Western Australia joined together to become one country. When the Constitution of Australia came into force, on 1 January 1901, the colonies became states of the Commonwealth of Australia.
People had been trying to get the colonies to join together in a federation of Australia during the 1850s and 1860s. In the 1890s, a number of big meetings, called conventions, were held to write a constitution for Australia. Sir Henry Parkes, Premier of New South Wales, was the main person supporting this idea. Fiji and New Zealand were going to be part of the federation but decided not to join the federation.
As soon as the Federation happened, Sir Edmund Barton was put in charge as Prime Minister of Australia until the first Australian elections were held. Barton won the election and continued to be the Prime Minister. 

</doc>
<doc id="198640" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198640" title="Royal Exhibition Building">
Royal Exhibition Building

The Royal Exhibition Building is in Carlton, Victoria, Australia. When it was built in 1880, it was the largest building in Australia and the tallest building in Melbourne. It is listed as a World Heritage site. It is the only 19th century exhibition hall that held an international exhibition still in use. In 1880, 1.8 million people visited the exhibition; the population of Melbourne was only 282,000 people. From 1901 to 1925 the state government of Victoria used the building while the federal government used the State Parliament buildings.
In 2009, archaeologists dug up the car park to find out more about the buildings. They found paths from gardens that had been on the site before the building was put up. They also found the remains of an octagonal (eight-sided) kiosk which had sold food snacks and drinks in the gardens. They also found the remains of an extra building put up in 1888 to hold military weapons that were part of the 1880 exhibition.

</doc>
<doc id="198642" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198642" title="Tetsuya Ito">
Tetsuya Ito

Tetsuya Ito (born 1 October 1970) is a former Japanese football player.
186||12||11||0||19||0||216||12
186||12||11||0||19||0||216||12

</doc>
<doc id="198643" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198643" title="Giuseppe Zappella">
Giuseppe Zappella

Giuseppe Zappella (born 4 May 1973) is an Italian football player. He plays for Cuneo.
269||9
39||4
308||13

</doc>
<doc id="198644" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198644" title="Alfred Nijhuis">
Alfred Nijhuis

Alfred Nijhuis (born 23 March 1966) is a former Dutch football player.
241||23||||||||||241||23
27||6||2||0||6||1||35||7
268||29||2||0||6||1||276||30

</doc>
<doc id="198649" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198649" title="Luis del Sol">
Luis del Sol

Luis del Sol (born 6 April 1935) is a former Spanish football player. He has played for the Spanish national football team.
112||28
278||24
390||52
!Total||16||3

</doc>
<doc id="198650" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198650" title="Alessandro Birindelli">
Alessandro Birindelli

Alessandro Birindelli (born 12 November 1974) is an Italian football player. He has played for Italy national team.
350||3||42||2||61||3||453||8
350||3||42||2||61||3||453||8
!Total||6||0

</doc>
<doc id="198651" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198651" title="Jun Uruno">
Jun Uruno

245||45||22||3||5||0||272||48
245||45||22||3||5||0||272||48

</doc>
<doc id="198655" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198655" title="Nicola Legrottaglie">
Nicola Legrottaglie

Nicola Legrottaglie (born 20 October 1976) is an Italian football player. He plays for Calcio Catania.
286||16||22||0||14||1||322||17
286||16||22||0||14||1||322||17
!Total||16||1

</doc>
<doc id="198656" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198656" title="Hwang Sun-Hong">
Hwang Sun-Hong

Hwang Sun-Hong (born 14 July 1968) is a South Korean professional athlete. He is best known as an association football player. He was a member of the Korean national team.
9||3||||||||||9||3
64||31||||||||||64||31
70||42||0||0||7||3||77||45
143||76||0||0||7||3||150||79
!Total||103||50

</doc>
<doc id="198660" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198660" title="Koji Tanaka">
Koji Tanaka

143||1
143||1
!Total||20||3

</doc>
<doc id="198661" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198661" title="Mitsuru Komaeda">
Mitsuru Komaeda

!Total||2||2

</doc>
<doc id="198662" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198662" title="Ryo Nurishi">
Ryo Nurishi

Ryo Nurishi (born 1 May 1986) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Tokyo Verdy.
20||2||2||0||0||0||22||0
20||2||2||0||0||0||22||0

</doc>
<doc id="198669" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198669" title="Aaron Lennon">
Aaron Lennon

Aaron Lennon (born 16 April 1987) is an English football player. He plays for Tottenham Hotspur and England national team.
155||13||13||1||18||1||23||1||209||16
155||13||13||1||18||1||23||1||209||16
!Total||15||0

</doc>
<doc id="198670" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198670" title="Lee Young-Pyo">
Lee Young-Pyo

Lee Young-Pyo (born 23 April 1977) is a South Korean professional athlete. He is best known as an association football player. He was a member of the Korean national team.
77||3||||||20||0||colspan="2"|-||77||3
75||1||8||0||colspan="2"|-||26||0||109||1
70||0||7||0||6||0||10||0||93||0
13||0||1||0||colspan="2"|-||2||0||16||0
0||0||0||0||0||0||0||0||0||0
235||4||16||0||26||0||38||0||315||4
Kim has played in over 100 international matches.
!Total||127||5

</doc>
<doc id="198675" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198675" title="Siege of Fort Zeelandia">
Siege of Fort Zeelandia

The Siege of Fort Zeelandia is the name for Koxinga's Invasion of Taiwan. The siege started in 1661 and ended in 1662. It ended the Dutch East India Company's rule over Taiwan. After the siege, the Kingdom of Tungning ruled over the island. This event was said to be "a war that determined the fate of Taiwan in the four hundred years".
In 1659, after an unsuccessful attempt to capture Nanjing, Koxinga, leader of Ming loyalists began searching for a home for his men. 
"He Bin", who was working for the Dutch East India Company, fled to Koxinga's base in Xiamen and provided Koxinga with a map of Taiwan. The Dutch had established a post at Tayoan, that had two forts. The first was Fort Zeelandia at the entrance to the bay at Tayoan which was the main Dutch settlement. The second was Fort Provintia also located at the bay. Frederick Coyett, the governor of Taiwan was at Fort Zeelandia with 1,800 men. Fort Provintia had 500 men.
Koxinga's fleet set sail from Kinmen on March 23, 1661. His fleet consisted of hundreds of ships of various sizes, with 25,000 men aboard. The fleet arrived at Tayoan on April 2, and, after passing through a shallow waterway unknown to the Dutch, landed at Luermen.
The men laid siege to Fort Provintia and it surrendered on April 4. Three days after the capture of Fort Provintia, Koxinga's men surrounded Fort Zeelandia and demanded it's surrender. Koxinga sent a Dutch priest Anthonius Hambroek to ask for this surrender. Hambroek dis not do this and he was killed after returning to Koxinga's camp.
Koxinga's fleet then used cannons and they attempted to enter the fort, but many died. Koxinga then waited outside the fort. On May 28, news of Koxinga's attack reached Jakarta. The Dutch sent 10 ships and 700 sailors to help. The ships arrived on July 5 and had some small fights with Koxinga's fleet.
On July 23, the two sides fought as the Dutch ships tried to enter the fort. After a while, the Dutch ships had to retreat with two ships lost, three small vessels captured, and about a hundred casualties. The Dutch tried to break the siege again in October, but were beaten back by Koxinga's army. This victory, coupled with news of low morale among the garrison from deserted German mercenaries, convinced Koxinga to launched an assault in December.
On January 12, 1662, Koxinga's fleet began another bombardment, while the ground force prepare to assault the fort. With supplies dwindling and no sign of reinforcement, Coyett raised a white flag. The surrender was complete on February 1, and the Dutch East India Company left Taiwan on February 17.
Coyett was tried for surrendering and exiled to the Banda Islands. He was pardoned after help from his friends. He published a book named "Neglected Formosa" () in 1675. In the book he criticized the company for neglecting his pleas for reinforcement.
After the loss of Tayoan, the Dutch East India Company tried to recapture it. They joined with the Qing Empire to battle Koxinga's fleet, but failed.
The battle was shown in the movie "Zheng Chenggong 1661", which ends with Koxinga's victory over the Dutch. The movie's English title is "Sino-Dutch War 1661".

</doc>
<doc id="198685" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198685" title="Koxinga">
Koxinga

Koxinga - "Lord with the Imperial Surname" is the traditional Western spelling of Zheng Chenggong (1624 - 1662). Koxinga was a leader at the end of the Chinese Ming Dynasty. He defeated the Dutch to claim Taiwan in 1662 at the Siege of Fort Zeelandia.

</doc>
<doc id="198693" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198693" title="Fujian">
Fujian

Most of Fujian is administered by the People's Republic of China. However some Fujian areas like Kinmen and Matsu are under the control of the Republic of China. The PRC however, still claim that Kinmen and Matsu to be part of Fujian Province of the PRC.
Fujian is separated from Taiwan by the 180km wide Taiwan Strait. Some of the small islands in the strait are also part of the province.
Small parts of the province, namely the islands of Quemoy and Matsu, are under the administration of the Republic of China. The area of Fujian is about 121,400 square kilometers.
The People's Republic of China controls most of the province, and divides it into nine prefecture-level divisions.
All of these cities except Longyan, Sanming, and Nanping are found along the coast.
In 2008, Fujian's nominal GDP rose by 13% from the previous year.
The population is 34.71 million (2000 population census). Han Chinese make up most of the population.

</doc>
<doc id="198703" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198703" title="Cotuí">
Cotuí

Cotuí is a Dominican city and the head municipality of the Sánchez Ramírez province, in the center of the country. 
"Cotuí" is the Taíno name of the region where the old city was founded. The present city is in the Cibao Valley, at about 105 km to the north of Santo Domingo, the capital of the Dominican Republic.
The municipality had, in 2010, a total population of 76,554: 39,403 men and 37,151 women. The urban population was 64.70% of the total population. In this numbers are included the population of the municipal districts that are part the municipality. The population of Cotuí without its municipal districts was 64,133.
Cotuí is located north of the Sierra de Yamasá mountain range, in the Cibao Valley. The city is near the River Yuna, one of the most important river of the Hispaniola island.
The municipality has a total area of 619.88 km². There are four municipal districts (administrative subdivisions of a municipality) in Cotuí; these are:
The town was founded in 1505 by Rodrigo Mejía de Trujillo, a Spanish conquistador; the Spanish governor of the Hispaniola island at that time was Nicolás de Ovando. It was built near a gold mine in a region called "Cotoi" (also written "Cotoy") by the Taíno people.
The old town was near the present town of Maimón and there were important improvements in the town during those first years and its named was changed to "La Mejorada Villa de Cotuí" (in English: "The Improved City of Cotuí") but most people called it "Los Mineros" (in English: "The Miners").
In 1562 there was a strong earthquake that destroyed the town and other cities in the island. Cotuí was moved to its present place in 1569, close to the river Yuna.
It was made a municipality in 1822 by the Haitian government and it was one of the first municipalities of the country after the Dominican Independence in 1844. In 1952, Cotuí was made the head municipality of the new province of Sánchez Ramírez.
Farming is very important around the city; some important products are rice, cacao, orange and pineapple. Cattle raising is also an important activity in the municipality.
Mining is also important here; gold and silver are mined close to the old, colonial mines.

</doc>
<doc id="198712" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198712" title="Costume">
Costume

Costume is a set of clothes that someone is wearing in order to look in a way that is not the same as another or as before. Some costumes are special to countries or regions. They are worn because people are proud of their country. Actors in a theatre wear costumes because they are pretending to be a person in a play or ballet. Costumes can be worn for carnivals or parties.
National or regional costume is worn to show that people come from a country or region. Many years ago, national costume was worn every day by many groups of people. Today most people do not wear costumes. Usually people dress up in national costume for special celebrations or for national dancing.
Some well known examples of national costume are the kilt which is worn by people in Scotland and the kimono worn in Japan.
When actors perform in the theatre they usually wear a costume. These are the special clothes they wear in order to pretend they are a particular character in the story which they act out. They might be pretending to be any kind of person: a beggar, king, businessman, ancient god, etc. Some theatrical costumes stretch the truth about characters. Examples are Harlequin and Pantaloon in the Commedia dell'arte.
Costumes are worn at festivals such as Mardi Gras and Halloween. For example during Halloween children wear scary masks and costumes.

</doc>
<doc id="198715" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198715" title="Oolite (computer game)">
Oolite (computer game)

Oolite is a free videogame developed by Giles Williams and published by aegidian.org.
In Oolite the player takes the role of a space trader, buying and selling goods at different space stations, and battling other space ships.

</doc>
<doc id="198729" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198729" title="Great hurricane of 1780">
Great hurricane of 1780

The Great Hurricane of 1780 was the Atlantic hurricane ever recorded. It killed more than 27,500 people when it passed through the Caribbean. There is not much known about the storm, because it happened before people took official records of hurricanes.
The hurricane hit Barbados with winds possibly over 200 mph (320 km/h). It then moved past Martinique, Saint Lucia, and Saint Eustatius. Thousands of deaths were reported on each island. In the middle of the American Revolution, the storm caused heavy losses to British and French fleets. 
The hurricane later passed near Puerto Rico and tracked over the eastern portion of the Dominican Republic. It eventually turned to the northeast, and was last seen on October 20 to the southeast of Newfoundland.
The hurricane was part of the very bad 1780 Atlantic hurricane season, with two other deadly storms during the same month. The Great Hurricane killed more than twice as many people as Hurricane Mitch did (Hurricane Mitch was the second deadliest hurricane in the Atlantic Ocean).

</doc>
<doc id="198783" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198783" title="Kaskade">
Kaskade

Kaskade (born Ryan Raddon in 1971) is an American DJ and record producer. He is known for his techno songs "4 A.M." and "Angel On My Shoulder". "Move For Me" and "Fire In Your New Shoes" are two more of his hit songs. In 2010, he made an album called "Dynasty". Kaskade released another album on October 22, 2011 with the single "Eyes".

</doc>
<doc id="198787" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198787" title="Lost Ones">
Lost Ones

Lost Ones is a popular song by rapper Jay-Z, off his album "Kingdom Come".

</doc>
<doc id="198791" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198791" title="FrostWire">
FrostWire

FrostWire is a computer program for downloading files, like music, video, etc. very much like LimeWire.

</doc>
<doc id="198792" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198792" title="Young Jeezy">
Young Jeezy

Young Jeezy (born September 28, 1977) is an American rapper and part of the hip-hop group USDA. He used to be in the group Boyz N Da Hood. His real name is Jay Jenkins.
Young Jeezy began performing and recording in 2001. He joined Boyz N Da Hood in 2005. His first solo album on a major label, "Let's Get It: Thug Motivation 101", was released in 2005. A single, "Soul Survivor", with Akon, became a top-ten hit in America.
"The Inspiration" was the next album in 2006, and "The Recession" in 2008. These albums also had chart-topping singles. Jeezy has also performed on other rap and R&B singles such as "Say I" by Christina Milian, "I'm So Paid" by Akon, and "Love in This Club" by Usher. "Love In This Club" was a number one single on the Billboard Hot 100 in 2008.

</doc>
<doc id="198796" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198796" title="Kutná Hora">
Kutná Hora

Kutná Hora is a town in the Czech Republic. About 21,604 people live there (2009). It is located in the Central Bohemian Region. It was founded in the 13th century.
In 1995, the city centre became a UNESCO World Heritage Site. 

</doc>
<doc id="198798" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198798" title="Maine Public Broadcasting Network">
Maine Public Broadcasting Network

The Maine Public Broadcasting Network is in Lewiston, Maine. It has children's programming like "Arthur" and "Clifford the Big Red Dog". It also has shows from PBS and PBS Kids.

</doc>
<doc id="198799" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198799" title="Kidzania Jakarta">
Kidzania Jakarta

Kidzania Jakarta is an amusement park in Jakarta. It is Southeast Asia's first ever Kidzania theme park, coming from the Mexican amusement park company Kidzania de Mexico S.A. Kidzania Jakarta is the fourth of its kind to open globally. The theme park houses less than 10,000 visitors, although it has a big size. The park is open from 9.00am until 2.00pm for the first session. The second session begins at 3.00pm until 8.00pm. 
It has 70 pavilions, some are currently under development. The latest change came on June 8, 2009, when it opened its first Research & Development Center. This is related to electronic matters, as children must create new ideas to create a home electronic. It is followed by the opening of the Coffee Factory pavilion, where children can make instant coffee through a number of processes.
Kidzania Jakarta is on a mall in Jakarta, known as the Pacific Place Jakarta, on the city center.

</doc>
<doc id="198801" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198801" title="Stone Cold Steve Austin">
Stone Cold Steve Austin

Steve Austin (born Steven James Anderson on December 18, 1964, later Steven Williams), better known by his ring name "Stone Cold" Steve Austin is an American retired professional wrestler, producer, and actor. He is known for his work within the WWE where he worked from 1995 to 2002. He is currently signed with the WWE in a Legends deal.
He is known for portraying a disrespectful, beer-drinking antihero and had a popular feud with his boss Mr. McMahon during The Attitude Era. His finishing move is the Stone Cold Stunner. He was inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame in 2009 by Vince McMahon.
Stone Cold hosted of the fifth season of Tough Enough. He currently hosts weekly podcast called "The Steve Austin Show" on PodcastOne.com where he talks about stuff that interests him and interviews guests. He also hosts the reality competition show "Redneck Island" on CMT and debuted a new reality show for CMT on June 10, 2014 called "Steve Austin's Broken Skull Ranch".
Austin first joined Chris Adams' school in the Dallas Sportatorium, where Chris Adams also competed for World Class Championship Wrestling. Adams' trained purely technical and taught Austin the wrestling moves. Adams' however did not teach Austin anything relating to kayfabe or the business. The first lesson that Austin learned was from Tony Falk, a referee in Austin's 1989 televised World Class debut against a wrestler named Frogman LeBlanc. Falk called spots and helped Austin win the match by pinfall. Austin first competed under his real name but was named "Steve Austin" by Memphis booker Dutch Mantell. Austin returned to Dallas and had a feud with Adams, who was managed by Percy Pringle and was led to the ring by Jeannie Adams (Adams' real-life former wife and Austin's girlfriend at the time). During that time, Austin adopted the "Stunning" nickname which he also used in WCW.
After leaving the USWA in 1990, Austin signed with WCW in 1991. He was first accompanied by a valet named Vivacious Veronica but was later joined by Jeannie Adams who was known as "Lady Blossom". A couple weeks before he debuted, Austin was able to defeat Bobby Eaton to win his first WCW World Television Championship on June 3, 1991. Later in that year, he joined Paul E. Dangerously's Dangerous Alliance. On April 27, 1992, Barry Windham defeated Austin in a two out of three falls match to win the WCW Television Championship. Austin won the title back from Windham on May 23. He held the title until he lost the title to Ricky Steamboat on September 2, 1992. The Dangerous Alliance stable broke up a while later. During Halloween Havoc, he replaced Terry Gordy and teamed with "Dr. Death" Steve Williams in a match against Dustin Rhodes and Barry Windham for the unified WCW and NWA World Tag Team title. The match ended in a thirty-minute time limit draw.
In January 1993, Austin joined Brian Pillman to form the tag team The Hollywood Blonds. Austin and Pillman defeated Ricky Steamboat and Shane Douglas on March 3 to win the WCW World Tag Team Championship. The Blonds held the titles for five months. At Clash of the Champions XXIII, Austin and Pillman competed in a two-out-of-three-falls tag team title match against Ric Flair and Arn Anderson. The Blonds were defeated by Flair and Anderson but they were not given the titles because one of the falls was counted by a disqualification. The Blonds were scheduled to defend their title against Anderson and Paul Roma at Clash of the Champions XXIV. Pillman was however injured and was replaced by Steven Regal. Anderson and Roma defeated Austin and Regal at the event. While Pillman was still injured, Austin joined Colonel Robert Parker's Stud Stable. When Pillman returned, he was betrayed by Austin and was defeated in a singles match against Austin at Clash of the Champions XXV.
Austin defeated Dustin Rhodes with two straight falls in a two-out-of-three-falls match to win the WCW United States Heavyweight Championship at Starrcade. On August 24, 1994, Austin lost the championship to Ricky Steamboat. Austin was suppose to have a rematch for the title at Fall Brawl but won the title by forfeit after Steamboat was not able to compete because to a back injury. His reign as champion only lasted minutes when lost to Jim Duggan, who was acting as Steamboat's replacement. The match only lasted thirty-five seconds. He had a rematch against Duggan for the United States Championship at both Halloween Havoc 1994 and Clash of the Champions XXIX but didn't win either matches. After Austin returned from a knee injury in early 1995, he took part in a tournament to crown the new WCW United States Heavyweight title. Austin defeated Duggan in the first round by count-out but lost in the quarterfinals to Randy "Macho Man" Savage
When Austin suffered a triceps injury while on a tour of Japan, he was fired by WCW Vice President Eric Bischoff. WCW and Bischoff thought that Austin would not be a 'marketable' wrestler. After he was fired, Austin expressed his opinion on being fired by Eric Bischoff over the phone as having taken the coward's way out. Bischoff said that he fired Austin because he refused to do a taping in Atlanta. When he heard that Austin was fired, Paul Heyman who ran Extreme Championship Wrestling (ECW), contacted him. Heyman hired Austin to perform in-ring interviews because Austin was still not recovered from his injury enough to compete. Austin's time in ECW helped build his future "Stone Cold" persona. He appeared in vignettes which ran down WCW and Bischoff. Some of the more memorable promos that he did involved his then-status as "WCW Monday Nitro" host by introducing "Monday NyQuil". He was also joined by "Bongo", (which were a set of bongo drums that were meant to represent Steve "Mongo" McMichael) in helping to promote the show "where the big boys play with each other"
During his time in ECW, he was known under the ring name "Superstar" Steve Austin. He feuded with Mikey Whipwreck and had a match with The Sandman. Austin challenged for the ECW Championship but was defeated by Whipwreck at November to Remember. Austin competed in a Triple Threat match at December to Dismember against The Sandman and Whipwreck for the ECW World Heavyweight Championship but he did not win the match. Heyman said later on that he wanted to have Austin win the ECW Championship but Austin did not want to win it because he felt that he was more effective "as the hunter, rather than the hunted."

</doc>
<doc id="198802" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198802" title="Chyna">
Chyna

Chyna (Joan Marie Laurer; December 27, 1970 – April 20, 2016) was an American female wrestler for the World Wrestling Federation. She was also a pornographic actress and television personality. She was known for coming out of the back with a bazooka and called herself the ninth wonder of the world. She was on the first season of "The Surreal Life". She was born in Rochester, New York.
Chyna was found dead at her home in Redondo Beach, California on April 20, 2016, aged 45. The cause of death is unknown, but she was taking medication for her insomnia and anxiety.

</doc>
<doc id="198832" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198832" title="Vengeance (2004)">
Vengeance (2004)

Vengeance (2004) was the fourth Vengeance professional wrestling pay-per-view (PPV) event produced by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It took place on July 11, 2004 from the Hartford Civic Center in Hartford, Connecticut

</doc>
<doc id="198834" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198834" title="Vengeance (2003)">
Vengeance (2003)

Vengeance (2003) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view (PPV) event produced by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE), which took place on July 27, 2003 at the Pepsi Center in Denver, Colorado.

</doc>
<doc id="198841" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198841" title="Vengeance (2002)">
Vengeance (2002)

Vengeance (2002) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view event produced by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE), which took place on July 21, 2002 at the Joe Louis Arena in Detroit, Michigan.

</doc>
<doc id="198891" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198891" title="Stealth aircraft">
Stealth aircraft

A stealth aircraft is an aircraft that uses special alloys and design aspects that make them difficult for radar to see.

</doc>
<doc id="198892" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198892" title="Stealth ship">
Stealth ship

A stealth ship is a special kind of ship that can hide from radar.

</doc>
<doc id="198895" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198895" title="Vengeance (2001)">
Vengeance (2001)

Vengeance (2001) was the first annual Vengeance professional wrestling pay-per-view event produced by the World Wrestling Federation (WWF). It took place on December 9, 2001 at the San Diego Sports Arena in San Diego, California.

</doc>
<doc id="198896" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198896" title="Long integer">
Long integer

A long integer is a single item of data that computers can store. It can only represent whole numbers.

</doc>
<doc id="198902" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198902" title="R101">
R101

The R101 was an airship which crashed in 1930 in France, killing 48 people. 
English socialist government of the time had planned to build airships for the imperial route London-Cairo-Bombay-Canada-Australia-New York-London.
It was an ambitious project that allowed save travel time by sea, also competed with Germany and the Graf Zeppelin airship supremacy.
R.100 series was planned in 1925 and projected 4 aerostats, the R.101 R.100 and would be built simultaneously to be the top seed of the project.

</doc>
<doc id="198922" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198922" title="The Mars Volta">
The Mars Volta

The Mars Volta were a rock band from El Paso, Texas formed by Omar Rodriguez-Lopez and Cedric Bixler-Zavala. Omar and Cedric had earlier played in another rock band called At the Drive-In but the band did not want to play anymore since they liked different types of music. They have released five studio albums, some of them on the famous label Universal records. They are famous for their wild live shows, their psychedelic sounds and their concept albums. They were called the 'Best Prog-Rock Band' in 2008, by Rolling Stone magazine. In September 2012, the band announced that they were going on a hiatus and then split up January 2013.

</doc>
<doc id="198969" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198969" title="Santa Cruz del Seibo">
Santa Cruz del Seibo

Santa Cruz del Seibo, or simply El Seibo, is a Dominican city and the head municipality of the El Seibo province, in the eastern part of the country. El Seibo is also written sometimes as El Seybo.
It is one of the oldest city of the Hispaniola island, founded during colonial times.
The municipality had, in 2010, a total population of 66,867: 36,276 men and 30,591 women. The urban population was 46.99% of the total population. In this numbers are included the population of the municipal districts that are part the municipality. The population of El Seibo without its municipal district was 46,285.
The municipality has a total area of 1,344.33 km². There are three municipal districts (administrative subdivisions of a municipality) in El Seibo; these are:
El Seibo is near, on the south side, the "Cordillera Oriental" (in English: "Eastern mountain range". It is located in the northeastern part of the "Llano Costero del Caribe" (in English, "Caribbean Coastal Plain"), a large prairie with many important savannas.
The city is near the River Soco, one of the most important river of the eastern region of the Hispaniola island.
El Seibo is at an elevation of 117 m with an average temperature in the city of 26.7 °C and the average rainfall of 1,307.7 mm.
The municipality of El Seibo has the municipality of the Miches to the north, the La Altagracia province to the east, the La Romana province to the southeast, the San Pedro de Macorís province to the southwest and the Hato Mayor province to the west.
The town was founded on 1502 by Juan de Esquivel, a Spanish conquistador; the Spanish governor of the Hispaniola at that time was Nicolás de Ovando. The original name of the town was "Santa Cruz de Icayagua", also written as Hicayagua.
Cattle raising is the most important activity in the municipality. Sugar cane is also grown here.

</doc>
<doc id="198970" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198970" title="Juan de Esquivel">
Juan de Esquivel

Juan de Esquivel (about 1480 - about 1513) was a Spanish soldier and colonial administrator (a "Conquistador"). He conquered and governed the island of Jamaica for Spain.
He was born in Seville, Spain, about 1480. He came with Nicolás de Ovando to America, to the Hispaniola island, in 1502. In 1503, Ovando sent him with 400 men to the eastern part of the island to fight the Taínos in that region, the Higüey region. There he founded two new towns: "Santa Cruz de Hicayagua", or "Icayagua", the present city of Santa Cruz del Seibo; and "Salvaleón de Higüey".
In 1509, the new Governor of the Hispaniola, Diego Columbus, sent Juan de Esquivel with 70 men to Jamaica to complete the conquest of that island. He founded a town, "Sevilla La Nueva" (in English, "The New Seville") on the north coast.
He died in Jamaica about 1513.

</doc>
<doc id="198989" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198989" title="Daishiro Yoshimura">
Daishiro Yoshimura

189||30
189||30
!Total||46||7

</doc>
<doc id="198990" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198990" title="Boban Babunski">
Boban Babunski

Boban Babunski (born 5 May 1968) is a former Macedonian football player. He has played for the Yugoslavian national team and Macedonian national team.
141||14||||||||||141||14
12||1||||||||||12||1
95||2||||||||||95||2
38||6||6||1||8||1||52||8
8||0||||||||||8||0
1||0||||||||||1||0
8||1||||||||||8||1
3||1||||||||||3||1
306||25||6||1||8||1||320||27
!Total||2||0
!Total||23||1

</doc>
<doc id="198991" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198991" title="Yutaka Takahashi">
Yutaka Takahashi

Yutaka Takahashi (born 29 September 1980) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Avispa Fukuoka.
271||103||21||9||19||5||310||107
271||103||21||9||19||5||310||107

</doc>
<doc id="198995" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198995" title="Yuichi Yoda">
Yuichi Yoda

Peyrin Yuichi Yoda (born 25 June 1977) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Nagano Parceiro.
74||31||3||0||10||1||87||32
74||31||3||0||10||1||87||32

</doc>
<doc id="198996" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198996" title="Hwangbo Kwan">
Hwangbo Kwan

Hwangbo Kwan (born 1 March 1967) is a South Korean professional athlete. He is best known as an association football player. He was a member of the Korean national team.
171||44
54||27
225||71
!Total||36||10

</doc>
<doc id="198997" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198997" title="Edmilson Carlos Abel">
Edmilson Carlos Abel

Edmilson Carlos Abel (born 23 February 1974) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Linense.
20||2||0||0||4||0||24||0
20||2||0||0||4||0||24||0

</doc>
<doc id="199001" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199001" title="Indian Standard Time">
Indian Standard Time

Indian Standard Time (IST) is the time zone for India and Sri Lanka.
Indian Standard Time is 5.5 hours (5 hours 30 minutes) ahead of Greenwich Mean Time(GMT+5.5).

</doc>
<doc id="199003" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199003" title="Robert de Pinho de Souza">
Robert de Pinho de Souza

Robert de Pinho de Souza (born 27 February 1981) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Palmeiras.
16||6||0||0||16||6
16||6||0||0||16||6

</doc>
<doc id="199004" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199004" title="Antônio Benedito da Silva">
Antônio Benedito da Silva

Antônio Benedito da Silva (born 23 March 1965) is a former Brazilian football player.
127||61||5||1||19||13||151||75
127||61||5||1||19||13||151||75

</doc>
<doc id="199007" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199007" title="Villa Nova A.C.">
Villa Nova A.C.

Villa Nova A.C. is a football club which plays in Brazil.

</doc>
<doc id="199008" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199008" title="Sampaio Corrêa F.C.">
Sampaio Corrêa F.C.

Sampaio Corrêa F.C. is a football club which plays in Brazil.

</doc>
<doc id="199009" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199009" title="Tuna Luso Brasileira">
Tuna Luso Brasileira

Tuna Luso Brasileira is a football club which plays in Brazil.

</doc>
<doc id="199010" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199010" title="Paysandu S.C.">
Paysandu S.C.

Paysandu S.C. is a football club which plays in Brazil.

</doc>
<doc id="199012" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199012" title="Michael Rummenigge">
Michael Rummenigge

Michael Rummenigge (born February 3, 1964) is a former German football player. He has played for the German national team.
309||80||||||||||309||80
42||13||2||0||5||4||49||17
351||93||2||0||5||4||358||97
!Total||2||0

</doc>
<doc id="199013" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199013" title="Bora Milutinović">
Bora Milutinović

Bora Milutinović (born 7 September 1944) is a former Serbian football player.
Velibor "Bora" Milutinović (Serbian Cyrillic: Велибор Милутиновић – Бора; born 7 September 1944) is a Serbian football coach and former player.
He and Carlos Alberto Parreira are the only two people to have coached five different teams at the World Cup: Mexico (1986), Costa Rica (1990), the United States (1994), Nigeria (1998), and China (2002). He is also the first coach to take four different teams beyond the first round – Mexico (1986), Costa Rica(1990), the United States (1994), and Nigeria (1998) – earning the nickname of "Miracle Worker", first given to him by Alan Rothenberg, then president of the United States Soccer Federation. In total Milutinović has coached eight different national football teams.

</doc>
<doc id="199014" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199014" title="Chikara Fujimoto">
Chikara Fujimoto

334||44||24||8||56||9||414||61
334||44||24||8||56||9||414||61
!Total||2||0

</doc>
<doc id="199018" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199018" title="Takuya Nozawa">
Takuya Nozawa

Takuya Nozawa (born 12 August 1981) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Kashima Antlers.
186||36||27||7||38||7||15||7||266||57
186||36||27||7||38||7||15||7||266||57

</doc>
<doc id="199019" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199019" title="Kozo Yuki">
Kozo Yuki

Kozo Yuki (born 23 January 1979) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Fortuna Düsseldorf.
66||1||5||0||18||0||89||1
0||0||0||0||0||0||0||0
66||1||5||0||18||0||89||1

</doc>
<doc id="199023" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199023" title="Goiás E.C.">
Goiás E.C.

Goiás E.C. is a football club which plays in Brazil.

</doc>
<doc id="199024" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199024" title="Uberlândia E.C.">
Uberlândia E.C.

Uberlândia E.C. is a football club which plays in Brazil.

</doc>
<doc id="199025" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199025" title="América F.C. (MG)">
América F.C. (MG)

América F.C. (MG) is a football club which plays in Brazil.

</doc>
<doc id="199026" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199026" title="A.A. Internacional (Limeira)">
A.A. Internacional (Limeira)

A.A. Internacional-Limeira is a football club which plays in Brazil.

</doc>
<doc id="199027" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199027" title="Campo Grande A.C.">
Campo Grande A.C.

Campo Grande A.C. is a football club which plays in Brazil.

</doc>
<doc id="199028" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199028" title="C.A. Juventus">
C.A. Juventus

C.A. Juventus is a football club which plays in São Paulo, Brazil.

</doc>
<doc id="199029" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199029" title="Londrina E.C.">
Londrina E.C.

Londrina E.C. is a football club which plays in Brazil.

</doc>
<doc id="199030" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199030" title="E.C. Juventude">
E.C. Juventude

E.C. Juventude is a football club which plays in Brazil.

</doc>
<doc id="199031" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199031" title="Criciúma E.C.">
Criciúma E.C.

Criciúma E.C. is a football club which plays in Brazil.

</doc>
<doc id="199039" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199039" title="Craps">
Craps

Craps is a game that uses dice. It is a game of chance. Players make bets on the outcome of the roll. Players can bet other players or the casino.

</doc>
<doc id="199077" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199077" title="Bookkeeping">
Bookkeeping

Bookkeeping is the recording of financial transactions. Transactions include sales, purchases, income, and payments by an individual or organisation. The persons who do this job are called bookkeepers. They use one of several methods, such as single-entry and double-entry bookkeeping.

</doc>
<doc id="199082" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199082" title="Philology">
Philology

Philology considers both form and meaning in linguistic expression. It combines linguistics and literary studies.
Classical philology is the philology of the Greek, Latin and Sanskrit languages.
Any classical language can be studied philologically, and indeed describing a language as "classical" is to imply the existence of a philological tradition associated with it.

</doc>
<doc id="199118" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199118" title="Party in the U.S.A.">
Party in the U.S.A.

Party In The U.S.A. is a popular song by pop music artist Miley Cyrus.
In the song, Miley Cyrus sings that she recognizes a Jay-Z song that is playing on the radio. However, Miley Cyrus said that she has never heard a Jay-Z song.

</doc>
<doc id="199138" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199138" title="ECW December to Dismember">
ECW December to Dismember

December to Dismember was a professional wrestling pay-per-view (PPV) event first held by the original Extreme Championship Wrestling (ECW) in 1995 as a non-televised Supercard event.
In 2006 it was revived by the World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) as a PPV and held under its ECW brand. It was the second of two brand only events, the first being One Night Stand in June 2006. The second December to Dismember was originally meant to be held the following year on December 2, 2007, however it was cancelled in February 2007 due to unknown reasons after the WWE PPV's became tri-branded.

</doc>
<doc id="199139" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199139" title="December to Dismember (1995)">
December to Dismember (1995)

December to Dismember (1995) was a professional wrestling event that took place on December 9, 1995 at the ECW Arena in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

</doc>
<doc id="199140" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199140" title="December to Dismember (2006)">
December to Dismember (2006)

December to Dismember (2006) was a professional wrestling pay-per-view show made by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It was held on December 3, 2006 at James Brown Arena in Augusta, Georgia. It was the first December to Dismember event held by the WWE and the second overall. The name came from the December to Dismember event which was held by the original Extreme Championship Wrestling in 1995. Even though it was an ECW brand pay-per-view, wrestlers from both the "Raw" and "SmackDown!" brands also worked on the pay-per-view.
The main event was an Extreme Elimination Chamber match for the ECW World Championship. The six wrestlers in the match were Bobby Lashley, Rob Van Dam, Hardcore Holly, CM Punk and Test and defending champion Big Show. Lashley won the match and the championship after he hit Big Show with a spear and pinned him.
The pay-per-view had an attendance of 4,800 and 90,000 people payed to see the event, with 55,000 of the buys being domestic. This was the lowest buyrate in WWE history. 
December to Dismember received very negative reviews. Matt MacKinder of SLAM! Wrestling rated the event 4 out of 10 stars and said "the two matches that were promoted saved this thing from being a debacle". December to Dismember was voted as the "worst major wrestling show of the year" in the 2006 Wrestling Observer Newsletter awards.
Not even 24 hours after the pay-per-view, WWE announced that Vince McMahon had sent Paul Heyman home, and cited "slumping television ratings and a disgruntled talent roster as causes for Mr. Heyman's dismissal". McMahon was trying to put the blame on Heyman for the poorly received pay-per-view, and after he had a meeting with both Vince and Stephanie McMahon, Heyman legitimately left the company but still remained under contract. Heyman did not want to see Lashley booked to win the ECW Championship but McMahon said that the fans would be happy to see a new champion and a 10-minute celebration. During an early 2008 interview with "The Sun", Heyman said how he would have booked the Elimination Chamber main event. He said that he would have had Punk enter first and quickly eliminate Big Show by submission. He said that McMahon did not like the idea, but Big Show did and that he was eager for the opportunity to help "make" a rising star like Punk. Heyman also said that he continued to go to McMahon on the night of the pay-per-view to tell him that "The people are going to throw this back in our face".
Tommy Dreamer and Stevie Richards both did not like how the event turned out and they both asked for their contract releases after the pay-per-view. Both McMahon and Vice President of Talent Relations John Laurinaitis refused to release them.

</doc>
<doc id="199146" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199146" title="Basile Boli">
Basile Boli

Basile Boli (born 2 January 1967) is a former French football player. He has played for France national team.
396||24||||||||||396||24
28||2||||||||||28||2
31||2||0||0||13||3||44||5
455||28||0||0||13||3||468||31
!Total||45||1

</doc>
<doc id="199147" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199147" title="Michael Baur">
Michael Baur

Michael Baur (born 16 April 1969) is a former Austrian football player He played mainly for FC Wacker Innsbruck as defender He has also played for Austria national team.
Michael Baur started playing with SV Innsbruck where he was discovered by Ernst Happel, the coach of FC Swarovski Tirol. 1989 Buar started his professional career here. He played 12 seasons for Innsbruck. In 1997 he went for a short break to Japan and also played a season in the German Bundesliga for Hamburger SV. At the age of 34 he signed with FC Pasching. After they sold their license to Austria Kärnten he went on to LASK Linz where his career ended. Afterwards he started a career as assistance coach for LASK Linz.
He played 40 matches for the Austrian national football team and scored five goals. He was member of the team for the 1990 FIFA World Cup but did not play.
566||57
7||1
10||0
583||58
!Total||40||5

</doc>
<doc id="199148" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199148" title="Brian Steen Nielsen">
Brian Steen Nielsen

Brian Steen Nielsen (born 28 December 1968) is a Danish football player. He has played for Denmark national team.
355||26
50||4
6||0
29||0
440||30
!Total||66||3

</doc>
<doc id="199162" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199162" title="Ministry of Public Enlightenment and Propaganda">
Ministry of Public Enlightenment and Propaganda

The Reich Ministry for Public Enlightenment and Propaganda (German: "Reichsministerium für Volksaufklärung und Propaganda" or "Propagandaministerium") was a ministry in Nazi Germany that enforced Nazi Party ideology in Germany. It regulated its culture and society. The ministry was founded on 13 March 1933, by Adolf Hitler's new National Socialist government. The head of this ministry was Dr. Joseph Goebbels. He was responsible for controlling the press and culture of Nazi Germany.
This ministry existed until 1945, when the Second World War ended.

</doc>
<doc id="199184" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199184" title="Al-Ghazali">
Al-Ghazali

Abū Ḥāmid Muḥammad ibn Muḥammad al-Ghazālī (1058-1111) (), often Algazel in English, was born and died in Tus, in the Khorasan province of Persia. He was an Islamic theologian, jurist, philosopher, cosmologist, psychologist and mystic of Persian origin, and remains one of the most celebrated scholars in the history of Sunni Islamic thought. 
He is considered to be a pioneer of the methods of doubt and skepticism, and in one of his major works, "The Incoherence of the Philosophers", he changed the course of early Islamic philosophy. He changed the early Islamic philosophy away from an Islamic metaphysics influenced by ancient Greek and Hellenistic philosophy. The new way was towards an Islamic philosophy based on cause-and-effect that was determined by God or intermediate angels, a theory now known as occasionalism.
Ghazali has sometimes been celebrated in both the East and the West as the greatest Muslim after Muhammad.

</doc>
<doc id="199195" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199195" title="Girl Scouts of the USA">
Girl Scouts of the USA

The Girl Scouts of the USA is a not-for-profit organization that is a branch of the Scouting movement, similar to the Boy Scouts of America, except it is for girls. It was founded in 1912 by Juliette Gordon Low and first was called the Girl Guides of America, after the Girl Guides in the United Kingdom. Girl Scouts do many activities, which they often earn patches or "merit badges" for. They are best known for selling Girl Scout cookies every year to raise money.
There are different levels for Girl Scouts, based on age. Different levels do different activities. Today those levels are:
There are also adult members of Girl Scouts who volunteer and help the organization. Adult members might be college students who became too old to be Girl Scouts, or they might be older adults. Both men and women are allowed to be adult members and volunteer.

</doc>
<doc id="199211" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199211" title="Big band">
Big band

A big band is a type of musical group that plays jazz music. They were very popular in the 1930s and 1940s. A big band usually has between 12 and 25 musicians. They include a singer and people who play instruments like saxophones, trumpets, trombones, drums. Some famous big band leaders were Duke Ellington, Benny Goodman, Glenn Miller, Cab Calloway and Count Basie.

</doc>
<doc id="199213" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199213" title="Duke Ellington">
Duke Ellington

Edward Kennedy "Duke" Ellington (April 29, 1899 – May 24, 1974) was an American composer, pianist, and Big band leader. He was one of the most important musicians in the history of recorded music, and is called one of the greatest figures in jazz music. He also played blues, gospel, pop, and classical music. He worked for 60 years. He became even more popular after he died. He was given a special award citation from the Pulitzer Prize Board in 1999. 
Ellington called his music "American Music", not "jazz". Some of the people who played in Ellington's band were also famous or important jazz musicians.
Ellington led his band from 1923 until he died of lung cancer in 1974. His son Mercer Ellington took over the band until he died of cancer in 1996. Then Paul Ellington, Mercer's youngest son, took over the band.
Edward Kennedy Ellington was born on April 29, 1899. His parents were called James Edward Ellington and Daisy Kennedy Ellington. They lived with Daisy's parents in Washington, D.C. James Edward Ellington (J.E.) was born in Lincolnton, North Carolina on April 15, 1879 and moved to Washington, D.C. in 1886 with his parents. Daisy Kennedy was born in Washington, D.C. on January 4, 1879. Her father had been an American slave. J.E. worked for the United States Navy. He also worked as a butler for a white doctor. He occasionally worked as a caterer at the White House..Daisy and J.E. were both piano players.
When he was seven, Ellington began learning to play the piano. Daisy helped her son to learn good manners. Ellington’s friends noticed that he acted like a gentleman,
and gave him a nickname, "Duke"." At first, Ellington was more interested in baseball than playing the piano. He later remembered President Theodore Roosevelt watched him play baseball. Ellington went to Armstrong Technical High School in Washington, D.C. His first job was selling peanuts at Washington Senators baseball games. This job helped him to become more confident.
In 1914, Ellington wrote his first song. He had a job in a café, serving soda, using a soda fountain. His song was called "Soda Fountain Rag". He could not read or write music yet. Ellington missed a lot of piano lessons and did not think he was very good at it. When he was 14 he heard pianists playing in a poolroom. He was inspired to try harder with his piano playing.
He heard the piano played in Washington, D.C., Philadelphia and Atlantic City. He tried to copy the styles he heard. He started to learn about harmony, and learned to read and write music. He started to play gigs in cafés and clubs in Washington, D.C. He had a scholarship to study art at the Pratt Institute in Brooklyn in 1916 but he decided to concentrate on his music instead.
Between 1917 and 1919, Ellington started his professional music career. During the day, he had a job painting signs. At night, he played the piano. Sometimes, he got work playing the piano from people that he met in his other job. He started his first band, "The Duke’s Serenaders". They played in Washington, D.C. and Virginia at dances and parties. The other musicians in his band were Otto Hardwick, on bass and then saxophone; Arthur Whetsol on trumpet; Elmer Snowden on banjo; and Sonny Greer on drums. They played for both white and black people, which was unusual then.

</doc>
<doc id="199247" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199247" title="List of Slipknot band members">
List of Slipknot band members

Slipknot is a heavy metal band from Des Moines, Iowa. The band started in 1995 by vocalist and percussionist Anders Colsefini, guitarists Donnie Steele and Josh "Gnar" Brainard, bassist Paul Gray, drummer Joey Jordison,and percussionist Shawn Crahan. Before the band released its first album in 1999, Slipknot has gone through many line-up changes. After their first album, the line-up has stayed the same. The band is known for having a lot of members. The current members include a lead singer, two guitarists, a bassist, a drummer, two percussionists, a sampler, and a turntablist.
In 1996, when the band finished recording their demo album "Mate. Feed. Kill. Repeat.", Slipknot saw its first line-up change when guitarist Donnie Steele left the band and was replaced by Craig Jones. Shortly after, drummer Jordison said they needed a full-time sampler and Jones took the position as "he liked doing that anyway." Mick Thomson then joined the band to be the new guitarist. After "Mate. Feed. Kill. Repeat." was released, the band were working on new songs which needed more singing melody and the then-lead singer Colsefini had a hard time with this. In 1997, Corey Taylor was asked to join the band and after practicing with Slipknot "everything just clicked." Because of that, Colsefini was moved to backing vocals and percussion. However Colsefini was unhappy with his new role and left the band a month later.
Since the band wanted to keep their percussive sound, Greg Welts joined the band to replace Colsefini. Towards the end of 1997, each band member picked an a number to identify themselves. In 1998, Welts became the only member to be kicked out of the band and he was replaced by Chris Fehn. Slipknot wanted to have a DJ in the band, but had a hard time finding one because "the people [they] knew who were DJs all sucked!" Sid Wilson approached the band after seeing them live. He proceeded to impress the band with his ability and his antics; Wilson was considered "Slipknot material" and his hiring brought the band's line-up to nine members. The final change in the band's line-up came at the latter stages of the recording process of the band's debut album, "Slipknot", in 1999. While the band took a break from recording the album, Brainard decided to leave the band and was replaced by Jim Root.
Jay Weinberg
active 2013 present 
plays drums
performed in .5 the Gray chapter
Jay joined the band in 2013 after original drummer Joey jordison was fired from the band.
Paul Gray
Died in 2010 after an overdose.
years active 1995-2010
Joey jordison
played drums 
years active 1995-2013
Joey was kicked from the band in 2013 and was replaced by Jay Weinberg

</doc>
<doc id="199252" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199252" title="Little River (Withlacoochee River)">
Little River (Withlacoochee River)

The Little River forms the western boundary of Cook County, Georgia. It is dammed at Reed Bingham State Park forming a lake for fishing, swimming, and recreation. There are two interesting structures along the river near the Cook and Brooks County line. A few years ago, the Adel News ran a story about a "stone bridge" over the river. It still stands and was built entirely from poured cement. It was abandoned around 1940 when the road took a different path. About three miles south another bridge, with its middle section missing, crosses what looks like a small pond.

</doc>
<doc id="199254" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199254" title="Queen Elizabeth School">
Queen Elizabeth School

Queen Elizabeth School (QES) is a famous co-educational secondary school in Hong Kong. It is in Sai Yee Street, Mongkok, Hong Kong. It is 55 years old. There are over 1200 students and 50 teachers. Every year, thousands of primary school students apply for a place to study there. On average, about 1000 interviewees fight for one place.
Queen Elizabeth School is also an EMI school, which means that all subjects are taught in English except Chinese language and Chinese history. There are many student organizations, such as Form association (FA), Prefect, Big Brother and Sister Scheme (BBSS) and Camp Warden Association. Clubs are available for all students. 
It is a team of students to maintain the order of school. Each year, some outstanding students are selected by teachers and after 
QES has a board kinds of clubs. They are mainly divided into three columns, the subject-based, interest & personal development and services. Apart from this, QES also has some special societies, such as the English/Chinese society and the Camp Warden society. Senior-form students can take up the posts of chairman by voting through the club members. The chairmen can invite other members to form a committee.

</doc>
<doc id="199255" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199255" title="Tasman Bridge">
Tasman Bridge

The Tasman Bridge is a five-lane bridge which crosses the Derwent River, near the central business district of Hobart, Tasmania. The bridge replaced a 1943 floating concrete bridge which had a liftable middle section to allow ships to pass through. Work began on the Tasman Bridge in April 1960, and it was finished on 23 December, 1964. It was officially opened by the Duke of Gloucester on 18 March, 1965. It was named after Abel Tasman, the Dutch explorer who was the first European to visit Tasmania in 1642.
The bridge, including the approaches, is long, of which is over the water. The bridge is made up of concrete columns supporting the road deck. There are 19 viaduct spans, each , a main navigation span of and two spans at which provide access beneath for ships. The bridge is above the mean water level. The bridge columns rest on bedrock which in some places was more than below the ground surface.
On 5 January, 1975, a ship, the SS Lake Illawarra, carrying 10,000 tons of zinc concentrate crashed into the bridge. This caused two of the columns and three spans of the bridge to collapse into the river. The ship sank quickly in the deep water. Four cars fell into the river killing five people, and seven members of the ship's crew were also killed. Several cars were able to stop, with their front wheels hanging over the edge. 
The collapse of the bridge left people living on the east bank of the Derwent with a 50km drive to get into the city. A temporary Bailey bridge was put in place. This was the longest Bailey bridge in the world. The Tasman Bridge was rebuilt and opened again to traffic on 8 October, 1977.

</doc>
<doc id="199268" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199268" title="Marcos Bonifacio da Rocha">
Marcos Bonifacio da Rocha

Marcos Bonifacio da Rocha (born 7 March 1976) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Tonan Maebashi.
178||18||8||0||0||0||186||18
178||18||8||0||0||0||186||18

</doc>
<doc id="199269" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199269" title="Kazuo Imanishi">
Kazuo Imanishi

42||0
42||0
!Total||3||0

</doc>
<doc id="199270" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199270" title="Humberlito Borges">
Humberlito Borges

Humberlito Borges Teixeira (born 5 October 1980) is a Brazilan football player. He plays for Grêmio.
41||26||2||1||43||27
41||26||2||1||43||27

</doc>
<doc id="199274" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199274" title="Welington Nogueira Lopes">
Welington Nogueira Lopes

Welington Nogueira Lopes (born 1 June 1979) is a Brazilian football player.
114||23||||||||||114||23
103||29||2||0||0||0||105||29
217||52||2||0||0||0||219||52

</doc>
<doc id="199275" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199275" title="Thiago Neves">
Thiago Neves

Thiago Neves Augusto (born 27 February 1985) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Fluminense and Brazil national team.
77||22
32||8
6||0
0||0
115||30
!Total||1||0

</doc>
<doc id="199276" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199276" title="Makoto Teguramori">
Makoto Teguramori

34||4||0||0||2||0||36||4
34||4||0||0||2||0||36||4

</doc>
<doc id="199309" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199309" title="Pauli exclusion principle">
Pauli exclusion principle

The Pauli exclusion principle refers to the fact that certain particles cannot be at the same place at the same time, with the same energy. Only fermions (examples are protons, neutrons and electrons) are bound by the Pauli exclusion principle, while bosons (an example is a photon - light beam) are not. A more precise way to describe the Pauli exclusion principle is to say that two of the same kind of fermions cannot have the same quantum numbers. This principle was discovered by physicist Wolfgang Pauli in 1925. It is a very important principle in physics, because the particles that make up ordinary matter are fermions.

</doc>
<doc id="199333" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199333" title="Anthropic principle">
Anthropic principle

The anthropic principle says that the universe is how it is because it must allow for the eventual creation of us, as observers. The anthropic principle was thought of in 1974, by the astronomer Brandon Carter.
Douglas Adams explains this concept quite well using a puddle as an analogy:“If you imagine a puddle waking up one morning and thinking, 'This is an interesting world I find myself in — an interesting hole I find myself in — fits me rather neatly, doesn't it? In fact it fits me staggeringly well, must have been made to have me in it!" 
There are two different kinds of anthropic principles : the "weak anthropic principle", and the "strong anthropic principle".
The original thoughts that Brandon Carter had were:
Weak anthropic principle: "We must be prepared to take into account the fact that our location in the universe is necessarily privileged to the extent of being compatible with our existence as observers."
Strong anthropic principle: "The Universe (and hence the fundamental parameters on which it depends) must be such as to admit the creations of observers within it at some stage." 

</doc>
<doc id="199337" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199337" title="United States Environmental Protection Agency">
United States Environmental Protection Agency

The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is an agency of the United States government. It works to protect human health and the environment. The EPA does this job by writing rules and making sure that they are followed. The idea for the EPA was first thought of by President Richard Nixon. The EPA was started on December 2, 1970, after Nixon signed a presidential order. The order starting the EPA was approved through discussions in the Senate and the House. The agency is led by an administrator, who is appointed by the President, and accepted by the Senate. The EPA is not a cabinet department, but the administrator is usually cabinet rank.
The EPA is headquartered in Washington D.C.. It has regional offices for 10 different regions. It has 27 laboratories. The agency does environmental testing, research, and education. The role of the EPA is to enforce and maintain national standards with different kinds of laws. The agency also works with industries
and all levels of government in many kinds of ways to stop polluting Earth. They also try to save energy.
The EPA has about 17,000 employees working full-time. They may hire more people with more contracts. More than half of the people working at the EPA are scientists, engineers, or environmental protection specialists. The other groups work in law, money, information, and public actions.
Each EPA regional office is responsible within its states for putting into use the Agency's programs, except those programs that have been chosen only for that state.
Each regional office also puts into use of programs on Native American land, except those programs for Tribal authorities.

</doc>
<doc id="199338" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199338" title="EPA">
EPA


</doc>
<doc id="199340" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199340" title="Nagua">
Nagua

Nagua is a Dominican city and the head municipality of the María Trinidad Sánchez province, on the northeast (Atlantic) coast of the country.
It was a town of fishermen that became a city in the second half of the 20th century. The city of Nagua is almost at sea level.
The municipality has the Atlantic Ocean to the east, the Samaná province to the southeast, the municipality of El Factor to the south, the Duarte province to the west and the municipalities of Cabrera and Río San Juan to the north.
It has an area of 552.71 km². There are three municipal districts in the municipality (a municipal district in the Dominican Republic are similar to municipalities but they depend on a municipality). Those municipal districts are:
The "Cordillera Septentrional" (in English, "Northern mountain range") runs along the western half of the municipality. Even if the mountains are not too high, most people live along the coast.
In the southwestern part of the municipality, on the border with the Samaná province, there is a region with swamps.
Rivers in Nagua are short; one of them is the river Nagua. The city and the region is named after this small river.
The municipality had, in 2010, a total population of 76,993: 39,288 men and 37,705 women. The urban population was 58.82% of the total population. In this numbers are included the population of the municipal districts that are part the municipality. The population of the city of Nagua without those municipal districts was 40,611.
Nagua was a small town close to the place where the river Nagua gets into the sea and that is the reason of its old name: "Boca de Nagua" (in English, "Nagua's Mouth"); it was part of the old municipality of Matanzas, Duarte province.
It was created a municipality in 1938 with the name "Villa Julia Molina" (Julia Molina was the mother of the dictator Rafael Trujillo). On 4 August 1946 there was a tsunami that destroyed the city of Matanzas and Villa Julia Molina became the main city of the region.
In 1945 the municipality became part of the Samaná province. With the creation of the new province of "Julia Molina" (now María Trinidad Sánchez), Villa Julia Molina became the head municipality of the province. The name of the city was changed to Nagua in 1961, after Trujillo's death.
Farming, cattle raising (mainly for milk), and fishing are very important around the city. Some important products are rice, coconut, and cacao.

</doc>
<doc id="199346" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199346" title="Chris Carter">
Chris Carter

Chris Carter (born October 13, 1956) is an American writer, director, and producer. He is famous for creating "The X-Files", a popular science fiction television series. 
He also created Ten Thirteen Productions, a production company. Ten Thirteen Productions produced the series "The X-Files", "Millenium", "Harsh Realm", and "The Lone Gunmen". He has also produced two feature movies, "The X-Files: Fight the Future" and "".

</doc>
<doc id="199354" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199354" title="Cultural Revolution">
Cultural Revolution

The Great Proletarian Cultural Revolution (Simplified Chinese: 无产阶级文化大革命, Traditional Chinese: 無產階級文化大革命, Pinyin: Wúchǎn Jiējí Wénhuà Dà Gémìng, literally: Proletarian Cultural Great Revolution); shortened in Chinese as or ), also known simply as the Cultural Revolution, was a time of large cultural change in China, started by the leader Mao Zedong. It happened from 1966 to 1976.
The start of the Cultural Revolution followed the failure of the Great Leap Forward. Mao tried to remove capitalists from the Communist Party of China, the party in charge of China. To get rid of the capitalists, he started the Socialist Education Movement. It started in 1962 and ended in 1965. At the same time, a redoing of the school system made sure that students were able to also work in factories and communes. Mao slowly started to regain power in 1965, supported by Lin Biao, Jiang Qing, and Chen Boda.
The Communist Party was split between Mao's partners and Deng Xiaoping's partners. Deng Xiaoping was a rival of Mao. Mao then tried to get support from young people in China by creating the book Quotations from Chairman Mao Zedong (also known as the Little Red Book), a collection of Mao's sayings. The Red Guard was also made popular. They were a group of young people in China that went around teaching Mao's sayings. They also beat people who disagreed with Mao and destroyed homes and museums. There were many fights breaking out, and China faced anarchy. During the revolution, several important people in China were forced to leave. These people included Liu Shaoqi, head of state, and Deng Xiaoping, the secretary-general of the Communist Party of China.
The Cultural Revolution began to slow down in 1967, and ended in 1969. The Ninth National Party Congress was a meeting where the end of the Cultural Revolution was announced.
The Cultural Revolution caused a lot of problems in China. Production in factories was lowered because of the workers' political activities. It was also lowered because the people put in charge of the factories did not know how to run them. Transportation was made worse because a lot of trains were being used to take Red Guards around the country. Many scientists and engineers were put in jail or sent to work on the farms, which meant that their knowledge was lost. Because of these changes, the industrial output of China was reduced by 14 percent.
The education of many Chinese people was also cut short. The education system was more in the cities than in the countryside. Universities and many schools were closed. A program called the "sent-down youth" program also disrupted education. In that program, children were sent from the cities to the countryside.

</doc>
<doc id="199355" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199355" title="Alex Antônio de Melo Santos">
Alex Antônio de Melo Santos

Alex Antônio de Melo Santos (born [16 April 1983) is a Brazilian football player.
256||44||16||4||9||2||281||50
256||44||16||4||9||2||281||50

</doc>
<doc id="199356" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199356" title="Paulo Autuori">
Paulo Autuori

Paulo Autuori (born 25 August 1956) is a Brazilian football manager.
Mr Autuori would take charge of the senior Qatari National team.

</doc>
<doc id="199357" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199357" title="Kentaro Sawada">
Kentaro Sawada

279||15||19||0||38||1||236||16
279||15||19||0||38||1||236||16
!Total||4||0

</doc>
<doc id="199362" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199362" title="Paraná Clube">
Paraná Clube

Paraná Clube is a football club which plays in Brazil.
The club formed from a merger of two football clubs ; EC Pinheiros and Colorado EC in 1989.

</doc>
<doc id="199375" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199375" title="Great Leap Forward">
Great Leap Forward

The Great Leap Forward () was a plan that was created to increase China's economy and industry. It was started by the Communist leader Chairman Mao Zedong in 1958 and ended in 1961. The Great Leap Forward was bad for the Chinese people, as it ended up with many people dead. Some people think it to be the biggest famine in history.
Mao wanted China to be able to make food for the country and make food to export; he also wanted China to produce a lot of goods. He started the Great Leap Forward to do this. Some people were forced to give their land to the government. Many people had to work on farms for the government, also called "agricultural cooperatives". Later, these cooperatives were put together to involve thousands of people. In 1958, ninety-eight percent (98%) of people who worked on farms were in these cooperatives.
In 1958, there was a good harvest. However, this began to change the year after.
People believed that planting plants close together was good. However, crops did not grow as well when they were close together. This led to lower grain harvests in 1959. After that the harvests were bad also because resources were not used well. This lasted at least until 1961.
The change in China was put on a schedule. Mao wanted China to have a greater industrial output than Britain in fifteen years. He later shortened this to one year. If people did not like the fast pace of the schedule, they were usually killed. By 1958, 550,000 people were killed because they did not agree with the government.
Because the government spent a lot of money on industry, the country increased its debt. In order to meet production goals, many people built blast furnaces in their backyard. They would then try to make iron for tools. However, this did not work very well. People ended up melting good things, turning them into unusable things.
Leaders competed with each other to see who could make the most things. This led the farms to be forgotten. Leaders would also lie about the amount of crops being grown. They would tell the government that they were making more than they actually were. In 1959, the country began running out of food. This is because they sold their grain to other countries. This problem was made worse because the output of farms was decreasing. People were also not allowed to leave the areas they were living in. That meant that they could not look for food in other places. Some villages had one-fourth or one-third of people dying in them. Girls and old people were underfed. Infants and the very old were the first to die.
The famine is thought to have killed between 16.5 million and 40 million people.
The government tried to stop the famine by canceling orders for technology. Instead, they imported food for people to eat. However, the economy of China continued to fall after the end of the Great Leap Forward. Workers were stressed, and the Soviet Union took away its support of China.

</doc>
<doc id="199376" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199376" title="S.E. Gama">
S.E. Gama

S.E. Gama is a football club which plays in Brazil.

</doc>
<doc id="199377" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199377" title="União São João E.C.">
União São João E.C.

União São João E.C. is a football club which plays in Brazil.

</doc>
<doc id="199378" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199378" title="Brasiliense F.C.">
Brasiliense F.C.

Brasiliense F.C. is a football club which plays in Brazil.

</doc>
<doc id="199379" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199379" title="Savona 1907 F.B.C.">
Savona 1907 F.B.C.

Savona 1907 F.B.C. is a football club which plays in Italy in Lega Pro Seconda Divisione.

</doc>
<doc id="199380" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199380" title="A.C. Prato">
A.C. Prato

A.C. Prato is a football club which plays in Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="199381" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199381" title="Aurora Pro Patria 1919">
Aurora Pro Patria 1919

Aurora Pro Patria 1919 is a football club which plays of Busto Arsizio in Italy.
The club in season 2010-11 plays in Lega Pro Seconda Divisione group A.

</doc>
<doc id="199382" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199382" title="A.C. Pavia">
A.C. Pavia

A.C. Pavia is a football club which plays in Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="199383" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199383" title="Treviso F.B.C. 1993">
Treviso F.B.C. 1993

Treviso F.B.C. 1993 is a football club which plays in Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="199384" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199384" title="A.C. Monza Brianza 1912">
A.C. Monza Brianza 1912

A.C. Monza Brianza 1912 is a football club which plays in Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="199385" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199385" title="A.C. Ancona">
A.C. Ancona

A.C. Ancona was a football club which played in Italy.
Since the summer 2010 the new main club of the city is the that play in Serie D.

</doc>
<doc id="199386" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199386" title="S.S. Juve Stabia">
S.S. Juve Stabia

S.S. Juve Stabia is a football club which plays in Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="199387" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199387" title="Taranto Sport">
Taranto Sport

Taranto Sport is a football club which plays in Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="199388" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199388" title="S.S. Cavese 1919">
S.S. Cavese 1919

S.S. Cavese 1919 is a football club which plays in Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="199389" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199389" title="A.C. Maceratese">
A.C. Maceratese

A.C. Maceratese is a football club which plays in Italy. European football might also be called soccer. A.C. Maceratese plays in the D league. Their stadium is called Stadio Helvia Racina. It can hold 5,846 people. The chairman is named Massimo Paci. He is the most important of everyone else who owns a part of the team. The manager is named Francesco Nocera. He makes most of the important decisions on the team.

</doc>
<doc id="199390" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199390" title="H.N.K. Rijeka">
H.N.K. Rijeka

HNK Rijeka is a football club which plays in Croatia.

</doc>
<doc id="199391" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199391" title="A.C. Fanfulla 1874">
A.C. Fanfulla 1874

A.C. Fanfulla 1874 is a football club which plays in Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="199392" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199392" title="A.S.D. Mestrina 1929">
A.S.D. Mestrina 1929

A.S.D. Mestrina 1929 is a football club which plays in Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="199393" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199393" title="A.C. Nuova Valdagno">
A.C. Nuova Valdagno

A.C. Nuova Valdagno is a football club which plays in Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="199394" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199394" title="A.S. Pro Gorizia">
A.S. Pro Gorizia

A.S. Pro Gorizia is a football club which plays in Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="199395" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199395" title="Ravenna Calcio">
Ravenna Calcio

Ravenna Calcio is a football club which plays in Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="199396" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199396" title="Reggina Calcio">
Reggina Calcio

Reggina Calcio is a football club which plays in Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="199397" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199397" title="David Platt">
David Platt

David Platt (born 10 June 1966) is an English footballer-turned-manager. He has played for England national team.
348||119
100||31
448||150
!Total||62||27

</doc>
<doc id="199398" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199398" title="Choi In-Young">
Choi In-Young

Choi In-Young (born 5 March 1962) is a former South Korean football player. He has played for Korea Republic national team.
174||0
174||0
!Total||||

</doc>
<doc id="199400" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199400" title="Lega Pro Prima Divisione">
Lega Pro Prima Divisione

Lega Pro Prima Divisione is a football league which is third division in Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="199406" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199406" title="Jun Aoyama">
Jun Aoyama

Jun Aoyama (born 3 January 1988) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Tokushima Vortis.
61||2||1||0||4||0||66||0
61||2||1||0||4||0||66||0

</doc>
<doc id="199407" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199407" title="Magno Alves">
Magno Alves

Magno Alves (born 13 January 1976) is a Brazilian football player. He has played for Umm-Salal.
87||44||||||||||||||87||44
44||27||||||||||||||44||27
115||65||9||7||18||3||6||8||148||83
12||9||||||||||4||2||20||14
44||34||1||0||7||9||9||2||61||45
302||197||10||7||25||12||19||12||360||213
!Total||3||0

</doc>
<doc id="199408" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199408" title="Marcos Gomes de Araujo">
Marcos Gomes de Araujo

Marcos Gomes de Araujo (born 23 March 1976) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Kashima Antlers.
202||98||14||8||35||14||12||9||263||129
202||98||14||8||35||14||12||9||263||129

</doc>
<doc id="199416" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199416" title="Uniform Resource Identifier">
Uniform Resource Identifier

In computing, a Uniform Resource Identifier is something used to name something on the Internet. URIs are similar to URLs, because they are the name of something. 
Examples of URIs include:

</doc>
<doc id="199423" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199423" title="Dream of the Red Chamber">
Dream of the Red Chamber

Dream of the Red Chamber (also "Red Chamber Dream", "Hung Lou Meng" or "A Dream of Red Mansions") (), originally The Story of the Stone (), is thought to be a great work of Chinese literature and is one of the Chinese Four Great Classical Novels. The novel was written in the middle of the 18 century during the Qing Dynasty. Its author is thought to be Cao Xueqin (Chinese: 曹雪芹). Redology is the study of the book.
The book is based on Cao's family. It is meant to be a memorial to the women that he met when he was young, including friends, relatives and servants. This novel is thought to be one of the first feminist novels. It is also one of the first novels to be written in vernacular, not classical, Chinese. This means that it was written in the same way people spoke at the time, rather than in a posh way. This helped to make vernacular Chinese an acceptable way of writing literature.

</doc>
<doc id="199428" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199428" title="Downfall (movie)">
Downfall (movie)

Downfall (German: Der Untergang) is a 2004 German war movie about the final days of Adolf Hitler, the Nazi dictator of Germany, in the Führerbunker. It is set in Berlin in 1945. 
The film was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film.
A scene in the film, where Hitler become angry and goes into a furious tirade when he finally realizes that the war is truly lost is known for being parodied and has an internet meme. British Labour MP Tom Harris stepped down from from his internet adviser role because of the media reaction to a Downfall parody which made fun of Scottish First Minister Alex Salmond.

</doc>
<doc id="199437" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199437" title="Bubble wrap">
Bubble wrap

Bubble wrap is a kind of packaging. It is made of two very thin pieces of plastic stuck together with small round air bubbles stuck inside. When these bubble are compressed and punctured, they make a popping sound. They are commonly used as stress relievers. They are also used in packaging sensitive things that can be broken. It was invented by accident in 1957 by Alfred Fielding.

</doc>
<doc id="199451" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199451" title="Chester City F.C.">
Chester City F.C.

Chester City Football Club was an English football (soccer) club, from the city of Chester. The team played its home games at Deva Stadium. It played in various leagues between 1885 and 2010

</doc>
<doc id="199452" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199452" title="Ordnance Survey National Grid">
Ordnance Survey National Grid

The Ordnance Survey National Grid is a system used to map Great Britain. It is different from using latitude and longitude. The Ordnance Survey (OS) created the system. It is used a lot in their survey data. It is also used in maps based on those surveys.
The system divides the map into squares. Each square is labelled with two letters. The first letter refers to squares that are 500 km by 500 km. Those squares are outlined in dark grey on the map to the right. Only four of these have very much land area in Great Britain: S, T, N and H. The O square has a tiny area of North Yorkshire. Most of that tiny area is usually underwater at high tide.
For the second letter, each 500 km square is divided into 25 squares that are 100 km by 100 km. Each of those has a letter code from A to Z. (The letter "I" is not used.) The letters start with A in the northwest corner and go to Z in the southeast corner. These squares are outlined in light grey on the map. The ones that have land have letters shown.
The system can also be used to give the location of a smaller area inside a lettered square. This is done by giving the distance east and north from the southwest corner of the square. For example, NH0325 (or NH 03 25) means a one-kilometre square whose southwest corner is 3 km east and 25 km north from the southwest corner of square NH. The system can also specify areas smaller than one kilometre. For example, the grid reference of the 100 metre square containing the summit of Ben Nevis is .

</doc>
<doc id="199473" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199473" title="Sesame Street Presents Follow That Bird">
Sesame Street Presents Follow That Bird

Sesame Street Presents Follow That Bird is an animated movie. It was released on August 31, 1985. It was re-released on widescreen in 2005. The length of the movie is 89 minutes.
The movie is about Big Bird leaving Sesame Street and going to the country to see his family. But during the time he gets homesick because of being there and goes home.
It was followed by bonus DVDs like "Sesame Street: Big Bird in 1000 Episodes" and "Sesame Street: Big Bird in Sketches". They were sold in a triple DVD pack.

</doc>
<doc id="199495" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199495" title="The Legacy (professional wrestling)">
The Legacy (professional wrestling)

The Legacy was a professional wrestling heel stable on World Wrestling Entertainment's Raw brand that consisted of Randy Orton, Ted DiBiase, Jr., Cody Rhodes, and former members Sim Snuka (Jimmy Reiher, Jr.) and Manu (Afa Anoa'i, Jr.). The stable was founded at Night of Champions when Cody Rhodes turned on Hardcore Holly forming "Priceless" with Ted DiBiase Jr. Legacy held the WWE Tag Team Championship twice with Cody Rhodes and Ted DiBiase holding the titles on two separate occasions. 
The roots of the team started December 10 2007, on the "Raw 15th anniversary", when Cody Rhodes and Hardcore Holly defeated Lance Cade and Trevor Murdoch for the World Tag Team Championship.
They retained the championship in many matches, against fellow tag-teams such as Carlito and Santino Marella, and Paul London and Brian Kendrick.
Rhodes and Holly would then enter a feud with Ted Dibiase and his mystery partner, when DiBiase Jr. and The Million Dollar Man Ted DiBiase, Sr., appeared in a segment on "Raw". DiBiase and his father, challenged Rhodes and Holly to a title match at Night of Champions (2008) against DiBiase (Jr.) and a mystery partner which they accepted. At Night of Champions DiBiase came to the ring unaccompanied and said his partner would be there. However, the bell rang and there was no partner for it to be a two on one handicap match. DiBiase demanded that he face Holly first and as DiBiase approached Holly, Holly was attacked by his tag team partner Rhodes, revealing that he was DiBiase's tag team partner, turning Rhodes heel and in the process. Rhodes and DiBiase became the new tag team champions.
After holding the titles for just over a month, they dropped it to John Cena and Batista on the August 4 edition of "Raw". The following week, DiBiase and Rhodes used their rematch clause to regain the title. Rhodes and DiBiase were joined by Manu, forming a stable of multi-generational superstars. On the October 27, 2008 edition of "Raw", Rhodes and DiBiase lost their titles to Kofi Kingston and CM Punk. During this time, Rhodes, DiBiase and Manu entered a storyline with Randy Orton where Orton constantly criticized and insulted them, and attacked DiBiase on November 7, on "Raw"; punting him in the head. At Survivor Series, Rhodes, along with Orton, was a sole survivor, for Orton's team, in the Elimination match.
Rhodes and Manu accepted Orton's offer to form an alliance a few weeks after the "DiBiase incident"; attacking John Cena along with Chris Jericho, and the trio dubbed themselves "The Legacy"; debuting the following week in a 2 on 3 handicap match against Batista and the WWE Champion Triple H, and although they were now a stable, neither one of the three made any changes in their attire.
The December 15th edition of "Raw" they defeated Batista and the World Heavyweight Champion John Cena, in a match where Orton punted Batista in the head, leaving him indefinitely inactive (actually due to a torn hamstring), also that night Cody and Manu interfered in Rey Mysterio's match against Sim Snuka, giving a beating to Rey, who was later attacked by Mike Knox.,
Randy Orton and Cody Rhodes and Ted Dibiase JR formed Legacy
The following week; December 22, Orton qualified for a Fatal Four Way Elimination Match, his opponent being the now unable to compete Batista, while the same night, Manu lost to Kofi Kingston in a one on one match, with Rhodes at ringside.
After Orton grew tired of "The Legacy" losing matches, in an ongoing quest to mold his disciples; he informed Cody Rhodes, Sim Snuka and Manu that that very night they would have to complete their first test. Each man would have to compete in a singles match. Each man who won would have completed “step one,” any man who lost would be out of his "Legacy"; the only man that lost was Manu.
While same that night, Kelly Kelly confronted her real secret romance Randy Orton, After lying to Kane about his identity two weeks previous. After listening to Kelly Kelly berate him for not calling her back, Orton told Kelly that he didn’t need her to protect him against Kane. He then blew her off by telling her that he didn’t need any distractions while vying for the World Heavyweight Championship, this caused an alteration in between Kane and Orton, in a match where Kane jobbed to Kane, and thus ending the feud.
In the Elimination Fatal Four Way to determine who would follow to face John Cena at the Royal Rumble, in between Y2J, Orton, Shawn Michaels and JBL, just as Jericho prepared to lock JBL into the Walls of Jericho, Michaels laid out the first ever Undisputed Champion Chris Jericho with a Sweet Chin Music. Next up, it was Orton who found himself on the receiving end of Sweet Chin Music.
Orton opened Raw the night after the Royal Rumble, flanked by the members of the Legacy, Rhodes and DiBiase, as well as two lawyers and a therapist. He followed to reveal that he (kayfabe) suffers from IED (Intermittent Explosive Disorder, a mental condition that caused him to experience violent outbursts when provoked, losing all control of his emotions and actions). According to Orton and his therapist, WWE knew of the condition, and if fired, the Orton said that he planned on not only taking Rhodes and DiBiase with him, but also on bringing a lawsuit against the company.
The leader of the Legacy then detailed his plans for a second lawsuit, suing for breach of contract if he is not granted the opportunity to compete in the main event of WrestleMania XXV, an honor he earned by defeating 29 other Superstars in the Royal Rumble Match the night before. Before leaving with Rhodes, DiBiase, his therapist and his lawyers, Orton issued a prepared, half-hearted apology to Mr. McMahon, his family and the WWE Universe.
At the close of the show, Stephanie McMahon entered the ring, expressing her desire to speak to Randy Orton face-to-face. Accompanied by his therapist, two lawyers, Cody Rhodes and Ted DiBiase, the 2009 Royal Rumble winner made his entrance, reiterating the consequences waiting for Stephanie if she was to fire him: Two costly lawsuits being filed against WWE as well as DiBiase and Rhodes walking. The Legend Killer went even further, threatening to file an injunction to stop WrestleMania, the event at which he is guaranteed a World Title Match.
After daring McMahon to fire him, the Raw General Manager announced that they had other plans for him – even beyond the Superstars that engulfed the ring. With that, Stephanie’s brother Shane McMahon made his entrance, and attacked Orton with such ferocity that it took the entire Raw roster to restrain him.
The following week Orton challenged McMahon to a No Holds Barred match at No Way Out, which Shane accepted.
The next week Orton faced The Undertaker and lost by desqualification, while Rhodes and DiBiase defeated Cryme Tyme. Orton would then go on to feud with then WWE Champion Triple H, for what Orton and Legacy had done to Triple H's family. On the March 2nd edition of Raw, Randy Orton chose to face Triple H in the main event at Wrestlemania 25. At Wrestlemania 25 Triple H would defeat Randy Orton after hitting him with a sledgehammer and a pedigree. The night after Wrestlemania 25, Orton had a one on one match with Mr. McMahon, just as Orton was about to go for the punt kick, Shane McMahon came to the aid of his father; this prompted Rhodes and DiBiase to come out and attack Shane; which then lead to Triple H coming out. As Legacy were attacking Triple H, Batista returned to attack Randy Orton for what he did to him in December of 2008.
On the February 22nd 2010 episode of Monday Night RAW, Orton made a 6-Man Tag Match because he was thinking Legacy needed to form together and Randy even said he was sorry but after Orton left the scene, it was revealed that Ted and Cody were planning to betray Randy once and for all but during the match, when Cody tagged Randy out, while entering the ring, Orton shockingly DDT'd Cody. Ted was in shock because he realized Orton figured out their plan which lead to Orton supposedly turning into a face and RKO'd Ted DiBiase right on the spot and left the arena leaving Evan Bourne to pin the fallen Cody Rhodes.
Finishing and signature moves
Randy Orton
Cody Rhodes
"Priceless" Ted DiBiase

</doc>
<doc id="199497" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199497" title="Ezekiel Jackson">
Ezekiel Jackson

Rycklon Stephens (born April 22, 1978) is an Guyanese professional wrestler. He is best known for his time with the WWE where he competed under the ring name Ezekiel Jackson. He currently works for Lucha Underground where he competes under the ring name Big Ryck.
In early September 2014, he made his Lucha Underground debut under the ring name Big Ryck. He formed a heel trio named "The Crenshaw Crew" with Cisco, Bael and Cortez Castro.
Stephen's signed with the WWE in March 2007 and later debuted in Florida Championship Wrestling (FCW) in June 2007. In his debut match he teamed with Keith Walker against Kofi Kingston and Eric Perez
On February 8, 2008 he competed with tag team partner Bryan Kelly in a tournament to face WWE Tag Team Champions John Morrison and The Miz. On May 6, 2008 he had his last match in FCW before being called up to the main WWE Roster on the SmackDown Brand
On July 18, 2008, Stephens debuted on SmackDown as The Brian Kendrick's bodyguard under the ring name Ezekiel. A month later on August 8, his name was altered slightly to Ezekiel Jackson and was revealed to be Kendrick's "advisor". He then began interfering in matches against Jeff Hardy, Finlay and Triple H.
On the October 17, 2008 he made his in-ring debut by beating Super Crazy, replacing a supposedly "sick", Kendrick. In late 2008 he began to team with Kendrick against WWE Tag Team Champions The Colóns (Carlit and Primo), they proved unsuccessful in getting the titles.
On February 13, 2009 he had his first defeat when he faced R-Truth. On April 3, 2009 he made his final appearance on WWE SmackDown, when he faced Jeff Hardy and lost.
On April 15, 2009, he was drafted to the ECW brand as part of the 2009 WWE Draft, breaking up the team of himself and Kendrick. He made his first ECW appearance on July 9, 2009 by defeating Jack Meridol. On August 18 he formed an alliance with William Regal and Vladimir Kozlov by betraying the ECW Champion Christian during a tag team match in which he teamed with Christian. When ECW ended Ezekiel Jackson went to the Raw brand.
On April 7, 2014, Jackson parted ways with the WWE.

</doc>
<doc id="199502" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199502" title="Daniel Passarella">
Daniel Passarella

Daniel Passarella (born 25 May 1953) is a former Argentine football player. He has played for Argentina national team.
334||108
153||35
487||143
!Total||70||22

</doc>
<doc id="199503" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199503" title="Gadzhi Gadzhiev">
Gadzhi Gadzhiev

Gadzhi Gadzhiev (born 28 October 1945) is a Russian football manager.

</doc>
<doc id="199504" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199504" title="Takahiro Kimura">
Takahiro Kimura

Takahiro Kimura (born 4 April 1957) is a former Japanese football player.

</doc>
<doc id="199511" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199511" title="Hiroyuki Omichi">
Hiroyuki Omichi

Hiroyuki Omichi (born 25 June 1987) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Kashima Antlers.
1||0||0||0||0||0||1||0
1||0||0||0||0||0||1||0

</doc>
<doc id="199512" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199512" title="Hiroshi Teguramori">
Hiroshi Teguramori

Hiroshi Teguramori (born 14 November 1967) is a former Japanese football player.

</doc>
<doc id="199516" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199516" title="Takumi Hayama">
Takumi Hayama

Takumi Hayama (born 20 May 1978) is a former Japanese football player.
59||1||7||0||2||0||68||1
59||1||7||0||2||0||68||1

</doc>
<doc id="199517" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199517" title="Masaki Saito">
Masaki Saito

Masaki Saito (born 23 June 1980) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Sagamihara.
44||15||5||3||2||0||51||18
44||15||5||3||2||0||51||18

</doc>
<doc id="199556" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199556" title="Valdeci Basílio da Silva">
Valdeci Basílio da Silva

Valdeci Basílio da Silva (born 14 July 1972) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Grêmio Barueri.
45||13||0||0||4||3||1||0||50||16
45||13||0||0||4||3||1||0||50||16

</doc>
<doc id="199557" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199557" title="Anaílson Brito Noleto">
Anaílson Brito Noleto

Anaílson Brito Noleto (born 8 March 1978) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Atlético Goianiense.
73||8
19||0
92||8

</doc>
<doc id="199558" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199558" title="Dedimar">
Dedimar

Dedimar Souza Lima (born 27 January 1976) is a Brazilian football player.
12||1||2||2||0||0||1||0||15||3
12||1||2||2||0||0||1||0||15||3

</doc>
<doc id="199562" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199562" title="Satoshi Yamaguchi">
Satoshi Yamaguchi

400||35||40||6||70||6||24||6||537||49
400||35||40||6||70||6||24||6||537||49
!Total||2||0

</doc>
<doc id="199563" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199563" title="Moon Je-Chun">
Moon Je-Chun

Moon Je-Chun (born 15 April 1987) is a South Korean professional athlete. He is best known as an association football player.
Moon played for FC Sportakademklub Moscow in the Russian First Division.
0||0||1||0||1||0||2||0
0||0||1||0||1||0||2||0

</doc>
<doc id="199564" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199564" title="Takuya Sato">
Takuya Sato

Takuya Sato (born 19 July 1978) is a former Japanese football player.
34||4||4||1||0||0||38||5
34||4||4||1||0||0||38||5

</doc>
<doc id="199574" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199574" title="Naoki Ishihara">
Naoki Ishihara

Naoki Ishihara (born 14 August 1984) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Omiya Ardija.
175||48||12||5||4||1||191||54
175||48||12||5||4||1||191||54

</doc>
<doc id="199575" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199575" title="Satoshi Yoshioka">
Satoshi Yoshioka

Satoshi Yoshioka (born 6 July 1987) is a former Japanese football player.
9||1||0||0||9||1
9||1||0||0||9||1

</doc>
<doc id="199576" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199576" title="Elivélton">
Elivélton

Elivélton (born July 31, 1971) is a former Brazilian football player. He has played for the Brazilian national team.
212||23
24||7
236||30
!Total||13||1

</doc>
<doc id="199583" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199583" title="Ivica Vastić">
Ivica Vastić

Ivica Vastić (born 29 September 1969) is a former Austrian football player. He has played for Austria national team.
Vastic started his career with RNK Split although he was invited to play with Split's major club Hajduk. 1991, during the separation war in Croatia, he went to Vienna, where he played for First Vienna FC 1894 in the second division. The next two years he played for VSE St. Pölten, Admira Wacker in Austria and MSV Duisburg in Germany. 1994 he went to SK Sturm Graz where he stayed until 2002. This was the most successful time of his career. He became champion (2), won the cup(3) and the Supercup (3). He also played three times in the Champions League and reached in the season 2000/01 the second stage of the Champion League.
In 2002 he went to Japan and played for Nagoya Grampus Eight. But 2003 he returned to Austria and played two seasons for FK Austria Wien, where he again won the Cup. The last four years of his career he played for LASK Linz in the second division and won the championship in the 2006/07 season. LASK promoted to the Austrian Bundesliga.
After his playing career he started his career as coach. He refused an offer from LASK as assistance coach and started as coach of FC Waidhofen/Ybbs in the third division. There he started with the title in the league. After one year there he became coach of FK Austria Vienna's amateur team.
In 1996 Vastić obtained the Austrian citizenship. Although he was once nominated for Croatia's team he could play for Austria. He played 50 matches and shot 14 goals. In 1998 he played for Austria in the FIFA World Cup and shot one goal. In 2008 he played for Austria in the UEFA European Championship where he scored the only goal for Austria.
Ivica Vastić is married and has 3 children. His oldest son Anton is a talented footballer and played for the U16 team of Austria. Together with the author Karin Ammerer he wrote a book about a coach who forms a team with Austrian and foreign children. (Gemeinsam gewinnen wir! Fußball verbindet - Together we win! Football binds)
As player:
As manager:
22||5
515||230
10||0
27||13
574||248
!Total||50||14

</doc>
<doc id="199584" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199584" title="Tomonori Hirayama">
Tomonori Hirayama

199||17||7||0||32||3||238||20
199||17||7||0||32||3||238||20

</doc>
<doc id="199585" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199585" title="Tomoaki Makino">
Tomoaki Makino

93||16||11||0||7||0||111||16
93||16||11||0||7||0||111||16
!Total||8||0

</doc>
<doc id="199589" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199589" title="Kim Jin-Kyu">
Kim Jin-Kyu

Kim Jin-Kyu (born 16 February 1985) is a South Korean professional athlete. He is best known as an football player. He was a member of the Korean national team.
63||3||4||0||10||1||4||0||81||4
47||4||3||0||4||1||5||0||59||5
110||7||7||0||14||2||9||0||140||9
!Total||40||3

</doc>
<doc id="199590" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199590" title="Hideto Suzuki">
Hideto Suzuki

328||9||31||0||70||0||7||0||436||9
328||9||31||0||70||0||7||0||436||9
!Total||1||0

</doc>
<doc id="199591" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199591" title="Takayuki Chano">
Takayuki Chano

350||10||21||1||48||3||5||0||424||14
350||10||21||1||48||3||5||0||424||14
!Total||7||0

</doc>
<doc id="199596" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199596" title="Kentaro Ohi">
Kentaro Ohi

69||2||6||0||15||0||4||0||94||2
69||2||6||0||15||0||4||0||94||2

</doc>
<doc id="199597" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199597" title="Toshihiro Hattori">
Toshihiro Hattori

454||19||33||2||62||3||7||1||556||25
454||19||33||2||62||3||7||1||556||25
!Total||44||2

</doc>
<doc id="199598" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199598" title="Tetsuhiro Kina">
Tetsuhiro Kina

Tetsuhiro Kina (born 10 December 1976) is a Japanese football player.
218||1||5||0||24||1||247||2
218||1||5||0||24||1||247||2

</doc>
<doc id="199607" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199607" title="Intercropping">
Intercropping

Intercropping is growing two or more crops next to each other at the same time. The main purpose of intercropping is to produce more crops in a given area. It also makes use of resources (nutrients) that would otherwise not be used by a single crop. Crops are selected such that their nutrient requirements are different. This way, the crops can give the same returns but require less space.
Things to consider when choosing which crops to mix include the soil, climate and varieties. It is very important not to have crops competing with each other for space, nutrients, water, or sunlight. An example of an intercropping strategy is planting one crop that has deep roots with another that has shallow roots.
Intercropping has been proposed as an alternative to slash-and-burn farming, which is very bad for the environment.

</doc>
<doc id="199616" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199616" title="Samuel de Champlain">
Samuel de Champlain

Samuel de Champlain (c. 1567 – December 25, 1635), , was a French navigator, cartographer, draughtsman, soldier, explorer, geographer, ethnologist, diplomat and chronicler. He is called "The Father of New France". He founded Quebec City on July 3, 1608. In 1609 he discovered Lake Champlain, which is named for him.

</doc>
<doc id="199623" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199623" title="Danegeld">
Danegeld

The Danegeld ("Danish tax") was a tax that the English kingdoms paid to the Vikings between the 9th and 11th centuries. The Vikings called it “geld” or “gafol” in the 11th century, but the term Danegeld did not appear until the early 12th century.
Besides the taxes in England, the term also applies to Eastern Europe in the 9th century, where Sami, Finnish, and Slavic tribes paid taxes to the Swedes. In Francia (France), the Franks paid off the Vikings in Normandy (Normans), and in return, the Normans would convert to Christianity and cease to raid.

</doc>
<doc id="199627" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199627" title="John Doggett">
John Doggett

John Doggett is a fictional character in the FOX science fiction series, "The X-Files". He made his first appearance in "Within", a season eight episode.

</doc>
<doc id="199639" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199639" title="Scream">
Scream

Scream can mean different things:

</doc>
<doc id="199657" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199657" title="Brian Lara">
Brian Lara

Brian Charles Lara (born 2 May 1969 in Santa Cruz, Trinidad and Tobago) is a former West Indian cricketer.

</doc>
<doc id="199660" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199660" title="Jean-Baptiste de Lamarck">
Jean-Baptiste de Lamarck

Jean-Baptiste Pierre Antoine de Monet, Chevalier de la Marck, usually known as "Lamarck", (1 August 1744 – 18 December 1829) was a French soldier, naturalist and academic. He was one of the first people to suggest that organisms changed in accordance with natural laws. This is known as evolution.
Jean-Baptiste was the 11th child of Philippe Jacques de Monet de La Marck and Marie-Françoise de Fontaine de Chuignolles. His parents were nobles, but they were not well-off. His parents wanted him to become a priest. Starting at age eleven, he attended a Jesuit school in Amiens. After his father's death in 1759, Jean-Baptiste joined the army. Lamarck fought in the Pomeranian War with Prussia, and was awarded a medal for bravery on the battlefield. During his service, he was stationed in different forts in France, mostly at the eastern border, and the Mediterranean coast. At his post in Monaco, Lamarck became interested in natural history and resolved to study medicine. In 1766, he was injured. He retired from the army in 1768 and returned to his medical studies. He worked at a bank in Paris. From 1770 to 1774, he studied medicine at the university, but did not finish his studies with a degree. During this time, he met some of the well-known scientists of his day, such as the botanists Bernard and Antoine-Laurent de Jussieu, and the naturalist Buffon. 
Lamarck developed a particular interest for botany, and later, after he published a three-volume work "Flora française", he gained membership of the French Academy of Sciences in 1779. Lamarck became involved in the "Jardin des Plantes" and was appointed to the Chair of Botany in 1788. When the "Muséum national d'Histoire naturelle" was founded in 1793, Lamarck was appointed as a professor of zoology. In 1801, he published "Système des animaux sans vertèbres", a major work on the classifications of invertebrates. In an 1802 publication, he became one of the first to use the term "biology" in its modern sense. Lamarck continued his work as a top authority on invertebrate zoology. 
In the modern era, Lamarck is remembered mainly for a theory of the inheritance of acquired characters, called soft inheritance or Lamarckism. His major work on this subject was "Philosophie zoologique", Paris 1809.
His idea of soft inheritance was a reflection of the folk wisdom of the time, accepted by many natural historians. Lamarck's contribution to evolutionary theory was an early, perhaps the first, theory of evolution. In Lamarck's theory, an alchemical complexifying force drove organisms up a ladder of complexity. A second environmental force adapted them to local environments through "use and disuse" of characteristics, making them different from other organisms. Since these ideas cannot be reconciled with what we know about genetics, they are now history. 
Lamarck died in Paris in 1829. When he died, his family was so poor they had to apply to the Academie for financial assistance. Lamarck's books and the contents of his home were sold at auction, and he was buried in a temporary lime-pit.
Lamarck came into conflict with the widely respected palaeontologist Georges Cuvier, who was not a supporter of evolution:
After his death, Cuvier used the forum of a eulogy to denigrate Lamarck: 
Opposition to Lamarck's theories became stronger when Mendel's genetics was rediscovered, but there were always common-sense doubts. Particular criticism came from Alfred Russel Wallace and August Weismann later in the 19th century. Here is an example:
Wallace's argument in short is:

</doc>
<doc id="199686" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199686" title="WWE Vintage Collection">
WWE Vintage Collection

WWE Vintage Collection is a professional wrestling television program from World Wrestling Entertainment highlighting action from the WWE video library. The show is hosted by "Mean" Gene Okerlund and co-hosted by Renee Pacquette.

</doc>
<doc id="199699" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199699" title="Patrick Swayze">
Patrick Swayze

Patrick Wayne Swayze (August 18, 1952 – September 14, 2009) was an American actor, singer, songwriter and dancer. He was born in Houston, Texas. He had starred in many successful Hollywood movies, including "Red Dawn" (1984), "Dirty Dancing" (1987), "Ghost" (1990), and "Point Break" (1991). Swayze's film career was started in the Coppola movie "The Outsiders" (1983)
Swayze was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer in January 2008 and died in Los Angeles, California at the age of 57. He was married to Lisa Niemi from 1975 and until his death. The couple owned a horse ranch in Albuquerque, New Mexico. Swayze did not have children.

</doc>
<doc id="199719" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199719" title="Fox Mulder">
Fox Mulder

Fox Mulder is one of the main characters in the science-fiction show The X-Files. He is an FBI agent working in the section called the X-Files. He works together with his partner Dana Scully to figure out answers to questions in the X-Files. The questions he looks at are usually about aliens or the paranormal. Later, Mulder begins to date Scully in season 7 of the show.
Mulder has a sister named Samantha Mulder. He spends a lot of time looking for her. Later in the show, Mulder finds out that his sister was kidnapped by aliens and the government.

</doc>
<doc id="199729" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199729" title="Traudl Junge">
Traudl Junge

Traudl Junge (born Gertraud Humps 16 March 1920 – 10 February 2002) was Adolf Hitler's youngest private secretary. She was his secretary from December 1942 to April 1945. 
She was hired by Hitler in November 1942. She married Hans Hermann Junge, under encouragement from Hitler. Hans Junge died while fighting in 1944.
In 1945, Junge was in the Fuhrerbunker with Hitler. She typed Hitler's last will and testament. After that, she said that she heard Hitler shoot himself. She left the Fuhrerbunker in May 1945. 
After the war, she was not well-known. However, she was in several shows that talked about Hitler. She was also in the movie Der Untergang, which was about the last days of Hitler in the Fuhrerbunker. In the beginning and end of the movie, it shows an interview of her.

</doc>
<doc id="199730" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199730" title="Dana Scully">
Dana Scully

Dana Scully is a character on the science fiction show The X-Files. She works as a special agent in the FBI. In the show, she works in the X-Files with her partner, Fox Mulder. Scully and Mulder work together to find answers to cases that they have to solve. She is in every episode of the show except for five of them.
She was first told to join the X-Files because she was scientific and logical. People thought that her partner, Mulder, was crazy because he thought aliens and the paranormal were the answers to their cases. However, after a while with Mulder she started to think like him. She also begins a relationship with him.
Scully later has a child, named William Scully Jr. However, we do not know how she could have a child. Earlier in the series, it is said that she cannot have babies.

</doc>
<doc id="199738" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199738" title="May Coup">
May Coup

May Coup was a coup d'état that happened in Poland in May 1926. It was organised by the former Polish leader and national hero Józef Piłsudski to remove the "weak" democratic government from power. It started on 12 May and ended on 15 May.
Piłsudski and his followers were victorious and the Polish democracy was replaced with an authoritarian regime that remained in power until the German invasion of Poland in September 1939 that started World War II. After Piłsudski's death in 1935 the regime became more and more radical, with regular persecution of the political opponents, never changing into totalitarianism though.

</doc>
<doc id="199743" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199743" title="Fritz Müller">
Fritz Müller

Fritz Müller (31 March 1821 – 21 May 1897), was a German biologist and doctor who went to live in southern Brazil. There he studied the natural history. He was an early supporter of Darwinism, and lived in Brazil for the rest of his life. Müllerian mimicry is named after him.
Unlike most of his contemporaries in Britain, Müller had what would be seen today as a normal scientific education at the universities of Berlin and Greifswald, culminating in a doctoral degree. Then, he decided to study medicine. As a medical student, he began to question religion and in 1846 became an atheist. Despite completing the course, he did not graduate because he refused to swear the graduation oath, which contained the phrase "so help me God and his sacred Gospel".
Müller was disappointed by the failure of the Prussian Revolution in 1848, and realised there might be implications for his life and career. As a result, he emigrated to South Brazil in 1852, with his brother August and their wives, to join Hermann Blumenau's new colony in the State of Santa Catarina. The colony, near the coast on the Itajaí River, was called Blumenau. In Brazil, Müller, living with his wife Caroline, became a farmer, doctor, teacher and biologist, sometimes employed by the provincial government, sometimes surviving on his own efforts, sometimes defending against Indians but always collecting evidence of life in the Atlantic forest. The climate here is sub-tropical, and the vegetation typical of the Brazilian coast: it is not rain forest.
In 1876 he was appointed as Travelling Naturalist to the National Museum in Rio de Janeiro. This was the ideal post for him: it gave him the opportunity to range over the whole of the Itajaí system and study anything that interested him. A series of reports published in the "Archivos" of the National Museum record this work. 
At last this, the best period of his life, was brought to an end indirectly, by the overthrow of the liberal monarchy of Dom Pedro II in 1889. The new Brazilian Republic was riddled with corruption and nepotism, and eventually there was a civil war in 1893-5. Travelling naturalists were to be based in Rio de Janeiro, and instructions were sent out. Müller refused point-blank and was dismissed, as was von Ihering in São Paulo.
In his retirement years Müller received many letters of support and offers of financial help (from Darwin, amongst others). His cousin Alfred Möller visited him, and eventually became his biographer. His rewards during life from the Brazilian state were minor; but his reputation now stands high. He was one of a half-dozen great naturalists to visit and work in South America during the nineteenth century. Humboldt, Darwin, Wallace, Bates, Spruce — and Fritz Müller. He was the only one of these to settle in Brazil for the rest of his life. A statue was erected to Müller in Blumenau in 1929.
Another of Fritz's brothers, Hermann Müller, was also an evolutionary biologist. He was especially interested in the coevolution between insects and flowers. He, too, corresponded with Dariwn, who arranged for his 1873 book to be translated into English.
A broad chronology of Müller's life is as follows:
During his life Müller published oved 70 papers, mostly in German-language periodicals, some in English and Portuguese. The topics covered a range of natural history topics in entomology, marine zoology, and botany.
Müller's great discovery concerned the resemblance between two or more unpalatable species which are protected from predators capable of learning. The protection is often a noxious chemical, perhaps gained from the larva eating a particulat plant; or it may be a sting or other defence. It is an advantage for such potential prey to advertise their status in a way clearly perceptible to their predators; this is called "aposematic" or warning colouration. In Muller's case the prey were butterflies, and the predators usually birds or reptiles.
The aposematic colours are most often some combination of red, yellow, black, white, whereas palatable animals are usually cryptic. The noxious animals may display by slow flying, and in general are prominently visible. Noxious animals usually have thick, leathery cuticles through which, at certain points, they extrude noxious fluids when pecked; they will often survive a 'trial'. 
In Müllerian mimicry an advantage is gained when unpalatable species resemble each other, especially when the predator has a good memory for colour (as birds, for instance, do have). Thus one trial may work to dissuade a bird from several species of butterfly which all fly the same 'flag'. Brazilian butterflies provide some of the most extraordinary examples of mimicry, and Müller, Bates and Wallace all had lengthy experience of this. All three traveller-naturalists believed firmly that such systems of mimicry could only come about by means of natural selection, and all of them wrote about it.
One of his favourite topics was the life habits of the stingless honey-bees "Melipoma" and "Trigona". They are protected by a venom which they squirt when disturbed. The local name for them is Cagafogo (fire-shitter). 
Another discovery was the dimorphism in midges of the family Blepharicereidae. There are two female forms with different mouth-parts: one sucks blood, the other takes nectar, as does the male. To prove the point to skeptics, he sexed the flies carefully, and reared them from pupae.
By studying living termites Müller was able to correct many errors to be found in text-books. For example, their caste system is organised quite differently from ants, since the castes contain members of both sexes, whereas in hymenoptera the castes are unisexual and the males are haploid. Termites are placed in a different order from ants, the Isoptera.
Much of Müller's botany was stimulated by the series of botanical works published by Darwin in the years after the "Origin". Müller made contributions in all these fields. After Darwin's "Fertilisation of Orchids" (1862) he spent years of work on orchids, sending observations to his brother Hermann and to Darwin. Darwin used some of this work in his second edition of 1877, and Hermann later became famous for his work on pollination. On "Climbing plants" (Darwin 1867) Müller sent a letter to Darwin listing 40 genera of climbing plants classified by their method of climbing. The next few months saw more observations, which Darwin had translated and published as Müller's first paper in English.
Müller became a strong supporter of Darwin. He wrote "Für Darwin" in 1864, arguing that Charles Darwin's theory of evolution by natural selection was correct, and that Brazilian crustaceans and their larvae could be affected by adaptations at any growth stage. This was translated into English as "Facts and Arguments for Darwin" in 1869. If Müller had a weakness it was that his writing was much less readable than that of Darwin or Wallace; both the German and English editions are hard reading indeed, which has limited the appreciation of this significant book.
Extensive correspondence exists between Müller and Darwin, and Müller also corresponded with Alexander Agassiz, Ernst Krause, and Ernst Haeckel.

</doc>
<doc id="199746" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199746" title="John Hope, 1st Marquess of Linlithgow">
John Hope, 1st Marquess of Linlithgow

John Adrian Louis Hope, 1st Marquess of Linlithgow KT, GCMG, GCVO, PC (25 September 1860 - 29 February 1908), known as Viscount Aithrie before 1873 and as The 7th Earl of Hopetoun between 1873 and 1902, was the first Governor-General of Australia.
Hope was born at South Queensferry, West Lothian in Scotland. He was the eldest son of the 6th Earl of Hopetoun. He was educated at Eton College and the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst, where he passed in 1879 but did not join the Army. He looked after the family houses and lands. In 1883 he became active in the House of Lords. He served as a Lord in Waiting from June 1885 to January 1886 and August 1886 to August 1889.
In 1889 he was made the Governor of Victoria, where he served until 1895. He went back to the United Kingdom and was made a privy councillor. He became the Paymaster-General from 1895 to 1898, and then Lord Chamberlain until 1900. The Australian colonies joined together to form the Commonwealth of Australia from 1 January 1901. Hopetoun was well liked in Victoria and he knew all the important Australian politicians. This made him a good choice to be the first Governor-General of the Commonwealth, and he was appointed in July 1900. In India, on his way to Australia, he got typhoid fever and his wife got malaria. They arrived in December 1900.
Hopetoun's first job was to choose a Prime Minister to form a government, which would start on 1 January 1901. The first elections were not going to be held until March, so he could not choose the leader of the biggest political party in the House of Representatives. Instead, he asked Sir William Lyne, the Premier of the largest state, New South Wales, to be Prime Minister
While this was a reasonable choice, Lyne had opposed federation and was unpopular with the leading federalist politicians. Alfred Deakin and other important politicians told Hopetoun they would not work with Lyne. Hopetoun then asked Edmund Barton, the leader of the federal movement and the man everybody thought should be the Prime Minister. This became known as the "Hopetoun Blunder".
There were soon more problems. Hopetoun had brought his own Official Secretary, Captain Edward William Wallington. The Australians did not want an Englishman in charge of official business. They also did not like the regal pomp and ceremony that Hopetoun used in his position, and the money that this cost. He acted as if ruled Australia with the Prime Minister. This was not what writers of the Constitution had wanted.
Hopetoun became friends with Melbourne anarchist and union pioneer, John 'Chummy' Fleming. In May 1901, Fleming protested against unemployment in Melbourne by rushing onto the Prince's Bridge to stop the Governor-General's carriage. Hopetoun listened to Fleming talk about the problems of the unemployed. According to some reports, Hopetoun made the government speed up work projects.
Finally, there was a problem with how much the Governor-General should be paid to have a house in both Sydney, the largest city, and Melbourne, the home of the Australian government. The Commonwealth and Victorian parliaments would not pay Hopetoun more money. Hopetoun resigned in May 1902. He and his family left Australia (from Brisbane) on 17 July 1902. He knew he had failed in a historic role. He was created 1st Marquess of Linlithgow on 27 October 1902, while he still the Governor-General. His term officially ended on 9 January 1903. He was made Secretary for Scotland in 1905.
He died suddenly on 29 February 1908, in Pau, Pyrénées-Atlantiques, France.
On 18 October 1886 he married Hersey Everleigh-de-Moleyns, daughter of the fourth Baron Ventry. They had four children;
His son Victor, the 2nd Marquess of Linlithgow became the longest-serving Viceroy of India 1936-43, a job he had always wanted. His grandson Lord Glendevon married the daughter of the English novelist W. Somerset Maugham.

</doc>
<doc id="199748" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199748" title="Henry Walter Bates">
Henry Walter Bates

Henry Walter Bates (Leicester, 8 February 1825 – London, 16 February 1892) was an English biologist who explored the Amazon Rainforest. 
This naturalist and explorer gave the first scientific account of mimicry in animals. Batesian mimicry is named after him. He was most famous for his expedition to the Amazon River basin with Alfred Russel Wallace in 1848. He spent 11 years in the rain forest. 
When Bates arrived home in 1859, he had sent back over 14,000 species (mostly of insects) of which 8,000 were new to science.
In 1847 Wallace and Bates discussed the idea of an expedition to the Amazon basin. The plan was to defray expenses by sending specimens back to London, where an agent would sell them for a commission. Also, for the travellers to ""gather facts towards solving the problem of the origin of species"", as Wallace put it in a letter to Bates. 
The two friends, who were both by now experienced amateur entomologists, met in London to prepare themselves by viewing South American plants and animals in the main collections.
Bates and Wallace sailed from Liverpool in April 1848, arriving in Pará (now Belém) at the end of May. For the first year they settled in a villa near the city, collecting birds and insects. After that they agreed to collect independently.
Eventually, Bates' health deteriorated and he returned to England, sending his collection by three different ships. He didn't want to put all his insects into one boat. Bates wrote a famous book on his experiences: "The naturalist on the river Amazons".

</doc>
<doc id="199756" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199756" title="Alfred Russel Wallace">
Alfred Russel Wallace

Alfred Russel Wallace OM, FRS (8 January 1823 – 7 November 1913) was a British naturalist, explorer, biologist and social activist. He is best known for proposing a theory of natural selection. This was published in 1858 together with Charles Darwin's idea.
Wallace did extensive natural history exploring. He went first to the Amazon River basin with Henry Walter Bates, and later to Malaya and Indonesia. He wrote books on both these adventures. While in Indonesia he drew the "Wallace Line" which divides Indonesia into two parts. On one side are animals of Australasia. On the other side are species mostly of Asian origin. He wrote a wonderful book on the distribution of animals.
After a few years of working as a railway surveyor with his brother, Wallace's life was changed by meeting Henry Walter Bates in Leicester in 1847. 
Wallace and Bates discussed the idea of an expedition to the Amazon. The plan was to defray expenses by sending specimens back to London, where an agent would sell them for a commission. Also, for the travellers to ""gather facts towards solving the problem of the origin of species"", as Wallace put it in a letter to Bates. The two friends, who were both by now experienced amateur entomologists, met in London to prepare themselves by viewing South American plants and animals in the main collections.
Bates and Wallace sailed from Liverpool in April 1848, arriving in Pará (now Belém) at the end of May. For the first year they settled in a villa near the city, collecting birds and insects. After that they agreed to collect independently.
Wallace continued charting the Amazon for four years, collecting specimens and making notes on the peoples, the languages, the geography, flora, and fauna. On 12 July 1852, Wallace embarked for England on the brig "Helen". After twenty-eight days at sea, balsam in the ship's cargo caught fire and the crew was forced to abandon ship. All of the specimens Wallace had on the ship, most of his collection, were lost. He could only save part of his diary and a few sketches. Wallace and the crew spent ten days in an open boat before being picked up by the brig "Jordeson".
From 1854 to 1862, age 31 to 39, Wallace travelled through the "Dutch East Indies" (now Malaysia and Indonesia), to collect specimens for sale and to study nature. Wallace collected more than 125,000 specimens in the Dutch East Indies (more than 80,000 beetles alone). More than a thousand of them represented species new to science. 
His observations of the clear zoological differences across a narrow strait in the archipelago led to his proposing the zoogeographical boundary now known as the Wallace Line. Bali and Lombok were two islands in the archipelago only 17 miles apart at the widest (28 km), roughly the same size and with the same climate, soil, elevation and aspect. Yet their flora and fauna were so different. 
"In this archipelago there are two distinct faunas rigidly circumscribed, which differ as much as do those of Africa and South America... yet there is nothing on the map or on the face of the islands to mark their limits. The boundary line passes between islands closer together than others belonging to the same group. I believe the western part to be a separated portion of continental Asia, while the eastern is a fragmentary prolongation of a former west Pacific continent".
Why was it, he wondered, that the animals and plants on the Bali side of the channel were of Asian types, while those on the Lombok side were Australasian in type? This had to mean that the western group had evolved from common western stock, while the eastern group had evolved from a common eastern stock. 
While he was exploring the archipelago, he refined his thoughts about evolution and had his famous insight on natural selection. In 1858 he sent an article outlining his theory to Darwin; it was published, along with a description of Darwin's own theory, in the same year.
Accounts of his studies and adventures there were eventually published in 1869 as "The Malay Archipelago". It became one of the most popular natural history travel journals of the 19th century. It was praised by Charles Darwin and Charles Lyell and by others, such as the novelist Joseph Conrad, who called it his "favorite bedside companion".
Unlike Darwin, Wallace began his career as a travelling naturalist already believing in evolution. Both he and Bates had read "Vestiges", a controversial work of popular science, published anonymously in 1844. This advocated an evolutionary origin for the solar system, the earth, and living things. He also read Malthus's "Principle of population", which he says "twenty years later gave me the long-sought clue to the effective agent in the evolution of organic species". He meant by that the struggle for existence, which led Wallace to "natural selection".
Wallace wrote his ideas on the small isle of "Ternate", in what was then the Dutch East Indies. He was suffering from malaria. While the natives looked after him, his thoughts turned to Malthus's book. 
"I thought of [Malthus's] clear exposition of the 'positive checks to increase' – disease, accidents, wars, famine – which keep down the population... It then occurred to me that the same causes, or their equivalents, are
continually acting in the case of animals also... Why do some die and some live? And the answer came clearly, that on the whole the best fitted live... Then it suddenly flashed upon me, that this self-acting process would necessarily improve the race..." 
This was the origin of his letter to Darwin, which set out the idea of natural selection.
In 1864 Wallace published a paper, "The origin of human races and the antiquity of Man deduced from the theory of natural selection", applying the theory to human beings. Huxley had already published his view that evolution applied to mankind as it did to other living things.
Wallace thought that natural selection could not account for mathematical, artistic, or musical genius, as well as metaphysical musings, wit and humour. He eventually said that something in "the unseen universe of Spirit" had interceded at least three times in history. The first was the creation of life from inorganic matter. The second was the introduction of consciousness in the higher animals. And the third was the generation of the higher mental faculties in mankind. He also believed that the purpose of the universe was the development of the human spirit. 
Many, including Huxley, Hooker, and Darwin himself, were highly critical of these ideas. As one historian of science has pointed out, Wallace's views in this area were at odds with two major tenets of Darwinism. These are: evolution does not have a goal, and it is not aimed at or centered around mankind. It is thought by most biographers that his thinking on the evolution of man was influenced by his adoption of spiritualism, which happened at the same time.
Wallace was not a believer in revealed religion of any kind, but he did believe in spiritualism. This has puzzled biographers, who struggle to think why such a man would believe in spirits. Early in his life, he experimented with hypnosis, which was then doubted and criticised. He used some of his students in Leicester as subjects, with considerable success. Apparently, this persuaded him not to reject ideas which were doubted. Even when Huxley told him that one of his favourite mediums was a proven fraud, he refused to believe it. He preferred the evidence of his own experience.
Wallace's public support of spiritualism, and his defence of spiritualist mediums against allegations of fraud, damaged his scientific reputation. It strained his relationships with friends such as Bates, Huxley and Darwin, who felt he was overly credulous. Others became openly hostile to Wallace over the issue. Wallace and other scientists who defended spiritualism were subject to much criticism from the press, with "The Lancet", the leading English medical journal, being particularly harsh. The controversy affected the public's idea of Wallace for the rest of his career, though he was always respected in other ways.
Wallace had a wide range of interests, and wrote books about all of them. He wrote against vaccination, for phrenology, for spiritualism, for land nationalisation, against the moon having canals, and for social change and the progress and improvement of mankind. He did not believe in religion, but he did believe in spiritualism. He was a radical in politics, economics and social reform. He was a kind and honourable person, but he could be a tough opponent if he thought something unfair was going on. Even the titles of some of his books were sensational, as for example:
Wallace wrote about 22 books, depending on how one counts them.
His greatest works include:

</doc>
<doc id="199762" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199762" title="Nikolai Vavilov">
Nikolai Vavilov

Nikolai Ivanovich Vavilov (25 November 1887 – 26 January 1943) was a Russian botanist and geneticist. He is best known for showing how and where crop plants evolved. He devoted his life to agriculture: the study and improvement of wheat, corn, and other cereal crops.
By 1940, Vavilov had accumulated a collection of 200,000 plant seeds from the Soviet Union and from abroad. He was widely admired, but his life came to a terrible end. Vavilov repeatedly criticised a powerful but poor scientist, Trofim Lysenko. As a result, Vavilov was arrested, and died of starvation in a prison in 1943. Today Vavilov's name stands high. The "Vavilov Institute of Plant Industry" in St. Petersburg is named after him. It maintains one of the world's largest collections of plant genetic material.
This is mimicry in plants where a weed comes to look like a crop plant. Before herbicides, weeds were plucked by hand. This has been done for thousands of years. The weeds come to look like the crop because the weeders pick those weeds which look most different. Vavilovian mimicry is caused by unintentional selection by humans. The weeds that survive pass on their genes. Gradually, all the weeds look more like the crop plant.
An example is rye, a common Mediterranean species. Rye was originally just a weed growing with wheat and barley. Weeding made it like the crop. Like wheat, it came to have larger seeds and more rigid spindles to which the seeds are attached.
Rye is a tougher plant than wheat: it survives in harsher conditions. Having become a crop like the wheat, rye was able to become a crop plant in harsh areas, such as hills and mountains.

</doc>
<doc id="199787" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199787" title="Gilbert White">
Gilbert White

Gilbert White (18 July 1720 – 26 June 1793) was a pioneering English naturalist and ornithologist.
White was born in his grandfather's vicarage at Selborne in Hampshire. He was educated by a private tutor in Basingstoke before going to Oriel College, Oxford University. He obtained his deacon's orders in 1746, being fully ordained in 1749. Then he held several curacies in Hampshire and Wiltshire, including Selbourne. White also held the office of Junior Proctor at Oxford and was Dean of Oriel College. In 1784 he became curate of Selborne for the last time, remaining so until his death. 
White is best known for the "Natural History and Antiquities of Selborne" (1789). This was a collection of his letters to Thomas Pennant, the leading British zoologist of the day, and the Hon. Daines Barrington, an English barrister and Fellow of the Royal Society. These letters contained White's discoveries on local birds, animals and plants. White believed in observing birds rather than collecting specimens. He was one of the first people to separate the similar-looking Chiffchaff, Willow Warbler and Wood Warbler by means of their song.
White is regarded by many as England's first ecologist and one of the founders of modern respect for nature.

</doc>
<doc id="199791" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199791" title="Charles Lyell">
Charles Lyell

Sir Charles Lyell, 1st Baronet, (14 November 1797 – 22 February 1875) was a British geologist. He was the foremost geologist of his day, and an influence on the young Charles Darwin. His work was rewarded with a knighthood, and later he was created a hereditary baronet.
The house of his birth is in the Scottish Lowlands. it is in the valley of the Highland Boundary Fault, one of the great features of Scottish geology. Round the house is farmland, but within a short distance to the north-west are the Grampian Mountains in the Scottish Highlands. 
Charles would have seen this view from his house as a child. He was also fortunate that his family's second home was in a completely different area: at Bartley Lodge in the New Forest, England. Both these places lit his interest in the natural world.
Lyell had private means, and earned more money as an author. He came from a prosperous family, worked briefly as a lawyer in the 1820s. He held the post of Professor of Geology at King's College London in the 1830s. From 1830 onward his books gave him both income and fame.
Lyell's "Principles of Geology" was his most famous, most influential, and most important book. It was first published in three volumes, in 1830–33. The book was a development of the ideas of James Hutton, but with many additions, improvements and examples. The book established Lyell's credentials as an important geological theorist. It was a work of synthesis, backed by his own personal observations on his travels.
The central argument in "Principles" was that "the present is the key to the past". This was called by William Whewell 'uniformitarianism'. Geological remains from the distant past are explained by processes we can see operating now. Lyell's interpretation of geologic change as the steady accumulation of minute changes over enormously long spans of time was a big influence on the young Charles Darwin.

</doc>
<doc id="199793" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199793" title="John Ray">
John Ray

John Ray (29 November 1627 – 17 January 1705) was an English naturalist, sometimes referred to as the father of English natural history.
Ray was a Protestant dissenter who had accepted the return of Charles II. He was ordained in London in 1660, but refused to sign the Act of Uniformity of 1662. The Act of Uniformity made the Book of Common Prayer compulsory in religious services, which was opposed by those of Puritan beliefs. So Ray was forced to resign his Fellowship of Trinity College, Cambridge; he returned to his native village of Black Notley, near Braintree in Essex. After this, his most important scientific works were supported financially by the Royal Society, whose President at a critical time in the 1680s was Samuel Pepys.
Ray published important works on plants, animals, and natural theology. His classification of plants in his "Historia Plantarum", was an important step towards modern taxonomy. Ray rejected the system by which species were classified according to an either/or type system. Instead he classified plants by observation according to similarities and differences. Thus he advanced scientific empiricism against the deductive rationalism of the scholastics. He was the first person to give a biological definition of the term "species".
Ray published about 23 works, depending on how one counts them. The biological works were usually in Latin, the rest in English. For ease of reading, the titles below are in English.
Including the various editions, there are 172 works of Ray, of which most are rare. The only libraries with substantial holdings are all in England. The list in order of holdings is:

</doc>
<doc id="199796" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199796" title="WWE Diva Search">
WWE Diva Search

The WWE Diva Search was a competition held by the World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) which ran from 2003 to 2007. The aim of the contest was to find a new WWE Diva, from the 2004 contest onwards the winner of the contest was offered a WWE Contract which was worth $250,000.
Despite only one winner of the competition each year (excluding 2003) the WWE has signed multiple diva search contestants, including Candice Michelle, Taryn Terrell and many others.
In 2003 the first Diva Search was held, however the winner of the first Diva Search Jaime Koeppe did not receive a contract. She did receive a photoshoot for an issue of WWE Magazine.
Despite Christy Hemme winning, the WWE hired many other Divas also featured within the contest, this included, Michelle McCool, Amy Weber, Candice Michelle, Maria Kennllis and Joy Giovanni.
Like the previous year's Diva Search, Ashley Massaro was not the only Diva WWE hired, this included, Kristal Marshall, Trenesha Biggers and Elisabeth Rouffaer.
Like the past two years this also featured the WWE hiring many losing Divas, this included, Milena Roucka, the Garcia Twins, Rebecca DiPietro, Amy Zidian and Maryse Ouellet.
WWE like in the previous years WWE hired runner-ups, this included, Taryn Terrell, Lena Yada and Angela Fong.

</doc>
<doc id="199812" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199812" title="Vladimir Horowitz">
Vladimir Horowitz

Vladimir Samoylovich Horowitz (, "Vladimir Samojlovich Horovitz") (October 1, 1903 – November 5, 1989) was a Russian-American classical pianist. He is often said to be one of the best pianists of the 20 century.
Horowitz was born in Kiev, Russia (now Ukraine) to a Jewish family in 1903. He was the youngest of four children. His father was an engineer and his mother was a pianist. He first started piano lessons from his mother at an early age. In 1912 he joined Kiev University where he was taught by Vladimir Puchalsky, Sergei Tarnowsky, and Felix Blumenfeld. He performed Sergei Rachmaninoff's Piano Concerto No. 3 in D Minor on his graduation. He then performed his first solo concert in Kharkiv in 1920.
Horowitz got more and more famous but was often paid in food rather than money because Russia wasn't very rich. Although performing in many concerts, he secretly wanted to be a composer. In 1925, he moved to the West, intending not to return.
On January 2, 1926, Horowitz played his first concert outside of Russia. He then played in many other places, such as Berlin, Paris, and London. He gave his first concerts in the United States in 1928. 
When World War II started in 1939, Horowitz decided to live in the U. S. He became an American citizen in 1944. Horowitz was very proud of being an American, and decided to make a piano version of Sousa's The Stars and Stripes Forever. He played many concerts to raise money for the war effort, and he asked people to call him "the American pianist." Horowitz began playing music written by an American composer, Samuel Barber, and gave the world’s first performances of the Barber's Piano Sonata and Excursions.
During World War II, Horowitz also played a lot of Russian music, giving the first performances in America of Prokofiev's Piano Sonatas Nos. 6, 7 and 8 (which were called "War Sonatas") and Kabalevsky's Piano Sonatas Nos. 2 and 3. 
Horowitz stopped playing concerts four times (1936 to 1938, 1953 to 1965, 1969 to 1974, and 1983 to 1985), as he was unsure that he was good enough, even when he was popular.
He made his television debut on September 22, 1968, in a concert at Carnegie Hall.
Horowitz was most well known for playing music written between 1830 and 1920. His 1932 recording of the Liszt Sonata is still considered by many to be the best ever, even though many other pianists have recorded it. Other pieces he was famous for were Scriabin's Étude in D-sharp minor, Chopin's Ballade No. 1 in G minor, and many of Rachmaninoff’s short pieces, including Polka de W.R. Horowitz was praised for his way of playing the Rachmaninoff Piano Concerto No. 3, and the composer said "he swallowed it whole. He had the courage, the intensity, the daring." Horowitz later became good friends with Rachmaninoff. Horowitz was also well known for playing quieter works like Schumann's Scenes of Childhood, Scarlatti sonatas, and some Mozart and Haydn sonatas.
Horowitz's way of playing often used large contrasts between soft and loud volumes. He was able to play louder than most other pianists, without making an ugly sound. His playing was also known for many different kinds of sounds – sometimes called "tone colors". Horowitz was also famous for playing precise passages in octaves very fast.
Horowitz began making recordings in 1928. He recorded for several record labels. His most famous early records were Rachmaninoff's Piano Concerto No. 3 with Albert Coates and the London Symphony Orchestra (the first time that piece was recorded) and Franz Liszt's Sonata in B minor. 
When Horowitz was not playing in public, he sometimes made recordings in his house. His recordings won many awards, and he continued recording until a few days before he died.
In 1986, Horowitz told his friends that “before I die, I want to see the land where I was born.” So, he decided to play two concerts in Russia. At the time, Russia and the United States were trying to be more friendly with each other, and Horowitz’s concerts were part of that effort. The concert in Russia’s capitol, Moscow, was shown on TV, and people in the audience could be seen wiping tears from their eyes.
When Horowitz returned to the United States, President Ronald Reagan gave him the Presidential Medal of Freedom.
Vladimir Horowitz died on November 5, 1989 in New York of a heart attack. He was 86.

</doc>
<doc id="199814" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199814" title="Thomas Henry Huxley">
Thomas Henry Huxley

Thomas Henry Huxley PC PRS (4 May 1825 – 29 June 1895) was an English biologist. He was born in Ealing, Middlesex. He was known as "Darwin's Bulldog" for his support of Charles Darwin's theory of evolution. Huxley was slow to accept some of Darwin's ideas, but he was wholehearted in his public support of Darwin. 
Huxley's 1860 debate with the English Bishop Samuel Wilberforce was a famous public event. The debate was about evolution, and it was widely reported in the press. Many thought Huxley won that debate, which helped Huxley's career, and the theory of evolution. Huxley also developed scientific education in Britain, and fought against the more extreme forms of religion. Huxley used the term "agnostic" to describe his own views on religion, a term which we use today.
Huxley had little schooling, and taught himself almost everything he knew. Remarkably, he became a great anatomist and zoologist. Later, he discussed the evolution of man and the apes. Another of his ideas was that birds evolved from small carnivorous dinosaurs, a view widely held today.
His activity in favour of evolution, and his public work on scientific education, had a big effect on society in Britain and elsewhere. 
Huxley died in Eastbourne, Sussex. Three of his grandsons became famous in the 20th century. 
As a young man, Huxley went on a long voyage of discovery to the southern continents. He was Assistant to the Surgeon on the Royal Navy ship HMS "Rattlesnake". What he did was to collect sea animals, and study them. He went ashore in New Guinea and the eastern coast of Australia, to study the animals, and the native peoples. He fell in love with a girl in Sydney, Australia, and some years later they married and had children.
For nearly ten years he worked on the relationship of man to the apes. This led him into a clash with Richard Owen, a man who was disliked for his behaviour, but admired for his skill. The struggle between them ended in some severe defeats for Owen.
Huxley's public lectures grew into his most famous work "Man's place in Nature" (1863). There he deals with the evolution of man, before Charles Darwin published his "Descent of Man" in 1871.
In the book Huxley gives evidence for the evolution of man and apes from a common ancestor. It was the first book devoted to the topic of human evolution. The book proposed to a wide readership that "evolution applied as fully to man as to all other life".
Huxley was an important public figure. When he was young there were virtually no degrees in British universities in biology, and few courses. Most biologists of his day were either self-taught, or took medical degrees. By the time he retired there were professors in biology in most universities, and a broad agreement on what should be taught. Huxley was the single most influential person in this transformation. Huxley was for about thirty years evolution's most effective champion. For some, Huxley was ""the" leading English spokesman for science in the nineteenth century".
Huxley supported the reading of the Bible in schools. Huxley was against organised religion, but he thought the Bible's moral teachings and use of language helped English life. "I do not advocate burning your ship to get rid of the cockroaches".
However, what Huxley proposed was to create an "edited version" of the Bible, without "shortcomings and errors... These tender children [should] not be taught that which you do not yourselves believe". The London School Board voted against his idea, but it also voted against the idea that public money should be used to support students attending church schools. Vigorous debate took place on such points, and the debates were written down in detail. Huxley said "I will never be a party to enabling the state to sweep the children of this country into denominational schools". The Act of Parliament which founded board schools allowed the reading of the Bible, but did not permit any particular religious doctrine to be taught.
It may be right to see Huxley as helping the secularisation of British society which gradually occurred over the following century. Ernst Mayr said "It can hardly be doubted that [biology] has helped to undermine traditional beliefs and value systems". Huxley more than anyone else was responsible for this trend in Britain.
Huxley worked on ten Royal and other commissions. The subjects included medical law, contagious diseases, vivisection; fisheries; universities in Scotland, and science education in Ireland. He was Inspector of Fisheries 1881–85, and held many awards from many universities. He was President of the Royal Society from 1883–1885. The British state made him a Privy Councillor, as a reward for his public work.

</doc>
<doc id="199822" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199822" title="Theodosius Dobzhansky">
Theodosius Dobzhansky

Theodosius Dobzhansky, or Theodore Dobzhansky, (24 January 1900 – 18 December 1975) was a noted geneticist and an evolutionary biologist. 
Dobzhansky was born in the Ukraine (then part of Imperial Russia) and emigrated to the United States in 1927. He was a central figure in the field of evolutionary biology for his work on the fruit-fly "Drosophila". He did research on these flies in California, mostly on populations of "Drosophila pseudoobscura". 
Dobzhansky was important in the modern evolutionary synthesis, which was the synthesis of evolutionary biology with genetics.
At school Dobzhansky collected butterflies and beetles, and studied biology at Kiev University. After graduation he moved to St Petersburg (then called Leningrad), and studied under Yuri Filipchenko, who had a "Drosophila" lab. Dobzhansky collected Coccinellidae (ladybird beetles) in the wild, and explored their genetics.
Dobzhansky emigrated to the United States in 1927. He worked with Thomas Hunt Morgan at Columbia University, who had pioneered the use of fruit flies ("Drosophila melanogaster") in genetics experiments. He followed Morgan to the California Institute of Technology from 1930 to 1940. Dobzhansky took fruit fly research out of the laboratory and into the field. He discovered that regional varieties of flies were more similar to each other genetically than to flies from other regions.
In 1937 Dobzhansky published one of the major works of the modern evolutionary synthesis, entitled "Genetics and the Origin of Species". He defined evolution as "a change in the allele frequency within a gene pool". It is through changes in the proportion of alleles in a population that evolution takes place. Also in 1937, he became a naturalized citizen of the United States. During this time he had a falling out with one of his "Drosophila" collaborators, Alfred Sturtevant, based perhaps on professional competition. 
Dobzhansky returned to Columbia University from 1940 to 1962. He was one of the signatories of the 1950 UNESCO statement "The Race Question". He then moved to the Rockefeller University) until his retirement in 1971.

</doc>
<doc id="199827" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199827" title="Julian Huxley">
Julian Huxley

Sir Julian Sorell Huxley FRS (22 June 1887 – 14 February 1975) was an English evolutionary biologist, humanist and internationalist. He was born in London, and died there. He was a proponent of natural selection, and a leading figure in the modern evolutionary synthesis. 
He was Secretary of the Zoological Society of London (1935–1942), the first Director of UNESCO, and a founding member of the World Wildlife Fund.
Huxley came from the distinguished Huxley family. His brother was the writer Aldous Huxley, and his half-brother, a fellow biologist and Nobel laureate, Andrew Huxley; and his paternal grandfather was Thomas Henry Huxley, a friend and supporter of Charles Darwin and proponent of evolution. 
Huxley was well known for his presentation of science in books and articles, and on radio and television. He was awarded UNESCO's "Kalinga Prize" for the popularisation of science in 1953, the "Darwin Medal" of the Royal Society in 1956, and the "Darwin-Wallace medal" of the Linnean Society in 1958. He was also knighted in that same year, 1958, a hundred years after Charles Darwin and Alfred Russel Wallace announced the theory of evolution by natural selection. In 1959 he received a Special Award of the Lasker Foundation in the category Planned Parenthood – World Population. Huxley was a prominent member of the British Eugenics Society.
His particular interest was bird behaviour, especially the courtship of water birds. His observations on the ethology of the Great Crested Grebe, published in 1914, was a landmark in avian field research. His invention of vivid labels for the rituals (such as 'penguin dance', 'plesiosaurus race' etc.) made the ideas memorable and interesting to the general reader.
Huxley was the most important biologist after August Weismann to insist on natural selection as the primary agent in evolution. A fine communicator, he was a prominent populariser of biological science to the public. In the early 20th century he was one of the minority of biologists who believed that natural selection was the main driving force of evolution, and that evolution occurred by small steps and not by jumps. These opinions are now standard. Though his time as an academic was quite brief, he taught and encouraged a number of evolutionary biologists at the University of Oxford in the 1920s.
Huxley was a key figure in the modern evolutionary synthesis. This explained how the discoveries of Gregor Mendel on genetics fitted with Charles Darwin's theory of evolution by means of natural selection. Huxley's 
Huxley's first 'trial run' was the treatment of evolution in the "Science of Life" (1929–30), and in 1936 he published a long and significant paper for the British Association. In 1938 came three lengthy reviews on major evolutionary topics.
Now it was time for Huxley to tackle the subject of evolution at full length, in what became the defining work of his life. His book "" was written whilst he was Secretary to the Zoological Society, and made use of his remarkable collection of reprints covering the first part of the century. It was published in 1942. Reviews of the book in learned journals were little short of ecstatic; the American Naturalist called it "The outstanding evolutionary treatise of the decade, perhaps of the century. The approach is thoroughly scientific; the command of basic information amazing".
Huxley's main co-respondents in the modern evolutionary synthesis are usually listed as Ernst Mayr, Theodosius Dobzhansky, George Gaylord Simpson, Bernhard Rensch, Ledyard Stebbins and the population geneticists J.B.S. Haldane, Ronald Fisher and Sewall Wright. However, at the time of Huxley's book, several of these had yet to make their distinctive contribution. E.B. Ford and his co-workers in ecological genetics were at least as important.
He always believed that on a broad view evolution led to advances in organisation. "Progress without a goal" was one of his favourite phrases.
In the final chapter of his "Evolution the modern synthesis" he defines evolutionary progress as "a raising of the upper level of biological efficiency, this being defined as increased control over and independence of the environment. "Natural selection plus time produces biological improvement... Improvements in biological machinery... the limbs and teeth of grazing horses... the increase in brain-power... The eyes of a dragon-fly, which can see all round [it] in every direction, are an improvement over the mere microscopic eye-spots of early forms of life". "[Over] the whole range of evolutionary time we see general advance — improvement in all the main properties of life, including its general organization. [But] improvement is not universal. Lower forms manage to survive alongside higher".
Huxley was a prominent member of the British Eugenics Society, and was Vice-President (1937–1944) and President (1959–1962). Huxley was one of many intellectuals at the time who believed that the lowest class in society was genetically inferior. He advocated "the virtual elimination of the few lowest and most degenerate types". In his writing he used this argument several times: "no-one doubts the wisdom of managing the germ-plasm of agricultural stocks, so why not apply the same concept to human stocks?".
In the post-war years, after the realisation that eugenic ideas had become tainted by the Nazis, Huxley (1957) coined the term "transhumanism" to describe the view that man should better himself through science and technology, possibly including eugenics, but also, importantly, the improvement of the social environment.
In response to the rise of European fascism in the 1930s Huxley was asked to write "We Europeans" with three other scientists. Huxley suggested the word 'race' be replaced with ethnic group. After the Second World War he was instrumental in producing the UNESCO statement "The Race Question", which asserted that: 
"A race, from the biological standpoint, may therefore be defined as one of the group of populations constituting the species "Homo sapiens""... "Now what has the scientist to say about the groups of mankind which may be recognized at the present time? Human races can be and have been differently classified by different anthropologists, but at the present time most anthropologists agree on classifying the greater part of present-day mankind into three major divisions, as follows: The Mongoloid Division; The Negroid Division; The Caucasoid Division."... "Catholics, Protestants, Moslems and Jews are not races..." 
This is a selection of Huxley's most influential books:

</doc>
<doc id="199830" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199830" title="Gertrude Baines">
Gertrude Baines

Gertrude Baines (April 6, 1894 – September 11, 2009) was an American supercentenarian. She was believed to be the oldest person in the world from January 2, 2009 until own death on September 11, 2009. She was the last person known to have been born in 1894 and the oldest ever person to have been born in that year.
Gertrude Baines married Sam Conley at a very young age and had one daughter who died of typhoid fever at the age of 18. Baines was known to have been living in Hartford, Connecticut before moving to Ohio, where she worked as a maid at the Ohio State University. She later moved to California, where she lived on her own until age 105. She spent her final years at the Western Convalescent Center in Jefferson Park, Los Angeles.

</doc>
<doc id="199843" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199843" title="Reel Big Fish">
Reel Big Fish

Reel Big Fish is a ska punk band that started in 1992 in California. They have only ever played ska/rock music but moved more to a pop sound during the album "Cheer Up!" They have had many different members since the start of the band, including two different singers and over 10 different horn players. They mainly got successful from the album "Turn The Radio Off", which had the single "Sell Out," in 1997, their most famous song.
A common theme throughout some of their songs (such as "Don't Start A Band" and "Sell Out") is their disapproval of big record companies. Reel Big Fish was signed onto Jive Records, but after their short-lived success, the record company neglected them and did not advertise their albums. In their 2005 album, We're Not Happy Til' You're Not Happy, Reel Big Fish directly and indirectly expresses their anger towards their record company in several of their songs.
During 2006, Reel Big Fish was dropped from Jive Records. The band formed their own label and released a 3-disc live performance CD/DVD set, Our Live Album Is Better Than Your Live Album. This package became available on July 18, 2006 on the Internet and in retail stores on August 22. Jive later released a Reel Big Fish greatest hits album, Greatest Hit...And More, because they owned the rights to all previous songs. The band did not approve of, or make any money from the album, and have spoken out against it.

</doc>
<doc id="199849" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199849" title="Hate group">
Hate group

A hate group is a group of people that want to hurt and be mean to other people. Hate groups usually are against people who are different from members of the group. This includes differences in ethnic group, religion, sex, and/or sexual orientation. The Ku Klux Klan and Nazism are an example of a hate group.

</doc>
<doc id="199855" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199855" title="Sulfur trioxide">
Sulfur trioxide

Sulfur trioxide (sometimes spelled sulphur trioxide) is a chemical substance made of 1 sulfur and 3 oxygen atoms (SO). It is very toxic and irritating. It can dissolve violently in water to make sulfuric acid. It is made by oxidation of sulfur dioxide. It contains sulfur in its +6 oxidation state.
Sulfur trioxide is mentioned in the "Emergency!" episode "The Old Engine Cram".

</doc>
<doc id="199862" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199862" title="Cape Tribulation">
Cape Tribulation

Cape Tribulation () is both a headland and small town in northern Queensland, Australia north of Cairns. It is in the Daintree National Park and the Wet Tropics World Heritage area. The first people to live in the area were the Kuku Yalanji. The first European to settle in the area was John Moffat in 1880 who set up a farm to grow food for the miners in the west.
There is a sealed road to the area from the south from the Daintree River Ferry. To the north there is a four wheel drive unsealed road, called the Bloomfield Track. This goes to the Bloomfield River, Wujal Wujal, Bloomfield Falls and Cooktown. It is often closed during the wet season (Feb-Apr). 
Tribulation means trouble and great suffering. Cape Tribulation was named by British explorer Lt. James Cook on 10 June 1770 after his ship ran into a coral reef near the headland; "...because here began all our Troubles..."
Cape Tribulation is in a rainforest and it gets a lot of rain. In 2006, the rainfall recorded was over 5.7 metres.
Most people visit the area during the dry season between July and November. There are four main resorts to stay in as well as several smaller bed and breakfast places. The town has two small supermarkets, two ATMs, one takeaway food outlet and five restaurants. During the wet season marine stingers are common so people swim in the many waterholes. There are crocodiles in the creeks.
The Great Barrier Reef is very close to the coast, only due east. There are two boats that take visitors to the reef. Other activities available are guided night walks, 4 wheel drive tours, horseriding, kayaking, jungle surfing, tropical fruit tasting and crocodile cruises.

</doc>
<doc id="199869" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199869" title="Up (2009 movie)">
Up (2009 movie)

Up is an American animated movie that came out in 2009. The movie was made by Pixar and distributed by Disney. It was first shown at the 2009 Cannes Film Festival. It was a successful movie and was one of the top movies for 2009.
"Up" includes the main characters of boy named Russell and an old man Mr. Fredrickson, and Kevin the rare bird. They take an adventure in a house with balloons to carry it up in the sky. As they fly their desired destination is in Venezeula. 
The movie won 2 Academy Awards one for Best Animated Feature and one for Best Original Score in 2010.

</doc>
<doc id="199873" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199873" title="Sansevieria trifasciata">
Sansevieria trifasciata

Sansevieria trifasciata (also known as "Mother-in-law's tongue" or the "snake plant") is a plant that can grow in many places. It is a desert plant from dry Africa. It is a succulent that stores water in its very thick, tough leaves. That means that it does not need to be watered every day. It does not need sunlight to grow and can stay in the same pot for many years. This plant grows better with less water than more water.

</doc>
<doc id="199879" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199879" title="Schefflera actinophylla">
Schefflera actinophylla

Schefflera actinophylla (syn. "Brassaia actinophylla") is a tree in the Araliaceae family. It is native to tropical rainforests and gallery forests in Australia (eastern Queensland and the Northern Territory), New Guinea and Java. Common names include Umbrella Tree, Octopus Tree and Amate.
The elegant schefflera is popular with people who want a big, tree-size plant. In time it will easily reach seven or eight feet; in its home environment in Australia, it gets to be fifty feet tall.
Much of its appeal as a houseplant comes from the unusual leaves. A leaf is composed of a number of leaflets, all set in a circle around a central stem and stretching out horizontally, like the ribs of an umbrella. Eash leaflet is a pointy oval, size to eight inches long, and rich shiny green.
As it gets older, schefflera loses leaves from the lower part of the stem, increasing its tree shape.
The broad leaves tend to collect dust, and this in turn seems to be attractive to red spider mites. To help keep them under control, and to keep your plant looking its best, keep the leave dusted.
This will accommodate itself to our environment reasonable well. It will accept normal household temperatures, and adapts to different humidity levels. With enough sunlight and clean conditions the schefflera will last a long time.

</doc>
<doc id="199890" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199890" title="Joshua Reynolds">
Joshua Reynolds

Sir Joshua Reynolds RA FRS FRSA (16 July 1723 – 23 February 1792) was an English painter of portraits. He helped to start the Royal Academy of Arts and was its first president. King George III made him "Sir" Joshua Reynolds in 1769.
Some critics disliked Reynolds and the Royal Academy. The Pre-Raphaelites called him "Sir Sloshua" and William Blake published a savage pamphlet "Annotations to Sir Joshua Reynolds' Discourses" in 1808. On the other hand, Turner was a strong supporter, and asked to be buried at Reynolds' side.
Reynolds has over 1000 portraits in the National Portrait Gallery, London. Despite Blake's criticisms, Reynold's "Discourses" had a lasting impact on the theory and practice of art.

</doc>
<doc id="199896" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199896" title="Fumiya Iwamaru">
Fumiya Iwamaru

Fumiya Iwamaru (born 4 December 1981) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Yokohama.
56||0||4||0||5||0||65||0
56||0||4||0||5||0||65||0

</doc>
<doc id="199897" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199897" title="Yuzo Tamura">
Yuzo Tamura

Yuzo Tamura (born 7 December 1982) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Shonan Bellmare.
165||4||4||0||169||4
165||4||4||0||169||4

</doc>
<doc id="199898" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199898" title="Takuya Kobayashi">
Takuya Kobayashi

Takuya Kobayashi (born 19 July 1981) is a former Japanese football player.
0||0||0||0||0||0
0||0||0||0||0||0

</doc>
<doc id="199899" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199899" title="Rimini Calcio F.C.">
Rimini Calcio F.C.

Associazione Calcio Rimini 1912 is a football club which plays in Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="199900" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199900" title="U.S.D. 1913 Seregno Calcio">
U.S.D. 1913 Seregno Calcio

U.S.D. 1913 Seregno Calcio is a football club which plays in Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="199901" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199901" title="U.S. Sanremese Calcio">
U.S. Sanremese Calcio

Associazione Sportiva Dilettantistica Sanremese is a football team which plays of San Remo in Italy.
The club in season 2014-15 plays in Prima Categoria Liguria/A.

</doc>
<doc id="199903" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199903" title="Benevento Calcio">
Benevento Calcio

Benevento Calcio is a football club which plays in Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="199904" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199904" title="Potenza S.C.">
Potenza S.C.

Potenza S.C. was a football club which played in Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="199905" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199905" title="Cosenza Calcio 1914">
Cosenza Calcio 1914

Cosenza Calcio 1914 is a football club which plays in Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="199906" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199906" title="U.S. Fermana">
U.S. Fermana

U.S. Fermana is a football club which plays in Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="199910" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199910" title="Hajime Hosogai">
Hajime Hosogai

70||4||10||0||20||1||8||1||108||6
70||4||10||0||20||1||8||1||108||6
!Total||10||1

</doc>
<doc id="199911" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199911" title="Shunichi Nakajima">
Shunichi Nakajima

Shunichi Nakajima (born 16 June 1982) is a former Japanese football player.
15||0||0||0||0||0||15||0
15||0||0||0||0||0||15||0

</doc>
<doc id="199912" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199912" title="Hiroki Hattori">
Hiroki Hattori

Hiroki Hattori (born 30 August 1971) is a former Japanese football player.
236||34||10||5||31||4||277||43
236||34||10||5||31||4||277||43

</doc>
<doc id="199913" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199913" title="Vigevano Calcio">
Vigevano Calcio

Vigevano Calcio is a football club which plays in Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="199914" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199914" title="Atletico Piombino">
Atletico Piombino

Atletico Piombino is a football club which plays in Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="199915" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199915" title="U.S. Grosseto F.C.">
U.S. Grosseto F.C.

U.S. Grosseto F.C. is a football club which plays in Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="199919" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199919" title="Nobuhito Toriizuka">
Nobuhito Toriizuka

Nobuhito Toriizuka (born 7 August 1972) is a former Japanese football player.
312||22||16||0||8||1||336||23
312||22||16||0||8||1||336||23

</doc>
<doc id="199920" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199920" title="Sotaro Sada">
Sotaro Sada

Sotaro Sada (born 18 March 1984) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Thespa Kusatsu.
183||7||7||0||0||0||190||7
183||7||7||0||0||0||190||7

</doc>
<doc id="199921" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199921" title="Ryo Goto">
Ryo Goto

Ryo Goto (born 25 August 1986) is a Japanese football player.
133||22||5||2||138||24
133||22||5||2||138||24

</doc>
<doc id="199925" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199925" title="Masami Sato">
Masami Sato

Masami Sato (born 26 August 1981) is a former Japanese football player.
175||26||17||9||4||1||196||36
175||26||17||9||4||1||196||36

</doc>
<doc id="199926" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199926" title="Kazuki Sato">
Kazuki Sato

Kazuki Sato (born 27 June 1974) is a former Japanese football player.
101||7||7||1||19||3||127||11
101||7||7||1||19||3||127||11

</doc>
<doc id="199927" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199927" title="Norihisa Shimizu">
Norihisa Shimizu

Norihisa Shimizu (born 4 October 1976) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Yokohama F. Marinos.
193||17||22||5||67||8||6||1||288||31
193||17||22||5||67||8||6||1||288||31

</doc>
<doc id="199928" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199928" title="A.C. Arezzo">
A.C. Arezzo

A.C. Arezzo is a football club which plays in Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="199929" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199929" title="S.S. Sambenedettese Calcio">
S.S. Sambenedettese Calcio

S.S. Sambenedettese Calcio is a football club which plays in Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="199944" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199944" title="Pirituba">
Pirituba

Pirituba is a neighbourhood in the northwest of Sao Paulo. The name "Pirituba" means a place with many marsh plants. One of the attractions is the Pico do Jaragua, which is the highest mountain in the city. Other attractions are Casa de Nassau, a Dutch immigrant's club, and Toronto City Park.

</doc>
<doc id="199951" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199951" title="Mycorrhiza">
Mycorrhiza

A mycorrhiza (Greek for "fungus roots") is a symbiotic association between a fungus and the roots of a plant.
In a mycorrhiza, the fungus lives inside the plant roots, and in the earth. The fungal hyphae are more efficient than plant roots at absorbing nutrients.
Mycorrhizas are important for plant growth in many ecosystems. At least 80% of all land plant species (and over 90% of families) have mycorrhiza. They depend on it for survival. They are the most common symbionts in the plant kingdom: they involve about 6000 species of fungi and 240,000 species of plants.
Mycorrhizas are divided onto two main types: ectomycorrhiza and endomycorrhiza. 
The hyphae of ectomycorrhizal fungi do not penetrate individual cells within the root, while the hyphae of endomycorrhizal fungi penetrate the cell wall and invaginate the cell membrane. 
The mycorrhizal symbiosis is ancient, dating to at least 400 million years ago.
This mutualism gives the fungus sugars, such as glucose and sucrose produced by the plant in photosynthesis. 
The carbohydrates move from their source (usually leaves) to the root and then to the fungal partner. In return, the plant gains the use of the mycelium's very large surface area to absorb water and mineral nutrients from the soil, especially phosphorus.
The mechanisms of increased absorption are both physical and chemical. Mycorrhizal mycelia are much smaller in diameter than the smallest root. They can explore a greater volume of soil, providing a larger surface area for absorption: "It is estimated that every kilogram of soil contains at least 200 km of fungi strands".
Mycorrhizal plants are often more resistant to diseases, such as those caused by microbial soil-borne pathogens, and are also more resistant to the effects of drought. These effects are perhaps due to the improved water and mineral uptake in mycorrhizal plants. 
Mycorrhiza is especially advantageous to the plant in nutrient-poor soils. Plants grown in sterile soils and growth media often perform poorly without the addition of spores or hyphae of mycorrhizal fungi to colonise the plant roots and aid in the uptake of soil mineral nutrients. The absence of mycorrhizal fungi can also slow plant growth in harsh areas.
The fungal partners may also help plant-to-plant transfer of sugars and other nutrients. Such mycorrhizal communities are called "common mycorrhizal networks". 
Some species inhabit the tissues inside roots, stems, and leaves, in which case they are called "endophytes". 
Similar to mycorrhiza, endophytic colonization by fungi may benefit both partners. Endophytes of grasses give their host more resistance to grazers and get food and shelter from the plant in return.
Mycorrhizal roots offer excellent ecological niches for other microbes. Mycorrhizal fungi may host bacteria that complete their life cycles within fungal cells. One of the best known is "Geosiphon pyriforme", which can host cyanobacteria inside characteristic bladders.
Arbuscular mycorrhiza (AM) fungi are unique in hosting bacteria in their cytoplasm. Intracellular structures very similar to bacteria were first described in the 1970s. Research later identified them as true bacteria.

</doc>
<doc id="199960" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199960" title="Makoto Yonekura">
Makoto Yonekura

Makoto Yonekura (born 28 December 1970) is a former Japanese football player.
188||15||7||3||42||4||237||22
188||15||7||3||42||4||237||22

</doc>
<doc id="199961" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199961" title="Mitsunori Fujiguchi">
Mitsunori Fujiguchi

127||27
127||27
!Total||26||2

</doc>
<doc id="199962" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199962" title="Jun Kokubo">
Jun Kokubo

Jun Kokubo (born 8 September 1980) is a former Japanese football player.
143||2||16||2||1||0||160||4
143||2||16||2||1||0||160||4

</doc>
<doc id="199963" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199963" title="A.C. Ponte San Pietro Isola S.S.D.">
A.C. Ponte San Pietro Isola S.S.D.

A.C. Ponte San Pietro Isola S.S.D. is a football club which plays in Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="199967" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199967" title="Keishi Otani">
Keishi Otani

Keishi Otani (born 17 April 1983) is a former Japanese football player.
17||1||2||0||0||0||19||1
17||1||2||0||0||0||19||1

</doc>
<doc id="199968" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199968" title="Shusuke Tsubouchi">
Shusuke Tsubouchi

Shusuke Tsubouchi (born 5 May 1983) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Omiya Ardija.
150||1||4||0||23||0||177||1
150||1||4||0||23||0||177||1

</doc>
<doc id="199969" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199969" title="Daiju Matsumoto">
Daiju Matsumoto

Daiju Matsumoto (born 9 December 1977) is a former Japanese football player.
74||1||5||0||5||0||84||1
74||1||5||0||5||0||84||1

</doc>
<doc id="199978" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199978" title="Yuki Matsushita">
Yuki Matsushita

Yuki Matsushita (born 7 December 1981) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Thespa Kusatsu.
190||11||12||1||6||0||218||12
190||11||12||1||6||0||218||12

</doc>
<doc id="199980" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199980" title="Shintaro Harada">
Shintaro Harada

Shintaro Harada (born 8 November 1980) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Crystal Palace Baltimore.
107||4||7||0||3||0||117||4
59||1||6||0||colspan="2"|-||65||1
166||5||13||0||3||0||182||5

</doc>
<doc id="199981" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199981" title="Naoki Ishibashi">
Naoki Ishibashi

Naoki Ishibashi (born 14 May 1981) is a former Japanese football player.
111||35||7||4||0||0||118||39
111||35||7||4||0||0||118||39

</doc>
<doc id="199983" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199983" title="A.S. Fortis Trani">
A.S. Fortis Trani

A.S. Fortis Trani is a football club which plays in Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="199984" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199984" title="F.B. Brindisi 1912">
F.B. Brindisi 1912

F.B. Brindisi 1912 is a football club which plays in Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="200005" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200005" title="Karl Michael Ziehrer">
Karl Michael Ziehrer

Karl Michael Ziehrer (also spelled as Carl Michael Ziehrer) (May 2, 1843 - November 14, 1922) was an Austrian composer of light music such as waltzes and polkas.
Ziehrer was born in Vienna. He was taught music by Simon Sechter, a famous Viennese hat-maker.
Ziehrer studied music at the Vienna Conservatory, and began his career as a conductor in 1863. He was also a bandmaster. He was one of the musical rivals of Johann Strauss II, another composer of light music in Vienna.
Some of Ziehrer's most well-known pieces of music are the "Weaner Mad'ln" and "Wiener Bürger" waltzes, and the "Schönfeld March".
Ziehrer died in 1922.

</doc>
<doc id="200011" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200011" title="Metre per second squared">
Metre per second squared

A metre per second squared (or m/s or metre per second per second) is a unit of measurement for acceleration. 
If an object accelerates at 1 m/s, it means that its speed is increasing by 1 m/s every second.

</doc>
<doc id="200014" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200014" title="Cartazini Biennial Art Award">
Cartazini Biennial Art Award

The Prix Cartazini is a prize in contemporary art, sponsored by the Paris based Gallery Cartazini and made since 1999. It is made every two years, on the odd years.
In 2009 the award will be for 20 000 euros and as such is one of the largest art awards in the visual arts sector. 
Pino Pascali
Jean-Michel Basquiat
Philip Taaffe. 
Tyeb Mehta.
Geoff Bunn.
Niamh O'Conchobhair
Emma Fournier

</doc>
<doc id="200018" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200018" title="Stadelheim Prison">
Stadelheim Prison

Stadelheim Prison is a prison in Munich's Giesing district. It is one of the largest prisons in Germany.
The prison was founded in 1894. It was the site of many executions, particularly by fallbeil (guillotine) during the Nazi period.

</doc>
<doc id="200030" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200030" title="Deutsche Bank">
Deutsche Bank

Deutsche Bank AG (literally "German Bank") is a German and international bank. The headquarters of this bank is in Frankfurt am Main, Germany and located in the Deutsche Bank Twin Towers.
More than 81,000 people in 76 countries work for the Deutsche Bank.

</doc>
<doc id="200037" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200037" title="Germaine Greer">
Germaine Greer

Germaine Greer (born 29 January 1939) is an Australian writer, journalist and scholar of English literature. Many people think she is one of the most important feminists of the late 20th century. She has written books like "The Female Eunuch", "Sex and Destiny: The Politics of Human Fertility", "The Change: Women, Ageing and the Menopause" and "Shakespeare's Wife".
Greer was born in 1939 in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. She went to a convent school, and later went to the University of Melbourne. She got a degree in English and French language and literature. She moved to Sydney, and became a lecturer at the University of Sydney. She got a Master's degree there, and then moved to Cambridge, England. She gained a doctorate degree (PhD) at Newnham College, Cambridge.
Greer's approach is different to that of some other feminists; she has defined her goal as 'women's liberation' instead of 'equality with men'. This is because she does not think women should want to be like men who also have problems in society.

</doc>
<doc id="200042" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200042" title="Grisy-Suisnes">
Grisy-Suisnes

Grisy-Suisnes is a small village, about 33 km from Paris. It is situated in the Seine-et-Marne department (77) in the Île-de-France region, at an interconnection of the TGV. Its geographical coordinates are 48°41′7″N 2°40′4″E. It covers an area of 1,848 ha.
In 1999, the village had a population of 1,989. People who live there are called Grisysoliens.
In the past, the village supplied the French royalty with roses. The church of Grisy-Suisnes is named Notre Dame des Roses. The church, if seen from above, was designed to look like a rose with its petals.

</doc>
<doc id="200044" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200044" title="William Whewell">
William Whewell

William Whewell (24 May 1794 – 6 March 1866) was an English polymath, Anglican priest, philosopher, theologian, and historian of science. He influenced the great scientists of his day: John Herschel, Charles Darwin, Charles Lyell and Michael Faraday. He invented many terms we use today, such as "scientist" (in 1837).
The son of a carpenter, Whewell rose to the top. For 28 years he was a Professor, and for 25 years he was Master of Trinity College, Cambridge. He was one of the founding members and a president of the British Association for the Advancement of Science, a Fellow of the Royal Society, and President of the Geological Society. It was the Prime Minister himself, Robert Peel, who recommended his appointment as Master of Trinity.
Whewell had wide interests. He researched ocean tides (for which he won the Royal Medal). He published work in mechanics, physics, geology, astronomy, and economics. He composed poetry, wrote books, translated the works of Goethe, and wrote sermons and theological tracts.
It can be said that Whewell was the first, or one of the first, to put together a philosophy of science. His only rival in this respect was John Herschel, whose "A preliminary discourse on the study of natural philosophy" covered some of the same ground.
Whewell's five volumes of the "History and Philosophy of the Inductive Sciences" are his major work. Science was then still a novel activity. The scientists themselves held differing views as to how best to go about their work. Whewell provided a theoretical framework, and the framework provoked a great deal of debate. There was also a long-running discussion with John Stuart Mill about social and economic philosophy.

</doc>
<doc id="200048" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200048" title="Mandello del Lario">
Mandello del Lario

Mandello del Lario is an Italian town and "comune" in the province of Lecco, in Lombardy. It is on the Como Lake. 
Since 1921, Mandello del Lario has been home to the Italian motorcycle maker Moto Guzzi. Guzzi is owned by Piaggio & Co. SpA. Each year since 2001, the commune has hosted GMG (aka Giornata Mondiale Guzzi or Worldwide Guzzi Days).
The Grigna massif is in Mandello's territory.

</doc>
<doc id="200051" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200051" title="Trampoline">
Trampoline

A trampoline is a recreational or competitive device designed for users to bounce on. It normally consists of a metal frame (rectangular or circular in shape) supporting a flat jumping surface connected to the frame by springs. The jumping surface may be of a strong synthetic fabric material or, mostly, of a mesh design. Trampolines allow users to bounce higher by storing energy in the springs as they land on the surface which then accelerates the user back away from the jumping surface as the springs contract.
The first modern trampoline was invented by George Nissen in 1920-1922 as a kind of equipment for gymnastics.
During World War II, the United States Navy Flight School developed the use of the trampoline in its training of pilots and navigators, giving them concentrated practice in spatial orientation that had not been possible before. After the war, the development of the space flight program again brought the trampoline into use to help train both American and Soviet astronauts, giving them experience of variable body positions in flight.

</doc>
<doc id="200077" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200077" title="Issei Takayanagi">
Issei Takayanagi

Issei Takayanagi (born 14 September 1986) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Sanfrecce Hiroshima.
93||3||12||4||20||2||125||9
93||3||12||4||20||2||125||9

</doc>
<doc id="200078" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200078" title="Akihiro Sato">
Akihiro Sato

Akihiro Sato (born 30 August 1986) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Kashima Antlers.
66||0||8||0||2||0||76||0
66||0||8||0||2||0||76||0

</doc>
<doc id="200079" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200079" title="Shinichiro Kuwada">
Shinichiro Kuwada

Shinichiro Kuwada (born 6 December 1986) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Sanfrecce Hiroshima.
43||1||5||0||12||2||60||3
43||1||5||0||12||2||60||3

</doc>
<doc id="200085" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200085" title="Super League Greece">
Super League Greece

Super League Greece (Greek: Ελληνική Σούπερ Λιγκ) is the top division football league in Greece. The current version was formed on 16 July 2006 and replaced the "Alpha Ethniki". The first championship was won by Aris Thessaloniki. The club which has won the most championships is Olympiacos with 43 titles, next is Panathinaikos with 20 titles and third is AEK Athens with 11 titles. The league currently has 16 teams.

</doc>
<doc id="200087" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200087" title="Ryota Moriwaki">
Ryota Moriwaki

129||11||8||1||6||0||143||12
129||11||8||1||6||0||143||12
!Total||1||0

</doc>
<doc id="200088" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200088" title="Naoto Kono">
Naoto Kono

Naoto Kono (born 9 September 1985) is a former Japanese football player.
0||0||0||0||0||0||0||0
0||0||0||0||0||0||0||0

</doc>
<doc id="200089" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200089" title="Osvaldo José Martins Júnior">
Osvaldo José Martins Júnior

Osvaldo José Martins Júnior (born 7 July 1982) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Khazar Lankaran.
23||1||1||0||0||0||24||1
23||1||1||0||0||0||24||1

</doc>
<doc id="200090" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200090" title="A.S.G. Nocerina">
A.S.G. Nocerina

A.S.G. Nocerina is a football club which plays in Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="200091" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200091" title="Avellino Calcio 12 S.S.D.">
Avellino Calcio 12 S.S.D.

Unione Sportiva Avellino 1912 is a football club which plays in Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="200092" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200092" title="F.C. Crotone">
F.C. Crotone

F.C. Crotone is a football club which plays in Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="200097" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200097" title="Kazuma Irifune">
Kazuma Irifune

Kazuma Irifune (born 15 November 1986) is a former Japanese football player.
1||0||1||0||0||0||2||0
1||0||1||0||0||0||2||0

</doc>
<doc id="200099" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200099" title="Mana Nakao">
Mana Nakao

Mana Nakao (born 2 September 1983) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Laranja Kyoto.
28||6||4||0||0||0||32||6
28||6||4||0||0||0||32||6

</doc>
<doc id="200100" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200100" title="Yuya Hashiuchi">
Yuya Hashiuchi

Yuya Hashiuchi (born 13 July 1987) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Tokushima Vortis.
14||4||0||0||3||1||17||5
14||4||0||0||3||1||17||5

</doc>
<doc id="200101" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200101" title="A.S.D.C. Magenta">
A.S.D.C. Magenta

A.S.D.C. Magenta is a football club which plays in Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="200102" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200102" title="F.C. Bolzano 1996">
F.C. Bolzano 1996

F.C. Bolzano 1996 is a football club which plays in Italy.
Bolzano football club was founded in 1931.

</doc>
<doc id="200103" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200103" title="U.S. Centese A.S.D. 1986">
U.S. Centese A.S.D. 1986

U.S. Centese A.S.D. 1986 is a football club which plays in Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="200104" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200104" title="U.S. Massese 1919">
U.S. Massese 1919

U.S. Massese 1919 is a football club which plays in Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="200109" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200109" title="Kosuke Yatsuda">
Kosuke Yatsuda

Kosuke Yatsuda (born 17 March 1982) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Tokushima Vortis.
127||5||6||0||10||0||143||5
127||5||6||0||10||0||143||5

</doc>
<doc id="200110" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200110" title="Mitsuyuki Yoshihiro">
Mitsuyuki Yoshihiro

Mitsuyuki Yoshihiro (born 4 May 1985) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Consadole Sapporo.
76||0||3||0||12||0||91||0
76||0||3||0||12||0||91||0

</doc>
<doc id="200111" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200111" title="Yojiro Takahagi">
Yojiro Takahagi

Yojiro Takahagi (born 2 August 1986) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Sanfrecce Hiroshima.
123||23||12||1||8||0||143||24
123||23||12||1||8||0||143||24

</doc>
<doc id="200131" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200131" title="Yoshitaka Ohashi">
Yoshitaka Ohashi

Yoshitaka Ohashi (born 1 July 1983) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Nagano Parceiro.
29||8||0||0||29||8
29||8||0||0||29||8

</doc>
<doc id="200132" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200132" title="Shimpei Sayama">
Shimpei Sayama

Shimpei Sayama (born 4 May 1987) is a Japanese football player. He has played for Sagawa Express Chugoku.
0||0||0||0||0||0
0||0||0||0||0||0

</doc>
<doc id="200133" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200133" title="U.S. Sestri Levante">
U.S. Sestri Levante

U.S. Sestri Levante is a football club which plays in Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="200134" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200134" title="A.S. Biellese 1902">
A.S. Biellese 1902

A.S.D. Junior Biellese Libertas is a football club which plays to Biella in Italy.
The club in season 2010-11, in Promozione is promoted in Eccellenza Piemonte.
The colors of the team are black and white.

</doc>
<doc id="200135" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200135" title="A.C. Parabiago">
A.C. Parabiago

A.C. Parabiago is a football club for Parabiago, Italy.
They wear maroon and white colored jerseys.

</doc>
<doc id="200136" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200136" title="A.C. Palazzolo 1913">
A.C. Palazzolo 1913

A.C. Palazzolo 1913 is a football club which plays in Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="200137" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200137" title="Rovigo Calcio">
Rovigo Calcio

Rovigo Calcio is a football club which plays in Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="200138" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200138" title="A.S. Edera">
A.S. Edera

A.S. Edera is a football club which plays in Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="200139" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200139" title="A.S.D. Stuoie Baracca Lugo">
A.S.D. Stuoie Baracca Lugo

A.S.D. Stuoie Baracca Lugo is a football club which plays in Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="200140" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200140" title="S.S.D. Tivoli Calcio 1919">
S.S.D. Tivoli Calcio 1919

S.S.D. Tivoli Calcio 1919 is a football club which plays in Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="200144" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200144" title="Shinji Kaneko">
Shinji Kaneko

Shinji Kaneko (born 3 April 1987) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Ryukyu.
29||1||1||0||30||1
29||1||1||0||30||1

</doc>
<doc id="200145" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200145" title="Kei Mikuriya">
Kei Mikuriya

Kei Mikuriya (born 29 August 1977) is a former Japanese football player.
68||1||5||0||12||0||85||1
68||1||5||0||12||0||85||1

</doc>
<doc id="200146" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200146" title="Ken Ishikawa">
Ken Ishikawa

Ken Ishikawa (born 6 February 1970) is a former Japanese football player.
106||0||14||0||14||0||134||0
106||0||14||0||14||0||134||0

</doc>
<doc id="200152" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200152" title="Shinichiro Tani">
Shinichiro Tani

59||11||1||0||8||2||68||13
59||11||1||0||8||2||68||13
!Total||1||0

</doc>
<doc id="200153" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200153" title="Mutsuhiko Nomura">
Mutsuhiko Nomura

Mutsuhiko Nomura (born 10 February 1940) is a former Japanese football player.

</doc>
<doc id="200155" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200155" title="Peter Mandelson">
Peter Mandelson

Lord Mandelson, Peter Benjamin Mandelson, (born 21 October 1953) is a British politician for the Labour Party. He helped to found the so-called 'New Labour' with Tony Blair and Gordon Brown. He was the Member of Parliament for Hartlepool from 1992-2004.
He lost his job twice, once in 1998 for not declaring a loan he was given to buy a house, and once in 2001 for trying to arrange a passport for an Indian businessman who had given £1,000,000 to the Labour Party. He later made a speech claiming to have "inner steel".
After Gordon Brown became Prime Minister, he made Mandelson a Life Peer, and some newspapers have called him "the most powerful man in the Labour Party".
Mandelson is gay (he was outed in 1998 by openly gay journalist Matthew Parris), which led some to claim the UK was being run by a gay mafia.

</doc>
<doc id="200158" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200158" title="Kazuya Iio">
Kazuya Iio

Kazuya Iio (born 10 April 1980) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Sagan Tosu.
242||11||13||1||5||0||260||12
242||11||13||1||5||0||260||12

</doc>
<doc id="200159" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200159" title="Nobuhiro Kato">
Nobuhiro Kato

Nobuhiro Kato (born 11 December 1984) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Urawa Red Diamonds.
0||0||0||0||2||0||2||0
0||0||0||0||2||0||2||0

</doc>
<doc id="200160" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200160" title="A.S.D. Casertana Calcio">
A.S.D. Casertana Calcio

A.S.D. Casertana Calcio is a football club which plays in Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="200166" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200166" title="Tetsushi Kondo">
Tetsushi Kondo

Tetsushi Kondo (born 4 November 1986) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Fagiano Okayama.
40||3||4||0||1||0||45||3
40||3||4||0||1||0||45||3

</doc>
<doc id="200167" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200167" title="Yuzo Minami">
Yuzo Minami

Yuzo Minami (born 17 November 1983) is a Japanese football player. He plays for V-Varen Nagasaki.
44||3||3||0||1||0||48||3
44||3||3||0||1||0||48||3

</doc>
<doc id="200168" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200168" title="Takafumi Akahoshi">
Takafumi Akahoshi

51||8||6||1||8||0||65||9
51||8||6||1||8||0||65||9

</doc>
<doc id="200170" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200170" title="Huelgoat">
Huelgoat

Huelgoat is a small town in Brittany, France. It is also the name of the forest that surrounds the town. The forest is a large forest with many birch trees and owls. There are also some remarkable large boulders, waterfalls and caves. It is believed that King Arthur hid his treasure in the forest. There is also a place called Grotte de Diablo, or "Cave of the Devil". You can go down a metal ladder and there is an underground stream and crashing waterfall.

</doc>
<doc id="200177" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200177" title="Tarnish">
Tarnish

Tarnish is a layer of corrosion similar to rust. It is caused by oxidisation - when semi - reactive metals such as copper, brass, silver, aluminum meet chemicals in the air. It will cause the metal to darken or go dull by making a thin film on the metal. It is caused by a chemical reaction, between a metal and a non metal (or compound), usually oxygen or sulphur dioxide.

</doc>
<doc id="200179" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200179" title="St. Bernard (dog)">
St. Bernard (dog)

The St. Bernard is a very large breed of dog. It was originally bred as a working dog, to rescue people who were lost in the Swiss Alps. Famously, it was believed that they carried a small barrel of brandy around their neck to revive frozen mountaineers. There is no historical evidence that they did actually carry this brandy, although the monks at the St. Bernard Hospice keep some barrels around for photographs with tourists.
It is a very big dog with a big head. A full grown male can weigh between 260 and 345 lb. The largest dog ever was a St. Bernard called Benedictine who weighed 357 pounds.

</doc>
<doc id="200218" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200218" title="Kyle MacLachlan">
Kyle MacLachlan

Kyle Merritt MacLachlan (born February 22 1959) is an American actor. He is known for the role of Agent Dale Cooper in the television series "Twin Peaks". He has appeared in movies by David Lynch, including "Blue Velvet" and "Dune". MacLachlan won the 1991 Golden Globe Award for "Best Performance by an Actor in a TV-Series - Drama" for his work on "Twin Peaks". He was also nominated twice for the Emmy Award for his acting on that series.
MacLachlan was also in the 1995 movie "Showgirls" and the television series "Desperate Housewives".

</doc>
<doc id="200221" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200221" title="Battery Park City">
Battery Park City

Battery Park City is a 92-acre (0.4 km²) planned community at the southwestern tip of Lower Manhattan in New York City, United States. The land upon which it stands was created on the Hudson River using 1.2 million cubic yards (917,000 m3) of dirt and rocks excavated during the construction of the World Trade Center and certain other construction projects, as well as from sand dredged from New York Harbor off Staten Island. The neighborhood, which is the site of the World Financial Center along with many housing, commercial, and retail buildings, is named for adjacent Battery Park.
Battery Park City is owned and managed by the Battery Park City Authority (BPCA), a public-benefit corporation created by New York State under the authority of the Urban Development Corporation. Excess revenue from the area was to be contributed to other housing efforts, typically low-income projects in the Bronx and Harlem.

</doc>
<doc id="200228" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200228" title="Carol Thatcher">
Carol Thatcher

Carol Thatcher (born 15 August 1953) is a British journalist, author, and media personality. She was born in Hammersmith, west London. She has a twin brother, Mark Thatcher. She is the daughter of former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher (1925-2013) and her husband Sir Denis Thatcher (1915-2003). She has taken part in several television programmes including "The One Show" on BBC1 and "I'm a Celebrity...Get Me Out of Here!" (in Australia).

</doc>
<doc id="200229" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200229" title="Halifax Town A.F.C.">
Halifax Town A.F.C.

Halifax Town Association Football Club were an English football team who most recently played in the Conference National. The club had money problems and went into administration during the 2007–08 season, and after finishing 20th in the Conference National, were demoted by three divisions to the Unibond Division One North when the club failed to get a Company Voluntary Arrangement (CVA) passed. The club was reformed and renamed F.C. Halifax Town in July 2008.

</doc>
<doc id="200230" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200230" title="Jefferson Davis">
Jefferson Davis

Jefferson Fine Davis (June 3, 1808 – December 6, 1889) was an American statesman. He led the Confederacy during the American Civil War. He was President of the Confederate States of America for its entire history, from 1861 to 1865. 
Davis was born on June 3, 1808 in Christian County, Kentucky, the last child of ten of Jane (née Cook) and Samuel Emory Davis. Both of Davis' paternal grandparents had immigrated to North America from the region of Snowdonia in the North of Wales; the rest of his ancestry can be traced to England. Davis' paternal grandfather, Evan, married Lydia Emory Williams. Samuel Emory Davis was born to them in 1756. Lydia had two sons from a previous marriage. Samuel served in the Continental Army during the American Revolutionary War, along with his two older half-brothers. In 1783, after the war, he married Jane Cook (also born in Christian County, in 1759 to William Cook and his wife Sarah Simpson). Samuel died on July 4, 1824, when Jefferson was 16 years old. Jane died on October 3, 1845.
In 1811 he moved to St. Mary Parish, Louisiana, and later to Wilkinson County, Mississippi. In 1813 Davis began his education at the Wilkinson Academy, near the family cotton plantation in the small town of Woodville. Two years later, Davis entered the Catholic school of Saint Thomas at St. Rose Priory. At the time, he was the only Protestant student at the school. Davis went on to Jefferson College at Washington, Mississippi, in 1818, and then to Transylvania University at Lexington, Kentucky, in 1821.
On February 9, 1861, after Davis resigned from the United States Senate, he was selected to be the provisional President of the Confederate States of America; he was elected without opposition to a six-year term that November. During his presidency, Davis took charge of the Confederate war plans but was unable to find a strategy to stop the larger, more powerful and better organized Union. His diplomatic efforts failed to gain recognition from any foreign country, and he paid little attention to the collapsing Confederate economy, printing more and more paper money to cover the war's expenses.
Historians have criticized Davis for being a much less effective war leader than his Union counterpart Abraham Lincoln, which they attribute to Davis being overbearing, controlling, and overly meddlesome, as well as being out of touch with public opinion, and lacking support from a political party (since the Confederacy had no political parties). His preoccupation with detail, reluctance to delegate responsibility, lack of popular appeal, feuds with powerful state governors, inability to get along with people who disagreed with him, and neglect of civil matters in favor of military ones all worked against him.
After Davis was captured on May 10, 1865, he was charged with treason. Although he was not tried, he was stripped of his eligibility to run for public office; Congress later lifted this restriction in 1978, 89 years after his death. Many Southerners felt bad with his arrest, refusal to accept defeat, and resistance to Reconstruction. Over time, admiration for his pride and ideals made him a Civil War hero to many Southerners, and his legacy became part of the foundation of the postwar New South. By the late 1880s, Davis began to encourage reconciliation, telling Southerners to be loyal to the Union. He was helped in the last decade of his life by the generosity of Sarah Anne Ellis Dorsey, a rich widow. First she invited him to her plantation in 1877 near Biloxi, Mississippi, at a time when he was sick, and gave him a cottage to use for working on his memoir. She gave Davis her plantation before her death in 1878, and she also gave him a fund for his support. This made him to live in some comfort with his wife until his death on December 6, 1889 in New Orleans, Louisiana from bronchitis. He was 81 years old.

</doc>
<doc id="200234" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200234" title="Meet the Robinsons">
Meet the Robinsons

Meet the Robinsons is a 2007 American animated movie produced by Walt Disney Animation Studios and distributed by Walt Disney Pictures. It is the 47th movie in the Walt Disney Animated Classics series. The movie tells the story of a small boy named Lewis, who is very smart and invents things but he does not have any family, even though he wants one. Then one day, Lewis' world was changed when a boy called Wilbur, who has a time-machine, takes Lewis on a trip to the future to meet Wilbur's family - the Robinsons.
The story of this movie is based on a children's book called "A Day with Wilbur Robinson", written by William Joyce.

</doc>
<doc id="200242" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200242" title="Vanilla Ninja (album)">
Vanilla Ninja (album)

Vanilla Ninja is the first album by the Estonian girl band Vanilla Ninja.

</doc>
<doc id="200243" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200243" title="List of U.S. Open Men's Singles champions">
List of U.S. Open Men's Singles champions

The US Open is one of four Grand Slam tennis tournaments. The tournament was first played in 1881 and has been played every year since.

</doc>
<doc id="200244" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200244" title="Traces of Sadness">
Traces of Sadness

Traces of Sadness is the second album by the Estonian girl band Vanilla Ninja. Released in June 2004, the album included the hit singles "Tough Enough", "Liar" and "When the Indians Cry".
The album also contained two extras:

</doc>
<doc id="200245" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200245" title="Blue Tattoo (album)">
Blue Tattoo (album)

Blue Tattoo is the third album by the Estonian girl band Vanilla Ninja, and the last original Vanilla Ninja album released by Bros Records.
The album also contained two extras:

</doc>
<doc id="200246" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200246" title="Douglas C-47 Skytrain">
Douglas C-47 Skytrain

The C-47 Skytrain was an American cargo aircraft that could carry up to 3.5 tons. It was the military version of the DC-3. The C-47 was most notably used during World War II by the Allied to move troops, supplies and the wounded.
During the Berlin Airlift in the Cold War C-47 planes carried food and other supplies to West Berlin, as all other methods of transport were blocked.

</doc>
<doc id="200248" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200248" title="Best Of (Vanilla Ninja album)">
Best Of (Vanilla Ninja album)

Best Of is a best-of album by the Estonian girl band Vanilla Ninja. The album was released in December 2005, and consisted of thirteen songs from their "Traces of Sadness" and "Blue Tattoo" albums.

</doc>
<doc id="200249" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200249" title="Love Is War">
Love Is War

Love is War is Vanilla Ninja's fourth studio album, released by EMI Music Germany in May 2006. This is the first album by girls as a three-piece band.

</doc>
<doc id="200253" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200253" title="Piret Järvis">
Piret Järvis

Piret Järvis (born February 6, 1984 in Tallinn, Estonia) is an Estonian musician, and member of the popular girl group Vanilla Ninja.

</doc>
<doc id="200256" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200256" title="Lenna Kuurmaa">
Lenna Kuurmaa

Lenna Kuurmaa (born September 26, 1985 in Tallinn, Estonia) is an Estonian singer-songwriter and actress.

</doc>
<doc id="200257" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200257" title="Sven Lõhmus">
Sven Lõhmus

Sven Lõhmus (born July 13, 1972) is an Estonian music producer. He has worked with a number of successful Baltic pop acts, including pop-rock groups Vanilla Ninja, Suntribe and Urban Symphony.
Three times, in 2003, 2004, and 2010, he won the award for "best author" to the "Eesti Popmuusika Aastaauhinnad".

</doc>
<doc id="200267" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200267" title="Hurricane Frederic">
Hurricane Frederic

Hurricane Frederic the sixth named storm, the third hurricane, and the second major hurricane of the 1979 Atlantic hurricane season. At the time Hurricane Frederic was the costliest hurricane to hit the U.S. This record was beaten in 1989, when Hurricane Hugo caused about $14 billion in damage. Many storms have beaten the record since, Frederic has fallen to about the seventeenth costliest U.S. hurricane. Frederic caused 14 deaths and $2.3 billion in damage.
 In the Spring of 1980 the name "Frederic" was retired because of the damage. Frederic was only the second male hurricane name to get its name retired. In 1985 Fabian was used instead.

</doc>
<doc id="200269" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200269" title="Grains of Selim">
Grains of Selim

Grains of Selim is a spice. It is made from the seeds of the shrub "Xylopia aethiopica", found in Africa. Other names include 
kimba pepper, African pepper, Moor pepper, Negro pepper, Kani pepper, Kili pepper, Sénégal pepper, Ethiopian pepper and Guinea pepper. The seeds have a musky flavor. Very often they are used as a replacement for black pepper. The spice is sometimes confused with grains of paradise.

</doc>
<doc id="200271" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200271" title="Croatian Wikipedia">
Croatian Wikipedia

The Croatian Wikipedia is the Croatian language edition of Wikipedia. This edition was started in February 2003. 
As of October 2015, it is the 41st largest edition of Wikipedia by number of articles.
, it has over 137,000 articles.

</doc>
<doc id="200272" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200272" title="Estonian Wikipedia">
Estonian Wikipedia

The Estonian Wikipedia is the Estonian language edition of Wikipedia. This edition was started in July 2002. 
As of October 2015, it is the 43rd largest edition of Wikipedia by number of articles.
, it had over 110,000 articles.

</doc>
<doc id="200274" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200274" title="Indonesian Wikipedia">
Indonesian Wikipedia

The Indonesian Wikipedia is the Indonesian language edition of Wikipedia. This edition was started in May 2003, and has over 169,000 articles.
It is the 23rd largest edition.

</doc>
<doc id="200293" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200293" title="Ivan Rodríguez">
Ivan Rodríguez

Iván Rodríguez Torres (born November 30, 1971), nicknamed "Pudge," is a retired Puerto Rican baseball player. He played as a catcher in Major League Baseball. Rodriguez played for the Texas Rangers, Florida Marlins, Detroit Tigers, New York Yankees, Houston Astros and Washington Nationals. He is well known for his strong arm and his ability to throw out runners.

</doc>
<doc id="200295" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200295" title="Freeport, Maine">
Freeport, Maine

Freeport is a town in northern Maine. It has the largest L.L. Bean outlet store.

</doc>
<doc id="200296" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200296" title="Bazooka">
Bazooka

A Bazooka is a very powerful weapon that shoots a rocket. It is a small and easily carried and sits on the shoulder to fire. It can also fire armour piercing missiles. The word "Bazooka " comes from a musical instrument made of pipes invented by an American radio comedian, Bob Burns (1896—1956).
The bazooka was invented by rocket scientist, Robert H. Goddard, at the end of World War I. In World War II the weapon was quickly developed for use by the army. In June 1942 it went from being a basic drawing design to use on the battlefield in only 30 days. Improved versions in later years are called rocket-propelled grenades.

</doc>
<doc id="200339" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200339" title="Teruki Miyamoto">
Teruki Miyamoto

!Total||58||19

</doc>
<doc id="200341" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200341" title="Ibrahim Ba">
Ibrahim Ba

Ibrahim Ba (born 12 November 1973) is a former French football player. He has played for France national team.
171||14
72||2
9||0
2||0
14||1
168||17
!Total||8||2

</doc>
<doc id="200345" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200345" title="Hokuto Nakamura">
Hokuto Nakamura

Hokuto Nakamura (born 10 July 1985) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Tokyo.
115||13||4||1||4||0||123||14
115||13||4||1||4||0||123||14

</doc>
<doc id="200346" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200346" title="Masashi Watanabe">
Masashi Watanabe

!Total||39||12

</doc>
<doc id="200347" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200347" title="Shin Tanada">
Shin Tanada

Shin Tanada (born 25 July 1969) is a former Japanese football player.
160||29||10||1||13||1||183||31
160||29||10||1||13||1||183||31

</doc>
<doc id="200351" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200351" title="Kensaku Abe">
Kensaku Abe

Kensaku Abe (born 13 May 1980) is a former Japanese football player.
155||0||12||0||12||0||179||0
155||0||12||0||12||0||179||0

</doc>
<doc id="200352" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200352" title="Alair de Souza Camargo Junior">
Alair de Souza Camargo Junior

Alair de Souza Camargo Junior (born 27 January 1982) is a Brazilian professional athlete. He is best known as an Association football player.
147||5||8||0||3||0||158||5
147||5||8||0||3||0||158||5

</doc>
<doc id="200353" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200353" title="Kazuki Kuranuki">
Kazuki Kuranuki

Kazuki Kuranuki (born 10 November 1978) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Tokushima Vortis.
351||23||18||2||6||0||375||25
351||23||18||2||6||0||375||25

</doc>
<doc id="200357" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200357" title="Katsuya Ishihara">
Katsuya Ishihara

Katsuya Ishihara (born 2 October 1978) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Ventforet Kofu.
343||25||18||2||14||2||375||29
343||25||18||2||14||2||375||29

</doc>
<doc id="200358" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200358" title="Michitaka Akimoto">
Michitaka Akimoto

119||13||9||0||11||1||139||14
119||13||9||0||11||1||139||14

</doc>
<doc id="200359" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200359" title="Takuma Tsuda">
Takuma Tsuda

Takuma Tsuda (born 4 October 1980) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Ventforet Kofu.
93||5||7||0||4||0||104||5
93||5||7||0||4||0||104||5

</doc>
<doc id="200364" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200364" title="Uzbek League">
Uzbek League

Uzbek League is a football league which is top division in Uzbekistan.

</doc>
<doc id="200369" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200369" title="Maarja Kivi">
Maarja Kivi

Maarja Kivi (born January 18, 1986 in Tallinn, Estonia) is an Estonian singer and former member of the girl group Vanilla Ninja. Born to Riina and Madis Kivi. She has a brother, Vahur and two sisters, Helen and Kristi.
She has a daughter, Dora-Liisa (born 2004), and a son, Angus Martin (born 2012) with husband and former Vanilla Ninja manager Renee Meriste.
She adopted the artist name Marya Roxx in 2007.

</doc>
<doc id="200370" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200370" title="Katrin Siska">
Katrin Siska

Katrin Siska (born December 10, 1983 in Tallinn, Estonia) is an Estonian singer and member of the Estonian girlpower pop-rock-group Vanilla Ninja. Siska was born to a Russian mother Leena and an Estonian father Toomas. She has a younger sister Triin-Ketlin. She was a member of a choir while in school and started playing the piano when she was 7 years old.

</doc>
<doc id="200371" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200371" title="David Brandes">
David Brandes

David Brandes (born December 9, 1968 in Basle as David Brändle) is a Swiss-born German songwriter and producer Brandes has written and produced for many artists, including E-Rotic, Bad Boys Blue, Chris Norman, Indiggo and Vanilla Ninja. He also had two hits in Europe personally during 1994, with "Heartbreak Angel" and "Heartless Dancer".

</doc>
<doc id="200380" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200380" title="Evangelical Christian Church in Canada">
Evangelical Christian Church in Canada

The Evangelical Christian Church in Canada, also called Christian Disciples is an non-denominational Canadian church body. It is made of clergy, churches and ministries. Barton Warren Stone and Alexander Campbell started it in the State of Kentucky, United States, in 1804. The church is important for what is called the Stone-Campbell Restoration Movement or the American Restoration Movement, which wanted to re-unite the different Christian Churches. 
It welcomes the public and all people from other churches to their Sunday worship service. Church membership is open to men, women and children who accept their doctrinal statement of beliefs. It has members in the following countries: in Canada, United States, Trinidad. St Lucia, Mexico, England, Africa, Russia, France, Israel, Ivory Coast, India, Hong Kong, Colombia, Ghana, China, Cameroon, Benin, Uganda, Togo, Sweden, Tanzania, Pakistan, Zambia, Kenya, Puerto Rico, Norway, Haiti, New Zealand, Finland, Denmark, Ethiopia, Liberia, Nigeria, Jamaica, and Myanmar. 

</doc>
<doc id="200381" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200381" title="Key Largo, Florida">
Key Largo, Florida

Key Largo is a census-designated place in the Florida Keys. It is on Key Largo. In 2000, about 11,886 people lived here. The name comes from the Spanish Cayo Largo, or "long cay".

</doc>
<doc id="200382" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200382" title="Tommy Dreamer">
Tommy Dreamer

Thomas James "Tom" Laughlin (born February 13, 1971) is an American professional wrestler, promoter and actor. He is better known by his ring name, Tommy Dreamer. He is best known for his time in Extreme Championship Wrestling (ECW) and World wrestling Entertainment (WWE). He has also worked for Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA). He is both the founder and owner of the wrestling promotion House of Hardcore.
Dreamer is a one-time ECW Champion and fourteen-time Hardcore Champion. He has been called the "heart and soul" of Extreme Championship Wrestling (ECW) and the "Innovator of Violence".

</doc>
<doc id="200385" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200385" title="Tommy Vercetti">
Tommy Vercetti

Tommy Vercetti is the main playable character of "Grand Theft Auto: Vice City".
Prior to events in "Vice City", Tommy had previously worked as a member of the Forelli family of the Liberty City Mafia. In 1971, he was sent by Sonny Forelli to kill a man in the Harwood District, but as he arrived 11 men ambushed him. Tommy was forced to kill them all, resulting in a 15-year prison sentence for multiple counts of murder. He also earned the title "Harwood Butcher".
Fresh out of prison in 1986, Tommy is keen to start work again for the Forelli family, and is immediately dispatched by Don Sonny Forelli to Vice City to participate in a crucial introductory drug deal. When an ambush of the deal by a group of masked attackers results in Tommy losing both the money and the drugs, he sets out to find and kill the party responsible. In doing so, he takes complete control of the city, becoming one of Vice City's richest and most powerful men and becoming the leader of the extremely powerful Vercetti Gang. Sonny Forelli, however, continually demands his cut of the substantial profits, leading him to confront Tommy in person. After it emerges that Tommy's original 1971 capture was orchestrated by Sonny himself, Tommy kills Sonny and countless Forelli family members in his mansion, and emerges triumphant as the leader of an organization in total domination of Vice City. He used his power to kill a couple of the people he worked for, such as Ricardo Diaz. Tommy also had a business relationship with other gangs such as the Cubans, the Haitians, and big Mitch Baker's Bikers.
Tommy Vercetti was voiced by Ray Liotta.

</doc>
<doc id="200395" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200395" title="Planoise">
Planoise

Planoise is a town in France in Bourgogne-Franche-Comté region. It is the third biggest city of the Doubs department. In 1999, about 20,700 people lived there.

</doc>
<doc id="200404" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200404" title="Incubus (band)">
Incubus (band)

Incubus is an American alternative rock band. They are from California. The band started in 1991. They have had many different sounds since their first full-length album "Fungus Amongus" to the current studio album "Light Grenades". Band members who have been in Incubus since the band started include Brandon Boyd, Mike Einziger, and Jose Pasillas. They have become very successful. Since their album "Make Yourself", most of their albums have been selling gold or platinum. "Make Yourself" included their hit single "Drive."

</doc>
<doc id="200417" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200417" title="Lomonosov, Russia">
Lomonosov, Russia

Lomonosov is a town in Russia near St Petersburg. It used to be called Oranienbaum. This was a German name which means "Orange tree". It used to have greenhouses where plants from faraway countries were grown. Oranienbaum was famous for making coloured glass.
In 1948 the town changed its name to the Russian name Lomonosov.
The old palace, which dates from the early 18th century, still stands. Unlike the other famous palaces around St Petersburg, this one was not captured by the Germans during the Second World War.
The famous composer Igor Stravinsky was born in Oranienbaum.

</doc>
<doc id="200419" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200419" title="Lomonosov">
Lomonosov

The name Lomonosov (Ломоно́сов) may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="200442" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200442" title="Hideomi Yamamoto">
Hideomi Yamamoto

Hideomi Yamamoto (born 26 June 1980) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Ventforet Kofu.
224||5||14||0||18||0||256||5
224||5||14||0||18||0||256||5

</doc>
<doc id="200443" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200443" title="Yuki Inoue">
Yuki Inoue

203||5||9||1||14||0||226||6
203||5||9||1||14||0||226||6

</doc>
<doc id="200444" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200444" title="Marques Batista de Abreu">
Marques Batista de Abreu

Marques Batista de Abreu (born 12 March 1973) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Atlético Mineiro.
249||66||||||||||249||66
90||27||6||2||19||9||115||38
339||93||6||2||19||9||364||104
!Total||11||3

</doc>
<doc id="200446" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200446" title="Panathinaikos F.C.">
Panathinaikos F.C.

P.A.E. Panathinaikos is a football club which plays in Greece. The club based in Athens, the capital of Greece. The colours of Panathinaikos is white and green and its emblem is a shamrock. It is the second most successful Greek team. It has won nineteen Greek championships and sixteen Greek cups. It is the unique Greek club which was a runner-up of the UEFA Champions League competition, in 1971.

</doc>
<doc id="200449" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200449" title="P.A.O.K. Thessaloniki F.C.">
P.A.O.K. Thessaloniki F.C.

P.A.O.K. Thessaloniki F.C. (or simply "PAOK") is a football club which plays in Greece. PAOK is based in Thessaloniki. Its colours of club are the black and the white. Its emblem is an eagle with two heads. PAOK is the fourth most successful Greek club, as it has won two Greek Championships and four Greek cups.

</doc>
<doc id="200452" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200452" title="F.C. Pakhtakor Tashkent">
F.C. Pakhtakor Tashkent

F.C. Pakhtakor Tashkent is a football club which plays in Uzbekistan.

</doc>
<doc id="200453" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200453" title="F.K. Neftchi Farg'ona">
F.K. Neftchi Farg'ona

F.K. Neftchi Farg'ona is a football club which plays in Uzbekistan.

</doc>
<doc id="200454" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200454" title="Navbahor Namangan">
Navbahor Namangan

Navbahor Namangan is a football club which plays in Uzbekistan.

</doc>
<doc id="200455" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200455" title="M.H.S.K. Tashkent">
M.H.S.K. Tashkent

M.H.S.K. Tashkent was a football club which plays in Uzbekistan.

</doc>
<doc id="200457" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200457" title="Makoto Sugiyama">
Makoto Sugiyama

196||2||5||0||22||0||223||2
196||2||5||0||22||0||223||2

</doc>
<doc id="200459" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200459" title="Daiki Iwamasa">
Daiki Iwamasa

178||23||19||2||35||3||14||2||246||30
178||23||19||2||35||3||14||2||246||30
!Total||8||0

</doc>
<doc id="200460" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200460" title="Andre Luiz de Souza Silva">
Andre Luiz de Souza Silva

Andre Luiz de Souza Silva (born 17 September 1974), or Biju, is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Zweigen Kanazawa.
234||16||17||3||7||0||258||19
234||16||17||3||7||0||258||19

</doc>
<doc id="200464" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200464" title="Dustlik Tashkent">
Dustlik Tashkent

Dustlik Tashkent is a football club which plays in Uzbekistan.

</doc>
<doc id="200466" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200466" title="Valdney Freitas da Matta">
Valdney Freitas da Matta

Valdney Freitas da Matta (born 20 April 1971) is a former Brazilian football player.
39||37||3||2||6||2||48||41
39||37||3||2||6||2||48||41

</doc>
<doc id="200467" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200467" title="Pablo Maqueda">
Pablo Maqueda

Pablo Maqueda (born 18 January 1971) is a former Spanish football player.
159||28
17||3
176||31

</doc>
<doc id="200468" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200468" title="Julio César Baldivieso">
Julio César Baldivieso

Julio César Baldivieso (born 2 December 1971) is a former Bolivian football player. He has played for Bolivia national team.
23||5||||||||||23||5
48||13||||||||||48||13
54||19||3||0||8||2||65||21
17||4||||||||||17||4
12||3||||||||||12||3
154||44||3||0||8||2||165||46
!Total||85||15

</doc>
<doc id="200472" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200472" title="Akira Ito">
Akira Ito

Akira Ito (born 19 September 1972) is a former Japanese football player.
365||60||23||15||13||1||401||76
365||60||23||15||13||1||401||76

</doc>
<doc id="200473" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200473" title="Tatsuya Tsuruta">
Tatsuya Tsuruta

87||0||7||0||3||0||97||0
87||0||7||0||3||0||97||0

</doc>
<doc id="200474" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200474" title="Koji Noguchi">
Koji Noguchi

269||115||17||9||28||8||314||132
269||115||17||9||28||8||314||132
!Total||1||0

</doc>
<doc id="200478" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200478" title="Yusuke Nakatani">
Yusuke Nakatani

Yusuke Nakatani (born 22 September 1978) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Kyoto Sanga.
196||5||12||0||28||2||236||7
196||5||12||0||28||2||236||7

</doc>
<doc id="200479" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200479" title="Shingo Suzuki">
Shingo Suzuki

Shingo Suzuki (born 20 March 1978) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Oita Trinita.
353||66||22||3||46||8||421||77
353||66||22||3||46||8||421||77

</doc>
<doc id="200480" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200480" title="Katsuyuki Miyazawa">
Katsuyuki Miyazawa

Katsuyuki Miyazawa (born 15 September 1976) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Montedio Yamagata.
232||26||13||5||13||1||258||32
232||26||13||5||13||1||258||32

</doc>
<doc id="200484" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200484" title="Naoto Sakurai">
Naoto Sakurai

Naoto Sakurai (born 2 September 1975) used to be a Japanese football player.
186||32||20||5||35||4||241||41
186||32||20||5||35||4||241||41

</doc>
<doc id="200485" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200485" title="Yutaka Tahara">
Yutaka Tahara

Yutaka Tahara (born 27 April 1982) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Shonan Bellmare.
198||43||11||6||11||2||220||51
198||43||11||6||11||2||220||51

</doc>
<doc id="200486" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200486" title="Masahiro Koga">
Masahiro Koga

Masahiro Koga (born 8 September 1978) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Kashiwa Reysol.
280||20||16||2||50||2||385||24
280||20||16||2||50||2||385||24

</doc>
<doc id="200490" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200490" title="Kazuma Watanabe">
Kazuma Watanabe

34||13||3||4||8||4||45||21
34||13||3||4||8||4||45||21
!Total||1||0

</doc>
<doc id="200491" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200491" title="Keita Sugimoto">
Keita Sugimoto

Keita Sugimoto (born 13 June 1982) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Nagoya Grampus Eight.
155||27||12||2||23||5||7||1||197||35
155||27||12||2||23||5||7||1||197||35

</doc>
<doc id="200515" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200515" title="Earplug">
Earplug

An ear plug is a device usually used to protect the ears from loud noises. They are put inside the ear canal and can also be used to protect the ear from water, dust or anything that doesn't belong in the ear.
Ear plugs are made using many different materials to be used for different reasons. 
Ear plugs are also made to be re-used or disposable. 

</doc>
<doc id="200516" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200516" title="Rhodes Scholarship">
Rhodes Scholarship

The Rhodes Scholarship named after Cecil Rhodes is an international award to go to school at the University of Oxford and was the first large-scale group of international scholarships.

</doc>
<doc id="200523" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200523" title="Joseph Dalton Hooker">
Joseph Dalton Hooker

Sir Joseph Dalton Hooker OM GCSI CB MD FRS (30 June 1817 – 10 December 1911) was a British botanist and explorer of the 19th century. Hooker was one of the founders of geographical botany, and Charles Darwin's closest friend. He was Director of the Royal Botanical Gardens, Kew, for twenty years, in succession to his father, William Jackson Hooker, and was awarded the highest honours of British science.
The expedition consisted of two ships, HMS "Erebus" and HMS "Terror"; it was the last major voyage of exploration made entirely under sail. Hooker was the youngest of the 128 man crew. He sailed on the "Erebus" and was assistant to the ship's surgeon, who was instructed to collect zoological and geological specimens. The ships travelled all over the southern oceans from South America to Australia and New Zealand. Hooker made plant collections at each location and while travelling drew these and specimens of algae and sea life pulled aboard using tow nets.
After spending 5 months in the Antarctic they returned to resupply in Hobart, then went on to Sydney, and New Zealand. They left New Zealand to return to Antarctica. After spending 138 days at sea, and a collision between the "Erebus" and "Terror," they sailed to the Falkland Islands, to Tierra del Fuego, back to the Falklands and onward to their third sortie into the Antarctic. The ships arrived back in England on 4 September 1843; the voyage had been a success for Ross as it was the first to confirm the existence of the southern continent and chart much of its coastline.
On 11 November 1847 Hooker left England for his three year long Himalayan expedition; he would be the first European to collect plants in the Himalayas. Hooker's expedition was based in Darjeeling. Hooker wrote to Darwin relaying to him the habits of animals in India, and collected plants in Bengal.
Hooker and a sizable party of local assistants departed for eastern Nepal on 27 October 1848. They travelled north west along Nepal's passes into Tibet. In April 1849 he started on a longer expedition into Sikkim, but he was imprisoned by the Dewan of Sikkim when they were travelling towards Tibet. A British team was sent to negotiate: they were released without bloodshed. Hooker returned to Darjeeling where he spent January and February 1850 writing his journals, replacing specimens lost during his detention and planning a journey for his last year in India.
Hooker's survey of hitherto unexplored regions, the "Himalayan Journals" was published in 1854.
This trip was taken in the autumn of 1860, with Daniel Hanbury. They visited and collected in Syria and Palestine; no full-length report was published, but a number of papers were written. Hooker recognised three phytogeograpical divisions: Western Syria and Palestine; Eastern Syria and Palestine; Middle and Upper mountain regions of Syria.
Hooker visited Morocco from April to June 1871, in the company of John Ball, George Maw and a young gardener from Kew, called Crump.
This was undertaken with his friend Asa Gray, the leading American botanist of the day. "A difficult question was why in the great mountain chains of the Western United States there appeared to be only a few botanical enclaves of plants of eastern-Asiatic affinities among plants of Mexican and more southern types." Hooker was back in Kew with 1,000 dried specimens by October.
Some idea of the delights he encountered (trivia from his journal & letters):
His views on the flora of Colorado and Utah: There are two temperate, and two cold or mountain floras, viz: 1. a prairie flora derived from the eastward; 2. a so-called desert and saline flora derived from the west; 3. a subalpine; 4. an alpine flora, the two latter of widely different origin, and in one sense proper to the Rocky Mountain ranges.
While on the "Erebus", Hooker had read proofs of Charles Darwin's "The Voyage of the Beagle" provided by Charles Lyell and had been very impressed by Darwin's skill as a naturalist. They had met once, before the Antarctic voyage started. After Hooker's return to England, he was approached by Darwin who invited him to classify the plants that Darwin had collected in South America and the Galápagos Islands. Hooker agreed and the pair began a life-long friendship. On 11 January 1844 Darwin mentioned to Hooker his early ideas on the evolution and natural selection, and Hooker showed interest. In 1847 he agreed to read Darwin's "Essay" explaining the theory, and responded with notes giving Darwin calm critical feedback. Their correspondence continued throughout the development of Darwin's theory and in 1858 Darwin wrote that Hooker was "the one living soul from whom I have constantly received sympathy".
Richard Freeman wrote: "Hooker was Charles Darwin's greatest friend and confidant". Certainly they had extensive correspondence, and they also met face-to-face (Hooker visiting Darwin). Hooker and Lyell were the two people Darwin consulted (by letter) when Wallace's famous letter arrived at Down House, enclosing his paper on natural selection. Hooker was instrumental in creating the device whereby the Wallace paper was accompanied by Darwin's notes and his letter to Asa Gray (showing his prior realization of natural selection) in a presentation to the Linnean Society. Hooker was the one who formally presented this material to the Linnean Society meeting in 1858. In 1859 the author of "The Origin of Species" recorded his indebtedness to Hooker's wide knowledge and balanced judgment.
In December 1859, Hooker published the "Introductory Essay to the Flora Tasmaniae", the final part of the Botany of the Antarctic Voyage. It was in this essay (which appeared just one month after the publication of Charles Darwin's "On the Origin of Species"), that Hooker announced his support for the theory of evolution by natural selection, thus becoming the first recognised man of science to publicly back Darwin.
At the historic debate on evolution held at the Oxford on 30 June 1860, Bishop Samuel Wilberforce, Benjamin Brodie and Robert FitzRoy spoke against Darwin's theory, and Hooker and Thomas Henry Huxley defended it. According to Hooker's own account, it was he and not Huxley who delivered the most effective reply to Wilberforce's arguments.
Hooker acted as president of the British Association at its Norwich meeting of 1868, when his address was remarkable for its championship of Darwinian theories. Hooker was a close friend of Thomas Henry Huxley, a member of the X-Club (which dominated the Royal Society in the 1870s and early 1880s), and the first of the three X-Clubbers in succession to become President of the Royal Society.
By his travels and his publications, Hooker built up a high scientific reputation at home. In 1855 he was appointed Assistant-Director of the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, and in 1865 he succeeded his father as Director, holding the post for twenty years. Under the Hookers, the Royal Botanical Gardens at Kew rose to world renown. At the age of thirty, Hooker was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society, and in 1873 he was chosen as its President (until 1877). He received three of its medals: the Royal Medal in 1854, the Copley Medal in 1887 and the Darwin Medal in 1892. He continued to intersperse work at Kew with foreign exploration and collecting. His journeys to Palestine, Morocco and the United States all produced valuable information and specimens for Kew.

</doc>
<doc id="200531" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200531" title="Joseph Hooker">
Joseph Hooker

Joseph Hooker (1814 – 1879) was a general in the Union Army during the American Civil War. He fought Robert E. Lee at the Battle of Chancellorsville, when Hooker's much larger army was defeated. After the battle, he was replaced by George G. Meade before the Battle of Gettysburg.

</doc>
<doc id="200535" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200535" title="Uremia">
Uremia

Uremia is a Greek word used in English to describe the condition of a person's blood. Uremia is caused by urine products building up in the blood. If those come over the normal filtration system of the kidneys then the condition is called uremia. People with chronic renal disease or acute renal failure are usually affected by uremia.

</doc>
<doc id="200543" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200543" title="Ballets Russes">
Ballets Russes

The Ballets Russes were a company of ballet dancers whose full title was "Les Ballets Russes de Serge Diaghilev". They became extremely famous in Europe in the early part of the 20th century. 
The group was formed and directed by the Russian Sergei Diaghilev. The Ballets Russes had more influence on ballet and ballet music than any other ballet company of their time. The dancers were from Russia, but the group travelled throughout Europe, spending a lot of their time based in Paris. Stravinsky was one of the many composers who wrote ballet music for them.
Sergei Diaghilev was an impresario who was extremely good at spotting good dancers and helping them to rise to great standards. He had very good taste in art and music and inspired some great composers to write music for his dancers. He got some of the most famous painters of his time to make set designs for his productions.
The group was started in 1909. By 1911 they had become a group who toured regularly. Many of the dancers had come from the Mariinsky Theatre in Saint Petersburg. They adapted the productions from the Mariinsky Theatre, performing ballets such as "Prince Igor", "Cleopatra" and "Le Festin" and "Les Sylphides".
During the World War I they were cut off from any contact with Russia. During these years they experimented with many new ideas. Productions such as "Les Biches" and "Le Train Bleu" were about the fashionable society around them. At the same time the company also had productions which reflected Russian folklore, Greek legends and the Orient.
Their fame continued after the war. 
When Diaghilev died suddenly in 1929 the Ballets Russes broke up and the dancers moved to other companies. Some of them formed the "Ballets Russes de Monte Carlo", who travelled to America and influenced dancing there.
The company worked with several very famous choreographers such as Marius Petipa, Michel Fokine, Vaslav Nijinsky, Leonide Massine, and the young George Balanchine. Nijinsky’s dances reflect the art movement called Expressionism. Many of his new ideas could be seen in "L'Apres-midi d'un Faune" and "The Rite of Spring".
The Ballets Russes had many famous dancers. Many of them were from the Russian Imperial Theatres and they came to dance for Ballets Russes during the summer months. Some of the great dancers include Anna Pavlova, Tamara Karsavina, Olga Spessivtzeva, Mathilde Kschessinska, Ida Rubinstein, Bronislava Nijinska, Lydia Lopokova and Alicia Markova.
The company was particularly influential because they treated male dancers as important. Up until this time the female dancers had much more attention than the male dancers. Among the male dancers were Michel Fokine, Serge Lifar, Léonide Massine, George Balanchine, Adolphe Bolm, and, especially, Vaslav Nijinsky who became the greatest dancer of his time.
The most famous music composed for Ballets Russes was that by the composer Igor Stravinsky. His ballets include "The Firebird", "Petrouchka", "The Rite of Spring", "Les Noces" and "Apollon musagète". The first time that "The Rite of Spring" was performed many in the audience hated it and booed and started to fight. Others thought it was brilliant. Stravinsky's music was original and shocking, and Nijinsky's choreography went beyond classical ballet technique. The audience found it difficult to understand the music and dance. They were used to the romantic music and classical ballet of the nineteenth century.
Diaghilev also used music which had already been composed. This included music by Debussy, Ravel, Darius Milhaud, Prokofiev and other famous composers of the time.
The artists and designers who worked for the ballet included some of the 20th century's most famous names. Picasso, Bakst, Braque, Matisse, Coco Chanel, Miró, Dali, and Utrillo were some of the best-known.

</doc>
<doc id="200544" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200544" title="Impresario">
Impresario

An Impresario is somebody who organizes concerts, operas, ballets or plays. The word comes from the Italian word "impresa," which means "an enterprise" or "undertaking".
Some very famous impresarios from the past include Rudolf Bing, Sergei Diaghilev, Richard D'Oyly Carte, Fortune Gallo, and Sol Hurok.

</doc>
<doc id="200545" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200545" title="Evangelical">
Evangelical

Evangelical can refer to different Christian denominations:
In addition, the Evangelicals are a rock band

</doc>
<doc id="200548" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200548" title="Rest mass">
Rest mass

Rest mass (physics), the mass of a body as measured when the body is at rest, but it is relative to an observer who is moving or not, an inherent property of the body. All matter, such as any object, has some rest mass. Energy, such as light or kinetic energy (the energy of a moving object) has no rest mass because it causes no change in spacetime in a frozen time frame. However, energy affects mass while time passes; therefore, it affects spacetime, so it has mass.

</doc>
<doc id="200549" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200549" title="Sergei Diaghilev">
Sergei Diaghilev

Sergei Pavlovich Diaghilev (also known as Serge), (Russia, 31 March 1872 – 19 August 1929) was a Russian art critic, patron and ballet impresario. He formed a ballet company called "Les Ballets Russes de Serge Diaghilev". Many think it was the greatest ballet company of all time.
For twenty years, between 1909 and 1929, they were the most famous ballet company in the world. Many of their ideas influenced art and music as well as dance. Diaghilev got some of the world's greatest painters to design sets for his productions, and some great composers, including Igor Stravinsky, to compose music for the ballets.
His dancers included the legendary Nijinsky and the Imperial prima ballerina Karsavina; also Pavlova, Danilova and Spessivtseva. His choreographers included Fokine, Nijinska, Massine and Balanchine; his composers included Stravinsky, Rimsky-Korsakov, Prokofiev, Ravel and Debussy; his set designers included Picasso, Cezanne, Matisse, Utrillo, Bakst and Braque; Cocteau worked as an artist and wrote scenarios. The ballets created and the performances changed the course of ballet history.
Diaghilev's gift lay in spotting talent, and bringing great artists to work together. He also persuaded patrons to support the "Ballets Russes". The production costs were enormous, and were not always covered by the ticket prices. The repertoire (list) of new ballets and new music grew, and the productions were not always successful. Diaghilev's company folded soon after his death, though many of the group worked together in new companies.
Diaghilev was homosexual. He died of diabetes.

</doc>
<doc id="200552" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200552" title="Bedford, Massachusetts">
Bedford, Massachusetts

Bedford is a town in Middlesex County, Massachusetts, United States. It is in the Greater Boston area, north-west of the city of Boston. The population of Bedford was 12,595 at the 2000 census.

</doc>
<doc id="200556" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200556" title="Irving Kristol">
Irving Kristol

Irving Kristol (January 22, 1920 – September 18, 2009) was an American columnist, journalist, and writer. He was called the "godfather of neoconservatism." 
He contributed to many magazines and founded some. He was very important for the intellectual and political culture of the last fifty years.

</doc>
<doc id="200557" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200557" title="2009 US Open (tennis)">
2009 US Open (tennis)

The 2009 US Open was a tennis event played on outdoor hard courts, held between August 31 and September 14, 2009, at the USTA Billie Jean King National Tennis Center in Flushing Meadows, New York City, New York, United States.
The event was originally scheduled to be a 14-day event, but due to rain at the men's singles final it was extended by one day.
 Juan Martín del Potro beat Roger Federer, 3–6, 7–6(5), 4–6, 7–6(4), 6–2
 Kim Clijsters beat Caroline Wozniacki, 7–5, 6–3
 Lukáš Dlouhý / Leander Paes beat Mahesh Bhupathi / Mark Knowles, 3–6, 6–3, 6–2
 Serena Williams / Venus Williams beat Cara Black / Liezel Huber, 6–2, 6–2
 Carly Gullickson / Travis Parrott beat Cara Black / Leander Paes, 6–2, 6–4.
 Bernard Tomic beat Chase Buchanan, 6–1, 6–3.
 Heather Watson beat Yana Buchina, 6–4, 6–1.
 Marton Fucsovics / Hsieh Cheng-peng beat Julien Obry / Adrien Puget, 7–6(5), 5–7, [10–1]
 Valeria Solovieva / Maryna Zanevska beat Elena Bogdan / Noppawan Lertcheewakarn, 1–6, 6–3 [10–7]
 Shingo Kunieda beat Maikel Scheffers, 6–0, 6–0
 Esther Vergeer beat Korie Homan, 6–0, 6–0
 Stephane Houdet / Stefan Olsson beat Maikel Scheffers / Ronald Vink, 6–4, 4–6, 6–4
 Korie Homan / Esther Vergeer beat Daniela DiToro / Florence Gravellier, 6–2, 6–2
 Peter Norfolk beat David Wagner, 6–3, 3–6, 6–3
 Nick Taylor / David Wagner beat Johan Andersson / Peter Norfolk, 6–1, 6–7(5), 6–3
Below are the lists of the qualifiers entering the main draw.
The following players received a lucky loser spot in the Men's Draw:

</doc>
<doc id="200561" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200561" title="Papyrus 46">
Papyrus 46

Papyrus 46 (also referred to as simply formula_1) is one of the oldest New Testament manuscripts known to exist. It was probably created between the year 175 and 225. Some leaves are part of the Chester Beatty Biblical Papyri Collection, and others are in the Papyri Collection of the University of Michigan. According to the website Bible Research, it contains (in order) "the last eight chapters of Romans; all of Hebrews; virtually all of 1st Corinthians and 2nd Corinthians; all of Ephesians, Galatians, Philippians, Colossians; and two chapters of Thessalonians. All of the leaves have lost some lines at the bottom through deterioration."

</doc>
<doc id="200564" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200564" title="Santiago de los Caballeros">
Santiago de los Caballeros

Santiago de los Caballeros, or Santiago for short, is a Dominican city and the head municipality of the Santiago, in the north central region of the country. By its population and economic activity, it is the second most important city in the country, after Santo Domingo.
The people from this city are called (demonym) in different ways; "santiaguero" for males and "santiaguera" for females. Sometimes "santiagués" is used for both sexes. "Santiaguense" (for both sexes) is used to differentiate them from people of other cities with the same name in Spain, Cuba, Chile, and Argentina).
The municipality has the municipalities of Tamboril and Licey al Medio to the east, the La Vega province to the southeast, the municipality of Jánico to the south, the municipality of San José de las Matas to the southwest, the Valverde province to the west, the municipalities of Villa Bisonó and Villa González to the northwest and the province of Puerto Plata to the north.
It has an area of 524.03 km². There are five municipal districts in the municipality (municipal districts in the Dominican Republic are similar to municipalities but they depend on a municipality). Those municipal districts are:
The "Cordillera Septentrional" (in English, "Northern mountain range") runs along the northern half of the municipality. The city of Santiago de los Caballeros is on the southern side of those mountains, and even some parts of the city are on the mountains.
There are several small hills in the city; the highest is the "Cerro del Castillo" (in English, "Castle Hill") in the eastern part of the city; on this hill there is a monument: the "Monumento a los Héroes de la Restauración" (in English, "Monument to the Restoration War Heroes"), commonly named only as the "Monumento".
The river "Yaque del Norte", the longest of the Dominican Republic, flows along the old southern side of the city. Now, the city is on both sides of the river but most people still lives on the northern (right) side of it. Other rivers are Nibaje and Gurabito but they are very small and tributaries of the Yaque del Norte.
The city of Santiago de los Caballeros is located in the northeastern part of the "Yaque del Norte Valley", a very dry and hot region. And so, the climate of the city is a dry tropical climate, hot most of the year (mean temperature of 26.2 °C). The northern part of the municipality, and part of the city, is on the Cordillera Central mountain range and the climate is cooler and it rains more than in the city itself.
The municipality had, in 2010, a total population of 691,262: 339,802 men and 351,460 women. The urban population was 86.01% of the total population. In this numbers are included the population of the municipal districts that are part the municipality. The population of the city of Santiago without those municipal districts was 591,985.
Christopher Columbus built a small fort in the summer of 1495, on the northern side of the river Yaque del Norte in a place named "La Emboscada". This is several kilometres to the west of the present city. Columbus named the fort after "Santiago Apóstol", in English "Saint James"
In 1504, Nicolás de Ovando, governor of the Hispaniola, moved the town to Jacagua which is now the modern municipality of San Francisco de Jacagua. This place was near the mountains and away from the river Yaque del Norte.
An earthquake destroyed the city of Santiago on 2 December 1562. The next year, 1563, the city was rebuilt again on the north side of the river Yaque del Norte but this time more to the east, where it is now. This new town was called "Santiago de los Caballeros", in English, "Saint James of the Knights" or, better, "Knights of Saint James".
Even if farming is still a very important economic activity around the city, Santiago is now a modern city with many industries and companies of different kinds.
Santiago is home of two universities: "Pontificia Universidad Católica Madre y Maestra" (PUCMM) and "Universidad Tecnológica de Santiago" (UTESA). Other universities present in Santiago are: "Universidad Organización & Método" (O&M), "Universidad Abierta para Adultos" (UAPA), "Universidad Nacional Evangélica" and one regional campus of the state university "Universidad Autónoma de Santo Domingo" (UASD).
The twin cities of Santiago are:

</doc>
<doc id="200566" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200566" title="Sylvia Plath">
Sylvia Plath

Sylvia Plath (October 27, 1932 – February 11, 1963) was an American writer. She was most well known for her poetry, but she also wrote novels, children's books, and short stories. Her most well-known novel is "The Bell Jar", which was partly based on her life. She married another famous poet, Ted Hughes. She suffered from bipolar disorder and killed herself in 1963.
Plath was born in 1932 in Jamaica Plain, Massachusetts. Her parents were called Otto Emile Plath and Aurelia Schober Plath. Her father, Otto, was from Germany; her mother was Austrian American. He was a college professor and wrote a book about bumblebees. Aurelia Plath was ten years younger than her husband. In April 1935, Plath's younger brother Warren was born. The family moved to Winthrop, Massachusetts in 1936. This was where Aurelia had grown up. Plath published her first poem here, when she was eight. It was in the children's section of a newspaper called the "Boston Herald".
In 1940, Otto Plath died. He was buried in Winthrop cemetery. In 1942, Aurelia and the children moved to Wellesley, Massachusetts.
Plath went to Smith College. After her third year, she became a guest editor for a magazine called "Mademoiselle", and spent a month in New York City. At this time, she became depressed. She tried to kill herself by taking too many sleeping pills. After she took the pills, she crawled underneath her house, but she was found and taken to hospital. She went to a mental hospital called McLean Hospital and was treated for her depression. She was given a treatment called electric shock therapy. She began to improve and was able to graduate from Smith College in 1955.
Plath then went to the University of Cambridge in England, on a scholarship called the Fulbright scholarship. She attended Newnham College, Cambridge and carried on writing poetry. She also wrote for the student newspaper at Cambridge. At a party she met an English poet called Ted Hughes. She married him on June 16, 1956.
After they were married, Plath and Hughes went to live in the United States. Plath taught at her old college, Smith College. They met and became friends with a poet named W. S. Merwin. Plath found out that she was pregnant. They moved back to England. They lived in London for a while, and then in a small town in Devon called North Tawton. Plath published her first collection of poems. It was called "The Colossus". In February 1961 she had a miscarriage. She wrote about her miscarriage in some of her poems.
Plath and Hughes' marriage was unhappy. Hughes had an affair with a woman called Assia Wevill. Plath and Hughes separated (lived apart) in 1962. Plath moved to London with their children, Frieda and Nicholas.
In 1963, Plath committed suicide at her London home. She sealed the room she was in with wet towels, turned the gas oven on and put her head inside the oven. She died because she was poisoned by carbon monoxide gas. Some people think that she did not mean to kill herself. Her body was buried in a small village in West Yorkshire called Heptonstall.

</doc>
<doc id="200568" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200568" title="Maasai">
Maasai

The Maasai are an ethnic group of people that live in Kenya and in the north of Tanzania. They are well known for the way that they dress and because they live near some national parks in Africa that a lot of tourists go to. They speak a language called "Maa".

</doc>
<doc id="200587" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200587" title="Aritatsu Ogi">
Aritatsu Ogi

163||57
163||57
!Total||62||11

</doc>
<doc id="200588" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200588" title="Carlos Bianchi">
Carlos Bianchi

Carlos Bianchi (born 26 April 1949) is a former Argentine football player. He has played for Argentina national team.
324||206
238||187
562||393
!Total||14||7

</doc>
<doc id="200592" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200592" title="Masanaga Kageyama">
Masanaga Kageyama

103||6||12||1||8||0||123||7
103||6||12||1||8||0||123||7

</doc>
<doc id="200593" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200593" title="Akira Konno">
Akira Konno

Akira Konno (born 12 September 1974) is a former Japanese football player.
163||24||17||2||15||1||195||27
163||24||17||2||15||1||195||27

</doc>
<doc id="200594" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200594" title="Toru Oniki">
Toru Oniki

Toru Oniki (born 20 April 1974) is a former Japanese football player.
187||3||17||1||23||1||227||5
187||3||17||1||23||1||227||5

</doc>
<doc id="200595" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200595" title="Toshihiro Aoyama">
Toshihiro Aoyama

Toshihiro Aoyama (born 22 February 1986) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Sanfrecce Hiroshima.
112||8||6||3||13||2||131||13
112||8||6||3||13||2||131||13

</doc>
<doc id="200596" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200596" title="Yosuke Kashiwagi">
Yosuke Kashiwagi

112||18||11||2||14||3||137||23
112||18||11||2||14||3||137||23
!Total||3||0

</doc>
<doc id="200597" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200597" title="Koji Nakazato">
Koji Nakazato

Koji Nakazato (born 24 April 1982) is a former Japanese football player.
128||3||12||0||3||0||143||3
128||3||12||0||3||0||143||3

</doc>
<doc id="200598" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200598" title="Yaw Preko">
Yaw Preko

Yaw Preko (born 8 September 1974) is a former Ghanaian football player. He has played for Ghana national team.
92||27
147||45
49||11
288||83
!Total||||

</doc>
<doc id="200599" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200599" title="Masahiko Inoha">
Masahiko Inoha

101||2||8||0||12||0||8||0||129||2
101||2||8||0||12||0||8||0||129||2
!Total||9||1

</doc>
<doc id="200600" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200600" title="Giuliano Tadeo Aranda">
Giuliano Tadeo Aranda

Giuliano Tadeo Aranda (born 21 February 1974) is a former Brazilian football player.
73||28||||||||||73||28
86||61||7||3||27||11||120||75
5||0||||||||||5||0
164||89||7||3||27||11||198||103

</doc>
<doc id="200601" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200601" title="Nebojša Krupniković">
Nebojša Krupniković

Nebojša Krupniković (born 15 August 1973) is a former Serbian football player.
2||0||||||||||2||0
78||43||||||||||78||43
30||9||||||||||30||9
15||5||||||||||15||5
65||16||5||1||18||2||88||19
10||1||||||||||10||1
192||31||||||||||192||31
392||105||5||1||18||2||415||108

</doc>
<doc id="200602" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200602" title="Klaas-Jan Huntelaar">
Klaas-Jan Huntelaar

Klaas-Jan Huntelaar (born 12 August 1983) is a Dutch football player. He plays for FC Schalke 04 and Netherlands national team.
183||137||18||13||32||19||233||169
20||8||0||0||0||0||20||8
25||7||2||0||3||0||30||7
228||152||20||13||35||19||283||184
!Total||29||14

</doc>
<doc id="200603" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200603" title="Atsuto Uchida">
Atsuto Uchida

115||3||11||1||21||0||13||1||160||5
115||3||11||1||21||0||13||1||160||5
!Total||45||1

</doc>
<doc id="200604" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200604" title="Yuzo Kurihara">
Yuzo Kurihara

133||5||13||2||42||2||8||2||196||11
133||5||13||2||42||2||8||2||196||11
!Total||8||0

</doc>
<doc id="200606" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200606" title="Gianluca Curci">
Gianluca Curci

Gianluca Curci (born 12 July 1985) is an Italian football player. He plays for Siena.
60||0||22||0||9||0||91||0
60||0||22||0||9||0||91||0

</doc>
<doc id="200607" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200607" title="Philippe Mexès">
Philippe Mexès

Philippe Mexès (born 30 March 1982) is a French football player. He plays for Roma and France national team.
133||7||17||1||19||0||169||8
142||9||25||2||33||0||200||11
275||16||42||3||52||0||369||19
!Total||13||0

</doc>
<doc id="200608" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200608" title="Napoleon II of France">
Napoleon II of France

Napoléon François Charles Joseph Bonaparte (20 March 1811 – 22 July 1832) was the son of Napoleon and Marie Louise of Austria.
Napoléon II was born in Paris in 1811. In 1814, Napoleon I was defeated by the Sixth Coalition and then forced to resign by his own officers. Napoleon I originally wanted Napoleon II to succeed him, but this was rejected by the coalition. Napoleon II and his mother went into exile in Austria, while Napoleon I was exiled to Elba. In 1815, Napoleon I escaped and retook control of France, but was forced to resign again after his defeat at the Battle of Waterloo.
Napoleon was arguably the Emperor of the French in late June and early July 1815.
Napoleon spent most of his life in Austria, where he was known as Franz. He became the Duke of Reichstadt at the age of 7 and joined the Austrian Army at the age of 12.
Napoleon enjoyed a close relationship with Princess Sophie of Bavaria. It has been claimed that he was the father of Sophie's son, the future Maximilian I of Mexico, but this is widely rejected by historians.
Napoleon died of tuberculosis on July 22, 1832. 
In 1940, Adolf Hitler had Napoleon's remains moved from Vienna to the dome of Les Invalides in Paris. His remains were buried next to his father's for some time, but were later moved to the lower church.

</doc>
<doc id="200609" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200609" title="Cristian Chivu">
Cristian Chivu

Cristian Chivu (born 26 October 1980) is a Romanian football player. He plays for Internazionale Milano and Romania national team.
56||5||colspan="2"|-||colspan="2"|-||56||5
107||13||colspan="2"|-||26||0||133||13
132||6||26||0||25||0||183||6
295||24||26||0||51||0||372||24
!Total||69||3

</doc>
<doc id="200610" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200610" title="Cesare Bovo">
Cesare Bovo

Cesare Bovo (born 14 January 1983) is an Italian football player. He plays for Città di Palermo.
146||6||12||0||15||1||173||7
146||6||12||0||15||1||173||7

</doc>
<doc id="200612" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200612" title="Edgar Álvarez">
Edgar Álvarez

Edgar Álvarez (born 9 January 1980) is a Honduran football player. He plays for Bari and Honduras national team.
92||8
26||0
103||8
221||16
!Total||44||3

</doc>
<doc id="200613" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200613" title="Shosuke Katayama">
Shosuke Katayama

Shosuke Katayama (born 8 September 1983) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Yokohama.
83||1||4||0||9||1||96||2
83||1||4||0||9||1||96||2

</doc>
<doc id="200618" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200618" title="Eusebio Sacristán">
Eusebio Sacristán

Eusebio Sacristán (born 13 April 1964) is a former Spanish football player. He has played for Spain national team.
543||36
543||36
!Total||15||0

</doc>
<doc id="200619" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200619" title="Naoki Urata">
Naoki Urata

Naoki Urata (born 27 June 1974) is a former Japanese football player.
68||11||3||3||6||2||77||16
68||11||3||3||6||2||77||16

</doc>
<doc id="200624" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200624" title="Maximilian I of Mexico">
Maximilian I of Mexico

Maximilian I of Mexico (1832 – 1867) was a member of the Imperial House of Habsburg-Lorraine. 
After a distinguished career in the Austrian Navy he was proclaimed Emperor of Mexico, during the Second Mexican Empire. Many Europeans, and Viennese in particular, suspected that he was actually fathered by Napoleon II of France, also known as the Duke of Reichstadt). Those who believe this talk about the unnaturally close relationship that existed between Sophie and Napoleon II. It was said that Sophie never recovered after his death and that she blamed it on Metternich for the rest of her life and that, from birth, Maximilian's stature resembled Napoleon II's more than that of Franz Karl, his older brother, or any of his younger brothers. He ruled as the Emperor of Mexico from 1864 to 1867. He was installed by occupying French forces under Napoleon III. When the French left in 1867, Maximilian refused to go with them, believing he had the support of the people. He was captured by Benito Juarez’s Republican forces and executed by firing squad on June 19, 1867.

</doc>
<doc id="200628" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200628" title="Initiation">
Initiation

Initiation is a ceremony at the entrance or acceptance into a group or society. It can also be a formal admission to adulthood in a community.
Examples of initiation ceremonies are Christian baptism or confirmation, Jewish bar or bat mitzvah, acceptance into a fraternal organization like the freemasons or religious order like the Benedictines, or graduation from school. A person taking the initiation ceremony is called an "initiate".
The English word comes from the Latin, "initium": "entrance" or "beginning. The related English verb, initiate, means to begin or start a particular action.
Tribes often have initiations. In many African tribes, initiation means circumcision of males and sometimes circumcision/genital mutilation of females as well. Initiation is thought to be necessary for the individual to be regarded as a full member of the tribe. Otherwise, the individual may not be allowed to take part in ceremonies or even in social ritual such as marriage. A man will not be allowed to marry or have any special relationship with a woman who didn't go to an initiation, because she is not considered as a woman.
Initiation may be thought of as an event which may help teens prepare themselves to be good husbands and wives. Because of modernization initiation is not taken so seriously as before, but there are still certain areas which still perform initiations.
In some African tribes, boys have initiation rites for 3–4 months and girls for 1–2 months.
Australian Aboriginal tribes usually had long periods of time to help prepare adolescent boys, teaching them the Law before they were ready to attend large elaborate ceremonies at the time of initiation when they were finally recognized as men in their society. Most tribes had circumcision and scarification as part of the male initiation rituals, while many Central Australian tribes also practiced subincision.

</doc>
<doc id="200630" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200630" title="Bar and Bat Mitzvah">
Bar and Bat Mitzvah

In Judaism, a Bar Mitzvah is a Jewish boy, and a Bat Mitzvah a Jewish girl, who has turned 13 years old (or for a girl in the Orthodox movement, 12 years old). They go through a ceremony which symbolises the young person's responsibility for themselves. 
Before the bar mitzvah, the child's parents hold the responsibility for the child's actions. After this age, the boys and girls bear their own responsibility, and are able to participate in all areas of Jewish community life. It marks their coming of age. The terms are also used for the ceremony celebrating this event. 
According to Jewish law, when Jewish children reach the age of majority (generally thirteen years for boys and twelve for girls.) Then they become responsible for their actions, and "become a Bar or Bat Mitzvah". This is also the time when physical puberty normally begins. Before this the child's parents have the responsibility that the child follows Jewish law and tradition and, after this age, children have their own responsibility for Jewish ritual law, tradition, and ethics and have the right to take part in all areas of Jewish community life.
Oppenheimer, Mark. "Thirteen and a Day: The Bar and Bat Mitzvah across America". New York: Farrar, Straus, and Giroux, 2005.

</doc>
<doc id="200639" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200639" title="Joseph Bonaparte">
Joseph Bonaparte

Joseph-Napoléon Bonaparte was an elder brother of Napoleon Bonaparte. In 1806, he crowned him as King of Naples and Sicily and later King of Spain in 1808. 
He was born Giuseppe Buonaparte to Carlo Buonaparte, representative to King Louis XVI's court. He was educated in Corsica and France and studied law at Pisa. In the Corsican civil war, which marked the early years of the French Revolution, he sided with the French, as did his brother Napoleon. When the anti-French forces were victorious, he and the entire Bonaparte family fled to the Continent.As a lawyer, politician, and diplomat, he served in the Cinq-Cents and was the French ambassador to Rome.In 1795 Joseph was a member of the Council of Ancients where he used his position to help his brother overthrow the Directory.
In 1806, Joseph Bonaparte was given military command of Naples, and shortly afterward was made king by Napoleon I, to be replaced after two years by his sister's husband, Joachim Murat, when Joseph was made king of Spain in August 1808, soon after the French invasion.
Joseph Bonaparte reluctantly left Naples and arrived in Spain just in time for the Spanish revolt against French rule, and the beginning of the Peninsular War, in which the French were eventually expelled by Spanish guerrilla fighters and by an Anglo-Portuguese army. The Spanish remain loyal to their former king, Ferdinand VII.Bonaparte abdicated and returned to France after defeat at the Battle of Vitoria. He was seen by Bonapartists (supporters of Napoleon I) as the rightful Emperor of the French after the death of Napoleon's own son Napoleon II in 1832. 
As the eldest in the family Bonaparte, he became its head in 1832, although he did little to advance his claim. Joseph Bonaparte lived primarily in the United States from 1817 to 1832, initially in New York City and Philadelphia. He was also reputed to have encountered the Jersey Devil while hunting there. Bonaparte returned to Europe, where he died in Florence, Italy and was buried in the Les Invalides building in Paris. He was succeeded by his younger brother Louis Bonaparte as head of the family.

</doc>
<doc id="200643" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200643" title="Marcos Alberto Skavinski">
Marcos Alberto Skavinski

Marcos Alberto Skavinski (born 28 March 1975) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Goiás.
28||2||2||0||9||1||39||3
28||2||2||0||9||1||39||3

</doc>
<doc id="200644" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200644" title="Ferydoon Zandi">
Ferydoon Zandi

Ferydoon Zandi (born 26 April 1979) is an Iranian football player. He plays for Steel Azin and Iran national team.
177||41
43||18
0||0
220||59
!Total||29||5

</doc>
<doc id="200645" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200645" title="Hiroshi Aso">
Hiroshi Aso

Hiroshi Aso (born 8 April 1974) is a former Japanese football player.
0||0||0||0||0||0||0||0
0||0||0||0||0||0||0||0

</doc>
<doc id="200646" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200646" title="F.C. Matera">
F.C. Matera

F.C. Matera is a football club which plays in Italy in Terza Categoria Matera group D.

</doc>
<doc id="200651" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200651" title="Jun Sunaga">
Jun Sunaga

Jun Sunaga (born 27 April 1975) is a former Japanese football player.

</doc>
<doc id="200652" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200652" title="Takeshi Suda">
Takeshi Suda

Takeshi Suda (born 14 April 1983) is a former Japanese football player.
0||0||0||0||0||0||0||0
0||0||0||0||0||0||0||0

</doc>
<doc id="200653" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200653" title="Sota Kasahara">
Sota Kasahara

Sota Kasahara (born 9 May 1976) is a former Japanese football player.
48||3
48||3

</doc>
<doc id="200657" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200657" title="Keita Kasahara">
Keita Kasahara

Keita Kasahara (born 14 June 1973) is a former Japanese football player.
0||0||0||0||0||0
0||0||0||0||0||0

</doc>
<doc id="200658" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200658" title="Yusaku Ueno">
Yusaku Ueno

Yusaku Ueno (born 1 November 1973) is a former Japanese football player.
341||56||21||5||45||4||407||65
341||56||21||5||45||4||407||65

</doc>
<doc id="200659" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200659" title="Sorrento Calcio">
Sorrento Calcio

Sorrento Calcio is a football club which plays in Italy. They were founded in 1945.

</doc>
<doc id="200663" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200663" title="Takayoshi Ono">
Takayoshi Ono

Takayoshi Ono (born 30 April 1978) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Primeiro.
92||23||5||1||1||0||98||24
92||23||5||1||1||0||98||24

</doc>
<doc id="200669" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200669" title="Larissa F.C.">
Larissa F.C.

Larissa F.C. ("official name is AE Larissas 1964") is a football club which plays in Greece. The club based in the city of Larissa. It has won three titles totally, one Greek championship and two Greek cups. 

</doc>
<doc id="200677" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200677" title="Swing vote">
Swing vote

Swing voters are people who vote who do not always vote for the same party. Their vote is called a swing vote.
The swing vote is often closely studied when there are elections because it often decides who wins the election. In many elections parties try to convince the swing voters and the people who vote for the first time to vote for them. In contrast to the swing voters, there are other voters who have always voted for the same party in the past. A campaign for a vote therefore often focuses less on keeping the people who will always vote for their party; the parties spend more effort and money on convincing new people to vote for them.

</doc>
<doc id="200681" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200681" title="Volgograd">
Volgograd

Volgograd formerly called Tsaritsyn (1589–1925) and Stalingrad (1925–1961) is an important industrial city and the administrative center of Volgograd Oblast, Russia. It is 80 km long, north to south, on the western bank of the Volga River and has a population of 1.011 millon people. The city was made famous for its heroic resistance and extensive damage during the Battle of Stalingrad during World War II.
Volgograd developed from 1589 when the fortress of Tsaritsyn was founded at the confluence of the Tsaritsa and Volga Rivers. 
During the Russian Civil War the city was the scene of heavy fighting. Bolshevik forces occupied it during 1918, but were attacked by White forces.
Under Stalin, the city became heavily industrialized as a centre of heavy industry and trans-shipment by rail and river. During World War II, Stalingrad became the center of the Battle of Stalingrad as well as a turning point in the war against Germany. Essentially, the German offensive was checked at Stalingrad. The Battle of Stalingrad lasted from August 21, 1942 to February 2, 1943, where 1.7 million to 2 million Axis and Soviet soldiers were killed, wounded or captured, in addition to over 40,000 civilians killed. The city was reduced to rubble during the fierce fighting, but reconstruction began soon after the Germans were expelled from the city.
As of 2008, Volgograd has 21 sister cities:
A number of communities in France and Italy have streets or avenues named after Stalingrad, hence "Place de Stalingrad" in Paris and the Paris Métro station of Stalingrad.

</doc>
<doc id="200698" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200698" title="Problem of evil">
Problem of evil

The problem of evil is the question whether evil exists, and if so does it disprove the existence of God. Certain religions say there is a god who is all-loving, all-knowing and all-powerful. In these religions, the question to answer is how an all-loving and all-powerful god could allow evil to exist. 
Responses include the argument that if there is free will, evil must necessarily exist; that humans cannot understand God; that evil is simply being without god; or that there is evil because the world is corrupted and fallen (from grace). 
A version of the problem of evil, perhaps by Epicurus, goes as follows: 
Another argument goes: 
Arguments such as these are about the "logical" problem of evil. They attempt to show that the assumed propositions lead to a logical contradiction and cannot therefore all be correct. 
A common response is that God can exist with and allow evil in order to achieve a greater good. Some philosophers accept that arguments such as "God allows evil in order to achieve the greater good of free will" are logically possible and thus solve the logical problem of evil. Since the aim is only to defeat the assertion that God and evil are "logically incompatible", even a highly implausible instance of God's coexistence with evil is sufficient for the purpose.
Philosophies of science have approached the problem from the angle of empiricism. For logical positivism the issue with God is the lack of any independent method of verification. In their view, this makes the proposition "God exists", not true or false, but meaningless. A similar position points to the lack of any way the proposition might be falsified.

</doc>
<doc id="200700" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200700" title="Argument from inconsistent revelations">
Argument from inconsistent revelations

The Argument from inconsistent revelations (also known as Avoiding the wrong hell problem) is an argument that says that God probably does not exist. There are many religions which are based on revelations. The problem with these revelations is that they contradict each other. A person must either accept or reject at least one of these revelations in order to be part of a religious group. That way, accepting one means rejecting some (if not all) of the others. Unless the revelation is personal, the follower must to some extent rely on the judgment or the stories of others. Assuming the revelation is personal, the follower is still ignoring the revelations of those before him.
Christians believe that Jesus is the savior of the world and the son of God; Jews believe just as strongly that he is not. Similarly, Muslims believe that the Qur'an was divinely authored, while Jews and Christians do not. There are many examples of such contrasting views. Positions where one religion contradicts another, or where one group of people contradicts another are common. There are many denominations in Christianity who do not agree about many things.

</doc>
<doc id="200702" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200702" title="Deadlock">
Deadlock

A deadlock is a situation wherein two or more competing actions are waiting for the other to finish. As a consequence, neither ever does. It is often seen in a paradox like the "chicken or the egg."
In computer science, deadlock refers to a specific condition when two or more processes are each waiting for each other to release a resource. It can also be that more than two processes are waiting for a number of resources. Deadlock is a common problem in multiprocessing where many processes share a specific type of mutually exclusive resource known as a "software lock" or "soft lock". Computers intended for the "time-sharing" or "real-time" markets often have a "hardware lock" (or "hard lock") which guarantees "exclusive access" to processes. This forces the prforcing serialized access. Deadlocks are particularly troubling because there is no "general" solution to avoid (soft) deadlocks.
This situation may be likened to two people who are drawing diagrams, with only one pencil and one ruler between them. If one person takes the pencil and the other takes the ruler, a deadlock occurs when the person with the pencil needs the ruler and the person with the ruler needs the pencil to finish his work with the ruler. Both requests can't be satisfied, so a deadlock occurs.
The telecommunications description of deadlock is a little stronger: deadlock occurs when none of the processes meet the condition to move to another state (as described in the process's finite state machine) "and" all the communication channels are empty. The second condition is often left out on other systems but is important in the telecommunication context.

</doc>
<doc id="200706" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200706" title="Dido">
Dido

Dido Florian Cloud de Bounevialle O'Malley Armstrong (born 25 December 1971) is a female English singer who has released four albums. The singles "Here with Me", "Hunter", "Thank You", and "All You Want" came from "No Angel" (1999). "White Flag", "Life for Rent", "Don't Leave Home", and "Sand in My Shoes" came from "Life for Rent" (2003). "Don't Believe in Love", "Quiet Times", and "It Comes and It Goes" came from "Safe Trip Home" (2008). In 2013 Dido's fourth album "Girl Who Got Away" was released. She is of Frenchdescent.
Dido is married to Rohan Gavin.

</doc>
<doc id="200712" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200712" title="False analogy">
False analogy

A False analogy is an informal fallacy. It applies to inductive arguments. It is an "informal" fallacy because the error is about what the argument is about, and not the argument itself.
An analogy proposes that two concepts which are similar (A and B) have a common relationship to some property. A has property X, therefore B must also have property X. In a false analogy, the objects may have some similarities, but they do not both have property X. That way, both objects may have the same color, but this does not mean that they have the same size. Even if bananas and the sun appear yellow, one could not conclude that they are the same size. One who makes an invalid analogy or comparison is often said to be "comparing apples and oranges".
The following are examples of false analogies: 

</doc>
<doc id="200717" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200717" title="Lord Berners">
Lord Berners

Lord Berners, whose full name was Gerald Hugh Tyrwhitt-Wilson, 14th Baron Berners, (born Apley Hall, Shropshire, 18 September 1883; died Faringdon House, Berkshire, 19 April 1950), was a British composer of classical music, novelist and painter. He is usually called Lord Berners. He was an amateur composer who is remembered for his strange, eccentric behaviour.
Berners was born in Apley Hall, Bridgnorth, England. The Berners family were related to King Edward III of England. His father was a naval officer who was not often at home. He was looked after by his mother and grandmother who was very religious and very strict. Berners was very interested in lots of things, especially music, but his mother did nothing to help him.
At first he went to boarding school in Cheam. Then he went to Eton. He taught himself to compose. He became a diplomat and travelled to Rome and Constantinople. In 1919, when his uncle died, he became 14th Baron Berners and 5th Baronet. He had already composed some music which had been published under the name Gerald Tyrwhitt.
Berners lived an eccentric life. He lived in Berkshire but also had houses in London and Rome. He had plenty of money, so that he did not have to work. He had many friends, including the composers Stravinsky, Lambert and William Walton who dedicated his "Belshazzar’s Feast" to him.
Berners’s music is full of Romantic feeling, irony and parody. He wrote a lot for the theatre. He composed "The Triumph of Neptune" in 1926 for Diaghilev’s Ballets Russes. His music could often be described as light music. 
Berners started his strange behaviour when he was quite small. He had heard that a dog could be taught to swim by throwing it into water, so he decided to teach his dog to fly by throwing it out of the window. The dog was not hurt, but Berners was given a beating.
He was often naughty, making silly traps for people. He was sent to boarding school in Cheam when he was nine. There he had a gay relationship with an older boy. He was then sent to Eton College. Berners said that he learned nothing there.
Later, when he was grown up, he painted pigeons at his house and once he even had a giraffe as a pet so that he could have tea with it. He travelled in a Rolls-Royce and kept a clavichord under the front seat. 
He died in 1950 at Faringdon House, leaving his estate to his partner Robert ('Mad Boy') Heber Percy, who lived with him at Faringdon.
His epitaph on his gravestone reads: 

</doc>
<doc id="200744" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200744" title="Ang Lee">
Ang Lee

Ang Lee (born 23 October 1954) is a Taiwanese movie director. He has directed movies like "Eat Drink Man Woman", "Sense and Sensibility", "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon", "Hulk" and "Brokeback Mountain". He has won Academy Awards (Oscars) for "Brokeback Mountain" and 'Life of Pi'.
Ang Lee was born in 1954 in a town called Chaozhou, Pingtung in Taiwan. He went to the National Tainan First Senior High School where his father was the principal, and then to the National Arts School. He graduated in 1975. In 1979, he went to the United States and studied theater at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. He got his Master's degree at New York University, and he worked there with another famous director called Spike Lee.

</doc>
<doc id="200748" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200748" title="Gustav Klimt">
Gustav Klimt

Gustav Klimt (14 July 1862 – 6 February 1918) was an Austrian Symbolist painter. He was one of the most prominent members of the Vienna Secession movement. His major works include paintings, murals, sketches, and other art objects. Many of them are on display in the Vienna Secession gallery. Klimt's primary subject was the female body, and his works are marked by a frank eroticism — nowhere is this more apparent than in his numerous drawings in pencil (see "Mulher sentada", below).
Klimt died of influenza in Vienna.

</doc>
<doc id="200749" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200749" title="Spike Lee">
Spike Lee

Spike Lee (born March 20, 1957) is an American movie director, producer, screenwriter, and actor. He also teaches movie at New York University and Columbia University. Lee has acted in many of his own movies.
Lee was born Shelton Jackson Lee in 1957 in Atlanta, Georgia. His mother was a teacher, and his father was a jazz musician. When Lee was very young, the family moved to live in Brooklyn, New York City. His mother gave him the nickname "Spike".
The first movie Lee directed was "She's Gotta Have It". Lee directed the two music videos for Michael Jackson's single "They Don't Care About Us". In 2002 Lee won the Special Award at the BAFTAs.

</doc>
<doc id="200756" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200756" title="Cuba Gooding, Jr.">
Cuba Gooding, Jr.

Cuba Gooding Jr. (born January 2, 1968) is an American actor. He is best known for his role in movie "Jerry Maguire" alongside Tom Cruise, for which Gooding won an Academy Award. He was also in the movies "Boat Trip", and "Snow Dogs".
Gooding was born in New York City. His father is singer Cuba Gooding, Sr.. The family moved to Los Angeles, California in 1972. Gooding has been a born-again Christian since he was 13.

</doc>
<doc id="200765" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200765" title="Swift Current, Saskatchewan">
Swift Current, Saskatchewan

Swift Current is a city in Saskatchewan. It is on the Trans Canada Highway 170 kilometers (107 mi) east of Moose Jaw. 14,946 people live there.

</doc>
<doc id="200772" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200772" title="Richard Feynman">
Richard Feynman

Richard Feynman (11 May 1918 - 15 February 1988) was an American physicist. He was born in Far Rockaway, Queens, New York City. He was part of the Manhattan Project team that made the atomic bomb. Feynman won the Nobel Prize in Physics 1965. He was one of the first people to study quantum physics. Feynman added significantly to a branch of science called quantum electrodynamics. He died of liposarcoma in Los Angeles, California.
His sister Joan Feynman (born 1927) is a retired astrophysicist.
Feynman wrote some best-selling autobiographies, and his lecture notes became popular with physics students and qualified professionals.

</doc>
<doc id="200793" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200793" title="Louis XVIII of France">
Louis XVIII of France

Louis XVIII, the desired (1755– 1824), king of France from April 1814 to March 1815 and again from July 1815 to September 1824. He ascended the throne when the monarchy was restored after the overthrow of Napoleon I and ruled as a constitutional sovereign. Born in Versailles, he was the brother of Louis XVI of France and in early life was known as the comte de Provence. He remained in Paris after the outbreak of the French Revolution in 1789 but escaped to Belgium two years later. After Louis XVI's execution in 1793 he proclaimed himself regent, and after the death of his brother's heir, Louis XVII, in 1795, he took the title Louis XVIII. He lived as an exile in various European countries until he became king after Napoleon's first abdication in 1814. On Napoleon's return to power in 1815, however, Louis again fled to Belgium; later the same year he was restored to the throne after Napoleon's final defeat at Waterloo. The Charter, or constitution, that he promulgated in 1814 established a bicameral legislature, property qualifications for voters, and limitations on freedom of the press. 
Prior to being proclaimed King he was known as the Count of Provence ("comte de Provence") 

</doc>
<doc id="200798" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200798" title="Louis XVII of France">
Louis XVII of France

Louis XVII of France (Louis Charles; 27 March 1785 - 8 June 1795) was the King of France and Navarre from 1793 to 1795. He never actually ruled. He is also known as Louis Charles, Duke of Normandy and Fils de France (son of France).
Louis Charles of France was born at the Palace of Versailles. He was the second son and the third child of King Louis XVI and Marie Antoinette of France. He became Dauphin of France after the death of his elder brother Louis Joseph in 1789. 
As a child he and his parents took a trip to Normandy and in honour of the well received visit the young prince was given the title of Duke of Normandy. 
After his father's death, he became what they called "King of France" while exiled with his mother. In 1795, he died of an unknown causes during the French Revolution. An autopsy was carried out at the prison. Following a tradition of preserving royal hearts, his heart was taken out. It was kept by the one of the examining doctors, Philippe-Jean Pelletan. 
Louis Charles's body was buried in a mass grave. Dr. Pelletan was also shocked at all the scars from bad-treatment towards Louis, such as whipping, all over the front and back of him, as well as on his arms, legs, and feet.

</doc>
<doc id="200803" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200803" title="Race (sociology)">
Race (sociology)

The term race or racial group refers to dividing the human species according to physical characteristics that are inherited. The most widely used human racial types are those based on visual traits (such as skin colour, cranial, facial features, or type of hair).
When classifications of human races were first done, there were relatively few inter-racial marriages. Since then the number of mixed-race people has increased greatly. For them, the old structure does not work well. Official forms, such as the census, usually ask people to describe their ethnic origin. This is a way of saying "what racial group do you think you are?"
Some scientists argue that although race is a safe taxonomic concept in other species, it cannot be applied to humans.
More recent genetic studies show that skin colour may change a lot over as few as 100 generations, or about 2,500 years.
Johann Friedrich Blumenbach's classification, first proposed in 1779, was widely used in the 19th century, with many variations.
By about the First World War the scientifically inclined Europeans were sub-dividing the 'White race' in to three or four supposed sub-races, which were:
There was much prejudice based upon this way of looking at the world. The Europeans and Orientals both regarded themselves as superior to the other skin colours. Racism, a non-scientific theory or ideology, was that a particular race was superior or inferior. It argued that in the races that make up the human race, there are deep, biologically determined differences. It also states races should live separately and not intermarry. A supporter of racism is called a racist. These attitudes in turn supported the horrors of African slavery, Apartheid, the Jim Crow laws, Nazism and Japanese imperialism.
The mid 20th century racial classification by American anthropologist Carleton S. Coon, divided humanity into five races:
In his landmark book "The Races of Europe", Coon defined the Caucasian Race as including Europe, Central Asia, South Asia, the Middle East, North Africa, and Northeast Africa. His work drew some charges of obsolete thinking or outright racism from a few critics, but some of the terminology he employed continues to be used even today, although the "-oid" suffixes now have in part taken on negative connotations.
In the 21st-Century, Coon's role came under further critical scrutiny when Prof. John P Jackon Jr, noted that the American Coon, "actively aided the segregationist cause in violation of his own standards for scientific objectivity.".
Social Darwinism refers to various ideologies based on a concept that competition is active among all individuals, or even whole nations as social evolution in human societies.
It is a social adaptation of the theory of natural selection as proposed by Charles Darwin. "Natural selection" explains success in various animal populations as the outcome of competition between individual organisms for limited resources. This idea is popularly known as "survival of the fittest", a term first used by Herbert Spencer, not Darwin.
Fascist movements have commonly held social Darwinist views of nations, races, and societies InNazi Germany, the Nazis used social Darwinism to promote their racialist idea of the German nation was part of the Aryan race and believed in the competition of races. The Nazis tried to strengthen the ‘Aryan race’ in Germany by murdering those they regarded as inferior. By this they meant Jews, Slavs, gypsies and disabled people.
It was believed until recently that race and IQ were connected. The fact that environment, such as schooling and alcohol consumption/boozing has a significant effect on IQ undermines the case for the use of IQ data as a source of genetic information.
This prejudice was partially applied in Europe and the USA to the Australian Aborigines, Amerindians, Blacks, Gypsies, Russians and Russia's Chechens tribes.
In biology, a race is a population, a group within a species. The race will show differences from other groups in the species, but not so much as to form a subspecies. A subspecies is a formal category in the biological classification system; a race is not.

</doc>
<doc id="200810" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200810" title="Ford Laser">
Ford Laser

The Ford Laser was an automobile sold by Ford Motor Company between 1981 and 1999.
It was offered in four bodystyles; a three-door hatchback, five-door hatchback, four-door saloon and five-door estate.
This was primarily sold in the Oceania region of the world. However, some were sold in Latin America, and these were versions of the Mazda 323 sold under the Ford Laser name.

</doc>
<doc id="200812" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200812" title="Pixie Lott">
Pixie Lott

Victoria Louise "Pixie" Lott (born 12 January 1991) is an English singer-songwriter, dancer and actress. Her first single "Mama Do" was released in June 2009. It went straight to number one in the UK Singles Chart. Her second single "Boys and Girls", also went to the top of the UK charts in September 2009. Her first album "Turn It Up" was released in September 2009. It reached number six on the UK Albums Chart. The album had Top 20 singles. Over a million copies of the album were sold. Her second album, "Young Foolish Happy", was released on 14 November 2011. "All About Tonight", the first single from that album, entered the charts at number one on 17 September 2011. It later became her third UK number one hit.
Many good things are said about her live performances and style. In July 2010, Lott was a guest judge for the auditions for the seventh series of "The X Factor" in Cardiff. She replaced Dannii Minogue, who was on maternity leave.
Lott released "Boys and Girls" as her first US single on 24 August 2010. The release happened at the same time as her first movie, "" was shown on television. In January 2010, Lott was named one of 2010's "Faces to Watch" by the American magazine, "Billboard".
Pixie was born in Bromley. She lived in Petts Wood and then Bickley. All three are suburban areas of south-east London. Her mother gave her the nickname "Pixie" because she was born "such a tiny, cute baby who looked like a fairy". She started singing in her church school and when she was five she went to the Italia Conti Associates Saturday school in Chislehurst. She later went to the main school – Italia Conti Academy of Theatre Arts – at 11. While there, she was got a scholarship. At the age of 13, Lott moved with her family to Brentwood. During her time as a student she was in the West End production of "Chitty Chitty Bang Bang" at the London Palladium, and in BBC One's "Celebrate the Sound of Music" in 2005, aged 14, as Louisa von Trapp. At the age of 14, she was part of the chorus on Roger Waters's opera "Ça Ira". Lott did not go to school much during this time because she was making her album but says she got straight 'A' grades in her GCSEs.
She was voted No. 45 in 2010 and No. 31 in 2011 in "FHM"'s 100 Sexiest Women list.
She says Mariah Carey and Whitney Houston had large effects on her style of singing.
In 2006, at the age of 15, she sang for L. A. Reid. He then signed her to the Island Def Jam Music Group. After a change of managers many different record labels wanted her to sing for them. Lott left the Island Def Jam Music Group. She began working with Mercury Records in the UK and Interscope Records in the U.S. She formed a publishing deal, as a songwriter, with Sony/ATV Music Publishing in December 2007. This was as the same time that she was writing and recording tracks for "Turn It Up".
Lott played her first festival concert in the Big Top at the Isle of Wight Festival 2009. This took place during her first full British tour. She was on tour to support The Saturdays on The Work Tour.
Lottt released her first single, "Mama Do", on 8 June 2009. The video was directed by Trudy Bellinger. It was released to MySpace. The video had over three million views on YouTube. It entered both the iTunes chart and UK Singles Chart at number one. The song had over 50,000 sales when it entered the charts. Lott said she was shocked at how well the single did. The song was also recorded in Simlish for Electronic Arts' "The Sims 3". It spent one week at number one. The song was in the top fouty for eleven weeks and spent eighteen weeks in the top seventy five. The single also did well outside the UK. It was in the top forty in eleven other countries. It was number eight in Denmark and number ten in France. The single was hit "silver" by the British Phonographic Industry on 28 August 2009 after it sold over 200,000 copies in the United Kingdom. On 15 August 2009, Lott performed at Asia's very first MTV World Stage Live in Malaysia concert. Other groups at that concert included Hoobastank, The All-American Rejects, Kasabian, Boys Like Girls, Estranged and Raygun. Lott's second single "Boys and Girls" was released on 6 September 2009. It became No. 1 on the UK Singles Chart on 13 September 2009. During the week that it became number one, the single sold just under 50,000 copies. It spent nineteen weeks in the top seventy-five and eight weeks in the top forty. The music video for the song was directed by Diane Martel.<ref name="directer/quotes"></ref> The song was released was also released as her first single in the United States.
Lott's third single from the album was "Cry Me Out". It was released on 23 November 2009. The music video was directed by Jake Nava. He had also directed videos for Beyoncé, Leona Lewis and Shakira. The video was made in Cuba. The fourth single, "Gravity", was released on 8 March 2010. Its video had already been shown on Channel 4 on 6 February 2010. Lott won two MTV EMA Awards for "Best UK & Ireland Act" and "Best Push Artist" (best break through artist). Lott won a "Cosmopolitan" 2009 Ultimate Women Award for Ultimate Newcomer. In 2009, Lott won The Caron Keating Breakthrough Talent Award at The Variety Club Awards.
"The Way The World Works", from Lott's first record was used in the U.S. medical drama "Private Practice". Lott was chosen as the face of Nokia's "Illuvial Pink Collection" mobile phone. Lott was nominated for British Breakthrough Act, British Female Solo Artist and British Single at the 2010 BRIT Awards. She was also the opening act of Rihanna's Last Girl on Earth Tour in the UK 7–26 May 2010. Lott also performed at the V Festival in August 2010.
The fifth single from Lott's album, "Turn It Up", was released on 7 June 2010. Lott recorded a song for the movie "Street Dance 3D". The song was "Live For The Moment". It was also on the soundtrack for the movie. On 23 May 2010, Lott performed at the Radio 1 Big Weekend in Bangor, North Wales. On 4 July 2010 she performed at T4 on the Beach in Weston-super-Mare.
Lott has written a song for Alexandra Burke's first album, "Overcome". The song is "You Broke My Heart". She also wrote a song for Girls Can't Catch named "Happy Alone". This song was a free Christmas download on their website. She also has written two tracks on Lisa Lois's album. Lois was the Dutch X Factor's winner. These two songs were "No Good For Me" and "Promises, Promises". They where the first and second singles from that album.
Lott was cast as Judy, Fred Figglehorn's love interest, in the movie "". The comedy was released on America's Nickelodeon network on the 18 September 2010.
Lott's second album, "Young Foolish Happy" was to be released on 7 November 2011. It was actually released on 14 November 2011. On 17 September, Lott said that the album would have collaborations with Stevie Wonder and John Legend. The first single from the album, "All About Tonight", was played on BBC Radio 1's "The Chris Moyles Show" on 11 July 2011. The single was released on 4 September. It started at number . This was her third UK number 1 single. The second single was "What Do You Take Me For?". The rapper Pusha T also performed on this single. Its music video was first shown on 6 October 2011. The single could be downloaded on 4 November 2011.
Lott was a contestant in the 2014 series of "Strictly Come Dancing".

</doc>
<doc id="200813" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200813" title="Rube Goldberg machine">
Rube Goldberg machine

A Rube Goldberg machine is a machine that looks complicated but has a very simple function. It is an expression used to identify something that does very simple tasks in a very complex way. The expression was named after American inventor Rube Goldberg (1883–1970).
same

</doc>
<doc id="200831" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200831" title="Renato Dirnei Florêncio">
Renato Dirnei Florêncio

Renato Dirnei Florêncio (born 15 May 1979) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Sevilla.
155||17
147||20
302||37
!Total||28||0

</doc>
<doc id="200832" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200832" title="Ulises de la Cruz">
Ulises de la Cruz

Ulises de la Cruz (born 8 February 1974) is an Ecuadorian football player. He has played for Ecuador national team.
270||29
4||0
32||2
100||2
406||33
!Total||98||6

</doc>
<doc id="200833" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200833" title="Iván Hurtado">
Iván Hurtado

Iván Hurtado (born 16 August 1974) is an Ecuadorian football player. He plays for Deportivo Quito and Ecuador national team.
211||12
208||3
15||0
13||3
64||3
511||21
!Total||165||5

</doc>
<doc id="200836" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200836" title="F.C. Bunyodkor">
F.C. Bunyodkor

F.C. Bunyodkor is a football club which plays in Uzbekistan.

</doc>
<doc id="200840" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200840" title="Naoya Ohashi">
Naoya Ohashi

Naoya Ohashi (born 23 July 1987) is a Japanese football player. He plays for NEC Tokin.
1||0||0||0||1||0
1||0||0||0||1||0

</doc>
<doc id="200841" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200841" title="Jaromír Blažek">
Jaromír Blažek

Jaromír Blažek (born 29 December 1972) is a Czech football player. He plays for Sparta Prague.
38||0
358||0
25||0
421||0
!Total||14||0

</doc>
<doc id="200842" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200842" title="Tomáš Jun">
Tomáš Jun

Tomáš Jun (born 17 January 1983) is a Czech football player. He plays for Austria Wien.
149||43
22||1
14||8
185||52
!Total||10||2

</doc>
<doc id="200847" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200847" title="Ukrainian Premier League">
Ukrainian Premier League

The Ukrainian Premier League is a football league which is the top division in Ukraine. Current champions are FC Shakhtar Donetsk

</doc>
<doc id="200849" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200849" title="Susumu Oki">
Susumu Oki

261||37||18||4||29||6||308||47
261||37||18||4||29||6||308||47

</doc>
<doc id="200850" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200850" title="Cho Woo-Jin">
Cho Woo-Jin

Cho Woo-Jin (born 7 July 1987) is a South Korean football player.
0||0||1||0||0||0||1||0
0||0||1||0||0||0||1||0

</doc>
<doc id="200851" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200851" title="Tatsuro Kimura">
Tatsuro Kimura

Tatsuro Kimura (born 24 June 1984) is a former Japanese football player.
48||19||6||3||2||0||56||22
48||19||6||3||2||0||56||22

</doc>
<doc id="200857" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200857" title="Neva, Wisconsin">
Neva, Wisconsin

Neva is a town of Langlade County in the state of Wisconsin in the United States. 994 people were living in Neva as of 2000. Neva has an area of 37.7 square miles.

</doc>
<doc id="200871" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200871" title="Albanian Wikipedia">
Albanian Wikipedia

The Albanian Wikipedia is the Albanian language edition of Wikipedia. This edition was started in October 2003. It currently has over 44,400 articles.

</doc>
<doc id="200875" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200875" title="Resignation">
Resignation

A resignation is when someone quits or gives up the office they hold. Many times someone resigning will give a resignation speech explaining why they resigned and what their plans are for the future.

</doc>
<doc id="200882" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200882" title="Jerome Bettis">
Jerome Bettis

Jerome Bettis (born February 16, 1972) is a former American football player. He was a running back for the Pittsburgh Steelers. He is now retired. His nickname is "The Bus".
Jerome Bettis was picked in the first round (10th overall) of the 1993 NFL draft by the Los Angeles Rams. On July 22, 1993, Bettis signed a three-year $4.625 million contract with a signing bonus over $2 million. He was named a First-Team All-Pro and Offensive Rookie of the Year. He rushed for over 1,000 yards in each of his first two seasons with the Rams.
Governor Jennifer M. Granholm of the State of Michigan declared February 1, 2006 to be Jerome Bettis Day.

</doc>
<doc id="200902" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200902" title="Plinian eruption">
Plinian eruption

A Plinian eruption is a kind of volcanic eruption which is similar to that of Mount Vesuvius in the year 79 AD. It is named after Pliny the Younger who wrote the only surviving eyewitness account of the eruption. That eruption of Vesuvius killed Pliny the Elder, the uncle of Pliny the Younger.
Plinian eruptions have columns of gas and volcanic ash high into the stratosphere. There is a large amount of pumice into the atmosphere and very powerful gas blast eruptions.
Short eruptions can end in less than a day. Longer ones can take several days to months. These eruptions begin with clouds of volcanic ash and occasionally pyroclastic flows. Sometimes the amount of magma erupted is so large that the top of the volcano collapses. This leaves a caldera behind. Fine ash can deposit over large areas. Plinian eruptions often happen with loud noises, such as those created by Krakatoa.
Some examples of large Plinian eruptions that formed calderas include the following:
The lava is usually rhyolitic and has a lot of silicates. Basaltic lavas are unusual for Plinian eruptions; the most recent example is the 1886 eruption of Mount Tarawera.
Pliny wrote about what his uncle's did after first seeing the eruption:
Pliny the Elder went to rescue some of the victims. He sailed across the Gulf of Naples to Stabiae (near the modern town of Castellammare di Stabia). Pliny the Younger wrote an account of his death, and suggested that he collapsed and died through inhaling poisonous gases emitted by the volcano. His body was found buried under the ashes of the Vesuvius with no apparent injuries on 26 August, after the plume had dispersed. This confirmed the death through asphyxiation or poisoning.

</doc>
<doc id="200908" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200908" title="Crater (constellation)">
Crater (constellation)

Crater () is a constellation. In Latin it means cup. It is a constellation in Greek mythology (Apollo). It was one of the 48 constellations listed by the 1st century astronomer Ptolemy, and remains one of the 88 modern constellations. It is located in the Southern Hemisphere.
The name "Crater" is taken from a Greek myth. In the story, a crow or raven serves Apollo. It is sent to get water, but it rests lazily on the journey. After finally getting the water in a cup, it takes back a water snake as well, as an excuse. According to the myth, Apollo saw through the trick and angrily cast the cup, crow, and snake into the sky. The constellations of Corvus the crow and Hydra the water-snake are also taken from this myth.

</doc>
<doc id="200916" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200916" title="1973 Atlantic hurricane season">
1973 Atlantic hurricane season

The 1973 Atlantic hurricane season began on June 1, 1973 and ended November 30, 1973. However, there may have been up to four tropical depression before June 1. There were no famous hurricanes this year.
This list is the names that were set aside for Atlantic tropical cyclones in 1973. Names that did not get used are marked in .
This list is the names for the Subtropical storms in 1973. Names that did not get used are marked in .
No names got retired this year.

</doc>
<doc id="200917" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200917" title="1975 Atlantic hurricane season">
1975 Atlantic hurricane season

The 1975 Atlantic hurricane season began June 1, 1975 and ended November 30, 1975. However, Subtropical Storm Two lasted during December. A famous hurricane from 1975 would be Hurricane Eloise, which caused nearly $500 million in damage when it hit the Florida Panhandle.
This list is the names that were set aside for Atlantic tropical cyclones in 1975. Names that were used are marked in .
The name Eloise was later retired.

</doc>
<doc id="200924" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200924" title="Elmer Fudd">
Elmer Fudd

Elmer Fudd is a fictional hunter who tries to hunt Bugs Bunny and Daffy Duck. He appears on the animated cartoon series "Looney Tunes".

</doc>
<doc id="200928" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200928" title="Diane Sawyer">
Diane Sawyer

Lila Diane Sawyer (born December 22, 1945) became the first female newscaster on the CBS television news program "60 Minutes". She was a co-anchor of ABC's morning news program "Good Morning America", and was the anchor of "ABC World News Tonight" until 2014. She became anchor in 2009 after Charles Gibson left the show.

</doc>
<doc id="200929" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200929" title="Mark Harmon">
Mark Harmon

Mark Harmon (born September 2, 1951) is an American actor. He has been acting since the 1970s. Since 2003, he has played Gibbs on the CBS crime series "NCIS".

</doc>
<doc id="200930" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200930" title="Ľubomír Luhový">
Ľubomír Luhový

Ľubomír Luhový (born March 31, 1967) is a former Slovak football player. He has played for the Czechoslovak national team and the Slovak national team.
113||47
64||33
102||62
16||8
21||3
306||153
!Total||2||0
!Total||9||0

</doc>
<doc id="200931" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200931" title="Kenji Oshiba">
Kenji Oshiba

Kenji Oshiba (born 19 November 1973) is a former Japanese football player.
167||39||11||2||22||7||200||48
167||39||11||2||22||7||200||48

</doc>
<doc id="200932" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200932" title="Yuya Iwadate">
Yuya Iwadate

Yuya Iwadate (born 25 May 1985) is a Japanese football player.
81||11||4||0||85||11
81||11||4||0||85||11

</doc>
<doc id="200933" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200933" title="U.S. Sassuolo Calcio">
U.S. Sassuolo Calcio

U.S. Sassuolo Calcio is a football club which plays in Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="200934" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200934" title="Gallipoli Calcio">
Gallipoli Calcio

ASD Gallipoli Football 1909 is a football club which plays in Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="200938" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200938" title="Hideki Maeda">
Hideki Maeda

209||35
209||35
!Total||65||11

</doc>
<doc id="200939" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200939" title="Jiří Štajner">
Jiří Štajner

Jiří Štajner (born 27 May, 1976) is a Czech football player. He plays for Hannover and Czech Republic national team.
143||50
199||36
342||86
!Total||32||4

</doc>
<doc id="200940" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200940" title="Vratislav Lokvenc">
Vratislav Lokvenc

Vratislav Lokvenc (born 27 September 1973) is a former Czech football player. He has played for Czech Republic national team.
17||0
201||82
171||54
45||9
6||0
440||145
!Total||74||14

</doc>
<doc id="200942" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200942" title="A.S. Andria BAT">
A.S. Andria BAT

A.S. Andria BAT is a football club which plays in Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="200953" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200953" title="Gwar">
Gwar

Gwar (usually written as GWAR) is an American satirical thrash metal/punk band formed in 1984. They are best known for their very strange monster costumes and using vulgar language in their songs. Their obscene stage performances, which involve violence, slaughter, profanity and obscene comments about politics, are meant to scare, frighten, shock and amuse people. They have won a Grammy Award.
Gwar first formed in 1984 in Richmond, Virginia. The band was made up of Joey Slutman (Joey Byalwec) vocals, Oderus Humongous (Dave Brockie) lead guitar, Balsac The Jaws of Death (Steve Douglas) bass guitar and backing vocals, and Hans Spincter (Sean Summer) drums.
However the group has had many changes. Joey Byalwec left the band in 1986 eventually making Oderus Humongous no longer the group's guitar player but GWAR's permanent vocalist and Balsac the Jaws of Death no longer the band's bass guitarist But the band's Backup vocalist.
After many long years of practicing, GWAR released their first album, "Hell O!" in 1988 on Shimmy Disc Records. With a few new members and characters. The group for "Hell O!" were Oderus Humongous (Dave Brockie) lead vocals, Flattus Maximus (Dewey Dowell) lead guitar, Nippelus Erectus (Rob Mosky) drums, Beefcake the Mighty (Michael Bishop) bass guitar, and Balsac the Jaws of Death (Steve Douglas) on backing vocals.
A year later in 1989, Gwar released their first live CD "RAW-GWAR" showing the band with their very 1st fans and their morbid, violent graphic and political and taboo related stage performances.
In 1990 Gwar released their second album, "Scumdogs of The Universe". They left Shimmy Disc Records and recorded for Metal Blade Records. Gwar's music changed from hardcore punk, in "Scumdogs of the Universe" they have more of a crossover thrash/punk rock sound. The band's first album, "Hell O!", did not have any famous songs, but Scumdogs includes Gwar's first two famous songs, "Sick of You" and "King Queen"
The day after the release of Scumdogs, the band released their second live CD, "Live From Antarctica". In 1991 the band released their first music video, a video of "Sick of You".
GWAR released their third and most controversial album "America Must Be Destroyed" in 1992. Certain songs on the album were described as "raunchy" and "disturbing". This album was the first without Steve Douglas as the character Balsac the Jaws of Death. He was replaced by Mike Derks, who is still the current Balsac character. 
Their fourth album, "This Toilet Earth", was recorded in 1994. It is considered to be the most strangest album it contains elements of Crust,Punk,Grindcore,Horror Punk, Traditional Punk Rock,Heavy Metal, Thrash Metal and Hard rock heavily influenced by the early 1980's Thrash metal groups Metallica,Slayer and Anthrax.
GWAR's 5th studio album Ragnarok was released in 1995 it contains an experimental combination of Crossover Thrash and Funk rock.
Gwar's 6th album Carnival of Chaos was released in 1997. It is considered to be the most experimental GWAR album ever released it was the last album to feature Pete Lee as Flattus Maximus. 
We Kill Everything
Gwar's 7th album released in 1999 "We Kill Everything" is considered to be the band's breathrough CD. It is considered to be the lousiest album ever released by the band. It is the first album to feature Greg Ottinger as Flattus Maximus. It turs out Gwar has revisited their Hardcore Punk/Scum rock sound from the 1980's. Gwar fans despised the album. 
So in 2001 GWAR returned to their thrash metal sound after releasing their eighth CD "Violence Has arrived. It also revisited the brutal sound and violent themes similar to their earlier albums. 
In 2004 GWAR released their first Greatest hits CD entitled Let There be GWAR as well as releasing their 9th studio release "War Party."
2006-2009-Present
In 2006 Gwar released their 10th album Beyond Hell was released it included GWAR's very first cover song:A remake of American rock artist Alice Cooper's famous 1972 song "Schools Out." 
Gwar released their 11th and most recent album Lust in Space in 2009. 
Their 12th album "Bloody Pit of Horror"was released on November 10th 2010. 

</doc>
<doc id="200958" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200958" title="S.S.D. Licata 1931">
S.S.D. Licata 1931

Associazione Sportiva Dilettantistica Licata 1931 is a football club which plays in Italy.

</doc>
<doc id="200959" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200959" title="F.C. AlzanoCene 1909">
F.C. AlzanoCene 1909

F.C. AlzanoCene 1909 is a football club which plays in Italy. The club was founded in 2007 with the merger between A.S.D. Football Club Alzano 1909 from Alzano Lombardo and Ardens Cene from Cene.
After the merger in 2007, the name of the club was chaged to FC AlzanoCene 1909. Before the merger, each of the 2 clubs that were merged had several names:

</doc>
<doc id="200969" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200969" title="Giuseppe Mazzini">
Giuseppe Mazzini

Giuseppe Mazzini (1805 – 1872), known as the soul of Italy, as an Italian patriot, philosopher, Freemason and politician. His efforts helped bring about the modern Italian state[2] in place of the several separate states, many dominated by foreign powers, that existed until the 19th century. He also helped define the modern European movement for popular democracy in a republican state.
Karl Marx, on an interview by R. Landor in 1871, said that Mazzini's ideas represents "nothing better than the old idea of a middle-class republic." Marx believed, especially after the Revolutions of 1848, that this middle class point of view had become reactionary and the proletariat had nothing to do with it.

</doc>
<doc id="200974" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200974" title="Jean Auguste Dominique Ingres">
Jean Auguste Dominique Ingres

Jean Auguste Dominique Ingres (29 August 1780 – 14 January 1867) was a French Neoclassical painter. Although he considered himself a painter of history in the tradition of Nicolas Poussin and Jacques-Louis David, by the end of his life it was Ingres's portraits, both painted and drawn, that were recognized as his greatest legacy.

</doc>
<doc id="200975" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200975" title="Charles X of France">
Charles X of France

Charles X (1757-1836), king of France and Navarre (1824-30). He was the grandson of Louis XV and younger brother of kings Louis XVI and Louis XVIII. Charles was known as Charles Philippe, Count of Artois, until he became king. During the French Revolution he was one of the leaders of the émigrés. Note, however, that the family name remained "d'Artois" even when he used the name "Bourbon."
Charles-Philippe was born in 1757, the youngest son of the Dauphin Louis Ferdinand, and his wife, the Dauphine Marie Josèphe, at the Palace of Versailles. Charles was named comte d'Artois at birth by his grandfather, the reigning King Louis XV. As the youngest male in the family Charles seemed unlikely ever to become king.
Charles' father died in 1765, which left Charles' oldest surviving brother, Louis Auguste (the later Louis XVI), to succeed their father in the capacity of Dauphin, the French equivalent to a crown prince or heir apparent. Charles' mother, Marie Josèphe, never recovered from the loss of her husband and she died in March 1767 from tuberculosis. This left Charles an orphan at the age of nine.
Throughout the 1770s, Charles spent lavishly. He accumulated enormous debts (they totalled 21 million livres), which Louis XVI paid for him in the early 1780s. Their brother the comte de Provence also accumulated debts of a similar magnitude, which Louis XVI also paid off.
His political awakening started with the first great crisis of the monarchy in 1786, after which he headed the reactionary faction at the court of Louis XVI. The comte d'Artois supported the removal of the aristocracy's financial privileges, but was opposed to any reduction in the social privileges enjoyed by both the Church and the nobility.
When the French Revolutionary Wars broke out in 1792, Charles escaped to Great Britain. King George III of Great Britain welcomed the comte d'Artois warmly, and gave him a generous allowance. He lived in Edinburgh and London with his mistress Louise de Polastron. After the accession (1814) of Louis XVIII to the French throne, Charles returned to France, where he headed the ultraroyalist party of reaction.
Charles' first act as King of France was to grant the style of Royal Highness to his cousins of the cadet branch of the House of Bourbon, the Orléans. Because the Duke of Orleans had voted the death of his brother Louis XVI, Louis XVIII had greatly disliked the Orléans family. However, Charles intended it to create a unified House of Bourbon.His favoritism during his reign toward the Roman Catholic Church and the aristocracy aroused great opposition, leading to the revolution of July 1830. 
Charles X is a strong believer in absolutism and rejected the Charter of the French Liberties, which is issued by his predecessor and brother Louis XVIII. In July 1830, he suspended the legislature, limited the right to vote, and restricted the press. Liberals and radicals responded forcefully to the absolute king. In Paris, angry citizens threw up barricades across the narrow streets. Others fired the soldiers and throw stones and roof tiles. The revolutionary tricolor flew from the towers of Notre Dame cathedral. Charles was forced to abdicate. He again went into exile in Britain. He was succeeded by his cousin, Louis-Philippe, son of the Duke of Orleans who had supported the French Revolution.
Charles caught cholera when he arrived in Gorizia, Italy. He died on November 6 1836. The townspeople draped their windows in black to mourn him. Charles was buried in the Church of the Annunciation of Our Lady, in the Franciscan Kostanjevica Monastery (now in Nova Gorica, Slovenia).
Charles X married Princess Maria Teresa of Savoy, the daughter of Victor Amadeus III of Sardinia and Maria Antonia of Spain on 16 November 1773. The couple had four children:

</doc>
<doc id="201010" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201010" title="Foghat">
Foghat

Foghat is a British rock band who was most popular in the 1970s and 1980s. They are best known for their song "Slow Ride".

</doc>
<doc id="201020" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201020" title="NBA Jam">
NBA Jam

NBA Jam is an arcade basketball video game. The game was released in 1993. It was both developed and published by Midway. The gameplay for "NBA Jam" is based on the 1989 video game "Arch Rivals", which was another 2-on-2 basketball video game. The game is very popular in popular culture.
In the game if you enter a specific code you can unlock Bill Clinton. It is 2 on 2 arcade basketball.

</doc>
<doc id="201024" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201024" title="Irkutsk">
Irkutsk

Irkutsk is a city in Russia. It was founded in 1661. It is named after the Irkut River. It is one of the largest cities in Siberia. 

</doc>
<doc id="201030" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201030" title="Fleetwood">
Fleetwood

Fleetwood is a town within the Wyre district of Lancashire, England. It lies at the northwest corner of the Fylde. It had a population of 26,840 people at the 2001 Census. It is part of the Blackpool Urban Area. The town was the first planned place of the Victorian age. In the twentieth century, Fleetwood was a major deep-sea fishing port, but, since the 1970s, the fishing industry has declined. The town has slowly become poor. Fleetwood is also a seaside resort.

</doc>
<doc id="201031" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201031" title="The Fylde">
The Fylde

The Fylde is a coastal plain in western Lancashire, England. It is 13-mile (20-kilometre) square-shaped peninsula. It is bounded by Morecambe Bay to the north, the Ribble estuary to the south, the Irish Sea to the west, and the Bowland hills to the east. The eastern boundary is near the M6 motorway.

</doc>
<doc id="201037" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201037" title="Muslim League (Pakistan)">
Muslim League (Pakistan)

The Pakistan Muslim League was founded in 1962, as a successor to the previously disbanded Muslim League in Pakistan. Unlike the original PML which ended in 1958 when General Ayub Khan banned all political parties, each subsequent Muslim League was in some way propped by the military dictators of the time: Ayub Khan, General Zia-ul-Haq and General Pervez Musharraf. Every time the pro-establishment political leaders were put together, who splintered apart when the general's blessings faded away. 
Currently, Pakistan Muslim League refers to any of the these political parties in Pakistan:
Historically, Pakistan Muslim League can also refer to any of the following political parties in Pakistan:
Recently Pakistan Muslim League (PML-Q) made headlines when on 31 December 2007, armed men belonging to the party kidnapped the human rights lawyer, Asma Jahangirs daughters who were in company of some friends, at gun point and brought them to the PML-Q main election office. The girls were detained illegally, abused, severely beaten. Asma's youngest daughter was then dragged off to a separate room by some of the gunmen. Asma Jahangir only barely managed to rescue her daughters and their friends and called the police for assistance. The girls had been out filing ripped and torn election posters in Lahore City in the aftermath of the assassination of Benezir Bhutto. The police took the side of the gunmen, insisting that the girls hand over the tape, or else they would be kidnapped, raped and killed.

</doc>
<doc id="201045" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201045" title="Leon Redbone">
Leon Redbone

Leon Redbone (born August 26, 1949) is an American singer and guitarist. He plays mostly jazz and blues.
Redbone sang the theme to the television series "Mr. Belvedere". He was a semi-regular musical guest on NBC's "Saturday Night Live" throughout the late 1970s. He last appeared on the show in 1983. During the 1980s and '90s Redbone was a frequent guest on "The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson". He has also been a guest on A Prairie Home Companion. 

</doc>
<doc id="201048" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201048" title="Yarmouth Clam Festival">
Yarmouth Clam Festival

The Yarmouth Clam Festival is a yearly event in Yarmouth, Maine. It started in 1965 to raise money for around forty local non-profit organizations, churches, and school groups. The event lasts three days. It is held the third weekend in July. 
Yarmouth has around 9,000 people. During the Festival the town has about 120,000 people visit over the course of the weekend.

</doc>
<doc id="201049" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201049" title="Fireflies (song)">
Fireflies (song)

Fireflies is an electro pop song by Owl City. The song has reached #1 status on the Canada SoundScan, Danish Singles Chart, Dutch Top 40 and the U.S. Billboard Hot 100.

</doc>
<doc id="201051" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201051" title="Steve Kerr">
Steve Kerr

Steve Kerr (born September 27, 1965 in Beirut, Lebanon) is a retired NBA basketball player that played for the Phoenix Suns from 1988 to 1989, Cleveland Cavaliers from 1989 to 1992, Orlando Magic from 1992 to 1993, Chicago Bulls from 1993 to 1998, San Antonio Spurs from 1998 to 2001 and again in 2002 to 2003 and the Portland Trail Blazers from 2001–2002. He played college basketball at the University of Arizona and was drafted by the Phoenix Suns with the 50th overall pick in the second round of the 1988 NBA Draft. Kerr won the NBA Championship five times, three times with the Chicago Bulls and twice with the San Antonio Spurs. His father who was an academic who specialized in the Middle East was assassinated by suspected militant nationalists in Beirut where Steve was born. Steve also has two cousins Jeff and Tom. Jeff writes for the Daily Local in West Chester PA. Tom is an accountant

</doc>
<doc id="201081" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201081" title="Mark Oliver Everett">
Mark Oliver Everett

Mark Oliver Everett (born 10 April 1963) is an American singer and musician. His is better known by his alternate persona Mr. E or Eels. He began calling himself Mr E. as a teenager because it sounded "mysterious." Also, many of his friends made fun of him because his initials spelled out "MOE". Evert is best known for his rock band, Eels.
Unlike most rock bands, Eels rarely plays with the same combinations of members twice. Mark Everett is the only constant member. He is the only one who plays on every single album and live show. All other members are friends of his who add other instruments to the albums and concerts. Most of them are in other bands, such as Aysa and Chloe from the pop band Smoosh. Many do not use their real names, as Everett does. For example, bassist Koool G Murder performed on the albums "Souljacker" and "Hombre Lobo", and has played bass at most shows on the tours for both albums.
Each Eels concert is different. Most feature the members who perform the song on the album playing the instruments that they did on that song. Many are acoustic sets. Everett sings and plays piano all by himself. A lot of songs that Eels perform live are covers (songs written by other people), and songs that have never appeared on any albums.
Mark Everett's father was Hugh Everett III, a scientist who was the first person to propose the idea that our universe is just one of several connected "alternate" universes. At the time (1954), no one believed Everett, and he considered himself a failure. He died when Mark was 19.
Mark's first album was called Bad Dude in Love (1985). It was self-released, meaning that Everett recorded and designed the packaging for the entire album all on his own, selling only five hundred copies to a few friends. That album was the first and last to be released under his full name, Mark Oliver Everett. His next album, A Man Called E (1992) was released only as E, and sold many more copies than Bad Dude in Love. Because many critics did not know who E was, they were confused by the album's title, but the album still sold well.
Everett's next album as E was Broken Toy Shop (1993). The cover art, which depicts Everett sitting in the center of a toy city, has been said to be his least favorite album cover out of all his releases. This would be Everett's last album using his real name or his pseudonym E, as Eels' first album, Beautiful Freak, featuring bassist Tommy Walter and drummer Butch, was released in 1996.
In 1998, Everett became the only living member of his family after his mother died of lung cancer. His sister had died of suicide in 1996. He wrote 16 songs about his sadness that later became his next Eels album, Electro-Shock Blues, featuring Butch from the last album. Butch and Everett would also be the only members to appear on 2000's Daisies of the Galaxy.
In 2001, Everett participated in a philosophical vacation on which he was not alllowed to write or speak for religious reasons. Finding himself inspired, he broke the rules and wrote 12 songs that would later become Souljacker, with Koool G Murder, Butch, Joe Gore, John Parish, and Adam Siegel. During this time, he had stopped shaving, and his beard had begun to grow very long, as shown in this picture. Today, Everett’s beard is even longer, and the most recent Eels album (Hombre Lobo – Spanish for werewolf, featuring Koool G Murder and Knuckles) features songs that Everett wrote about how the beard made him look and feel more “dangerous.”
Following Souljacker, Eels released Shootenanny!, an album that drew a lot of negative attention to the band (at the time consisting of E, Butch, Joe Gore, and Koool G Murder) for Everett’s inappropriate behavior at press events to support the album. In an interview with an Australian television show about rock music, Everett joked about the interviewer waking him up after having sex with a prostitute and doing heroin the night before. Also, Everett was asked to write a review of the diaries of Kurt Cobain (who had died eight years before); his review was a single sentence: “Please don’t do this to me after I die.” Eels’ subsequent release, Blinking Lights and Other Revelations, a double-disc concept album about a journey through life but not in a chronological order, was much more well received.
In addition to these studio albums, Eels has also released one Best Of collection, six live albums, two collections of unreleased material, a book by Everett about his father (and a subsequent documentary film that aired on BBC), and has written songs for eleven movies, including all three Shrek films.

</doc>
<doc id="201082" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201082" title="Grendel">
Grendel

Grendel is one of the three antagonists in the poem "Beowulf". Grendel is usually taken to be some kind of monster, though this is the subject of scholarly debate. In the poem, Grendel is feared by all but Beowulf, who kills him and his mother at the end of the poem.

</doc>
<doc id="201090" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201090" title="List of Category 5 Atlantic hurricanes">
List of Category 5 Atlantic hurricanes

A Category 5 hurricane is a hurricane that winds get over 155 mph. This page is a list of the Category 5 hurricanes in the Atlantic Ocean. Due to older technology, there may have been Category 5 hurricanes before 1900. There are no records of a Category 5 hurricane before 1900. The season with the most Category 5 hurricanes was in 2005, which had four. 
Category 5 hurricanes are very destructive and many Category 5 hurricanes get their names retired after the season. Of the named Category 5 Atlantic hurricanes only 4 of them have not had their name retired, the four names are: Cleo (1958), Ethel (1960), Edith (1971), and Emily (2005 Atlantic hurricane season|2005). 
This is the list, it is ordered by year of the Category 5 hurricane.
<onlyinclude>
</includeonly></onlyinclude>
! colspan="6" align="center"|1950s
! colspan="6" align="center"|1960s
! colspan="6" align="center"|1970s
! colspan="6" align="center"|1980s
! colspan="6" align="center"|1990s
! colspan="6" align="center"|2000s

</doc>
<doc id="201091" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201091" title="Jump River (town), Wisconsin">
Jump River (town), Wisconsin

Jump River is a town of Taylor County in the state of Wisconsin in the United States. 311 people were living in Jump River as of 2000. Jump River has an area of 36 square miles.

</doc>
<doc id="201093" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201093" title="Bulletproof Monk">
Bulletproof Monk

Bulletproof Monk is an action movie starring Chow Yun-Fat. It is loosely based on the comic book by Michael Avon Oeming.

</doc>
<doc id="201118" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201118" title="La Roux">
La Roux

La Roux (pronounced /laˈruː/) is a British electropop synth duo made up of singer-songwriter and keyboardist Elly Jackson, and synth player, co-writer and co-producer Ben Langmaid. Their music is influenced by 1980s synthpop including Yazoo, The Human League, Heaven 17 and Blancmange.
Since 2008, La Roux has released a few singles. including Bulletproof, which debuted at #1 on the UK Singles Chart. They released a self-titled album in 2009. It on the Grammy Award for Best Electronic/Dance Album in 2011. Their next album "Trouble in Paradise" is going to be released on July 7 2014. It will have a more acoustic sound.

</doc>
<doc id="201138" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201138" title="Granny Smith">
Granny Smith

A Granny Smith apple is a sour tasting green apple. Granny Smith's are crisp, juicy, tart apples which are excellent for eating raw and cooking with.

</doc>
<doc id="201149" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201149" title="Metal detector">
Metal detector

Alexander Graham Bell invented the metal detector in 1881 in a crude attempt to find the bullet lodged in President James Garfield's body. The metal detector worked and he is still remembered for it today.

</doc>
<doc id="201173" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201173" title="Yom Kippur">
Yom Kippur

Yom Kippur is a Jewish festival. It is also known as the "day of atonement". It lasts 25 hours. During this period, Jews ask God to forgive them for all their sins. People fast on this day, and they have to go to synagogue. Other things people are not allowed to do during Yom Kippur include washing, using perfumes and lotions. Many wear white as a symbol of purity. It is also considered to be a fun holiday to enjoy oneself to the fullest, but only after they have atoned 
Yom Kippur is the tenth day of the month of Tishrei in the Hebrew calendar. In Jewish tradition, God writes the fate of each person for the coming year into a "book" on Rosh Hashanah. God waits until Yom Kippur to "seal" the fate. During the Days of Awe, a Jew tries to amend his or her behavior. They will also seek forgiveness for wrongs done against God ("bein adam le'Makom") and wrongs done against other human beings ("bein adam lechavero"). The evening and day of Yom Kippur are used for public and private confessions of guilt ("Vidui"). At the end of Yom Kippur, a Jew considers themselves absolved by God.
The Yom Kippur prayer service includes several special parts. One of them is the number of prayer services. A regular day has three prayer services (Ma'ariv, the evening prayer; Shacharit, the morning prayer; and Mincha, the afternoon prayer). A Shabbat or Yom Tov has four prayer services (Ma'ariv; Shacharit; Musaf, the additional prayer; and Mincha). Yom Kippur has five prayer services (Ma'ariv; Shacharit; Musaf; Mincha; and Ne'ilah, the closing prayer). The prayer services also include a public confession of sins ("Vidui") and a unique prayer dedicated to the special Yom Kippur avodah (service) of the Kohen Gadol in the Holy Temple in Jerusalem.
Yom Kippur is one of the holiest of Jewish holidays and it is observed by many Jews who may not observe other holidays. Many Jews fast and attend synagogue on Yom Kippur, where the number of worshippers attending is often double or triple the normal attendance. Many other Jews choose not to fast.

</doc>
<doc id="201177" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201177" title="Subsolar point">
Subsolar point

The subsolar point on a planet is when its sun looks like it is directly overhead (in zenith). For planets with a rotation like the Earth's, the subsolar point will move westward, circling the globe once a day.

</doc>
<doc id="201178" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201178" title="Hurricane Dennis">
Hurricane Dennis

Hurricane Dennis was the second hurricane and the first major hurricane of the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season. Dennis struck in the United States near where Hurricane Ivan less than a year before. On July 10 Dennis became the strongest hurricane before August, this record was held by Hurricane Audrey in 1957, meaning the record was not beaten for 48 years. Only six days later, July 16, Hurricane Emily because even stronger then Dennis, therefore beating the record again. Dennis left 89 deaths and $4 billion in damage.
Because the damage was heavy the name Dennis was retired. In 2011 the name Don is on the list instead. 

</doc>
<doc id="201179" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201179" title="Black dwarf">
Black dwarf

A black dwarf is a kind of star. A black dwarf is created when a white dwarf star becomes too cool. Then it can no longer create large amounts of heat and light. The star will dim and become black. Black dwarfs are not confirmed to exist because it takes longer than the current age of the universe (13.8 billion years) for a white dwarf to become one.

</doc>
<doc id="201180" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201180" title="Hurricane Frances">
Hurricane Frances

Hurricane Frances was the sixth tropical storm, fourth hurricane, and third major hurricane of the 2004 Atlantic hurricane season. Frances was one of the four hurricanes to have a major impact of the U.S. state of Florida in 2004. Frances made landfall near the same location Hurricane Jeanne would make landfall in about two weeks later. Frances caused about 101 tornadoes from Florida to Virginia. Frances left 49 deaths and $12 billion in damage.
Because of the damage it caused in the United States, the name Frances was retired in the spring of 2005 by the World Meteorological Organization, and will never again be used for an Atlantic hurricane. In 2010 the name Fiona is on the list instead.

</doc>
<doc id="201181" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201181" title="Patent troll">
Patent troll

A patent troll is an unkind phrase used to describe a company or person that owns a patent and tries to get other people to pay a lot of money for the right to use the patent. The patent troll usually asks for an amount of money that is less than defending a lawsuit. 
A patent troll is different from other patent owners for two reasons. First, the patent troll usually does not make or sell any products itself. Second, a patent troll is also not usually the inventor. The patent troll instead buys the patent from other companies, and, usually, very cheap because the other company was going out of business.
Patent trolls make a lot of people unhappy because the money paid is a lot like a tax. The term troll itself is meant to invoke the image from fairy tales of a mean monster living under a bridge that makes people pay to cross the bridge.

</doc>
<doc id="201211" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201211" title="Marek Heinz">
Marek Heinz

Marek Heinz (born 4 August 1977) is a Czech football player. He plays for Kapfenberger SV.
131||41
89||6
18||3
44||5
0||0
282||55
!Total||30||5

</doc>
<doc id="201212" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201212" title="Gakuya Horii">
Gakuya Horii

Gakuya Horii (born 3 July 1975) is a former Japanese football player.
236||39||14||9||13||2||263||50
236||39||14||9||13||2||263||50

</doc>
<doc id="201218" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201218" title="House of Bonaparte">
House of Bonaparte

The House of Bonaparte is an imperial and royal European dynasty founded by Napoleon I of France in 1804, a Corsican military leader who rose to power and transformed the French Republic into the French Empire. The dynasty ruled from 1804 to 1815 and again from 1852 to 1870. Current head Jean-Christophe Napoléon is ironically from a Bourbon mother.
Napoleon Bonaparte is the most significant person associated with the Bonaparte family because he created the First French Empire that conquered much of Europe in the early 19th century. He was elected as first consul of France on November 10, 1799 with the help of his brother, Lucien Bonaparte, speaker of the Council of Five Hundred. He later crowned himself Emperor of the French in December 2, 1804 and King of Italy in May 26 1805. He then made his elder brother Joseph (1768–1844) king of Naples (1806–1808) and then of Spain (1808–1813), his third brother Louis, king of Holland (1806–1810), and his youngest brother Jerome Bonaparte, king of Westphalia(1807-1813). 
Napoleon's son Napoleon François Charles Joseph (1811–1832) was created king of Rome (1811–1814) and was later styled Napoleon II by loyalists of the dynasty, though he only ruled for two weeks after his father's abdication. Charles Louis Napoléon (1808–1873), son of Louis Napoléon, was president of France in 1848 and emperor in 1852 until 1870, reigning as Napoléon III. A political movement for Corsican independence surfaced in the 1990s which included a Bonapartist restoration in its programme.

</doc>
<doc id="201245" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201245" title="Jet Li">
Jet Li

Li Lianjie (born April 26, 1963), better known by his stage name Jet Li, is a Chinese martial artist, actor, wushu champion, and movie star. He currently lives in Singapore.

</doc>
<doc id="201249" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201249" title="Neotropical Pygmy Squirrel">
Neotropical Pygmy Squirrel

Neotropical Pygmy Squirrel, "Sciurillus pusillus", is a very small squirrel species from South America. It is the only living member of the genus Sciurillus and the subfamily Sciurillinae.

</doc>
<doc id="201251" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201251" title="I'm Breathless">
I'm Breathless

I'm Breathless" - Music from and Inspired by the movie "Dick Tracy is the second soundtrack album by American singer-songwriter Madonna, released on May 22, 1990, by Sire Records.

</doc>
<doc id="201253" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201253" title="Burnout Legends">
Burnout Legends

Burnout Legends is the fifth game in the popular "Burnout" franchise, specifically released for the PlayStation Portable on September 13, 2005, and the Nintendo DS on November 29, 2005.

</doc>
<doc id="201255" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201255" title="Like a Virgin">
Like a Virgin

Like A Virgin is the second studio album by American singer-songwriter Madonna. It was released on November 12, 1984 by Sire Records.

</doc>
<doc id="201259" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201259" title="Blue, Arizona">
Blue, Arizona

Blue is a small unincorporated community in the U.S. state of Arizona. It is in Greenlee County.
The community was first named for Nat Whittum, an original settler who was killed at the site in 1891. A post office was made at Whittum in 1894. Its name was changed to Blue in 1898. It is close to the Blue River.

</doc>
<doc id="201263" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201263" title="Ricardo Zonta">
Ricardo Zonta

Ricardo Luiz Zonta (born March 23, 1976 in Curitiba) is a Brazilian racecar driver.

</doc>
<doc id="201264" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201264" title="Jenson Button">
Jenson Button

Jenson Alexander Lyons Button, MBE (born 19 January 1980 in Frome, Somerset) is a British Formula One driver currently signed to McLaren Mercedes. Button won the Formula One World Drivers' Champion in 2009. His father John Button (1943-2014) was a racing driver.
In 2000, Button joined the BMW WilliamsF1 Team at the age of 20, with Ralf Schumacher. He became the youngest driver to score a point at the Brazilian Grand Prix. He scored points six times during 2000, his highest place finish being in Germany where he finished fourth. His highest place on the grid for the start of the race was 3rd position in Belgium. He scored 12 points that year, and finished 8th in the championship. 
In 2001, he changed teams to the Benetton team, and raced alongside Giancarlo Fisichella. He did not have much success. His best finish was 5th place at Hockenheim. Some people thought that Button would move teams because of his bad results, but stayed at the team for 2002, which was now called Renault. His results were much better than in 2001, scoring in the points many times and doing better than his teammate Jarno Trulli. He almost scored a podium result in Barcelona, but could not finish the race. Even though Button was doing well, Briatore signed Fernando Alonso for 2003, and Button had to find a new team. In July 2002, he signed for the BAR team, and would race with Jacques Villeneuve, who won the championship in 1997. Button finished the season in seventh with fourteen points, just ahead of Trulli. 
 Season in progress.
 Season in progress.

</doc>
<doc id="201266" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201266" title="British American Racing">
British American Racing

British American Racing was a Formula One constructor that competed in the sport from 1999 to 2005. BAR began by acquiring Tyrrell, and used Supertec engines for their first year. Subsequently they formed a partnership with Honda which lasted for the next six years.

</doc>
<doc id="201268" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201268" title="Bruce McLaren">
Bruce McLaren

Bruce Leslie McLaren (30 August 1937 – 2 June 1970) was a race-car designer, driver, engineer and inventor.
He was born in Auckland, New Zealand.

</doc>
<doc id="201270" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201270" title="Stirling Moss">
Stirling Moss

Sir Stirling Craufurd Moss OBE (born 17 September 1929 in London) is an English retired racing driver. His success in a variety of categories placed him among the world's elite – he is often called "the greatest driver never to win the World Championship". In 1957 he won the Pescara Grand Prix. Moss was knighted in 1999. 

</doc>
<doc id="201276" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201276" title="Christijan Albers">
Christijan Albers

Christijan Albers () (born April 16, 1979 in Eindhoven) is a Dutch racing driver. After success in the DTM he drove in Formula One from until the 2007 British Grand Prix, shortly after which he was dropped by his Spyker F1 team. In 2008, he returned to the DTM-series as a driver for the Audi Futurecom TME-team.

</doc>
<doc id="201277" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201277" title="Michele Alboreto">
Michele Alboreto

Michele Alboreto (23 December 1956 – 25 April 2001 ) was an Italian racing driver. He was born in Milan. He is famous for finishing runner up to Alain Prost in the 1985 Formula One World Championship, as well as winning the 1997 24 Hours of Le Mans and 2001 12 Hours of Sebring sports car races. Alboreto competed in Formula One from until , racing for a number of teams, most notably the Ferrari factory team.
He was killed in an accident on a racetrack in Klettwitz, Brandenburg, Germany.

</doc>
<doc id="201283" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201283" title="Satoru Nakajima">
Satoru Nakajima

Satoru Nakajima (Japanese name: 中嶋 悟 ; born February 23, 1953) is a Japanese professional athlete. He is best known as a racecar driver.
He is the father of two sons who are also racecar drivers. Kazuki Nakajima and Daisuke Nakajima are each Formula One competitors.

</doc>
<doc id="201286" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201286" title="James Blunt">
James Blunt

James Blunt (born James Hillier Blount, 22 February 1974) is an English singer-songwriter whose debut album, "Back to Bedlam", and single releases, especially "You're Beautiful", brought him to fame in 2005. His repertoire is a mix of pop, rock and acoustic-tinged soft rock. Recording for Linda Perry's independent American label Custard Records, Blunt won two BRIT Awards and two Ivor Novello Awards, and was nominated for five Grammy Awards in 2006. He released his second album "All The Lost Souls", in 2007. James Blunt was also in the British Army until 2002.

</doc>
<doc id="201287" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201287" title="Gerhard Berger">
Gerhard Berger

Gerhard Berger, (born August 27, 1959 in Wörgl) is an Austrian former Formula One racing driver, who used to own 50% of the Scuderia Toro Rosso Formula One team until he sold his share back to energy drink owner Dietrich Mateschitz.

</doc>
<doc id="201293" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201293" title="Monarch (butterfly)">
Monarch (butterfly)

The monarch butterfly ("Danaus plexippus") is an insect in the Nymphalidae family. It is the best-known butterfly in North America.
Monarchs are known for their long annual migrations. In North America, they travel long distances south in the fall, and north in the spring. They start to migrate south in about August. They must get to frost-free areas. Freezing will kill them. A migration towards the north starts in the spring. 
No single individual makes the whole round trip. The monarch is famous for its southward migration and northward return in summer. The migration north spans the life of three to four generations of the butterfly. A longer-lived "super generation" flies from the northern-most parts of the butterfly's range in Canada all the way to Mexico. It overwinters in the south, and breeds in the spring to start the next generation flying north. The following reference gives a map of the migration routes.
The monarch caterpillar is banded with yellow, black, and white stripes. The head is also striped with yellow and black. There are four black body extensions, two on each end of the body. They look similar to antennae. The caterpillar will be as long as 5 centimeters (2 inches).
The monarch butterfly has a wingspan that ranges from 8.9 to 10.2 centimeters (3½ to 4 inches). 
The upper side of the wings are orange with black edges and veins. There are white spots in the black wing margins. The male has a spot on his bottom wing. The spot gives out scents which attract females. The viceroy butterfly ("Limenitis archippus") is similar. It has an extra black band across the bottom wing. The underside of the wings is a tan-orange color with black veins. The wing margins are black with white spots in them.
A white form of the monarch has been seen in Australia, New Zealand, Indonesia and the United States. It has been seen as early as 1896. It was named "nivosus" by lepidopterists (a lepidopterist is a person who studies butterflies and moths). It is grayish white in all areas of the wings that are normally orange. The white form makes up about 1% or less of all monarchs except for on Oahu, Hawaii where it has kept populations as high as 10%. The existence of two or more forms of a species in the same area is quite common, and is called polymorphism.
In North America, the monarch is found from southern Canada to northern South America. It sometimes wanders to western Europe, sometimes as far as Greece. It reaches Europe from being transported by USA ships. It can also wander to Europe by flying there if weather and wind conditions are right. It has also been found in Bermuda, Hawaii, the Solomons, New Caledonia, New Zealand, Australia, New Guinea, Ceylon, India, the Azores, and the Canary Islands.
Monarch butterflies are known for their long annual migration. In North America, they make large migrations towards the south starting in August until the first frost. A migration towards the north takes place in the spring. No single individual makes the whole round trip. Female monarchs lay eggs for the next generation during these migrations.
By the end of October, the monarchs that are east of the Rocky Mountains migrate to Mexico. Many thousands from the Great Lakes region pass through Point Pelee National Park. They migrate to the sanctuaries of the Mariposa Monarca Biosphere Reserve in the Mexican states of Michoacán and Mexico. Most of the monarchs that are west of the Rocky Mountains do not travel all the way down to Mexico. Instead, they overwinter (spend the winter) in many places in central and southern California.
While in Mexico, the monarchs gather in very large numbers to rest. They perch on suitable trees and bushes by clinging (hold on to tightly) with their feet. They cling to each other making layers and layers of resting Monarchs overwintering. This was discovered by Fred Urquhart of the University of Toronto, who studied monarch butterflies for nearly forty years. He knew the Monarchs migrated because he would stop seeing them after a certain time of the year. He put a label on each Monarch he found. On this label was his name, address, and a request to send him the butterfly if it was found.
A few months later, people from all over North America and Mexico began returning his labelled butterflies to him. Mexico was the southernmost area from which he had received a butterfly, so he started traveling there to look for the Monarchs. For many years, he traveled to Mexico. There he climbed through jungles, walked through forests, and talked to the people he found. He finally heard there was a place west of Mexico City where people had seen lots of monarchs all together. After a long search, he finally found millions of monarch butterflies covering every part of the area.
During the spring migration, the population that is east of the Rocky Mountains may reach as far north as Texas and Oklahoma. The second, third and fourth generations return to their northern places in the United States and Canada in the spring.
The Monarch can be found in many different kinds of habitats. When it is breeding, it is found in habitats with milkweed (a kind of plant). Some of these habitats include, fields, meadows, prairies, parks in or near cities, gardens, and roadsides. The monarch can be found in almost any kind of habitat during migration. It overwinters in pine, cypress, and eucalyptus groves in California. It overwinters in fir forests and pine groves in Mexico.
Much of the monarch's breeding habitat is not good anymore. In some states and provinces, milkweed is thought to be a weed. In these places, the milkweed is killed to keep livestock from eating it and becoming sick. With fewer milkweed plants, the monarch does not have as much habitat to breed in.
Habitat destruction has been a concern as the number of monarch butterflies that completed an annual migration to their winter home in a Mexican forest sank in 2013 to its lowest level in at least two decades, due mostly to extreme weather and changed farming practices in North America. The Mexican forest occupied by the butterflies, once as high at 50 acres, dwindled to 2.94 acres in the annual census conducted December 2012.
The monarch butterfly goes through complete metamorphosis.
The female lays her eggs one by one. They are laid on the underside of the leaves of caterpillar's food plant. The eggs are light yellow. Freshly laid eggs are creamy-white. After three to four days, they turn dark gray. The egg usually weighs about 0.54 milligrams. It is about 1.2 millimeters long. Its diameter is about 0.87 millimeters (average on 55 eggs).
The caterpillar hatches out of the egg. The young caterpillar is a gray-black color with a black head. After the first molt (shedding its skin) the caterpillar is banded with yellow, black, and white stripes. The head is also striped with yellow and black. There are four black body extensions, two on each end of the body. They look similar to antennae. The caterpillar will reach a length of 5 centimeters (2 inches). The caterpillar eats the leaves and flowers of the food plant. It make no nests or shelters. It grows very quickly, and because of this, it molts four to five times.
After the caterpillar molts one last time, it makes a chrysalis. A chrysalis is not the same as a cocoon. The monarch caterpillar attaches its back end (posterior) to a support, and hangs downward in the shape of the letter 'J'. The inside of the caterpillar's body begins to change and it splits its skin to form the blue-green chrysalis. The blue-green chrysalis has a band of black and bright gold near the top. There are other gold spots lower down. After spending many weeks in the chrysalis, the adult finally comes out as a butterfly.
The viceroy ("Limenitis archippus") is similar to but is smaller than the monarch. It has an extra black band across the bottom wing that the monarch does not have.
The queen ("Danaus gilippus") is dark reddish-brown instead of orange. It does not have black veins. There are white spots on the top wing submarginal (near the edge of the wing) area. These spots are on both the upper side and the underside.
The soldier ("Danaus eresimus") is also dark reddish-brown instead of orange. It has thin, black veins. The underside of the bottom wing has a dark center. It has light brown, square-shaped spots around the dark center.
Monarchs are bad-tasting and poisonous because they contain a chemical known as cardenolide (cardiac glycoside). The chemical slows the heart-beat of vertebrates. Monarch caterpillars get this chemical when they feed on milkweed. 
When the monarch becomes a butterfly, it no longer eats milkweed, but it still has the chemical in its body. The butterfly shows that they are not good to eat with their bright orange and black wings. This is warning coloration. A bird may try to eat a monarch, but it will become sick and vomit after eating it. After this experience, the bird learns not to eat another monarch, and also any other butterfly which is similar in appearance. The viceroy is similar looking to the monarch, but does not have the milkweed poison in its body. Birds that have had the bad experience of eating a monarch will usually not eat a viceroy. It is an example of Müllerian mimicry.
Overwintering Monarchs in Mexico are often eaten by black-headed grosbeaks. These birds are immune to the glycoside. Other birds, such as orioles and jays, have learned to eat only the thoracic muscles and the body parts inside the abdomen. These parts have less poison than the rest of the body. Some mice are also immune to large amounts of the poison. Over time, overwintering monarchs become less poisonous. This makes them more likely to be eaten by predators. In Mexico, about 14% of the overwintering Monarchs are eaten by birds and mice.
On Oahu, Hawaii, there is a white form of the Monarch. This is because two species of birds have been introduced. The two birds are known as the red-vented bulbul and the red-whiskered bulbul. They were introduced in 1965 and 1966. They are now the most common insectivorous birds. They are probably the only birds that eat insects as big as the monarch. Monarchs in Hawaii have low cardiac glycoside levels, but the birds may be immune to the chemical. The two bird species eat the caterpillars and sometimes the chrysalids. They look for them on branches and the underside of leaves in milkweed bushes. The birds also eat resting adults and egg-laying females. They eat flying monarchs less often. The white form has a higher chance of living than the orange one. The white form does not fit the birds' search image of a normal monarch, and so it is not eaten. This kind of defense is known as apostatic selection. The white form is also camouflaged in patches of light shining through groups of leaves.
Parasites include the tachinid flies "Sturmia convergens" and "Lesperia archippivora". Caterpillars that have the "Lesperia archippivora" maggots inside them will finish their last molt. They will then hang upside down on a horizontal surface. They die before they turn into a chrysalis. At that time one white maggot comes out of the caterpillar. The maggot then forms a brown pupa on the ground.
The bacteria "Micrococcus flacidifex danai" also infects the caterpillar and causes “black death”. Just before turning into a chrysalis, the caterpillar will find a horizontal surface. They die a few hours later. The body turns black shortly after. The bacteria "Pseudomonas aeruginosa" causes infections in weakened insects. It is a common cause of death in insects that are raised in laboratories.
The monarch is the state insect of Alabama, Idaho, Illinois, Minnesota, and Texas. It is the state butterfly of 
Vermont and West Virginia. 
It was nominated in 1990 as the national insect of the United States of America. It was nominated along with the honeybee ("Apis mellifera"). However, the legislation did not pass.
Many people like to attract monarchs by growing a butterfly garden with the plant "Asclepias physocarpa". Others like raising them for fun or for educational purposes. have been made for migrating Monarchs. The sanctuaries are found at the monarch's favorite overwintering places. These migrations can create a lot of tourism revenue.
Many schools also enjoy caring for monarchs. They start with caterpillars. When the caterpillars mature into butterflies, they are then set free into the wild.
Some organizations, such as the Cape May Bird Observatory, have monarch labeling programs. Labels are placed on the wing of the butterfly. The labels have information on them. This helps scientists track the monarchs during their migration. It also helps the scientists study the paths that the monarchs take on their migration.
Adult Monarchs have been seen on a number of different nectar plants. Here is a list of some of them:
Males will also take in water and minerals from damp soil and small, wet rocks. This is known as "puddling". The Monarch has also been seen puddling at an oil stain on pavement.
Here is a list of plants that the Monarch caterpillar eats:

</doc>
<doc id="201303" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201303" title="Naturalism (philosophy)">
Naturalism (philosophy)

Naturalism is "the idea or belief that nothing exists beyond the natural world". It is the belief that "the natural world is the whole of reality". The term was first used this way in English in 1750.
It is a kind of philosophy called metaphysical, because it covers everything: "nature is all there is, and all basic truths are truths of nature". 
All the things and powers which are commonly called supernatural, such as God, souls or witchcraft do not exist, according to this position. 
Methodological or scientific naturalism is concerned with practical methods for acquiring knowledge. 
Many scientists use the scientific method for their research. Hypotheses are be explained and tested only by reference to natural causes and events.
Explanations for observations are only useful when they are based on hypotheses of natural causes. An explanation that relies on a natural mechanism that works according to certain rules is usable. Explanations that need miracles to work are not.
Methodological naturalism is the principle underlying all of modern science. Some philosophers extend this idea, so that it applies to all of philosophy as well. Science and philosophy, according to this view, are said to form a continuum. W.V. Quine, George Santayana, and other philosophers have advocated this view.
A number of other philosophical ideas are similar to naturalism:

</doc>
<doc id="201304" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201304" title="Heinz Sielmann">
Heinz Sielmann

Heinz Sielmann (June 2 1917 in Rheydt, Germany – October 6 2006 in Munich) was a world famous wildlife photographer, zoologist and documentary filmmaker.
Heinz Sielmann was degree in Biology and specialized in Zoology, in 1940, at the Imperial Posen University (Poland).
His work includes award-winning movies like "Lords of the Forest" (better known in the USA under its title "Masters of the Congo Jungle" (1959), the English version narrated by Orson Welles, "Galapagos - Dream Island in the Pacific" (1962), "Vanishing Wilderness", and "The Mystery of Animal Behavior". 
His series "Expeditionen ins Tierreich" ("Expeditions into the Animal Kingdom") broadcast on national German Television from 1965 to 1991, made him well known in Germany.

</doc>
<doc id="201305" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201305" title="Green Screen">
Green Screen

Green Screen is an international wildlife movie festival. Since 2007 it takes place every year in Eckernförde, Germany. The festival shows full-length and short movies about animals. It is the only festival of its kind in Germany.
The awarded trophy is made of natural sand.
The festival also shows classic nature documentaries.
Since 2008 a special prize for filmmakers is named after the famous filmmaker Heinz Sielmann.

</doc>
<doc id="201306" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201306" title="Lars Petrus">
Lars Petrus

Lars Petrus (born in 1960) is a speedcuber from Sweden. He invented a method of solving the Rubik's Cube very quickly. He became the Swedish national champion of speedcubing in 1982. He finished fourth overall at the first official Rubik's Cube World Championships held in Budapest. He later published his own special method, known as the Petrus method, on the internet.
Official website

</doc>
<doc id="201312" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201312" title="The Rite of Spring">
The Rite of Spring

The Rite of Spring ("Le Sacre du Printemps") is a ballet in two parts. The entire ballet was a concept developed by Igor Stravinsky. He wrote the music. The set and costumes were designed by Nicholas Roerich. The dances, which Stravinsky hated, were designed by Vaslav Nijinsky. Stravinsky complained that Nijinsky had no understanding of the rudiments of music. 
The ballet was first performed by Diaghilev's Ballets Russes at the Theatre du Champs-Élysées in Paris on 29 May 1913. The dress rehearsal met with approval from critics and invited guests, but the premiere was greeted with tumult and riot only stilled by the performance of Marie Piltz as the sacrificial maiden. Subsequent performances were received with growing appreciation, but the ballet's great difficulties forced it to be presented only six times. 
The ballet was revived in 1920 by the Ballets Russes, but the music had been performed in its entirety in concert before the revival. Nijinsky's dances had been forgotten so Leonide Massine (who had not seen the original performances) designed the dances anew. These met with Stravinsky's approval. In 1940, Walt Disney used the music to accompany a segment of the animated movie "Fantasia". This segment depicted lumbering dinosaurs and smoldering volcanoes.
The music lasts about 40 minutes, and is divided into two parts. It has the subtitle "Pictures from Pagan Russia". Stravinsky had the idea of composing music which was about country people from old times in Russia who danced a fertility rite. This means: a ceremony which is supposed to bring good luck to the next year’s harvest. In this ancient Russian dance, one young girl is chosen to dance and dance until she dies. She is the sacrifice. She is sacrificed to the god of spring.
The painter Nicholas Roerich talked with Stravinsky about the idea for this ballet in 1910. Stravinsky started writing down musical ideas while he was still working on his ballet "The Firebird". Then he worked on "Petrushka". In 1912 he was able to concentrate on "The Rite of Spring". All these ballets were composed for Sergei Diaghilev's Ballets Russes. They were a very famous group of Russian dancers who worked in Europe, mostly in Paris.
"The Rite of Spring" was first performed by the Ballets Russes on 29 May 1913 at the Théâtre des Champs-Élysées in Paris. The conductor was Pierre Monteux. The audience were shocked at the primitive kind of dancing and the irregular rhythms and strange orchestral sounds and unusual chords. Nijinsky’s choreography was so different from classical ballet. Nijinsky found it difficult to work with Stravinsky and difficult to work with the music.
Carl Van Vechten described the scene as follows:
"A certain part of the audience was thrilled by what it considered to be a blasphemous attempt to destroy music as an art, and, swept away with wrath, began very soon after the rise of the curtain, to make cat-calls and to offer audible suggestions as to how the performance should proceed. The orchestra played unheard, except occasionally when a slight lull occurred. The young man seated behind me in the box stood up during the course of the ballet to enable himself to see more clearly. The intense excitement under which he was labouring betrayed itself presently when he began to beat rhythmically on top of my head with his fists. My emotion was so great that I did not feel the blows for some time".
Marie Rambert heard someone in the gallery call out: "Un docteur … un dentiste … deux docteurs…". The second performance (June 4) was fortunately less eventful, and, according to Maurice Ravel, the entire work could actually be heard.
The complicated music and violent dance steps caused some to boo. They started to shout and whistle. They argued, and other people who liked it argued back. Then some people started to fight. In the end the police were called. Stravinksy was very upset and ran out of the theatre. The performance was a scandal, but this actually made people curious and soon the ballet became very famous. It was performed six times that season, and there were no more interruptions during the other performances.
"The Rite of Spring" is divided into two parts, and each part has several sections:
Stravinsky's music has many complex harmonies with dissonant sounds. There are passages with polyrhythms (several rhythms at once) as well as polytonality (music in several keys at once). The time signatures keep changing, and he often uses ostinati (repeated patterns).
Stravinsky wanted his music to describe the releasing of lots of energy. Most composers would have done this by using a lot of percussion instruments. However, although two players are needed for the timpani, there are not many other percussion instruments. Instead, the whole orchestra becomes a kind of percussion instrument. Also, the music often sounds like Russian folkmusic.
"The Rite of Spring" uses a very large orchestra with some unusual instruments. There are almost 100 people on stage playing the piece. Here is a list of the instruments used:
Nijinsky's choreography was thought almost as shocking as the music. The idea is: a tribe sacrifices a young virgin each year in the Spring to please their gods, and make sure crops grow well. The dancers adopt a pigeon-toed stance (position); their moves are heavy. They move together in groups; their movements are like a ritual. They look like a primitive tribe performing a ritual. The ritual moves towards the sacrifice of the girl. "The Rite of Spring" is a link between classical ballet and Modern dance.
Nijinsky's choreography has not been kept very well, but there have been efforts in recent years to reconstruct his performance, using costumes and set designs that look like the original ones from 1913.
"The Rite of Spring" became even more popular when Walt Disney used some of the music in his animated movie "Fantasia" in 1940. It is used in the film to describe early life on planet earth with dinosaurs roaming about.

</doc>
<doc id="201317" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201317" title="Recapitulation theory">
Recapitulation theory

The theory of recapitulation is often known as ontogeny recapitulates phylogeny.
It was an idea of Étienne Serres in 1824–26. In 1886 Ernst Haekel proposed that the embryonic development of an individual organism (its ontogeny) followed the same path as the evolutionary history of its species (its phylogeny). It is also called the biogenetic law or embryological parallelism 
It was a theory (idea) that tied evolution (the change in organisms over time) with embryology (the way organisms develop before they are born). The theory basically stated that before they are born, organisms pass through developmental stages that look like adult animals of other species, in roughly the same order that these other species split off during evolution.
Although there is something to this idea, it is no longer thought to be such a useful way to look at development.
Haeckel formulated his theory as ""Ontogeny recapitulates phylogeny"". Ontogeny is the steps an organism takes in its development before it is born, starting as a single cell and ending as a baby. Phylogeny is the steps a species takes in its development, starting as a very simple organism and evolving into the current organism. "Recapitulates" is a synonym for "reflects" and implies that the ontogeny of an organism is similar to the phylogeny of its species.
For example, Haeckel realized that before they are born, there is a time when humans have slits in their necks. These slits look like the gills on adult fishes. Haeckel took this to mean that some time before our species became human, we were fish-like. This view is supported by the fossil record and other evidence. As the unborn human gets closer to being born, it develops a tail. In fact, some human babies are even born with tails. Haeckel concluded, again correctly, that at some time in humanities more recent evolutionary past (after we had gone through our fish stage) the species that would go on to become humans had a tail.
However, not all of Haeckels evidence or conclusions were this good. Haeckel produced several embryo drawings that often overemphasized similarities between embryos of related species. These found their ways into many biology textbooks, and into popular knowledge, even though they were wrong. Furthermore, Haeckel used this "evidence" to conclude that white people were evolutionary superior to people of other races. Not only is this a racist view, but we know today that it is not true.
Today, scientists think that Haeckel overstated the case. For example, the "gills" of a developing human do not work (though Haekel never said they did). Furthermore, as better observations were made, it was discovered that developing babies don't look exactly like the pictures Haeckel drew. He may have exaggerated what he saw in order to support his point better. Also, Haekel's discussion was entirely about morphology: he did not discuss the evolution and development of animal behaviour.
However, this is not to say that nothing about the theory makes sense. It is true that our ontogeny gives clues about our phylogeny. However, the relationship is not nearly as direct as Haeckel said it was. In fact, Haekel's over-emphatic claims led in due course to over-emphatic rejections.
Today, scientists agree that some parts of Haeckel's theory still make sense. For example:

</doc>
<doc id="201346" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201346" title="Mount Tambora">
Mount Tambora

Mount Tambora (8°14’41”S, 117°59’35”E) is an active volcano in Indonesia. It is also the tallest mountain in Indonesia.
When the volcano erupted in 1815, it climaxed on 10 April. It was the most destructive volcanic eruption in modern history. It has been estimated that it was four times larger than the 1883 eruption of Krakatoa, between Java and Sumatra, in terms of volume of magma ejected. Before the explosion, Tambora was 4,300 m (14,100 ft) high, now it is only 2,722 m (8,930 ft) high. Its massive crater is therefore a caldera.
The eruption destroyed a small Asian culture, known to archaeologists as the Tamboran kingdom. Most deaths from the eruption were from starvation and disease, as the fallout ruined farming in the local region. The death toll was at least 71,000 people, of whom 11,000–12,000 were killed directly by the eruption. The often-cited figure of 92,000 people killed is believed to be overestimated.
It launched 160 cubic kilometers of ash into the upper atmosphere. This caused famine around the world. Tambora's 1815 outburst was the largest volcanic eruption in recorded history. The explosion was heard on Sumatra island more than away. Heavy volcanic ash falls were observed as far away as Borneo, Sulawesi, Java and Maluku islands.
The eruption caused a global climate change known as the "volcanic winter". 1816 became known as the "Year without a summer" because of the effect on North American and European weather. Crops failed and livestock died in much of the Northern Hemisphere, resulting in the worst famine of the 19th century.

</doc>
<doc id="201351" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201351" title="Louis, Grand Dauphin">
Louis, Grand Dauphin

Louis of France, Son of France Dauphin of France ( 1 November 1661, - 14 April 1711) was the eldest son and heir of Louis XIV, King of France and of his spouse, Marie Therese of Austria. He was known as le Grand Dauphin because he had a son, Louis, Duke of Burgundy, while still the Dauphin of France. His wife was Maria Anna Victoria of Bavaria. He never became king as he died before his father did. 
Thus, through Burgundy and Anjou, Louis ensured the continuation of the senior Bourbon line on the throne of France and the establishment of the cadet Spanish Bourbon dynasty respectively.
Lahaye, Matthieu, "Louis, Dauphin de France. Fils de roi, père de roi, jamais roi", DEA directed by Joël Cornette, University of Paris VIII, 2005.
Lahaye, Matthieu, "Louis Ier d'Espagne (1661-1700) : essai sur une virtualité politique", Revue historique, Numéro 647, PUF, Paris, Novembre 2008.

</doc>
<doc id="201368" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201368" title="Northern Pintail">
Northern Pintail

Pintail or Northern Pintail ("Anas acuta") is a widely occurring duck which breeds in the northern areas of Europe, Asia and North America. It is strongly migratory and winters south of its breeding range to the equator. Unusually for a bird with such a large range, it has no geographical subspecies if the possibly conspecific Eaton's Pintail is considered to be a separate species.

</doc>
<doc id="201370" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201370" title="Tupac: Resurrection (soundtrack)">
Tupac: Resurrection (soundtrack)

Tupac: Resurrection (Original Soundtrack) was released by Amaru Entertainment as the soundtrack for the 2003 documentary "". It includes remixed versions of several previously released 2Pac recordings, including "Death Around the Corner" from "Me Against the World", "Secretz of War" from "Still I Rise". and "Holler if You Hear Me" from "Strictly 4 My N.I.G.G.A.Z."; and unreleased 2Pac verses re-constructed into new tracks such as "Ghost", "One Day at a Time", and "Runnin (Dying to Live)". The album sold more than 420,000 copies in its first week. Eminem produced major parts of this album.

</doc>
<doc id="201372" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201372" title="Donington Park">
Donington Park

Donington Park is a park and motor racing track near Derbyshire in North West Leicestershire, England.
The land was part of the Donington Hall estate. Tom Wheatcroft owns it. It is mainly used as a motor racing track, but the land is also used for music festivals and a Sunday market.
In July 2009, it was announced that the Formula One British Grand Prix would be at Donington Park from 2010 until 2020. However, by November that year, money had not been raised to improve the track and the hosting of the Grand Prix remained in doubt.

</doc>
<doc id="201373" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201373" title="European Grand Prix">
European Grand Prix

The European Grand Prix (sometimes called the Grand Prix of Europe) is a Formula One race. It was reintroduced during the mid-1980s. It has been held regularly since 1999. 
In earlier years, one of the national Grands Prix was also called the "European" Grand Prix. The first race to be so named was the 1923 Italian Grand Prix, held at Monza and won by Carlo Salamano in a Fiat. Since , the European Grand Prix is a separate race. It is usually held in a country that also holds a national Grand Prix.
Only includes standalone events
Active drivers are in bold.
Only includes standalone events. 
Active constructors are in bold.

</doc>
<doc id="201374" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201374" title="Omotesandō Station">
Omotesandō Station

Omotesandō Station (表参道駅、おもてさんどうえき) is a railway station of Tokyo Metro in Tokyo.

</doc>
<doc id="201375" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201375" title="Toyota Racing">
Toyota Racing

Panasonic Toyota Racing was a Formula One team owned by the Japanese car maker Toyota and based in Cologne, Germany. Toyota announced their plans to join F1 in 1999, and after a long time testing with their TF101 car, the team raced for the first time in 2002. The new team has grown from Toyota's long standing European "Toyota Motorsport" organisation, which has previously competed in the World Rally Championship and the 24 hours of Le Mans. Despite a point in their first ever race, Toyota F1 have not yet won a grand prix, their best finish so far being 2nd place in 2005, during which they achieved three podiums and a pole position, as well as finishing fourth in the world constructors' championship with 88 points.
† Half points awarded as less than 75% of race distance was completed

</doc>
<doc id="201376" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201376" title="Phil Hill">
Phil Hill

Philip Toll Hill, Jr., (April 20, 1927 – August 28, 2008) was an American automobile racer and the only American-born driver to win the Formula One World Drivers' Championship. Hill was described as a "thoughtful, gentle man" and once said, "I'm in the wrong business. I don't want to beat anybody, I don't want to be the big hero. I'm a peace-loving man, basically.

</doc>
<doc id="201378" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201378" title="Jacques Villeneuve">
Jacques Villeneuve

Jacques Joseph Charles Villeneuve, OQ (born April 9, 1971 in Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu, Quebec) is a Canadian automobile racing driver. He is the son of Formula One driver Gilles Villeneuve, and is the namesake of his uncle (also a racer).
He raced in Formula One from 1996 to 2006, driving for Williams, BAR, Renault and BMW Sauber. He won the world championship in 1997 with Williams, in only his second season, the first person to do so that quickly (except for the 1950 season, the very first season in F1).

</doc>
<doc id="201379" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201379" title="Tony Stewart">
Tony Stewart

Anthony Wayne Stewart (born May 20, 1971 in Columbus, Indiana) is an American race car driver. He drives the #14 Chevrolet SS in the NASCAR Sprint Cup series. For most of his career in NASCAR, Stewart was driving for Joe Gibbs Racing, but now owns his own team called Stewart Haas Racing. Hurt in August, he could not take a NASCAR start til the end of 2013.
Tony Stewart started racing in Go-Karts. Then, in 1991, he moved into the United States Auto Club (USAC) series where he won the Rookie of the Year award. This award is given to the best first year driver in the series.
Stewart started racing in the Winston Cup series (now called the Sprint Cup series) in 1999. He drove for Joe Gibbs Racing. He finished in second place in his first race. Stewart went on to win the Sprint Cup Championship in 2002. In 2009, Stewart began racing for his own team, named Stewart Haas Racing. Stewart won the 2011 Sprint Cup Championship, beating Carl Edwards. Stewart and Edwards finished the season tied in points, but Tony had won more races during the year then Edwards, so Stewart was given the championship. In 2015, Stewart said that 2016 would be his final year racing in the NASCAR Sprint Cup Series.
In the middle of year 2016, he was still below the 30th position in Nascar overall rating but he is still expecting a single win to qualify for the Chase.

</doc>
<doc id="201383" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201383" title="Wantage">
Wantage

Wantage is a town in the Vale of the White Horse, near the Thames Valley, in the English county of Oxfordshire (earlier on it belonged to Berkshire), and about south-southwest of Oxford. It is famous for being the birthplace of King Alfred the Great. 
Wantage has a town council consisting of sixteen councillors, twelve of whom are Liberal Democrats (2007). It is also part of the district of the Vale of White Horse.
Wantage sits at the crossing of the B4507 valley road, the A417 Reading to Cirencester road and the A338 Hungerford (and junction 14 of the M4 motorway) to Oxford road. 
Wantage is connected to Oxford, Didcot, Abingdon and Faringdon by regular bus services. The fastest public bus journey from Wantage to Oxford takes about 45 minutes, the slowest can take over 1 hour 15 minutes. 
King Alfred the Great was born here in the 9th century. Wantage appears in the Domesday Book of 1086. Its value was £61 and it was in the king's ownership until 1190. Troops of the king were stationed in Wantage during the English Civil War.
Since 1848, Wantage has been home to the Community of Saint Mary the Virgin, one of the largest communities of Anglican nuns in the world.
Wantage is twinned with:
The town was twinned with Seesen (Germany) in 1979 and Mably (France) in 1990.

</doc>
<doc id="201385" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201385" title="A Haunting">
A Haunting

A Haunting was a television program on Discovery Channel. It was about different hauntings that have occurred in different parts of the U.S. It aired from October 28, 2005 to November 9, 2007. There were 39 episodes.

</doc>
<doc id="201386" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201386" title="Sage">
Sage

The sage (also called wise old man or "Senex") is a character who often appears in literature and mythology. He is an old man who is very wise. In times of trouble people go to ask the sage for advice. The sage is a very calm, intelligent old man. He is like a father-figure or grandfather-figure. He gives sensible advice or judgment.
In some stories the sage is seen as"foreign" in some way, that is, he is different from the other people of that culture. Merlin is a good example of this, as he was only half human.
The psychologist Carl Jung called him a "senex". This is Latin for old man. Jung sees him as someone who realizes that the young person is going to be the hero of the story, and he himself is just an advisor.

</doc>
<doc id="201393" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201393" title="Władysław I Herman">
Władysław I Herman

Władysław I Herman (b. ca. 1044 - d. 4 June 1102), was a Duke of Poland from 1079 until his death. 
He was the second son of Casimir I the Restorer by his wife Maria Dobroniega, daughter of Vladimir the Great, Grand Duke of Kiev.

</doc>
<doc id="201394" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201394" title="Felipe González">
Felipe González

Felipe González Márquez (born 5 March 1942) is a Spanish socialist politician. He was the General Secretary of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party (PSOE) from 1974 to 1997. To date, he remains the longest-serving Prime Minister of Spain, after having served four successive mandates from 1982 to 1996. He is married and has three children.

</doc>
<doc id="201395" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201395" title="Game (rapper)">
Game (rapper)

Jayceon Terrell Taylor (born November 29, 1979), better known by his stage name Game formally ""The Game"", is an American rapper. He became famous in 2005 with the success of his debut album, "The Documentary", and his two Grammy nominations. Since then, he is considered to be a driving force in bringing back the West Coast hip hop scene into the mainstream and competing with many of his East Coast counterparts.
The Game released his first mixtape "You Know What It Is Vol. 1" in 2002. Dr Dre. listened to the mixtape and signed The Game to his Aftermath Entertainment label in 2003. A song Game made with 9 other rappers called "Don't Shoot" was released on August 27 2014.

</doc>
<doc id="201397" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201397" title="Karen Blixen">
Karen Blixen

Karen von Blixen-Finecke (17 April 1885 – 7 September 1962)," née" Karen Christenze Dinesen, was a Danish author also known under her pen name Isak Dinesen. Blixen wrote works both in Danish and in English. She is best known, at least in English, for "Out of Africa", her account of living in Kenya, and one of her stories, "Babette's Feast", both of which have been adapted into highly acclaimed, Academy Award-winning motion pictures. In Denmark she is best known for her works Out of Africa (Danish: Den afrikanske Farm) and Seven Gothic Tales (Danish: Syv fantastiske Fortællinger).

</doc>
<doc id="201402" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201402" title="Hackleton">
Hackleton

Hackleton, Northamptonshire, England, is a large village that is neighboured by Piddington and Horton.
The village has a post office, village shop, local butchers and the White Hart pub. There is also a village hall, where meetings and events are held.
Behind the school, Hackleton C of E Primary, is the recreation ground. It is most commonly known as 'The Rec'. It has play equipment.

</doc>
<doc id="201409" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201409" title="Euptoieta">
Euptoieta

Euptoieta is a genus of butterflies. "Euptoieta" belongs in the family Nymphalidae.

</doc>
<doc id="201419" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201419" title="Cinnamon Toast Crunch">
Cinnamon Toast Crunch

Cinnamon Toast Crunch, also known as "C-T-C", is a cereal made by Kellogg. It consists of small squares sprinkled with cinnamon and sugar.

</doc>
<doc id="201421" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201421" title="Jerry Orbach">
Jerry Orbach

Jerome Bernard "Jerry" Orbach (October 20, 1935 – December 28, 2004) was an American actor and singer. He was best known as Lennie Briscoe in the "Law & Order" television series.

</doc>
<doc id="201423" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201423" title="Raul Mondesi">
Raul Mondesi

Raúl Ramón Mondesí Avelino (born March 12, 1971, in San Cristóbal, Dominican Republic) is a former Major League Baseball player. Now, he is the mayor of San Cristóbal Province in the Dominican Republic. He was the National League Rookie of the Year in 1994. He won Gold Glove Awards in 1995 and 1997 as an outfielder.
Mondesí was first signed by the Los Angeles Dodgers as an amateur in 1988. He played in the Pioneer League. His first Major League game was on July 19, 1993.
On November 8, 1999, he was traded by the Dodgers (along with Pedro Borbón, Jr.) to the Toronto Blue Jays for Shawn Green and minor league player Jorge Nunez. Mondesí was traded by the Blue Jays to the New York Yankees on July 1, 2002 for Scott Wiggins. The Yankees traded him on July 29, 2003 to the Arizona Diamondbacks for David Dellucci, Bret Prinz and minor leaguer John Prowl.
He signed as a free agent with the Pittsburgh Pirates on February 24, 2004. He left the team for personal reasons. The Anaheim Angels signed him on May 30, 2004. Shortly after, he tore his quadriceps and was placed on the disabled list. The Atlanta Braves signed Mondesí in 2005.
Mondesí is currently out of baseball and living in San Cristóbal, Dominican Republic.

</doc>
<doc id="201424" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201424" title="Cliff Floyd">
Cliff Floyd

Cliff Floyd is a baseball player who was born in Chicago, Illinois. He was born on December 5, 1972. He is a Sagittarius. He is 6'4" and weighs 230 pounds.

</doc>
<doc id="201425" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201425" title="Freegle">
Freegle

Freegle is an organisation in the United Kingdom that help people give away things they do not need anymore to other people for free, if someone will collect and take the item away. This means that used items are not thrown away while they are still useful to someone. This is to make sure that less garbage is thrown into landfills, so that these landfills can have more space and last longer.
In October 2009, there were more than 200 Freegle groups with more than 920,000 members in the UK.

</doc>
<doc id="201429" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201429" title="My Generation">
My Generation

My Generation was the first album by the rock group The Who. It was released in December 1965 in the United Kingdom, where it got to number five in the charts. One of the songs, "My Generation", became very popular, and is now one of the most famous rock songs ever. In the US, the album was released in April 1966 as "The Who Sing My Generation." It had some different songs than the UK album.
These were the songs on the first UK album:
These were the songs on the US album:
A new remixed version of the album was released in August 2002, and in August 2008 a longer version, in mono, was released.

</doc>
<doc id="201430" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201430" title="John Entwistle">
John Entwistle

John Alec Entwistle (9 October 1944 – 27 June 2002) was an English musician who was best known as the bassist for the rock band The Who. His bass playing style influenced many other bass players who came after him.
Entwistle's played his bass as a lead instrument At the time of his death he had a collection of over 200 instruments that reflected the different brands he used over his career: Fender, Rickenbacker, Alembic, Warwick were the brands he used most.
Entwistle played bass for The Who and as a solo performer from 1964 until 2002.
Entwistle died in a hotel room at the Hard Rock Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas, Nevada on 27 June 2002. The Las Vegas coroner said that he died of a heart attack caused by cocaine.
In 1990, Entwistle was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame as a member of The Who.

</doc>
<doc id="201431" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201431" title="Roger Daltrey">
Roger Daltrey

As a member of The Who, Daltrey was inducted into both the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in Cleveland and the UK Music Hall of Fame.

</doc>
<doc id="201432" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201432" title="Keith Moon">
Keith Moon

Keith John Moon (23 August 1946 – 7 September 1978) was an English drummer best known as being a member of the rock band The Who. He was famous for his frantic drumming style, his destructive, volatile behavior and his heavy drinking that help earn him the nickname ""Moon the Loon."" Keith Moon joined The Who in 1964. He played on all the band's albums and singles from their debut, 1965 to 1978. "Who Are You" was his last album with The Who. It was released two weeks before his death. He died of an accidental drug overdose in Mayfair, London.
Twelve years after his death, in 1990, Keith Moon was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame as a member of The Who.

</doc>
<doc id="201433" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201433" title="Humble Pie">
Humble Pie

Humble Pie was an English blues-rock band that formed in 1969. The members were Steve Marriott, Peter Frampton, Jerry Shirley, and Greg Ridley. In 1972, Frampton left and was replaced by Clem Clempson. In 1976, the band broke up. Their most famous song was "30 Days In The Hole", which was on the album "Smokin".

</doc>
<doc id="201438" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201438" title="Tomoyoshi Tsurumi">
Tomoyoshi Tsurumi

Tomoyoshi Tsurumi (born 12 October 1979) is a former Japanese football player.
106||11||6||1||13||2||3||0||128||14
106||11||6||1||13||2||3||0||128||14

</doc>
<doc id="201439" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201439" title="Yuya Satō">
Yuya Satō

Yuya Satō (born 10 February 1986) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Consadole Sapporo.
32||0||6||0||5||0||43||0
32||0||6||0||5||0||43||0

</doc>
<doc id="201440" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201440" title="Daisuke Matsushita">
Daisuke Matsushita

Daisuke Matsushita (born 31 October 1981) is a former Japanese football player.
32||0||0||0||0||0||32||0
32||0||0||0||0||0||32||0

</doc>
<doc id="201445" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201445" title="Yosuke Ikehata">
Yosuke Ikehata

248||7||14||1||8||1||270||9
248||7||14||1||8||1||270||9

</doc>
<doc id="201446" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201446" title="Yukio Shimomura">
Yukio Shimomura

!Total||1||0

</doc>
<doc id="201447" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201447" title="Masaaki Takada">
Masaaki Takada

Masaaki Takada (born 26 July 1973) is a former Japanese football player.

</doc>
<doc id="201461" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201461" title="Boom Boom Pow">
Boom Boom Pow

Boom Boom Pow is a hit song by the music group The Black Eyed Peas. It is off their album "The E.N.D.".

</doc>
<doc id="201463" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201463" title="Mohammed Omar">
Mohammed Omar

Mullah Mohammed Omar (1959 - 23 April 2013) was the leader of the Taliban in Afghanistan. He was usually called 'Mullah Omar'. Between 1996 and 2001, he was Afghanistan's de facto head of state. Three states officially recognised him under the title of 'Head of the Supreme Council'. He was born around the year 1959 in Nodeh, near Kandahar. He held the title Commander of the Faithful from the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan.
The United States put him on their most wanted list. They believe he sheltered Osama bin Laden, and some of his al-Quaeda group, directly before and after they committed the September 11 attacks. He was believed to be directing the Taliban in their war against Hamid Karzai's Government and foreign NATO troops in Afghanistan from Pakistan. Many people considered him to be a major terrorist.
Despite his political rank, and his high status on the FBI's wanted list, not much is publicly known about Omar. There are very few photos of him. None of these photos are official. A picture that was used by the media in 2002, shows another Taliban official, but not Omar. It is also debated how authoritative the images that exist really are.
Omar seemed to be missing one eye. Other than this, people described him in different ways: Some who have met him say he is tall, others describe him as small and frail. He was described as shy and untalkative with foreigners.
When he was Emir of Afghanistan, Omar stayed in Kandahar most of the time and rarely met outsiders. He sent his Foreign Minister, Wakil Ahmed Muttawakil, to represent him, on most occasions.
News media have claimed that he was killed by a drone strike in 2008.
In 2012, it was revealed that an individual claiming to be Omar sent a letter to President Barack Obama in 2011, expressing slight interest in peace talks.
On 29 July 2015, the Afghan government and state intelligence sources said that Omar had died in April 2013 two years previously in Karachi, Pakistan of tuberculosis. Some Taliban sources denied that he had died; other sources considered the report to be speculative, designed to destabilise peace negotiations in Pakistan between the Afghan government and the Taliban. A Taliban spokesman said that they would issue a statement. Abdul Hassib Seddiqi, the spokesman for Afghanistan's National Directorate of Security, claimed: "We confirm officially that he is dead".

</doc>
<doc id="201464" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201464" title="Cutler, Maine">
Cutler, Maine

Cutler is a small town in northern Maine. It is near Machias Bay.

</doc>
<doc id="201465" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201465" title="Irish Setter">
Irish Setter

The Irish Setter is a breed of dog. Their coat of fur is moderately long, silky, and of a red or chestnut color. They are classified as hunting dogs.

</doc>
<doc id="201472" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201472" title="Alan Jones">
Alan Jones

Alan Stanley Jones MBE (born 2 November 1946 in Melbourne, Australia) is an Australian former Formula One driver. He was the first driver to win a Formula One World Championship with the Williams team, becoming the 1980 World Drivers' Champion.

</doc>
<doc id="201473" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201473" title="Carlos Reutemann">
Carlos Reutemann

Carlos Alberto Reutemann (born Santa Fe, Argentina April 12, 1942), nicknamed "Lole", is an Argentine former racing driver (who raced in Formula One from through ), and later a prominent politician in his native province of Santa Fe, for the Justicialist Party.

</doc>
<doc id="201483" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201483" title="Euptoieta claudia">
Euptoieta claudia

The Variegated Fritillary (Euptoieta claudia) is a butterfly in the family Nymphalidae. It is native to North America and South America. The Variegated Fritillary is closely related to butterflies in the genus "Speyeria". It has some differences from "Speyeria" butterflies. Some of the differences are: Variegated Fritillaries have 2-3 broods per year vs. one per year in "Speyeria". They travel more vs. staying in the same place. And they use a wide range of host plants vs. just violets. Variegated Fritillaries use passionflowers as a host plant. Because of this, Variegated Fritillaries have taxonomic links to the heliconians. Their flight is low and fast, and they are hard to approach. Its genus name was taken from the Greek word "euptoietos" meaning "easily scared".
The upper side of the wings is orange and black. The fore wing and hind wing have a row of submarginal black spots and black median lines running across the wings. (Submarginal means just inward of the wing edge. Median means through the center of the wing.) The underside of the fore wing is orange. The hind wing is mottled with browns and grays. There is a pale postmedian band (postmedian means just outward of the median). There is no silvering. The wingspan is 1.75-2.25 inches.
There is a butterfly similar to the Variegated Fritillary. It is the Mexican Fritillary ("Euptoieta hegesia"). The Mexican Fritillary is brighter orange. The upper side of its hind wing has more orange. The underside of its wings is plainer, with no submarginal spots or median black lines.
This species may be seen flying from April-October in the south. It flies in the north from summer to early fall.
This butterfly is found in different kinds of habitats. It can by found in clover fields, alfalfa fields, fields, pastures, waste areas, roadsides, and mountain meadows.
The Variegated Fritillary has been seen on different kinds of flowers. Here is a list of them:
Females lay their eggs singly on the host plant's leaves and stems. The eggs are pale green or cream colored. The caterpillar eats the leaves, flowers, and stems of the food plant. The caterpillar is red with black stripes. There are white spots in the black stripes. In many individuals, the white is more noticeable than the black. It has six rows of black spines. It has a pair of long, clubbed spines on the head. The chrysalis is shiny white with small black spots. It has a variable amount of brown markings and has orange and gold projections. Adults overwinter in the south and fly north each spring and summer. It has 2-3 broods per year.
Here is a list of host plants that the Variegated Fritillary caterpillar eats:

</doc>
<doc id="201485" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201485" title="Mullah">
Mullah

In may Islamic countries Mullah or "Mula" is the name given to a man with an education in Islamic theology and law. The title "Mullah" is commonly used for petty local Islamic clerics or mosque leaders.
It is primarily understood in the Muslim world as a term of respect for a religiously educated man.

</doc>
<doc id="201489" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201489" title="José María de Pereda">
José María de Pereda

José María de Pereda (February 6 1833, Polanco–March 1 1906, Polanco) was one of the most important of modern Spanish novelists.

</doc>
<doc id="201491" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201491" title="Dusty Rhodes">
Dusty Rhodes

Virgil Riley Runnels, Jr. (October 12, 1945 – June 11, 2015) better known as Dusty Rhodes was a wrestler. His nickname is the "American Dream". His signature move is the "Bionic Elbow". He is the father of Dustin Rhodes and Cody Rhodes who also wrestle. He is a member of the WWE Hall of Fame when he was inducted in 2006.
Rhodes died from renal failure at a hospital in Orlando, Florida, aged 69.

</doc>
<doc id="201501" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201501" title="Carom billiards">
Carom billiards

Carom billiards, sometimes called carambole billiards or simply carambole (and sometimes used as another word for a game called "straight rail") are a family of billiards games played on cloth-covered tables. In these games, the players strike heavy balls with sticks called cues. Carom billiards tables have no pockets or opening where balls are sunk, that snooker and pool tables do have. In its simplest form, the object of carom billiards games is to score points or "counts" by bouncing one's own ball, called a cue ball, off of the other two balls on the table. The date the first carom game was invented is not exactly known. Also, how exactly the games developed and which game was first is not clear. However, carom billiards games are believed to have started sometime in the 18th-century (the 1700s) in France in Europe.
There are many different games, each with distinct rules, strategies and objects of play, that are all part of carom billiards. Some of the most well known games are "straight rail", "cushion caroms", "balkline", "three-cushion billiards" and "artistic billiards". There are many other carom billiards games that combine aspects of these games, but that are not as well known. For example, the "champion's game" was a short-lived game that developed during a period between the invention of straight rail and the invention of balkline. Other games are combinations of these games and other games played on tables "with pockets" (pool or snooker games), such as "English billiards" played on a snooker table and its related games, "American four-ball billiards", and "cowboy pool", played on a pool table.
The word "carom" means any strike and bounce off something. It started being used to describe the pocketless billiard games in the 1860s. It is a shortening of the word "carambola", used in Spanish and Portuguese and spelled "carambole" in French. Carambola was earlier used to describe just the red ball used in billiards games, but later was given to the game itself. Some people who study word origins suggest that "carambola" was originally the name of a yellow-to-orange colored, tropical Asian fruit, known in Portuguese as a "carambola". This was taken from an earlier word, "karambal", from the Marathi language of India, also known as starfruit. The accuracy of the fruit origin has been questioned. It has been said to be just a legend, because the fruit does not look very similar to the big red ball that is used in carom games, and there is no direct proof for the fruit explanation.
Cloth has been used to cover billiards tables since the 15th century (1400s). In fact, the company that became the most famous maker of billiard cloth, Iwan Simonis, was formed in 1453. Most cloth made for carom billiards tables is a type of cloth called "baize" that is dyed green in color, and is made from 100% wool that has fibers that are made to be very straight (a process called ). Baize cloth provides a very fast surface allowing the balls to travel easily across the table material, called a "bed". The green color of cloth was originally chosen to look similar to grass. Green has been the common cloth color since the 16th century (1500s). However, the color also serves a useful function. Human eyes more easily see green than any other color. This allows players to keep playing for longer periods of time without straining their eyes.
Modern billiard balls are made from "phenolic resin", which is a type of very strong plastic. The size of carom billiards balls is normally 61.5 mm (2⁄ in) in diameter. They weigh between 205 and 220 grams (7.23 – 7.75 ounces; 7.5 is average), and are quite a bit larger and heavier than the balls used for pool games. While UMB, the International Olympic Committee-recognized world carom billiards authority, permits balls as small as 61.0 mm (approximately 2⁄), no major manufacturer produces such balls any longer, and the main standard is 61.5 mm. The three standard balls in most carom billiards games are a completely white cue ball, a second cue ball sometimes having a red or black dot on it (to help people in telling the balls apart), and a third, red ball. In some sets of balls, however, the second cue ball is solid yellow. Both types of ball sets are allowed in tournament play.
Billiard balls have been made from many different materials since the start of the game. For example, they have been made from clay, wood, ivory, plastics (including celluloid, Bakelite, crystalate, and phenolic resin) and even steel. The most common substance from 1627 until the early- to mid-twentieth century was ivory. The search for a substitute for ivory use was not for environmental reasons but based on how expensive they were and fear of danger for elephant hunters. The search was made more enticing when a New York billiard table maker offered a $10,000 prize for a substitute material. The first usable substitute was made from a material called "celluloid". Celluloid, which is an early form of plastic, was invented by a man named John Wesley Hyatt in 1868. There was a problem with the material though. Celluloid was unstable and highly flammable, sometimes exploding when people were making it.
The stick used to hit billiard balls, called a billiards cue, is different in some ways from the typical pool cue. Compared with pool cues, billiard cues are often shorter, with a shorter end cap (called a ferrule), a fatter bottom portion where the back hand grips the stick (called a butt), a wooden screw in the middle rather than one of metal or plastic, and a smaller tip diameter. These features make the billiard cue stiffer. This stiffness helps players in striking the larger and heavier billiard balls as compared with pool balls. The stiffness also acts to reduce an effect called "deflection" (sometimes called "squirt"). Deflection is an undesirable effect from the use of sidespin. Sidespin is spin placed on a ball by striking it not at its center but off to one side of its center, causing it to spin as it travels down the table. Deflection causes a ball to travel not in a straight line in the direction it was struck.
Underneath the cloth of billiard tables is a very hard rock called slate. The slate bed of a billiard table is often heated to about 5 °C/9 °F above room temperature, which helps to keep moisture out of the cloth to aid the balls rolling and rebounding in a consistent manner, and generally makes a table play faster. A heated table is required under international carom rules and is an important requirement for the games of three-cushion billiards and artistic billiards. Heating table beds is an old practice. Queen Victoria of England (1819–1901) had a billiard table that was heated using zinc tubes, At that time, though, the reason for the heating was different. The heat was used to keep ivory balls from going out of shape (warping). The first use of electric heating was for a tournament in the game of "18.2 balkline", that was held in December 1927 between two players: Welker Cochran and Jacob Schaefer, Jr. "The New York Times" announced it with fanfare: "For the first time in the history of world's championship balkline billiards a heated table will be used ..."
Straight rail, sometimes called carom billiards, straight billiards, the three-ball game, the carambole game, and the free game in Europe, is thought to date to the 1700s. No exact time of origin is known though. It was called French caroms, French billiards or the French game in early times, taking those old names from the French who made the game popular. The object of straight rail is simple: one point, called a "count", is scored each time a player's cue ball makes contact with both object balls (the second cue ball and the third ball) on a single strike of the cue ball. Winning is achieved by reaching a certain number of points, agreed to between the players to be the winning number.
When straight rail was first invented there was no on the way points were scored. However, the technique of "crotching", meaning to have two balls right next to each other on the area of one of the table's four corners where the rails meet—the "crotch"—made scoring a lot easier. This resulted in an 1862 rule which allowed only three counts before at least one ball had to be sent away from the corner in order to legally score another point. Techniques continued to develop which increased counts greatly despite the crotching ban. One of these techniques is called "nursing", and made scoring much easier. A "nurse" is a series of shots where the balls are kept very close together, allowing a player to score off of them with very soft strokes without changing their positions much, so the scoring can continue. The most important of these nurse techniques, called the "rail nurse", involves the balls down a rail, moving them just a few centimeters on each score and keeping them close together and positioned at the end of each stroke in the same or near the same arrangement so that the rail nurse can be repeated.
Professional straight rail in the United States was only seen for six years, from 1873 to 1879. It was followed by a game designed to reduce the use of the rail nurse so that spectators would not be bored by watching it. Today, straight rail play is not very common in the U.S. but it still popular in Europe, where it is thought to be a good practice game for balkline and three-cushion billiards. Europe hosts professional competitions, known as "pentathlons" after the ancient Greek Olympic competitions, in which straight rail is one of five billiards games at which players compete. The other four are called 47.1 balkline, cushion caroms, 71.2 balkline and three-cushion billiards.
A new game appeared in 1879, called the champion's game or limited-rail. The champion's game is considered an in-between game—between straight rail and balkline—and was designed to stop the rail nurse. The game uses diagonal lines—balklines—drawn at the table's corners to indicate that if balls were inside those lines, points could not be scored, thus "cutting off four triangular spaces in the four corners, [taking] away 28 inches [711 mm] of the 'nursing' surface of the end rails and 56 inches [1422 mm] on the long rails." Despite its differences from straight rail, the champion's game only expanded the areas of the table where many points in a row could be scored before the balls had to be moved to a new position. This was not sufficient to stop nursing.
Balkline came after the champion's game. It added more rules to stop nursing techniques. There are many varieties of balkline, but all divide the table into marked regions called "balk spaces". The balk spaces define areas of the surface of the table where a player may only score up to a certain number of points while the object balls are within that region.
In the balkline games, rather than drawing balklines a few inches from the corners as was done in the champion's games, the entire table is divided into rectangular spaces. This is done by drawing balklines a certain distance across the length and the width of the table. The lines are drawn a number of inches parallel from each rail. This divides the table into eight rectangular areas called "balk spaces". Additionally, rectangles are drawn where each balkline meets a rail, called "anchor spaces". The anchor spaces were added to the game to stop nursing techniques that developed especially for the challenges of balkline without them.
Generally, the differences between one balkline game and another are defined by two different things: 1) where the balkines are drawn on the table, and 2) the number of points that are allowed in each balk space before at least one ball must leave that region of the table. Balkline games are named by giving two numbers that tell us about the spacing used and how many points can be scored in the balk spaces. The first number tells us how many inches from the rail the balkine will be drawn. The second number after a "dot", indicates the number of points that can be scored in the balk spaces before the balls must leave it (that number is always either one or two). So, for example, the name "18.2 balkline", tells us that balklines are drawn distant from each rail, and only two points are allowed in a balk space before a ball must leave that area.
Over its history balkline has had many variations including 8.2, 10.2, 12.2, 13.2, 12½.2, 14.1, 14.2, 18.1, 18.2, 28.2, 38.2, 39.2, 42.2, 45.1, 45.2, 47.1, 47.2, 57.2 and 71.2 balkline. In its different forms, balkline was the main carom game played from 1883 to the 1930s. After that, other carom games became more popular. This is especially true of three-cushion billiards. Balkline is not very common in the U.S., but remains popular in Europe and the Far East.
Cushion caroms, sometimes called by its original name, the indirect game, is thought to have developed in the 1820s in Britain, it developed out of an older game called the "doublet game", that dates to at least 1807. The game is sometimes incorrectly called "one-cushion" or "one-cushion billiards", which is the direct translation of its name into English from various other languages such as Spanish (""una banda"") and German (""einband"").
The object of cushion caroms is to score "cushion caroms", meaning a bounce off of both of the other balls on the table, with at least one rail of the table being struck by the cue ball before the contact with second object ball. Cushion caroms was not played for a number of years, but came back in the late 1860s. Its return was for similar reasons as to why balkline developed. It was frustration of many people with straight rail. The techniques such as nursing that were invented to make scoring much easier, also made the game very boring to watch. Thus, as straight rail lost popularity, cushion caroms was for a time. Cushion caroms is rarely played in the U.S., but it still has some popularity in Europe.
In three-cushion billiards, sometimes called three-cushion carom, three-cushion, three-cushions, three-rail, rails and the angle game, the object is to carom off both object balls with at least three rails being contacted before the contact of the cue ball with the second object ball. Arising sometime in the 1870s, the origin of three-cushion billiards is not entirely known. It is undisputed that the Internal Revenue Collector of the Port of St. Louis, Wayman C. McCreery, made the game popular. At least one publication states he invented the game as well.
The first three-cushion billiards tournament took place January 14–31, 1878 in C. E. Mussey's Room in St. Louis, with McCreery taking part. The tournament was won by New Yorker Leon Magnus. The high run for the tournament was just 6 points, and the high average a .75. The game was infrequently played prior to 1907, with many top carom players of the era saying they did not enjoy it. However, in 1907 after the introduction of the Lambert Trophy, the game became more popular in the U.S. and internationally.
By 1924 three-cushion had become so popular that two very well know players in other billiard areas agreed to play each other in it at a challenge match. On September 22, 1924 Willie Hoppe (last name rhymes with "poppy"), the world balkline champion and Ralph Greenleaf, the world pocket billiards (pool) title holder, played a well-advertised, multiple-day, 600-point match. Hoppe was the eventual winner with a final score of 600–527. The game's decline in the U.S. came about in 1952 when Hoppe, then 51-time billiards champion, announced his retirement.
Three-cushion billiards is a very difficult game. Averaging one point per turn at the table is professional-level play, and averaging 1.5 to 2 is world-class play. An average of one means that for every turn at the table, a player makes one point and misses once. This means that the player makes a point on only 50% of his or her shots. The highest run at three-cushion billiards for many years was 25, set by the American Willie Hoppe in 1918 during an exhibition. As of 2007, the high run record is 31 points, shared between Semih Saygıner of Turkey and Hugo Patiño who is originally from Colombia but resides in the U.S. The best game at the standard 50 points in a tournament is 9 innings by the Swedish player, Torbjörn Blomdahl in 2000, and 4 innings (count: 19-11-9-11) by Korean and U.S. national champion, Sang Lee in September 1992 in a game at SL Billiards in Queens, New York. The highest tournament average is 2.536 by Dick Jaspers from the Netherlands in 2002 at a tournament in Monaco. Raymond Ceulemans from Belgium has won an unmatchable 21 three-cushion billiards world-championships.
Three-cushion billiards is the most popular carom billiards game played in the U.S. today, where pocket billiards (pool) is far more widespread. Three-cushion retains great popularity in parts of Europe, Asia, and Latin America.
The principal governing body of the sport is the Union Mondiale de Billiard (UMB). That organization has been holding world three-cushion championships since the late 1920s. Decades later, the Billiards World Cup Association (BWA) competed with UMB, but faded in the late 1990s due to financial problems. The International Olympic Committee-recognized World Pool-Billiard Association (WPA) cooperates with the UMB to keep their rulesets consistent.
In Artistic billiards, sometimes called fantasy billiards or fantaisie classique, players compete at performing 76 planned shots, each assigned a degree of difficulty. Each set shot has a maximum point value assigned for perfect execution, ranging from a 4-point maximum for lowest level difficulty shots, and climbing to an 11-point maximum for shots deemed highest in difficulty level. There is a total of 500 points available to a player. The governing body of the sport is the Confédération Internationale de Billiard Artistique (CIBA).
Each shot in an artistic billiards match is played from a well-defined starting position. In fact, in some tournaments the balls must be placed within two millimeters of a diagrammed position. Each shot must also be done in an established manner in order for points to be awarded. Players are allowed three attempts at each shot. In general, the 76 shots in the game—even the lowest difficulty 4-point shots—require a high degree of skill, much practice and specialized knowledge to perform.
World title competition first started in 1986 and required the use of ivory balls. However, this requirement was dropped in 1990. The highest score ever achieved in world competition was 374, by the Frenchman Jean Reverchon in 1992. The highest score in competition overall is 427 set by Belgian Walter Bax on March 12, 2006 at a competition held in Deurne, Belgium, beating his own previous record of 425. The game is played mostly in western Europe, especially in France, Belgium and the Netherlands.

</doc>
<doc id="201504" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201504" title="Calibrachoa">
Calibrachoa

Calibrachoa is a genus of the Solanaceae family. Plants of this genus can be used as potted plants. The plants are a lot like Petunias. Petunias and "Calibrachoa" together make up the clade Petunieae.

</doc>
<doc id="201505" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201505" title="Tetrahydrocannabinol">
Tetrahydrocannabinol

Tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) is the chemical in cannabis that causes the high.

</doc>
<doc id="201506" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201506" title="James Haggarty">
James Haggarty

James Haggarty (born April 14, 1914 in Port Arthur, Ontario died March 8, 1998) was a Canadian ice hockey player who competed in the 1936 Winter Olympics.
In 1936 he was a member of the Canadian ice hockey team, which won the silver medal. He later played 5 games in the National Hockey League for the Montreal Canadiens.

</doc>
<doc id="201537" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201537" title="Narcotic">
Narcotic

A narcotic is a drug that causes a loss of feeling, or paralysis. The name "narcotic" was probably first used by the Greek physician Galen. Galen listed mandrake root or poppy juice among the main examples for such substances.
Today, the word "narcotic" is mainly used for illegal drugs, which do not necessarily have these properties. Marijuana and cocaine are considered to be narcotics, even they do not have the medical properties described. 

</doc>
<doc id="201598" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201598" title="Boletus">
Boletus

Boletus is a genus of mushroom. It has over 100 species. It is eaten in Europe, Asia and South America.

</doc>
<doc id="201608" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201608" title="Doubletree">
Doubletree

Doubletree Hotels is a chain of hotels owned by Hilton Hotels.

</doc>
<doc id="201615" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201615" title="Selsun Blue">
Selsun Blue

Selsun Blue is a hair shampoo. It is made to help with dandruff.
It was first made by Abbott Laboratories. Then the brand was bought in Chattem in 2002. Chattem was bought by Sanofi-Aventis in 2010. 
Selsun Blue is sold through mass merchandisers, drug and food retailers including Walmart, Walgreens, CVS, Target, and Rite Aid.

</doc>
<doc id="201628" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201628" title="Axl Rotten">
Axl Rotten

Brian Knighton (April 21, 1971 – February 4, 2016) also known as Axl Rotten was an American professional wrestler that wrestled for the original ECW and WWE. Rotten was trained by retired wrestler Jim Leon and former World Championship Wrestling jobber Joey Maggs. He was born in Baltimore, Maryland.
Rotten was found dead at a McDonald's in Linthicum, Maryland at the age of 44. He died of cardiac arrest.

</doc>
<doc id="201637" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201637" title="Set construction">
Set construction

Set construction means building the scenery for the performance of a play in a theatre or for the filming of a movie or a television programme.
There are several stages in the building of a set and, for a large project, many people may be needed. The set designer has to design the set. A model will be built to show what the set will look like. Drawings are made. 
The technical director or production manager will look at the designs and decide whether they are what he wants and whether there is enough money to built it. Then a master carpenter will tell the people who work for him what they have to do. There will be carpenters, plasterers, welders, painters and, perhaps, several other craftsmen.

</doc>
<doc id="201638" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201638" title="FTSE 100 Index">
FTSE 100 Index

The FTSE 100 (often said 'foot-sie') is an important stock exchange in London, United Kingdom, similar to the Dow Jones Industrial Average, in the United States, or the CAC 40, in France. FTSE stands for Financial Times Stock Exchange. The 100 biggest companies in the United Kingdom are listed on it. The index took the place of the FT30 in January 1984. 
It is calculated by computers in real time, and the cost of shares in the companies is reported every 15 seconds. 

</doc>
<doc id="201652" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201652" title="Judgment">
Judgment

The word judgment (also spelled judgement) means making a decision carefully, after studying and comparing all evidence that is available. A judgment may be about what is the best thing to do, or how to do it, or how to classify something or someone, or what to think about something. 
Judgment may differ according to the topic:

</doc>
<doc id="201660" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201660" title="HSBC">
HSBC

The HSBC Group is a British banking group, that is the second largest in the world. It was founded in 1865, Hong Kong, by the Scottish banker, Thomas Sutherland. Now, it's head office is in London, in the United Kingdom, in the building known as 8 Canada Square. Although it is a British Bank, it owns lots of banks in other countries around the world, including some in China, the United States, France, Spain and Russia.

</doc>
<doc id="201693" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201693" title="Sweet Dreams">
Sweet Dreams

Sweet Dreams is a very popular song by singer Beyoncé. It is popular on many radio stations. It reached the top ten in the US and sold over 2 million copies there.

</doc>
<doc id="201694" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201694" title="Justin Bieber">
Justin Bieber

Justin Drew Bieber (born March 1, 1994 in Stratford, Ontario, Canada) is a Canadian pop singer and actor. He was discovered on YouTube in 2008. He grew up in Ontario. When he was 12, he went into a local singing contest. He came in third place.
In 2009, Bieber toured with Iyaz and Taylor Swift, and traveled in the United States. His first album, "My World", features four singles, "One Time", "One Less Lonely Girl", "Favorite Girl", and "Love Me". "Baby" is his most popular song. He signed to a record deal with Usher. He released "My World, Part 2" in March 2010 as his second album, as well as going on a world tour. He has a younger brother and sister. His parents never married each other. They are both single.
Bieber has released a book titled "Justin Bieber: First Step 2 Forever: My Story".
On December 23, 2013, the album "Journals" was released. It has fifteen songs. Ten have been released as singles.
The album "Purpose" came out in late 2015. It includes the singles "Sorry", "Love Yourself", and "Company". Earlier in the year, he was arrested for being wreckless.
Bieber is a Christian. He lives in the United States.
On January 23, 2014, Bieber was arrested in Miami, Florida, for drunk driving, resisting arrest and driving with a expired drivers license.
Bieber dated singer/songwriter Selena Gomez from 2011 to 2012, and on and off from 2013 to 2014. Even though he said in an interview in 2014 that he and Gomez were officially together once again, they broke up again.
Born on March 1, 1994, in Stratford, Ontario, Canada, Justin Bieber was raised by a single mom in the small town of Stratford. Bieber, whose debut album, My World, hit stores in November 2009, is a true overnight success, having gone from an unknown, untrained singer whose mother posted YouTube clips of her boy performing, to a budding superstar with a big-time record deal, all in just two years. 
Bieber<nowiki> </nowiki>always had an interest in music. His mother gave him a drum kit for his second birthday and, as he tells it, he was "basically banging on everything I could get my hands on." But it was an obscure talent contest in his hometown, in which the 12-year-old Bieber finished second that put him on the road to superstardom. As a way to share his singing with family, Justin and his mom began posting clips of Bieber performing covers of Stevie Wonder, Michael Jackson and Ne-Yo on YouTube. Within months, Justin was an Internet sensation, with a large following of fans, and an eager manager arranging for the teenager to fly to Atlanta to consider a record deal. There, Bieber had a chance meeting with Usher, who eventually signed the young singer to a contract.

</doc>
<doc id="201710" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201710" title="One More Time">
One More Time

One More Time is a popular song by music group Daft Punk. There is also a video with animated type creatures for this song.

</doc>
<doc id="201711" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201711" title="Cornish, Maine">
Cornish, Maine

Cornish is a small town in York County, Maine near the New Hampshire border. As of the 2000 US Census, 1,269 people lived there.

</doc>
<doc id="201722" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201722" title="Sweet Dreams Are Made of This">
Sweet Dreams Are Made of This

Sweet Dreams (Are Made of This) is a 1983 pop song by English duo Eurythmics.

</doc>
<doc id="201723" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201723" title="Mazzy Star">
Mazzy Star

Mazzy Star is an alternative music group popular for their songs "Fade Into You" and "Into Dust". "Into Dust" was played on an episode of the TV drama The O.C.. In 2013 Mazzy Star released "Seasons of Your Day", their first album since 1996. The album got good reviews.

</doc>
<doc id="201849" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201849" title="Balls Mahoney">
Balls Mahoney

Jon Rechart (April 11, 1972 – April 12, 2016) was an American professional wrestler who was best known for wrestling for World Wrestling Federation and Extreme Championship Wrestling under the ring name, Balls Mahoney. He was born in Spring Lake Heights, New Jersey.
On April 12, 2016, one day after his 44th birthday, Rechner died suddenly of cardiac arrest at his home in Spring Lake Heights, New Jersey.

</doc>
<doc id="201850" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201850" title="Tree hollow">
Tree hollow

A tree hollow or tree hole is a cavity in a tree. Such hollows naturally form in the branches or trunks of many kinds of trees. They provide a habitat to animals, such as owls.

</doc>
<doc id="201852" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201852" title="Jeff Sessions">
Jeff Sessions

Jefferson Beauregard "Jeff" Sessions III (born December 24, 1946 in Selma, Alabama, United States) is a United States Senator from Alabama.

</doc>
<doc id="201855" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201855" title="Ademar Pereira Marinho">
Ademar Pereira Marinho

Ademar Pereira Marinho (born 23 March 1954) is a former Brazilian football player.

</doc>
<doc id="201856" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201856" title="Masashi Hachuda">
Masashi Hachuda

Masashi Hachuda (born 19 July 1964) is a Japanese football manager.

</doc>
<doc id="201857" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201857" title="Yuki Tamura">
Yuki Tamura

Yuki Tamura (born 31 December 1985) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Guaraní.
62||6||1||0||3||0||66||6
0||0||0||0||0||0||0||0
62||6||1||0||3||0||66||6

</doc>
<doc id="201861" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201861" title="Tsuyoshi Kaneko">
Tsuyoshi Kaneko

65||10||3||1||68||11
65||10||3||1||68||11

</doc>
<doc id="201862" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201862" title="Taijiro Kurita">
Taijiro Kurita

282||5||14||2||13||0||309||7
282||5||14||2||13||0||309||7

</doc>
<doc id="201863" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201863" title="Masashi Owada">
Masashi Owada

165||10||6||0||171||10
165||10||6||0||171||10

</doc>
<doc id="201865" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201865" title="S.K. Tavriya Simferopol">
S.K. Tavriya Simferopol

S.K. Tavriya Simferopol is a football club which plays in Ukraine.

</doc>
<doc id="201867" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201867" title="F.C. Dynamo Kyiv">
F.C. Dynamo Kyiv

F.C. Dynamo Kyiv is a football club which plays in Ukraine.

</doc>
<doc id="201874" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201874" title="Tsutomu Matsuda">
Tsutomu Matsuda

Tsutomu Matsuda (born 5 October 1983) is a former Japanese football player.
46||0||2||1||4||0||52||1
46||0||2||1||4||0||52||1

</doc>
<doc id="201875" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201875" title="Masahiro Endo">
Masahiro Endo

116||9||2||0||11||2||129||11
5||0||||||||||5||0
121||9||2||0||11||2||134||11
!Total||8||0

</doc>
<doc id="201879" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201879" title="Takashi Watari">
Takashi Watari

Takashi Watari (born 8 March 1972) is a former Japanese football player.
5||0
5||0

</doc>
<doc id="201880" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201880" title="Hideo Hashimoto">
Hideo Hashimoto

254||10||35||2||48||2||23||1||360||15
254||10||35||2||48||2||23||1||360||15
!Total||15||0

</doc>
<doc id="201881" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201881" title="Masaki Fukai">
Masaki Fukai

Fukai was born in Masuho, Yamanashi.
Fukui plays for JEF United Ichihara Chiba.
158||25||15||3||44||6||2||0||219||34
158||25||15||3||44||6||2||0||219||34

</doc>
<doc id="201883" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201883" title="Montgolfier brothers">
Montgolfier brothers

Joseph-Michel Montgolfier (26 August 1740 – 26 June 1810) and Jacques-Étienne Montgolfier (6 January 1745 – 2 August 1799) were the inventors of a type of hot air balloon. The first manned attempt of flying in a hot air balloon was on 21st November. The balloon was launched from the centre of Paris and flew for a period of 20 minutes. The birth of hot air ballooning was on that date.

</doc>
<doc id="201898" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201898" title="Nazan Öncel">
Nazan Öncel

Nazan Öncel (born February 6, 1956 in Karşıyaka, İzmir) is a famous Turkish pop and rock singer-songwriter. She has made nine albums; some of them are "Bir Hadise Var", "Sokak Kızı", and "7'n Bitirdin".
In 1978 she released her first single "Sana Kul Köle Olmuştum". Then she released her first longplay album "Yağmur Duası" in 1981. Ten years after, she released her second album "Bir Hadise Var" in December 1991. "Bir Hadise Var" was very successful in Turkey and Nazan Öncel became an icon of the '90s music. In 1994, she released her third album "Ben Böyle Aşk Görmedim" and with this album, she became one of the most successful songwriters. After one year, she released alternative-ballad album "Göç". A song from the album, "Gidelim Buralardan", was famous outside of Turkey. 
In 1996, she released a rock album called "Sokak Kızı". It was a huge success. In 1999, she released "Demir Leblebi", which caused controversy because of the lyrics of the songs "Demir Leblebi" (about her memories of child molestation by her stepfather) and "Sokarım Politikana" (translation: I f**k your politics). This album was her most personal album.
In 2003, she released her seventh album, "Yan Yana Fotoğraf Çektirelim". This album includes two duets, "Hay Hay" and "Nereye Böyle" with popstar Tarkan. She released a box set called "Bir Şarkı Tut" in 2005, included her "Göç", "Sokak Kızı" and "Demir Leblebi" albums. Her next album, "7'n Bitirdin", was released in summer 2006. Her album "Hatırına Sustum" was released in December 2008.
She has worked with Sezen Aksu, Tarkan, Yonca Evcimik, Ayşegül Aldinç, İbrahim Tatlıses, Nükhet Duru, Gülşen and Metin Arolat.

</doc>
<doc id="201901" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201901" title="John Otto (drummer)">
John Otto (drummer)

John Everett Otto (born March 22, 1977 in Jacksonville, Florida) is the drummer and co-founder of the band Limp Bizkit.

</doc>
<doc id="201908" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201908" title="The Firebird">
The Firebird

The Firebird is a ballet. The libretto and choreography were composed by Michel Fokine. The story of the ballet is based on a Russian fairy tale. The music was composed by Igor Stravinsky. It was Stravinsky's first ballet score. "The Firebird" was first performed by the Ballets Russes in Paris at the Théâtre National de l'Opéra on 25 June 1910. Anna Pavlova had been asked to create the role of the Firebird. She thought Stravinsky's music incomprehensible and declined. The role went to Tamara Karsavina. The ballet has seen several revivals. It is also known by its French title "L'Oiseau de Feu". 
Prince Ivan ventures into the garden of the evil Kashchei. He catches the magical Firebird. She promises to aid the Prince whenever he needs help if he will release her. He takes a magic feather from the bird's tail, then releases her. Twelve princesses with the Tsarevna (daughter of the Tsar) dance. They are in the power of Kashchei. Prince Ivan falls in love with the Tsarevna. He asks Kashchei whether he can marry her. Kashchei is angry and sends his monsters after the Prince. Kashchei is about to turn him to stone, when the Prince waves the feather. The Firebird appears, and comes to the Prince’s rescue. She casts a spell on the monsters. They fall asleep. The Firebird tells the Prince that Kashchei’s soul lies in an egg. The Prince smashes the egg. Kashchei loses his power, the monsters, and his palace. The Prince marries the Tsarevna.
The ballet was revived in Britain in 1954 with costumes and sets by Natalia Gontcharova. Margot Fonteyn starred as the Firebird, Michael Somes as the Prince, Frederick Ashton as Kastchei, and Svetlana Beriosova as the Tsarevna. This production played the Metropolitan Opera House in September 1955 with the same principals. 
George Balanchine staged his version of the work with the New York City Ballet at the City Center in 1949 with designs by Marc Chagall. Maria Tallchief danced the Firebird. Balanchine revised his version in 1970 in conjunction with Jerome Robbins. Robbins handled the group scenes. Chagall revised his designs for the production. 
Maurice Béjart choreographd an abstract production for the Paris Opéra in 1970. He believed the traditional fairy tale production was impossible to present on the modern stage. He cast a "danseur" in the title role. The cast wore denim.

</doc>
<doc id="201910" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201910" title="Giuseppe Farina">
Giuseppe Farina

Emilio Giuseppe "Nino" Farina (30 October 1906 - 30 June 1966) was an Italian racing driver. He stands out in the history of Grand Prix motor racing for his much copied 'straight-arm' driving style and his status as the first ever Formula One World Champion.
He was born in Turin. He died when he accidentally crashed his car in Aiguebelle, France.

</doc>
<doc id="201911" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201911" title="Alberto Ascari">
Alberto Ascari

Alberto Ascari (July 13, 1918 – May 26, 1955) was an Italian racing driver and twice Formula One World Champion. He is one of only two Italian Formula One World Champions in the history of the sport, and the only one winning his two championships in a Ferrari.
Ascari was born in Milan, the son of Antonio Ascari. He was killed on the racetrack in Monza.

</doc>
<doc id="201913" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201913" title="Enzo Ferrari">
Enzo Ferrari

Enzo Anselmo "the Commendatore" Ferrari (20 February 1898 – 14 August 1988) Cavaliere di Gran Croce OMRI was an Italian race car driver and entrepreneur, the founder of the Scuderia Ferrari Grand Prix motor racing team, and subsequently of the Ferrari car manufacturer.

</doc>
<doc id="201918" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201918" title="Charlotte's Web (2006 movie)">
Charlotte's Web (2006 movie)

Charlotte's Web is a 2006 live-action/animated movie based on author E. B. White's book with the same name, released by Paramount Pictures with Walden Media, Kerner Entertainment Company, and Nickelodeon Movies on December 15, 2006. It stars Dakota Fanning as Fern and the voice of Julia Roberts as Charlotte and comes after an animated version from 1973.
Wilbur is the pet piglet of a young girl named Fern Arable. Unfortunately, when he grows into an adult pig, Fern is forced to take him to the Zuckerman farm, where he will be made into food after a short time.
Charlotte A. Cavatica, a spider, lives in the space above Wilbur's sty in the Zuckermans' barn, she makes friends with Wilbur and chooses to help stop him being eaten. With the help of the other barn animals, including a rat named Templeton, she convinces the Zuckerman family that Wilbur is special by spelling out such descriptions as "Some Pig" in her web.

</doc>
<doc id="201919" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201919" title="Portable application">
Portable application

A portable application (also called a "portable app") is a computer program that does not require any type of installation in order to run. This type of programs can also be carried on a USB flash drive.

</doc>
<doc id="201922" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201922" title="Portable application creators">
Portable application creators

Portable application creators allow the creation of portable applications (also called: portable apps).
No "agent"/"client" is required for these (also called "agentless" solutions):
These programs require an agent or "client" (to run the "compiled" app)

</doc>
<doc id="201933" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201933" title="Shia LaBeouf">
Shia LaBeouf

Shia Saide LaBeouf (born June 11, 1986) is an American actor, comedian and director. He is best known for his work in the movies "Transformers" (2007) and "Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull" (2008) and the Disney Channel series "Even Stevens". His parents are Jeffery LaBeouf and Shayna Saide. LaBeouf is an only child. He started his career doing stand up comedy in local places such as coffee houses. He graduated from high school in 2003 and hopes to attend college, preferably Yale University. He won the Orange Rising Star Award in 2008. He played Jerôme in the 2013 movie "Nymphomaniac".
LaBeouf is named after his grandfather who was also a stand up comedian. His parents are divorced. He lives with his mother in Los Angeles.

</doc>
<doc id="201936" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201936" title="Instinct">
Instinct

Animals with nervous systems are born with instincts. An instinct is a part of the behaviour of an organism. It is inherited (innate), not learned. However, the term does not include the operation of sense organs, and does not include the normal working of the autonomic nervous system. Instincts are to do with visible muscular action in response to releasers. Releasers are triggers which set off chains of instinctive behaviour. Although instincts are not learned, in some cases their performance can be improved by experience and practice.
There are some problems with the term 'instinct'. It can be used loosely to mean a general tendency, such as "a man's instinct is to protect his family". It can be used to describe chains of behaviour of mixed origin. Properly, it is used only of well-defined acts whose causation is inherited, and which are triggered by specific stimuli called releasers. 
Other terms for instinct are fixed action patterns (FAP) and innate behaviour chains.
Instinctive behaviours can be variable and responsive to the environment. Any behaviour is instinctive if it is performed without being based upon prior experience, that is, in the absence of learning. Sea turtles, newly hatched on a beach, will automatically move toward the ocean, and automatically swim when they are in the water. A joey climbs into its mother's pouch upon being born. Honeybees communicate by dance the direction of a food source without formal instruction. Other examples include animal fighting, animal courtship behaviour, internal escape functions, and building of nests.
Reflex actions are a special case. A true reflex is distinguished from other behaviours by mechanism; they do not go through the brain. Rather, the stimulus travels to the spinal cord and the message is then transmitted back through the body, tracing a path called the reflex arc. Reflexes are similar to fixed action patterns, but a fixed action pattern can be processed in the brain as well. A male stickleback's instinctive aggression towards anything red during his mating season is such an example. Examples of instinctive behaviours in humans include many of the primitive reflexes, such as rooting and suckling, behaviours which are present in most mammals.
Some instinctive behaviors depend on maturational processes to appear. For instance, we commonly refer to birds "learning" to fly, because they cannot fly at first, but can a week or two later. However, young birds have been experimentally reared in devices that prevent them from moving their wings until they reached the age at which their cohorts were flying. These birds flew immediately and normally when released, showing that their improvement resulted from neuromuscular maturation and not true learning.
While fixed action patterns and reflexes are clear examples of almost entirely instinctive behaviours, most behaviours are complex and consist of both instinctive and learned components. For instance, in imprinting a bird has a sensitive period during which it learns who its mother is. Konrad Lorenz famously had a goose imprint on his boots. Thereafter the goose would follow whomever wore the boots. The identity of the goose's mother was learned, but the goose's behavior towards the boots was instinctive. Similarly, sleeping in humans is instinctive, but how much and when one sleeps is clearly subject to environmental factors. Whether a behaviour is instinctive or learned is common subject of nature versus nurture debates.
In a situation when two instincts contradict each other, an animal may resort to a displacement activity.
Instinct is a built-in need to do something. It's not something an animal thinks about; it's something it does automatically. A baby bird automatically throws its head back, opens its mouth wide, and screams for food. It is an instinct. Baby bats automatically cling to the cave wall. Grasshoppers naturally spit out the things in their stomach on predators that try to eat them. Bees naturally work to take care of the hive and make honey. Butterflies inherit preferences for laying their eggs on certain plants.plant their young need to eat, and that's where they lay their eggs. Animals are born with these instincts, and they follow their instincts without conscious thought.
Organisms have two ways they can get behaviours. One way is learn, by observation, and by repeating things which have a pleasant outcome. The other way is to inherit the behaviour pattern by heredity.

</doc>
<doc id="201968" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201968" title="Step Brothers (movie)">
Step Brothers (movie)

Step Brothers is a 2008 comedy movie directed by Adam McKay, produced by Judd Apatow and Jimmy Miller, and stars Will Ferrell and John C. Reilly. It was released in movie theaters on July 25, 2008, and released on DVD and Blu-ray on December 2, 2008.

</doc>
<doc id="201979" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201979" title="Naples, Maine">
Naples, Maine

Naples is a town in Cumberland County, Maine. As of 2000, 3,274 people lived there. It is near Fryeburgh. The Songo Queen is a boat people can ride on and view the water.

</doc>
<doc id="201983" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201983" title="Manchester, New Hampshire">
Manchester, New Hampshire

Manchester is the largest city in New Hampshire. It is in Hillsborough County. The 2010 US Census says that 109,565 live there. However, an estimate done in 2014 puts the population at 110,448.

</doc>
<doc id="201984" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201984" title="Netflix">
Netflix

Netflix is an online movie rental service. It was started in California in 1997. It allows members to rent movies on DVD or Blu-ray, and also watch movies online with a computer, game console, smartphone, or Internet-connected TV.

</doc>
<doc id="201988" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201988" title="Petrushka">
Petrushka

Petrushka is a ballet burlesque in four scenes. Alexandre Benois and Igor Stravinsky wrote the story of the ballet. Igor Stravinsky wrote the music. Michel Fokine choreographed the work (designed the dances). Benois designed the sets and costumes. "Petrushka" was first performed by Diaghilev's Ballets Russes in Paris on 13 June 1911. Nijinsky played Petrushka, and Tamara Karsavina played The Ballerina. Alexandre Orlov played The Moor, and Enrico Cecchetti played The Charlatan. 
"Petrushka" tells the story of the loves and jealousies of three puppets. The three are brought to life by The Charlatan during St. Petersburg's 1830 Shrovetide Fair. Petrushka is in love with The Ballerina. She rejects him; she likes The Moor. Petrushka is angry and hurt. He challenges The Moor. The Moor kills him with his scimitar. Petrushka's ghost rises above the puppet theatre as night falls. He shakes his fist at The Charlatan, then collapses in a second death. 
"Petrushka" brings music, dance, and design together in a unified whole. It is one of the most popular of the Ballets Russes productions. It is usually performed today using the original designs and dances. Grace Robert wrote in 1949, "Although more than thirty years have elapsed since "Petrushka" was first performed, its position as one of the greatest ballets remains unassailed. Its perfect fusion of music, choreography, and décor and its themethe timeless tragedy of the human spiritunite to make its appeal universal."
Petrushka is a puppet. He is a character known across Europe under different names: Punch in England, Polichinelle in France, Pulcinella in Italy, Kasperle in Germany, and Petrushka in Russia. Whatever his name, he is a trickster, a rebel, and a wife beater. He enforces moral justice with a slap stick, speaks in a high-pitched, squeaky voice, and argues with the devil. His plays were formulaic and subversive. They repeated key scenes from one play to another. The plays usually ended with a dog, a policeman, or the devil dragging him away.
Empress Anna Ivanovna brought marionettes to Russia in the 18th century. These puppets were an amusement for the aristocracy. Rod puppets were an Asian import. They performed religious plays, mostly at Christmas. Petrushka however was a hand puppet. He was beloved by the common people. He performed in street theatres and other open air venues in small portable booths or behind screens that could be easily assembled and just as easily disassembled. After the Russian Revolution, Soviet authorities forced Petrushka indoors. They wanted to be better able to monitor his subversiveness.
Scene One. The scene is St. Petersburg's Shrovetide Fair in 1830. A crowd of peasants, police, gypsies, and others wander about Admiralty Square looking for fun. Two dancers entertain the fairgoers. At the back of the stage is a large puppet booth. Two toy soldiers rush from the booth, beating their drums to attract the crowd's attention. The Charlatan appears before the booth. The curtain of the booth opens. Three puppets are seen, each in a little cell. One puppet is a dark-skinned Moor, another is a pretty Ballerina, and the third is Petrushka. The three leave their cells to perform a pantomime at the center of the stage. The Moor and Petrushka both love The Ballerina, but she likes The Moor. Petrushka is jealous. He starts a fight with The Moor. The Charlatan abruptly stops the pantomime. The curtain falls.
Scene Two. There is no musical introduction except drumrolls announcing the beginning of the scene. The curtain rises and a door opens. Petrushka is seen being kicked through the door. He falls. He pulls himself together to the accompaniment of arpeggiated C major and F♯ major chords (the "Petrushka chord"). 
He stands uncertainly and shakes his fist at the portrait of The Charlatan on the wall. The music is a violent rendition of the "Petrushka chord", now scored for trumpets. Petrushka falls to his knees. The music grows lyrical as he mimes his self-pity, his love for The Ballerina, and his hatred of The Charlatan.
The Ballerina enters "en pointe". When Petrushka sees her, he begins a display of frantic gestures and athletic leaps. The Ballerina is frightened and hurries away. Petrushka falls to the floor in despair. The clarinets mock him. He curses The Charlatan to the accompaniment of the "Petrushka chord" for full orchestra. For a moment, Petrushka peers out of his room at the crowd in Admiralty Square to the "crowd music" from Scene One. He collapses as clarinets mock him with the "Petrushka chord". A trumpet call signals the end of the scene. 
Scene Three. Drumrolls are heard as the curtain rises. Whereas Petrusha's room was dark and chilly, The Moor's room is brilliant with color. The walls are decorated with palm trees, exotic flowers, white rabbits hopping about, and desert sands. 
The Moor lies lazily on a daybed playing with a coconut. He shakes it. There's something inside! He tries to cut it open with his scimitar, but fails. He believes it a god and bows in worship before it. 
The door opens. The Charlatan brings The Ballerina into the room. The Ballerina is attracted to The Moor's handsome appearance. She plays a saucy tune on a toy trumpet, represented by a cornet in the original 1911 orchestration. The Moor tries to dance with her but fails. 
The Moor sits on the daybed. The Ballerina sits on his knees. They cuddle. They hear noises outside the door. Petrushka has broken free from his cell, and rushes into the room to rescue The Ballerina from seduction. Petrushka attacks the Moor, but quickly realizes he is too small and weak. The Moor beats Petrushka. The puppet flees for his life, with the Moor chasing him. The curtain falls.
Scene Four. The scene is again the Shrovetide Fair. Evening is falling. The crowd is having a lot of fun. A dancing bear and organ grinders entertain the crowd. Wet nurses perform a dance. Suddenly, Petrushka runs from the puppet booth. The Moor chases him, and kills him with a blow of his scimitar. The crowd is frightened. The Charlatan enters. He shows the crowd that Petrushka is nothing but a puppet filled with straw. The crowd slowly walks away, still stunned with what they have just seen. The Charlatan is left alone. The spirit of Petrushka appears on the roof of the puppet booth. He shakes his fist at The Charlatan. He is terrified and hurries away. Petrushka collapses over the roof of the puppet booth, his arms swinging to and fro in the night.
Serge Diaghilev, the impresario who brought together the three men who created "Petrushka", was the son of a nobleman. He was educated at home, and moved to St. Petersburg in 1890 to study law. He took music lessons from Rimsky-Korsakov, and developed a strong interest in the arts. 
Diaghilev spent his inheritance traveling to Europe's major art museums. Between 1899 and 1905 he published "The World of Art", a magazine that had great influence on the Russian art world. Its success led Diaghilev to set even greater artistic goals for himself.
He managed to secure a position at the Imperial Ballet, but was fired after overstepping his authority. He organized concerts of Russian music for the Paris Opéra, and promoted Russian operas and short ballets. The Paris public was thrilled with these ballets.
In 1910, Diaghilev focused his efforts on ballet, and the Ballets Russes was organized. Stravinsky's "The Firebird" was one of the highlights of the 1910 season. In spite of the company's success, Ballets Russes did not have a permanent home. The dancers went back to their jobs at the Imperial Ballet when the Paris season was over.
When Nijinsky was fired from the Imperial Ballet for an incident possibly masterminded by Diaghilev, the impresario hired him. Nijinsky was an artist of the greatest magnitude who could lead the Ballets Russes to unheard of success and international renown.
Other artists joined the Ballets Russes, but the company still did not have a permanent home. It led a nomadic existence. "Petrushka" and "Le Spectre de la rose" were the highlights of the 1911 season, "Daphnis and Chloe" and "Afternoon of a Faun" of the 1912 season, and "The Rite of Spring" of the 1913 season. Nijinsky married in 1913, and broke with Diaghilev. 
In the following years, Diaghilev persuaded disgruntled artists who had left the company to return Fokine and Benois, especially. In 1921, the company found a permanent home in Monte Carlo. It continued to produce the colorful ballets it was famous for. The company's international renown grew, but the excitement of its early Paris days was over.
"Petrushka" was the creation of four men: composer Igor Stravinsky, scenery and costume designer Alexandre Benois, choreographer Mikhail Fokine, and Ballets Russes impresario Serge Diaghilev. The four men worked closely with each other on the creation of "Petrushka". 
Stravinsky and Benois each attributed the creation of the libretto to one another in the days following the ballet's successful premiere. The idea about a ballet based on a puppet was Stravinsky's, but the libretto was almost certainly the work of Benois. The subject was close to his heart, and he was, after all, an experienced librettist.
Alexandre Benois was born 3 May 1870 in St. Petersburg. His father was an architect. Benois did not plan a career in the arts, but graduated in law from the St. Petersburg Imperial University in 1894. In 1897, his watercolors were exhibited and noticed by Diaghilev and Bakst. The three men founded an art magazine that exerted great influence in Russia. In 1901, Benois was appointed scenic director for the Mariinsky Theatre, and in 1905 moved to Paris and began working for the Ballets Russes.
Benois was unavailable for comment when Stravinsky offered his undeveloped idea about a ballet for a puppet to Diaghilev in 1910. He had separated himself from the Ballets Russes after his libretto for "Schéhérazade" had been attributed to Léon Bakst in the ballet's theatre programmes. Diaghilev and Stravinsky tried to persuade Benois to return, but Benois refused. Time passed and Benois's pique softened. He rejoined his colleagues after learning the new ballet's subject was Petrushka.
Diaghilev was pleased to have Benois back on board and suggested the ballet be set during the Shrovetide Fair (a Mardi Gras-like celebration before Lent) in St. Petersburg about 1830. This period was one of Benois's favorites. Benois gave Petroushka a full-length body and two companions, The Ballerina and The Moor. Benois was designing costumes and scenery during the libretto's composition to give his colleagues a visual idea of the ballet's final appearance.
Benois, Stravinsky, and Diaghilev met in Rome in 1911. Rehearsals for "Petrushka" were in progress in the basement of the theatre where the Ballets Russes was performing though the music and libretto were yet to be completed. The ballet received a more definitive shape when Fokine began to rehearse the principal dancers, and, as often as possible, the dancers playing the different fairgoers in the crowd.
Igor Stravinsky was born on 17 June 1882 near St. Petersburg. His father, an opera singer with the Mariinsky Theatre, was of a noble Polish family. As a boy, Stravinsky studied piano and music theory. He later studied law, but passed most of his time with music. In 1905, he began music studies with Rimsky-Korsakov. In 1909, Stravinsky's "Fantastic Scherzo" and "Fireworks" were performed in St. Petersburg. Diaghilev heard both works and was deeply impressed. 
In 1910, "The Firebird" was put into development for the Ballets Russes. Tcherepnin was hired to write the music, but lost interest. The job was given to Lyadov. Diaghilev grew disappointed with Lyadov. He was slow to get started. The impresario recalled his impression with Stravinsky and decided the young composer was the man to write the score for "The Firebird". Stravinsky was hired. 
Stravinsky was young and inexperienced. He worried whether he could meet the deadline date for the score, but accepted the job. He was flattered to be chosen from the many great musicians of the age to write the score, and just as flattered to be working with men who were geniuses in their fields.
Stravinsky worked closely with Fokine in developing "The Firebird". The result was a work in which movement, music, and scenery and costume design were integrated into one artistic whole. The stop-and-go, episodic character of classical ballet was avoided in favor of a fluid continuity from start to finish. "The Firebird" premiered in 1910 to great success. 
This success led Diaghilev to hire Stravinsky to write the score for another ballet, "The Rite of Spring". The idea for this ballet was Stravinsky's, and based on a dream he had had about a virgin forced to dance to death to propitiate the god of spring. Stravinsky knew that writing this score would take a long time. He tired of it, and started to work on a concert piece for piano and orchestra to refresh himself. Stravinsky thought of this new piece as a contest between the orchestra and the piano. The orchestra finally overwhelms the piano to emerge the winner. 
Stravinsky was thinking of the Russian hand puppet, Petrushka, when he wrote the concert piece: "In composing the music, I had in my mind a distinct picture of a puppet, suddenly endowed with life, exasperating the patience of the orchestra with diabolical cascades of arpeggios. The orchestra in turn retaliates with menacing trumpet blasts."
The music is modern. It uses the music of the past (folk tunes and popular songs), but departs from the simplicity of these tunes. The most modern music in the score is the music for Scene Two. This is the music Stravinsky wrote as a concert piece for piano and orchestra. The scene opens with the clash of C major and F-sharp major chords. This bitonality represents Petrushka's dual nature as a living being and straw-filled puppet. 
Stravinsky put some popular Russian folk tunes into the score as well as less ethnic music such as a waltz by early 19th-century Viennese composer Josef Lanner. This waltz was inserted into Scene Three for The Ballerina and The Moor. Stravinsky put a popular French tune into Scene One ("She had a wooden leg") and was forced to pay royalties into the 1950s to the tune's writer. 
Stravinsky revised and arranged the "Petrushka" score several times. In 1914, the 42-minute work was cut to a 20-minute suite for concert performance. In 1919, Stravinsky gave his permission to the Aeolian Company of London to create transcriptions for piano rolls. Stravinsky himself wrote a virtuoso piano transcription in 1921 for Artur Rubinstein. Plans for a sound movie of "Petrushka" in 1929 were dropped when Benois would not agree to the project. In 1956, Stravinsky conducted a 15-minute adaptation of the score for an animated movie.
The ballet is set during the Shrovetide Fair in St. Petersburg in 1830. Benois had many childhood memories of these fairs. He put these memories the sideshows, the little theatres, the roundabouts and other fair attractions into the first and fourth scenes of "Petrushka".
Benois designed eleven productions of "Petrushka"' over the years. His designs were always based on those of the first production of 1911. He always set the ballet in Admiralty Square, although the actual place of the fair was moved to the Winter Palace Square and finally to the Field of Mars. The fair (infamous for the heavy drinking that took place during its run) was eventually shut down by Prince Oldenburg and the Temperance Society. 
All productions of "Petrushka" designed by Benois had several things in common. They all had a proscenium executed in a Russian folk style, and a backdrop showing St. Isaac's Cathedral. The costumes were accurate recreations of the clothing worn in the 1830s. The curtain that was lowered between scenes displayed the Charlatan surrounded by clouds. This curtain was replaced with a night scene of demons and monsters flying over St. Petersburg.
The second scene of the ballet shows Petrushka's lonely little room. There is a picture of the Charlatan on one wall. The original picture was damaged when the production was moved from St. Petersburg to Paris. It was replaced with a picture of the Charlatan in profile by another designer. Benois did not like this picture. He refused to speak to Diaghilev for a long time.
The third scene in the ballet is the Moor's room. This scene gave Benois much trouble. He tried many jungle animals elephants, lions, crocodiles on the wall covering of the room but was not pleased. He finally settled on a design of palm trees. This exotic design remained the same through all of Benois's later productions. It created a striking contrast to the bareness of Petrushka's room.
Fokine was born to middle class parents in 1880, and entered the Imperial Ballet school in 1889. He graduated in 1898 and immediately found a position as dancer in the Imperial Ballet. He was curious, intelligent, and ambitious. In 1902 he started to choreograph short ballets for the students of the Imperial Ballet school. 
He opposed much of the traditions of the Imperial Ballet such as the circular position of a dancer's arms, the "pirouette" ending a male dancer's solo, and the lengthy curtain calls. His intent was to make each movement have meaning, to create a fluid work from start to finish unhindered by the traditional stop and go of classical ballet, and to avoid a gymnastic style of dance. He wanted his dancers to interpret musical phrases, accents, and nuances through meaningful movement. He codified his thoughts on dance in five principles.
He put his ideas to work over the next several years with encouraging success. He respected the choreographic accomplishments of the past and refused to re-choreograph older works. He preferred to work with new material. In 1907 he choreographed "Le Pavilion d'Armide". He worked with Benois for the first time on this ballet. "Pavillion" earned the critical favor of the Imperial Ballet. It was eventually staged at the Mariinsky Theatre. 
It was Benois who introduced Fokine to Diaghilev. He choreographed "Les Sylphides" and a few other ballets for Diaghilev's first Paris season, and "The Firebird" and "Scheherazade" for the 1910 season. In 1911 he choreographed not only "Petrushka". 
Fokine described Stravinsky's "Petruska" score as "sounds tormenting the ear and yet stimulating the imagination and stirring the soul." The dancers complained about the score and found it difficult to keep track of counts. Fokine admitted as much, but managed to make progress with the dancers and on the choreography itself. Fokine redefined ballet with this work. 
In "Four Centuries of Ballet" Lincoln Kirstein writes about "Petrushka" and its creators. Fokine gave "pizzicato points" to the Ballerina, Kirstein notes, while the Moor's toes are turned out ("en dehors"), and Petrushka's toes are turned in ("en dedans"). The mechanical, flat movements of the puppets provide contrast to the natural movements of the crowd, and mime accentuates the Ballerina's vanity, the Moor's mindless pride, and Petruchka's helplessness. ballets
Fokine may have been influenced by other ballets about life-size animated dolls such as "Coppelia" (1870), "Arlekinada" ("Les Millions d'Arlequin"), and "Fairy Doll" (1903). Some moments and scenes in "Arlekinada" presage similar ones in "Petrushka". Fokine's most revolutionary gestures in "Petrushka" are the demotion of virtuoso star roles to character roles, and the elimination of classical ballet's narrative introduction, "white" act, obligatory virtuoso dances for the stars, and divertissement. The solo moments for The Moor and Petrushka are basically mime, and, without her own scene, The Ballerina has no solo. 
Fokine used Russian national dance forms in a fragmentary fashion for the various characters in the crowd. Fokine complained that the crowd was insufficiently rehearsed, Nijinsky complained that movement for the crowd was never really choreographed but was left for the dancers to improvise, and Benois complained that Diaghilev would not spend the money necessary to realize certain effects. Kirstein writes, "The metaphor of manipulated automata remains poeticallty powerful, now haloed in the nostalgia of many period memoirs. Did Benois see Diaghelev as the charlatan Showman? Was Nijinsky typecast as Petrouchka?"
Vaslav Nijinsky was born in Kiev, Russia in 1889 or 1890. His parents were Polish dancers. He went to the Imperial Ballet school in 1900. He studied under Cecchetti. He rose through the ranks. He partnered Anna Pavlov, Mathilde Kschessinska, and Tamara Karsavina. He met impresario Serge Diaghilev and the two became lovers. Nijinsky left the Imperial Ballet to join Diaghilev's Ballets Russes.
Nijinsky was famous for losing himself in a character. He transformed his Slavic features, his athletic physique, his virtuoso technique, and his classical discipline into one of the most moving portraits in the ballet repertoire that of a sad puppet with jerking, awkward movements. 
He had difficulty understanding the character in rehearsal and asked Benois for guidance. On the night of performance however, Nijinsky's superhuman understanding of character transformed him into the puppet. Benois wrote, "The metamorphosis took place when he put on his costume and covered his face with make-up I was surprised at the courage Vaslav showed, after all his "jeune premier" successes, in appearing as a horrible half-doll, half-human grotesque. The great difficulty of Petrushka's part is to express his pitiful oppression and his hopeless efforts to achieve personal dignity without ceasing to be a puppet. Both music and libretto are spasmodically interrupted by outbursts of illusive joy and frenzied despair. The artist is not given a single "pas" or "fioriture" to enable him to be attractive to the public, and one must remember that Nijinsky was then quite a young man and the temptation to be "attractive to the public" must have appealed to him far more strongly than to an older artist."
American dance critic Carl Van Vechten describes Nijinsky's Petrushka: "He is a puppet and remarkable touch a puppet with a soul. His performance in this ballet is, perhaps, his most wonderful achievement. He suggests only the puppet in action; his facial expression never changes; yet the pathos is greater, more keenly carried over the footlights, than one would imagine possible under any conditions. I have seen Fokine in the same role, and although he gives you all the gestures the result is not the same. It is genius that Nijinsky puts into his interpretation of the part. Who can ever forget Nijinsky as Petrushka when thrown by his master into his queer black box, mad with love for the dancer, who, in turn, prefers the Moor puppet, rushing about waving his pathetically stiff arms in the air, and finally beating his way with his clenched fists through the paper window to curse the stars? It is a more poignant expression of grief than most Romeos can give us."
"Petrushka" was first performed by the Ballets Russes in Paris at the Théâtre du Châtelet on 13 June 1911. Nijinsky portrayed Petrushka, Tamara Karsavina The Ballerina, Alexandre Orlov The Moor, and Enrico Cecchetti The Charlatan. Pierre Monteux conducted.
Fokine revived the ballet in 1925 for the Royal Danish Ballet, and again for Ballet Theatre in October 1942. The Royal Ballet revived the work on 26 March 1957 with Alexander Grant, Margot Fonteyn and Peter Clegg. Rudolph Nureyev danced Petrushka with the Royal Ballet in 1963. 
The ballet was first performed in the United States by the Ballets Russes at the Century Theatre in New York City on 25 January 1916 with Leonide Massine in the title role. The Joffrey Ballet revived the work in New York City on 13 March 1970, and the American Ballet Theater revived it on 19 June 1970 at the New York State Theater.
Tableau I: The Shrovetide Fair
Tableau II: Petrushka's Room
Tableau III: The Moor's Room
Tableau IV: The Shrovetide Fair (Toward Evening)

</doc>
<doc id="202005" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202005" title="Black-body radiation">
Black-body radiation

Black-body radiation is radiation produced by heated objects, particularly from a kind of special object that is made so it will absorb all radiation (visible light, infrared light, ultraviolet light, etc.) that falls on it, and so that it will also radiate at all frequencies that heat energy produces in it. 
This part of the story of radiation was first explained by James Clerk Maxwell via wave theory but the predicted and actual intensity vs. frequency curves did not go together right. Because the way of classical physics did not work, Max Planck explained their relationship by saying that there are individual things (he did not try to guess what kind of things) that vibrate, each at its own frequency. Each wave of each frequency has its own special energy level. A single x-ray is very high energy and can go right through the human body. A single wave of infrared light is very low energy, cannot go through the human body, and can only warm it. Plank's good thinking was to realize that in order to get a single wave at the x-ray frequency, it was necessary to have a big enough package of energy (or "quantum") to make such a strong wave. So if a black-body took in a single wave at the x-ray frequency, then it could give off an x-ray at some later time. But if the black-body only took in infra-red light it would not matter how much of it was absorbed. It could only give off infra-red light and could not give off even ordinary red light, much less any higher energy light such as ultraviolet light or x-ray radiation. Planck said that the total energy given off by a black-body at any particular frequency is equal to the number of the "vibrating things" (see above), n, that were vibrating at a given frequency, f times a special constant, h, that turns frequency units into energy units. The equation is:
The constant he made, h, is called the Planck constant.
The idea that a unit of light at a given frequency always has the same energy, the idea that there is a quantum of energy for each unit of light at a given frequency, became the doorway into quantum mechanics, so the idea of a black-body is something that is basic to modern physics. It shows up in discussions of a wide variety of physics topics having to do with energies and frequencies.

</doc>
<doc id="202009" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202009" title="Sputnik 1">
Sputnik 1

Sputnik 1 was the first artificial satellite to go around the Earth. It was made by the Soviet Union. It was launched on 4 October 1957 at Baikonur Cosmodrome. It orbited (went around) the Earth for three months. It carried a radio transmitter. It did 1,440 orbits of the Earth during this time. It went down into Earth's atmosphere on 4 January 1958 and burned up.
The United States was very surprised when the Soviet Union sent Sputnik 1 into space. It did not want to fall behind. So, it began spending more money on science and education. This was when the Space Race between the Soviet Union and the United States began.
The word "Sputnik" comes from the Russian Спутник, literally "travelling companion". It is pronounced or , not .

</doc>
<doc id="202106" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202106" title="Plummet">
Plummet

Plummet is an American trance musical group. They are from Orlando, Florida. The members of the group are producer/remixer Eric B. Muniz (aka DJ X) and female singer Cheramy Burgess.
They became well knon in 2001 with their cover version of Plumb's "Damaged". It became a hit in Europe. The song got to number 12 in the UK Singles Chart.
The group also had success in the United States. Their covers of Sade's "Cherish The Day" in 2004, and Paul Simon's "50 Ways to Leave Your Lover" became hits on the "Billboard" Hot Dance Airplay chart. "Cherish The Day" also reached #35 in the UK chart.

</doc>
<doc id="202112" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202112" title="Perfect Dark">
Perfect Dark

Perfect Dark is a first-person shooter video game for the Nintendo 64 where Joanna Dark must save the day in a dark world. It was published by Rare in both North America and PAL regions and by Nintendo in Japan. It was developed by Rare. It was released on May 22, 2000 in North America, June 30, 2000 in PAL region, and on October 21, 2000 in Japan. It is the first game in the "Perfect Dark" series.
In multiplayer mode, you can choose bots to try and kill. In the multiplayer mode, Alex using laptop gun and K7 Avenger always wins over Toz and his proximity mines.
Matt Casamassina of IGN rated the game a 9.8 out of 10 and said that the levels were a lot more detailed than the ones that were from "GoldenEye 007" and that the polygon character models and weapons were "wonderfully animated".
Joe Fielder of GameSpot gave the game a 9.9 out of 10 and said "As a single-player or multiplayer [first-person shooter] experience, Perfect Dark is unparalleled on the console systems".

</doc>
<doc id="202114" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202114" title="Matthias Sindelar">
Matthias Sindelar

Matthias Sindelar (10 February 1903 – 23 January 1939) is a former Austrian football player. His nicknames were "Mozart of football" and "Der Papierene-the Paperman" due to his slight figure. He has played for Austria national team. Sindelar was elected for Austria's "Team of the century".
Matthias Sindelar was of Czech origin. He and his family came to Vienna in 1905. They lived in Favoriten where Matthias started playing football with Hertha Vienna from 1918 to 1924. Then he went to FK Austria Wien (then Wiener Amateur-SV till 1926). For this club he played from 1924 till his death 1939.
He was an important part of the Austrian team in the early 1930s. This team is called "Wunderteam" and had won lot of matches against leading European nations. 
The following is a list of Sindelar's international appearances and goals with the Austria national football team.
!Total||43||26
Matthias Sindelar was found death in his home in Viennas Annengasse on 23 January 1939. The official reason was carbon monoxide poisoning. But soon after his death myths arose that he was murdered. He rejected to play for Germany, which occupied Austria, and therefore he was murdered. But the rumours were never verified.

</doc>
<doc id="202115" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202115" title="Eugene Killoran">
Eugene Killoran

Eugene Killoran (born 4 November 1987) is a former Irish-Japanese football player.
He is now a scout for Libero Sports in Japan.
0||0||0||0||0||0
0||0||0||0||0||0

</doc>
<doc id="202116" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202116" title="Yoshio Kitagawa">
Yoshio Kitagawa

Yoshio Kitagawa (born 21 August 1978) used to be a Japanese football player.
202||58||16||17||2||0||220||75
202||58||16||17||2||0||220||75

</doc>
<doc id="202120" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202120" title="Primera División Uruguaya">
Primera División Uruguaya

Primera División Uruguaya is a football league which is top division in Uruguay.

</doc>
<doc id="202123" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202123" title="Bruno Metsu">
Bruno Metsu

Bruno Metsu (28 January 1954 - 14 October 2013) was a French footballer-turned manager. He died of colon cancer.
On the morning of 14 October 2013, Metsu died from cancer at age of 59,

</doc>
<doc id="202124" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202124" title="Sergio Claudio dos Santos">
Sergio Claudio dos Santos

Sergio Claudio dos Santos (born 27 June 1971) is a former Brazilian football player. He has played for Brazil national team.
83||7||||||||||83||7
185||18||27||3||67||3||279||24
268||25||27||3||67||3||362||31
!Total||10||1

</doc>
<doc id="202125" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202125" title="Akihiro Ienaga">
Akihiro Ienaga

117||6||14||2||23||4||6||1||160||13
117||6||14||2||23||4||6||1||160||13
!Total||3||0

</doc>
<doc id="202130" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202130" title="Shingo Morita">
Shingo Morita

Shingo Morita (born 9 December 1978) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Tonan Maebashi.
105||8||8||5||5||1||118||14
105||8||8||5||5||1||118||14

</doc>
<doc id="202131" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202131" title="Kentaro Hayashi">
Kentaro Hayashi

369||23||38||1||47||3||454||27
369||23||38||1||47||3||454||27
!Total||2||0

</doc>
<doc id="202141" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202141" title="Arata Sugiyama">
Arata Sugiyama

Arata Sugiyama (born 25 July 1980) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Omiya Ardija.
223||4||12||0||8||0||243||4
223||4||12||0||8||0||243||4

</doc>
<doc id="202142" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202142" title="Shinya Nasu">
Shinya Nasu

Shinya Nasu (born 29 December 1978) is a former Japanese football player.
145||6||8||0||4||0||157||6
145||6||8||0||4||0||157||6

</doc>
<doc id="202143" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202143" title="Daiki Tamori">
Daiki Tamori

38||1||2||0||2||0||42||1
38||1||2||0||2||0||42||1

</doc>
<doc id="202147" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202147" title="Yohei Onishi">
Yohei Onishi

Yohei Onishi (born 30 October 1982) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Ventforet Kofu.
118||14||8||1||6||0||132||15
118||14||8||1||6||0||132||15

</doc>
<doc id="202148" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202148" title="Kenta Suzuki">
Kenta Suzuki

Kenta Suzuki (born 16 September 1985) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Sagamihara.
29||0||1||0||8||0||38||0
29||0||1||0||8||0||38||0

</doc>
<doc id="202149" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202149" title="Kazunari Hosaka">
Kazunari Hosaka

Kazunari Hosaka (born 24 March 1983) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Ventforet Kofu.
70||7||3||0||9||0||82||7
70||7||3||0||9||0||82||7

</doc>
<doc id="202153" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202153" title="Toshiki Chino">
Toshiki Chino

Toshiki Chino (born 19 July 1985) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Blaublitz Akita.
109||12||10||1||0||0||119||13
109||12||10||1||0||0||119||13

</doc>
<doc id="202154" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202154" title="Daisuke Sudo">
Daisuke Sudo

Daisuke Sudo (born 25 April 1977) is a Japanese football player.
222||41||13||6||17||7||252||54
222||41||13||6||17||7||252||54

</doc>
<doc id="202155" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202155" title="Taro Hasegawa">
Taro Hasegawa

177||35||11||4||9||3||197||42
177||35||11||4||9||3||197||42

</doc>
<doc id="202164" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202164" title="Netley Hospital">
Netley Hospital

Netley Hospital or The Royal Victoria Hospital at Netley was finished on 19 May 1856. The plans for its building began in 1853, at the start of the Crimean War. The Medical Department of the army was totally unprepared for the very large number of wounded soldiers being brought from the battles at places like the siege of Sevastopol. It saw the first real involvement of Florence Nightingale.
Nightingale was a young and determined nurse, sent to Scutari to care for the soldiers. She began to develop sanitation and hygiene properly. The Boer Wars in southern Africa between 1880 and 1902 had a very high casualty rate for the British. More than 20 thousand dead and many who died from disease when they returned home. Thousands of British soldiers brought back to Netley were nearly far too many for the hospital, but others had been built by then and so they were able to deal with the number of troops. Netley’s role in World War One was very important in saving the lives of many troops. Hundreds of wooden huts were built behind the site of the Hospital, increasing the capacity of Netley to some 5000 men. This was needed especially during the Somme offensive and the battles at Ypres.

</doc>
<doc id="202167" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202167" title="Kotaro Yamazaki">
Kotaro Yamazaki

Kotaro Yamazaki (born 19 October 1978) is a former Japanese football player.
82||10||5||1||9||3||80||14
82||10||5||1||9||3||80||14

</doc>
<doc id="202168" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202168" title="Toru Kamikawa">
Toru Kamikawa

Toru Kamikawa (born 8 June 1963) is a former Japanese football referee.
7||0||0||0||0||0||7||0
7||0||0||0||0||0||7||0

</doc>
<doc id="202172" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202172" title="Yusuke Kawakita">
Yusuke Kawakita

125||0||14||0||0||0||139||0
125||0||14||0||0||0||139||0

</doc>
<doc id="202173" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202173" title="Torashi Shimazu">
Torashi Shimazu

Torashi Shimazu (born 20 August 1978) is a Japanese football player. He plays for JEF United Ichihara Chiba.
83||0||2||0||0||0||85||0
83||0||2||0||0||0||85||0

</doc>
<doc id="202174" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202174" title="Shunzo Ono">
Shunzo Ono

180||9||8||0||16||0||204||9
180||9||8||0||16||0||204||9

</doc>
<doc id="202182" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202182" title="Scottish Football League Second Division">
Scottish Football League Second Division

Scottish Football League Second Division is a football league which is third division in Scotland.

</doc>
<doc id="202183" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202183" title="Scottish Football League Third Division">
Scottish Football League Third Division

Scottish Football League Third Division is a football league which is fourth division in Scotland.
Listed below are the teams competing in the season 2012–13 Third Division.
On 13 July 2012, the SFL accepted Rangers into Division Three for season 2012-13 after the previous club holding the non-transferable licence to play in the SPL entered liquidation. The decision was ratified by the SFA on 27 July 2012, when conditional membership was issued to the new owners of Rangers.

</doc>
<doc id="202186" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202186" title="Jan Kromkamp">
Jan Kromkamp

Jan Kromkamp (born 17 August 1980) is a Dutch football player. He plays for PSV Eindhoven.
260||13||7||0||colspan="2"|-||34||2||301||15
6||0||0||0||colspan="2"|-||5||0||11||0
14||0||4||0||0||0||0||0||18||0
280||13||11||0||0||0||39||2||330||15
!Total||11||0

</doc>
<doc id="202187" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202187" title="Jérôme Rothen">
Jérôme Rothen

Jérôme Rothen (born 31 March 1978) is a French football player. He plays for Ankaragücü.
365||30
4||0
0||0
369||30
!Total||13||1

</doc>
<doc id="202188" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202188" title="Takehiro Hayashi">
Takehiro Hayashi

Takehiro Hayashi (born 23 January 1976) is a former Japanese football player.
151||91||1||0||152||91
151||91||1||0||152||91

</doc>
<doc id="202190" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202190" title="C.A. Peñarol">
C.A. Peñarol

C.A. Peñarol is a football club which plays in Uruguay.
5 times winner of the main South American club tournament - Libertadores Cup, 3 times - winner of FIFA Intercontinental Cup. Officially, 20th century's South American best club and 2nd club in the World, after Real Madrid.

</doc>
<doc id="202206" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202206" title="Johnny Rep">
Johnny Rep

John Nicholaas "Johnny" Rep (born 25 November 1951 in Zaandam, Noord-Holland) is a former Dutch football striker. He currently holds the all time record for FIFA World Cup goals for the Netherlands with 7. He played two European Cup I finals and two World Championship finals for The Netherlands (1974 and 1978).
Rep made his debut for Ajax on 29 August 1971. He earned his 'Goudhaantje (Goldcrest)' due to his ability to score decisive goals. During the return match for the Intercontinental Cup against Independiente in 1972 he scored two of the three Ajax goals. In 1973 he scored the decisive 1-0 in the European Cup I final against Italian Juventus.
In 1975 Rep left Ajax for the Spanish club Valencia CF and was superseded by Tscheu La Ling. He played two seasons at Valencia during which he scored 22 goals. The next step in his career took Rep to France where he played two seasons SC Bastia (33 goals) and four seasons for AS Saint-Etienne (44 goals). He returned to the Dutch league in 1983 to play for PEC Zwolle, Feyenoord before ending his professional player career at HFC Haarlem.

</doc>
<doc id="202208" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202208" title="Steve Sidwell">
Steve Sidwell

Steve Sidwell (born 14 December 1982) is an English football player. He plays for Aston Villa.
246||41||19||1||12||2||6||0||283||44
0||0||||||||||||||0||0
246||41||19||1||12||2||6||0||285||44

</doc>
<doc id="202210" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202210" title="Nathan Delfouneso">
Nathan Delfouneso

Nathan Delfouneso (born 2 February 1991 in Tyseley, Birmingham) is an English footballer who plays for Aston Villa as a striker.

</doc>
<doc id="202211" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202211" title="Kingdom of Croatia (medieval)">
Kingdom of Croatia (medieval)

Kingdom of Croatia was a state in Europe. It lasted from 925 until 1102 when Croatia was conquered by Hungary.

</doc>
<doc id="202216" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202216" title="Mickey Rourke">
Mickey Rourke

Philip Andre "Mickey" Rourke, Jr. (born September 16, 1952) is an American actor. He is of Irish and French descent. He is a Roman Catholic. He was in the movie "The Wrestler". He also appeared at WrestleMania and had an encounter with Chris Jericho. He also played the voice of Jericho in the Driver 2 video game.

</doc>
<doc id="202218" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202218" title="Benny Hill">
Benny Hill

Alfred Hawthorne "Benny" Hill (21 January 1924 – 20 April 1992) was an English comedian, actor and singer, notable for his long-running television programme "The Benny Hill Show".

</doc>
<doc id="202219" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202219" title="Whitey Ford">
Whitey Ford

Edward Charles "Whitey" Ford (born October 21, 1928) is a former Major League Baseball pitcher who spent his entire 18-year career with the New York Yankees. He was voted into the Hall of Fame in 1974.

</doc>
<doc id="202224" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202224" title="Cass Fox">
Cass Fox

Cassandra "Cass" Fox is a musical artist from England. She is best known for co-writing and singing on the 2001 hit single "Touch Me" which she produced with Rui Da Silva.

</doc>
<doc id="202227" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202227" title="WGME-TV">
WGME-TV

WGME-13 is a local television station from Portland, Maine. CBS is shown on it. It also has local news. Kiley Bennett and Kim Block are two of the news team. Sarah Long and Charlie Lopresti do the weather.

</doc>
<doc id="202229" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202229" title="Sugar Island, Maine">
Sugar Island, Maine

Sugar Island is an island on Moosehead Lake in Maine.

</doc>
<doc id="202231" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202231" title="Brown recluse spider">
Brown recluse spider

The brown recluse spider ("Loxosceles reclusa") is a timid but dangerous spider that lives in the United States. 
The scientific name of the spider "Loxosceles reclusa" comes from words that mean "slanted leg recluse". The "slanted leg" part comes from the fact that these spiders have their legs touching the ground at an angle instead of straight up and down. The "recluse" part is because this spider is very shy and runs away from humans.
The brown recluse spider can be light brown, dark brown, or even gray. Sometimes it is called the violin spider since its head has a darker mark on it that looks like a violin. Not including its legs, it can grow to about long. They have six eyes, which is an unusual number of eyes for a spider.
Male and female brown recluses can be identified once the spider has molted several times. Spiders have a set of appendages on their faces called pedipalps. The pedipalps on the male have much larger ends than the ones on females. These fattened pedipalps serve as the sex organs for the male. The female has her sex organs on the underside of her body. This is perhaps the only way to easily tell a male from a female. Scientists who study brown recluses and their relatives can even identify relatives of the brown recluse by studying the shapes of the sex organs.
Brown recluse spiders only live in the United States. Spiders living in the south west part of the USA live in the woods, and spiders in the north east part live inside houses. Brown recluse spiders like dry, dark areas that have good hiding places. Wild brown recluse spiders live in hollowed rotting tree trunks and logs. Brown recluses that live in houses usually like garages, basements, and attics. These are places where people are less likely to bother them, and they have lots of good hiding places, like cardboard boxes.
Sometimes, people mail boxes without checking them first for spiders. Brown recluses can hide inside these boxes and might make their home wherever the package is opened. However, spider experts have found brown recluses sent through the mail rarely start a new colony in their new home, partly because there are no other brown recluses for them to mate with. Sometimes brown recluses sent through the mail set up colonies in warehouses. However, they do not move very far from their colony, which is usually not well-established in the new place.
Brown recluse spiders are insectivores. They eat soft-bodied insects (like moths or flies) and other spiders. They are cannibals and will not hesitate to eat each other. When mating, a female brown recluse will try to eat the male.
When preying, the brown recluse slowly creeps toward its prey. Once it is close enough, it pounces on the prey and sinks its fangs into the prey. Its fangs contain a deadly venom that kills the prey very quickly.
Brown recluses can go without food or water for a very long time. Some brown recluses can go for five seasons with no food or water.
Brown recluse spiders are hunting spiders, so they spend most of the time on the ground. They hide during the daytime and sleep, and at night they come out to hunt. They usually do not climb unless they are running from something. They can walk upside-down, but most brown recluses walking on ceilings have probably come from the upstairs floor. The blood cannot flow through their legs while they walk, so they must stop every few seconds to allow the blood to flow.
Brown recluses are very good at survival. They can go without food or water for more than a year. They are also very good at surviving in people's homes during cold winters. If they get their leg caught in something, such as a crack or a predator's mouth, they can drop the leg. The spider can still walk around with only four legs, as long as there is still one leg on each side.
Because these spiders are so good at surviving in hard times, it is very hard to get rid of them. Bug sprays and pest killers usually are not good for killing them, except for some kinds that are against the law to use. A spider that has been sprayed might even become vicious.
Brown recluse spiders are afraid of people, and usually if they see one they stand still. If the person chases the brown recluse, it will most often run and hide. Even though brown recluse spiders are scared of people, it is a bad idea to try to touch one, because their bite can be very dangerous.
Brown recluses will normally only bite a person if the person is touching the spider or if the spider is stuck between the person and something else. Most brown recluse bites happen when someone puts on clothes that have a brown recluse spider living inside of them. For people who have brown recluses living in their house, it is a good idea to shake out any clothes that have been on the floor for a few days before putting them on. These people should also be careful when walking around in attics, basements, or dark parts of the house with no shoes on. Wearing socks or gloves helps, because the spiders have very short fangs. It is very common for people living with brown recluses to never see the spiders and never be bitten, and good habits can help make sure no one is bitten.
Brown recluse spiders have been feared since they were discovered in 1940, and people will often take drastic approaches to rid their homes of these spiders. Spider experts noticed that the bite of a brown recluse could sometimes lead to a terrible infection called necrosis. Sometimes the necrosis becomes fatal, but these fatal bites are actually very rare, and most bites from brown recluses are no more harmful than a normal spider bite. The spider's bite is most dangerous for people who are young or overweight.
It is very common for people bitten by spiders to arrive in a doctor's office without bringing the spider that bit them. When this happens, a doctor must guess what sort of spider could have bitten the person. The brown recluse spider is a very common spider to blame, since its name is so well-known, but it is very seldom that the brown recluse spider was involved. Doctors' guesswork has led many people to believe brown recluses exist outside their native area, such as in California, even though this is not true. In most cases, either a disease was the cause of the symptoms, or a different kind of spider bit the person and the doctor makes a mistake when he or she guesses it was a brown recluse.
Very little is known about the venom of the brown recluse, and spider venom experts have been looking for a long time for ways to effectively tell whether a brown recluse has bitten a patient as well as an antidote for its venom.

</doc>
<doc id="202253" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202253" title="4 Strings">
4 Strings

4 Strings is a Dutch techno music group with a female lead singer. "Diving" is one of their most popular songs. "Believe" is one of their albums.

</doc>
<doc id="202256" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202256" title="Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street (2007 movie)">
Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street (2007 movie)

Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street is a 2007 Anglo-American musical crime horror movie directed by Tim Burton. It is an adaptation of Stephen Sondheim and Hugh Wheeler's Tony Award–winning 1979 musical thriller about a serial killer in 19th century London.

</doc>
<doc id="202263" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202263" title="Lefty Grove">
Lefty Grove

Robert Moses "Lefty" Grove (March 6, 1900 – May 22, 1975) was a pitcher in Major League Baseball.

</doc>
<doc id="202264" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202264" title="Lefty Gomez">
Lefty Gomez

Vernon Louis "Lefty" Gomez (November 26, 1908 – February 17, 1989) was a
Mexican-American left-handed major league pitcher who played in the American League for the New York Yankees between 1930 and 1942.

</doc>
<doc id="202266" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202266" title="Koko B. Ware">
Koko B. Ware

James Ware (born June 20, 1957), better known by his ring name Koko B. Ware, is a semi-retired American professional wrestler who made his professional wrestling debut in 1979.

</doc>
<doc id="202267" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202267" title="Owen Hart">
Owen Hart

Owen James Hart (May 7, 1965 – May 23, 1999) was a Canadian professional wrestler. He competed for many professional wrestling promotions including Stampede Wrestling, New Japan Pro Wrestling (NJPW), World Championship Wrestling (WCW), and the World Wrestling Federation (WWF) where he was most well known. While in the WWF, Hart competed under his real name and the ring name The Blue Blazer. He was a member of the Hart wrestling family and was the youngest of 12 children of Stampede Wrestling promoter and WWE Hall of Famer Stu Hart and Helen Hart.
He was a one time WWF European Champion, two time WWF Intercontinental champion, four time WWF Tag Team champion and was the 1994 King of the Ring. 
Hart died on the night of May 23 1999, while performing a stunt which involved him being lowered down to the ring from the rafters, the cape he was wearing with his "Blue Blazer" gimmick got stuck in the release hatch of the cord he was trying to yank it out but when he did the release hatch released and he fell 78 feet down into the ring landing on the top rope (this happened during the 1999 Over the Edge.)
The next WWF Raw was a two hour special tribute show to Hart called "Raw is Owen", It featured remembrance matches and shoot interviews with fellow wrestlers. They tolled the bell ten times (known as a "ten bell salute") in memory of Hart.

</doc>
<doc id="202268" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202268" title="Ken Shamrock">
Ken Shamrock

Kenneth Wayne Shamrock (born Kenneth Wayne Kilpatrick on February 11, 1964) is an American mixed martial arts fighter and UFC Hall of Famer. He was also a professional wrestler back in the WWF.

</doc>
<doc id="202269" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202269" title="Cage Match">
Cage Match

Cage match or steel cage match is a match in wrestling where the wrestler must climb out of the cage to win the match.

</doc>
<doc id="202273" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202273" title="Lake McDonald">
Lake McDonald

Lake McDonald is the largest lake in Glacier National Park. It is in Flathead County, Montana.

</doc>
<doc id="202283" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202283" title="Resident Evil 4">
Resident Evil 4

Resident Evil 4, known in Japan as , is a survival horror third-person shooter video game developed by Production Studio 4 and published by multiple publishers, including Capcom, Ubisoft and Nintendo of Australia. It is the sixth game in the "Resident Evil" series. 

</doc>
<doc id="202298" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202298" title="Leszek Kołakowski">
Leszek Kołakowski

Leszek Kołakowski - (October 23 1927 — July 17 2009) was a Polish philosopher, who worked mainly in the history of philosophy, history of political ideas and philosophy of religion, essayist, journalist and novelist. He was born in Radom, south of Warsaw in 1927 and died in Oxford, England in 2009. Kolakowski published more than 30 books during his 50-year writing career. He was awarded the Order of the White Eagle, Poland’s highest honor, and the MacArthur Foundation fellowship.
In 2003 he became the first recipient of the United States Library of Congress’s $1 million John W. Kluge Prize for Lifetime Achievement in the Humanities and Social Sciences, given in fields where there are no Nobel Prizes. In announcing the prize, James H. Billington, the librarian of Congress, noted not only Mr. Kolakowski’s scholarship but also his “demonstrable importance to major political events in his own time,” adding that “his voice was fundamental for the fate of Poland, and influential in Europe as a whole.” His work inspired the Solidarity movement in Poland.

</doc>
<doc id="202303" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202303" title="John Paul II Catholic University of Lublin">
John Paul II Catholic University of Lublin

John Paul II Catholic University of Lublin ("Catholic University of Lublin, Lat. Universitas Catholica Lublinensis Ioannis Pauli II") - a private Catholic university in Lublin, with full rights of public school. Founded in 1918, to 1928 under the name University of Lublin, from October 16 2005, on the basis of a resolution approved by the Senate of the Polish Episcopate, the University changed its name to the Catholic University of Lublin John Paul II. In 1938 years of KUL has the right to award degrees.

</doc>
<doc id="202308" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202308" title="Nazarene (title)">
Nazarene (title)

Nazarene is a word used to describe Jesus. It comes from Nazarenos, a word used only in the Greek language original of the Gospel of Mark.

</doc>
<doc id="202309" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202309" title="Madawaska, Maine">
Madawaska, Maine

Madawaska is a town on the border of Maine and Canada. It is in Aroostook County, Maine.

</doc>
<doc id="202346" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202346" title="Grawp">
Grawp

Grawp is a fictional character in the Harry Potter book series written by J. K. Rowling. He is the giant half-brother of Hagrid. Grawp and Hagrid were born of the same mother, the giantess Fridwulfa. Hagrid's father was a wizard but Grawp's father was a giant. Grawp refers to Hagrid by the name "Hagger". 

</doc>
<doc id="202406" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202406" title="Tsarevich Alexei Petrovich of Russia">
Tsarevich Alexei Petrovich of Russia

Alexei Petrovich Romanov () ( – ), was a Russian Tsarevich. He was born in Moscow, the son of Tsar Peter I and his first wife Eudoxia Lopukhina.

</doc>
<doc id="202455" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202455" title="Billy Gunn">
Billy Gunn

Monty Kip Sopp (born November 11, 1963 in Orlando, Florida) is an American professional wrestler. He is currently signed to the WWE where he competes under the ring name Billy Gunn. He also works as a trainer for WWE's developmental territory NXT. He has also wrestled for Total Nonstop Action.
Gunn was also known for being a tag team wrestler and was a part of The Smokin' Gunns with on-screen brother Bart Gunn, the New Age Outlaws with Road Dogg, Billy and Chuck with Chuck and D-Generation X.
Gunn held many championships during his professional wrestling career:

</doc>
<doc id="202459" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202459" title="Meander">
Meander

A meander is a curve in a river. Meanders form a snake-like pattern as the river flows across a fairly flat valley floor. The position of the curves changes over time.
The river erodes sediment on the outside of the curves and drops it on the inside of curves. This is because the water moves fastest on the outside of a turn. Slip off slopes are formed on the inside of the bend from deposition and river cliffs are formed on the outside of the bend from erosion. Eventually meanders turn into ox-bow lakes when two outside bends erode together making a shorter route for the water.
Meanders were named for a river in Anatolia. 

</doc>
<doc id="202468" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202468" title="Peach Girl">
Peach Girl


</doc>
<doc id="202489" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202489" title="Thames Valley">
Thames Valley

The Thames Valley Region is a term that is used for the English counties and towns along the course of the River Thames. It includes parts of Wiltshire, Oxfordshire, Buckinghamshire, Berkshire, North Hampshire and West London.
The Thames Valley region is one of the wealthiest regions in the European Union It has good communications, a well educated work force, is near to London, and has strong local employers. 
In the twentieth century, new industries replaced the old ones. That were primarily information and communications technology and life sciences.
The Thames Valley region is an important tourist destination in the United Kingdom, both for domestic and international tourists. Some major attractions include:

</doc>
<doc id="202497" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202497" title="Manchukuo yuan">
Manchukuo yuan

The Manchukuo yuan was the money used in the Empire of Manchukuo, from June 1932 until August 1945. 
The Manchukuo yuan would buy 24 grams of silver. The yuan was instead of the Chinese "tael". The tael was common and was in use in Manchuria. A tael would buy about 40 grams of silver.
The Manchukuo yuan would buy 24 grams of silver in 1932. The price of silver changed and the yuan would not buy 24 grams of silver. To show that the yuan had value it was made equal to Japanese money. The Japanese money was called the yen. In 1940 the Manchukuo yuan was being used to measure Manchukuo exports and imports to America, Germany and Japan.
The paper money was in five values in 1932. Each piece of paper money is called a note. There was a one hundred yuan note, a ten yuan note, a five yuan note, a one yuan note and a small value note. A new 1000 yuan note was made in 1944.
The paper money or notes had pictures of Chinese emperors printed on them. The money was first made in Japan. Later they were made by the Bank in the Manchukuo capital of Hsinking (Hsinking is now called Changchun). 
The Yuan was subdivided into 10 "chiao", 100 "fen" or 1000 "li". Coins were made that were worth 5 "li" and bigger values. The largest value coin was 10 "fen".
In 1944 and 1945, Manchukuo made coins of red or brown cardboard. These are a rare coins as they are not made of metal.
On January 1946 Manchukuo Yuan was replaced. The Chinese allowed people to swap 1 Manchukuo for a new type of money called a "North-Eastern Yuan". In 1948 these new yuan could be swapped by a "Gold Yuan". One Gold Yuan cost 150,000 "North Eastern Yuans".

</doc>
<doc id="202500" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202500" title="Alonzo Mourning">
Alonzo Mourning

Alonzo Harding Mourning, Jr. (born February 8, 1970, in Chesapeake, Virginia) is a retired American professional basketball player who played most of his 16-year NBA career for the Miami Heat. He played college basketball at Georgetown University before playing in the NBA.

</doc>
<doc id="202503" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202503" title="Independence Day (movie)">
Independence Day (movie)

Independence Day is an American science fiction action movie about two men trying to stop aliens from taking over the world. It stars Jeff Goldblum, Bill Pullman and Will Smith.
It was followed by "", which was released on June 24, 2016.

</doc>
<doc id="202548" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202548" title="Love's Philosophy">
Love's Philosophy

"Love's Philosophy" is a poem written by Percy Bysshe Shelley in 1820. 
<poem>The fountains mingle with the river
And the rivers with the Ocean,
The winds of Heaven mix for ever
With a sweet emotion;
Nothing in the world is single;
All things by a law divine
in one spirit meet and mingle.
Why not I with thine?--
See the mountains kiss high Heaven
And the waves clasp one another;
No sister-flower would be forgiven
If it disdained its brother;
And the sunlight clasps the earth
And the moonbeams kiss the sea:
What is all this sweet work worth
If thou kiss not me?</poem>

</doc>
<doc id="202555" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202555" title="Penny Hardaway">
Penny Hardaway

Anfernee Deon "Penny" Hardaway (born July 18, 1971, in Memphis, Tennessee) is a former American professional basketball player in the National Basketball Association (NBA). He was in the United States basketball team at the 1996 Summer Olympics.

</doc>
<doc id="202556" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202556" title="Tim Hardaway">
Tim Hardaway

Timothy Duane "Tim" Hardaway (born September 1, 1966) is a retired American basketball player who played in the National Basketball Association (NBA).

</doc>
<doc id="202557" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202557" title="Ben Wallace">
Ben Wallace

Ben Camey Wallace (born September 10, 1974) is a former American basketball player. He played in the National Basketball Association with the Detroit Pistons. He had his picture on the cover of the ESPN 2K5 video game. Nicknamed "Big Ben", he played the center and power forward positions, and is listed at and .

</doc>
<doc id="202558" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202558" title="Tropical Storm Jerry (1995)">
Tropical Storm Jerry (1995)

Tropical Storm Jerry was a weak tropical storm of the very active 1995 Atlantic hurricane season. Even though Jerry was weak, Jerry caused 8 deaths and $40 million in damage. Jerry made landfall in Jupiter, Florida and Dixie County, Florida. Jerry was active with four other cyclones in the Atlantic Ocean: Humberto, Iris, Luis, and Karen. Because there was not much damage, the name "Jerry" was not retired and was used again in 2001 and 2007, the name will also be used again in 2013.
A tropical wave moved off the coast of Africa on August 9. Over the next week, clouds and other thunderstorms grew near the tropical wave. By August 22 it was upgraded to "Tropical Depression Eleven". Tropical Depression Eleven was located just to the north of Cuba at the time. On August 23 it became "Tropical Storm Jerry". Jerry had winds at 40 miles per hour, however the minimum pressure was not at the lowest still Jerry weakened back to a depression. The National Hurricane Center did not expect to Tropical Depression Eleven to become a tropical storm because most of the showers and thunderstorms were over land.
On August 23, Tropical Storm Jerry made landfall in Jupiter, Florida while it was still a weak tropical storm with winds at 40 miles per hour. It stayed as a tropical storm until it went into the Gulf of Mexico. It made a second landfall in Florida of August 25 while a tropical depression. It crossed into Georgia soon after and into South Carolina. Jerry died on the border of Georgia and South Carolina on August 28. The remains of Jerry either moved to the south back over to Florida or to the east over North and South Carolina. But the remains of Tropical Storm Jerry did last for five days over the United States.
Tropical Storm Jerry killed two people in Florida, three people in South Carolina, and three more in North Carolina. Jerry caused $19 million in damage in Florida, $10 million in South Carolina, and $11 million in North Carolina. In total, Jerry caused $40 million in damage and 8 people to be killed. This was the first time since 1990 that a name starting with the letter "J" was used. It was also only the second time that the name "Jerry" made been used to name a storm in the Atlantic. Because there was not much damage, the name "Jerry" was not retired, so it was used again in 2001 and 2007, it will also be used again in 2013.

</doc>
<doc id="202559" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202559" title="MS Jewel of the Seas">
MS Jewel of the Seas

The MS "Jewel of the Seas" is a cruise ship belonging to Royal Caribbean's "Radiance" class.

</doc>
<doc id="202561" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202561" title="Norwegian Cruise Line">
Norwegian Cruise Line

Norwegian Cruise Line (NCL) is a company operating cruise ships, headquartered in Miami, Florida. It began in 1966 and currently owns ten ships.

</doc>
<doc id="202564" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202564" title="Wyclef Jean">
Wyclef Jean

Wyclef Neluset Jean (born October 17, 1972) is a Haitian-American musician, actor and producer. He is a former-member of the hip hop trio The Fugees. Wyclef has sold more than 31 million albums throughout his career, together with his album sales with The Fugees.

</doc>
<doc id="202566" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202566" title="Ja Rule">
Ja Rule

Jeffrey Atkins (born February 29, 1976), better known by his stage name Ja Rule, is an American recording artist and actor signed to The Inc. and Universal Records, formerly of Def Jam Recordings. A Hollis, New York native, Ja Rule has released seven albums. Rule's eighth album is called "Renaissance Project". It has not been released yet. He has had a longtime feud with 50 Cent.

</doc>
<doc id="202567" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202567" title="1 Giant Leap">
1 Giant Leap

1 Giant Leap is a concept band and media project consisting of the two principal artists, Jamie Catto (Faithless founding member) and Duncan Bridgeman.

</doc>
<doc id="202604" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202604" title="Yusaku Tanioku">
Yusaku Tanioku

Yusaku Tanioku (born 18 October 1978) is a former Japanese football player.
218||3||4||0||2||0||224||3
218||3||4||0||2||0||224||3

</doc>
<doc id="202605" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202605" title="Michiharu Otagiri">
Michiharu Otagiri

Michiharu Otagiri (born 2 September 1978) is a former Japanese football player.
228||15||9||0||2||0||239||15
228||15||9||0||2||0||239||15

</doc>
<doc id="202606" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202606" title="Fabrizio Miccoli">
Fabrizio Miccoli

Fabrizio Miccoli (born 27 June 1979) is an Italian football player. He plays for Città di Palermo.
325||102||33||9||9||3||367||114
39||14||0||0||17||3||56||17
364||116||33||9||26||6||423||131
!Total||10||2

</doc>
<doc id="202607" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202607" title="Club Nacional de Football">
Club Nacional de Football

Club Nacional de Football is a football club which plays in Uruguay.

</doc>
<doc id="202619" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202619" title="Georges-Louis Leclerc, Comte de Buffon">
Georges-Louis Leclerc, Comte de Buffon

Georges-Louis Leclerc, Comte de Buffon (7 September 1707 – 16 April 1788), usually called Buffon, was a French naturalist. He was also a mathematician, cosmologist and encyclopedic author. 
His collected information influenced the next two generations of naturalists, including Jean-Baptiste de Lamarck and Georges Cuvier. 
Buffon published 35 volumes of his "Histoire naturelle" during his lifetime, and nine more were published after his death, for a total of 44 volumes. "Truly, Buffon was the father of all thought in natural history in the second half of the 18th century". 
Buffon held the position of Intendant (Director) of the "Jardin du Roi", now called the "Jardin des Plantes"; it is the French equivalent of Kew Gardens. The "Lycée Buffon" in Paris is named after him.
Buffon is best remembered for his "Histoire naturelle". "Written in a brilliant style, this work was read ... by every educated person in Europe". It was translated into many different languages, making him one of the most widely read authors of the day, a rival to Montesquieu, Rousseau, and Voltaire.
In the opening volumes of the "Histoire naturelle" Buffon questioned the usefulness of mathematics, criticized Carl Linnaeus's taxonomical approach to natural history, outlined a history of the Earth with little relation to the Biblical account, and proposed a theory of reproduction which ran counter to existing ideas. 
The early volumes were condemned by the Faculty of Theology at the Sorbonne. Buffon published a retraction, but he continued publishing the offending volumes without any change.
Buffon noted that despite similar environments, different regions of the world have distinct plants and animals. This observation, later known as Buffon's Law, may be the first principle of biogeography. 
Buffon understood the idea of common descent, and discussed it a number of times. This does not mean he believed in it. Probably he did not, but he discussed it fairly openly on a number of occasions. Interpreting his ideas is not simple, for he returned to topics many times in the course of his work.
In volume 14 he argued that all the world's quadrupeds had developed from an original set of just thirty-eight quadrupeds. On this basis, he is sometimes considered a "transformist" and a precursor of Darwin.
In "Les époques de la nature" (1778) Buffon discussed the origins of the solar system, speculating that the planets had been created by a comet's collision with the sun. 
He also suggested that the earth originated much earlier than the 4004 BC of Archbishop James Ussher. Basing his figures on the cooling rate of iron tested at his Laboratory le Petit Fontenet at Montbard, he calculated that the age of the earth was 75,000 years. Once again, his ideas were condemned by the Sorbonne, and again he issued a retraction to avoid further problems.
Charles Darwin wrote in his preliminary historical sketch added to the third edition of "On the Origin of Species": "Passing over... Buffon, with whose writings I am not familiar." Then, from the fourth edition onwards, he amended this to say that "the first author who in modern times has treated it [evolution] in a scientific spirit was Buffon. But as his opinions fluctuated greatly at different periods, and as he does not enter on the causes or means of the transformation of species, I need not here enter on details." 
The paradox of Buffon is that, according to Ernst Mayr:
He was not an evolutionist, yet he was the father of evolutionism. He was the first person to discuss a large number of evolutionary problems, problems that before Buffon had not been raised by anybody... he brought them to the attention of the scientific world.
Except for Aristotle and Darwin, no other student of organisms [whole animals and plants] has had as far-reaching an influence.
He brought the idea of evolution into the realm of science.
He developed a concept of the "unity of type," a precursor of comparative anatomy.
More than anyone else, he was responsible for the acceptance of a long-time scale for the history of the earth.
He was the founder of biogeography.
And yet, he hindered evolution by his frequent endorsement of the immutability of species. He provided a criterion of species, fertility among members of a species, that was thought impregnable.

</doc>
<doc id="202624" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202624" title="Malky Mackay">
Malky Mackay

Malcolm George "Malky" Mackay (born 19 February 1972, in Bellshill) is a Scottish football manager and former player. He is the manager of Cardiff City. Mackay began his playing career in Scottish football, with Queen's Park and Celtic. He joined English side Norwich City in 1998. He also played in the Premier League with Norwich, West Ham and finally Watford. He retired as a player in 2008.

</doc>
<doc id="202626" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202626" title="The Postal Service">
The Postal Service

The Postal Service is an American Indie pop band. Their songs include "This Place Is A Prison" from their album "Give Up".

</doc>
<doc id="202629" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202629" title="Toryglen">
Toryglen

Toryglen is a small district in Glasgow, Scotland. There are about 7,000 people who live in the district.
Jim Kerr of Simple Minds grew up this area.

</doc>
<doc id="202664" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202664" title="Nitride">
Nitride

In chemistry, a nitride is a compound of nitrogen with a less electronegative element, attached together in a specific way. Nitrides are a large class of compounds with a wide range of properties and applications.
Most of the names for nitrides follow a simple pattern: the name of the element attached to the nitrogen, then "nitride". So, GaN would be gallium nitride.
There are some exceptions, however, for the compounds that has had a usual name before. For example, NH is not called "hydrogen nitride", even if it is the most simple of this class of molecules, but it is still commonly called ammonia.

</doc>
<doc id="202666" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202666" title="Rail gauge">
Rail gauge

Rail gauge is the distance from the inside of one rail on a railroad track to the inside of the other.
Most countries use a standard gauge of 1,435 mm (4 ft, 8 1/2 in). Wider gauges are called broad gauge, smaller gauges are called narrow gauge. 
Broad gauge may be used where the track needs to have heavy things moving on it. Narrow gauge is used to build railroads for less money, because the smaller track costs less. Places where different gauges meet are called break of gauge.

</doc>
<doc id="202667" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202667" title="Skittles">
Skittles

Skittles came to America in 1979. They were originally from Britain, who first made skittles in 1974. The skittle's slogan "taste the rainbow" came from New York by a company called D'Arcy Masius Benton & Bowles on around 1994.
Skittles is a type of chewy fruit flavored candy. They have a hard outside with a chewy inside and an "s" on one side. Skittles come in many flavors. The original flavors were lime, lemon, grape, orange and cherry. 
1974- Skittles are first made by company in Britain
1979- Skittles came to America
1989- New flavors: Tropical skittles and Wild Berry Skittles
2000- New flavor: sour skittles
2004- Skittles launches its first bubble gum
2005- New flavor: Skittles smoothie mix
2006- Skittles launches X-treme fruit skittles gum (first limited edition variety)
2009- New flavor:Skittles crazy cores
2010-New flavor: Skittles Fizzl'd Fruits™
2012- New flavor: Riddles
2013- New flavor: Dark side skittles
2014- New flavor: Skittles desserts
2015- New flavor: Orchards

</doc>
<doc id="202682" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202682" title="Moon River">
Moon River

Moon River is a popular song. Audrey Hepburn sang it in the movie "Breakfast at Tiffany's". Henry Mancini wrote the song's music. Johnny Mercer wrote the words. Many other people have sung this song. It was one of Andy Williams' most famous songs.

</doc>
<doc id="202683" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202683" title="Isleworth Ait">
Isleworth Ait

Isleworth Ait means "small island". It is in the TW7 area of London between Kew Gardens and Syon Park. It is a 10 acre island densely packed fauna and flora. It has many rare beetles.

</doc>
<doc id="202684" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202684" title="Hurricane Anita">
Hurricane Anita

Hurricane Anita was the only major hurricane of the inactive 1977 Atlantic hurricane season. It struck Mexico as a category 5. Though it struck as a category 5 no one knows the damage. Anita killed 11 people in Mexico.
A tropical wave moved off the coast of Africa on August 16. After it moved westward for about a week, it started growing some clouds. It changed the way it was moving to the northwest on August 27 while it was over Cuba, but all clouds were over the Bahamas and Florida. The tropical wave soon crossed Florida and entered the Gulf of Mexico. While it entered the Gulf of Mexico, an anticyclone made conditions good for a tropical cyclone to form. The tropical wave also moved slow when it entered the Gulf of Mexico, making it easier for it to develop. By August 29, the tropical wave was good enough to be upgraded to Tropical Depression One.
Tropical Depression One went back on a westward path than a ridge forced it. Conditions remained good and the tropical depression strengthened into Tropical Storm Anita later on August 29. Water temperatures were warm, this allow Tropical Storm Anita to become Hurricane Anita during August 30. Hurricane Anita looked like it would strike Texas at first, but other weather systems did not allow it to do so. Anita began to quickly strengthen, it had become a category 3 hurricane on September 1. By the next day, Hurricane Anita had reached its highest winds as a category 5 hurricane, while not far from the coast of Mexico.
Hurricane Anita stayed as a category 5 hurricane as it made landfall in the Mexican state of Tamaulipas on September 2. Anita weakened fast over land, weakening to a tropical storm over central Mexico later that day. It also weakened to a tropical depression before it reached the Pacific coast of Mexico.
The name Anita was retired. It was not replaced with anything specific because the tropical cyclone names change in 1979.

</doc>
<doc id="202686" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202686" title="Oldsmobile Cutlass">
Oldsmobile Cutlass

The Oldsmobile Cutlass was a model of Oldsmobile. They are no longer made.

</doc>
<doc id="202688" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202688" title="Nissan Skyline">
Nissan Skyline

The Nissan Skyline (スカイライン in Japanese) is a line of compact cars and compact executive cars first made by the Prince Motor Company starting in 1955, and then by Nissan Motor Company after the two companies merged in 1966. After the merger, the Skyline and its larger counterpart, the Nissan Gloria, were sold in Japan at dealership sales channels called Nissan Prince Shop.
It is currently available in either coupé, or sedan body styles. They are most commonly known by their round brake lights. The station wagon bodystyle was ended in 1989 with the introduction of the R32 platform.
Models R30 to R34 of the Skyline are still popular cars for modifying by Japanese car enthusiasts from the 1980s to today. There are available features such as straight-6 engines, turbochargers, and the high-performance GT-R trim. While not distributed in the United States, the Skyline's prominence in video games, movies and magazines resulted in many such cars being imported there from 1999 to late 2005. Motorex petitioned the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration to allow 1990–1999 GT-Rs and GTSs to be imported, at the condition that they were changed to meet United States Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards.
The 11th-generation Skyline (V35) was another major turning point for the nameplate. It dropped some of the Skyline's trademark characteristics such as the straight-6 engine and turbocharging, eventually separated the GT-R into its own line, and moved to V6-engined era, this decision which extended to all later Skylines. Nissan decided to keep the Skyline for the luxury-sport market. Its platform-mate, the 350Z, revived the Z line of pure sports cars. The V35 was the first Skyline made for export to North America, being sold under Nissan's luxury marque Infiniti as the G35. The Skyline (V36/J50) is sold in Europe, North America, South Korea, Taiwan, and the Middle East as the Infiniti G37.
April 11, 2010 saw a world record for the biggest ever Nissan Skyline meet and the most ever officially recognized on a track in the Guinness Book of World Records. This took place at Silverstone, United Kingdom at the ISTS event.

</doc>
<doc id="202689" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202689" title="1976 Atlantic hurricane season">
1976 Atlantic hurricane season

The 1976 Atlantic hurricane season started on June 1, 1976, and ended November 30, 1976. Subtropical Storm One formed before June 1, though. The only storm to remember is Hurricane Belle which caused $100 million of damage in the United States.
None of the names from the 1976 season were retired.

</doc>
<doc id="202691" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202691" title="Vasa (ship)">
Vasa (ship)

Vasa was a big Swedish warship. The ship was built from 1626 to 1628. The same year "Vasa" was ready outside Stockholm, but sank by accident on her maiden voyage (first trip). "Vasa" sank because she was too heavy on top. Those who built her knew that she had problems, but they didn't dare say that to the Swedish king Gustavus Adolphus. He was not in Sweden when "Vasa" was built and he wanted her to go fight in the Thirty Years' War as soon as possible. There was a hearing about why "Vasa" sank, but no one was found guilty or judged for her sinking.
Swedish divers in diving bells brought up some of "Vasa"'s cannons from the sunken ship in the 1660s. Anders Franzén found "Vasa" in 1956 after he had read about the ship in sources and looked for her in the water around Stockholm. The ship was brought up in 1961 and was then treated with special chemicals so that it would last for a long time. The preservation treatment took almost 20 years to complete. "Vasa" is now in the Vasa Museum in Stockholm, Sweden. It is a very popular place for tourists to visit. It gets more than one million visitors every year.
When "Vasa" was brought up there were thousands of things inside her. There were bones of people, clothes, weapons, tools, coins, food and even some of the sails. The things and "Vasa" have been very good for historians, because they helps them understand how it was in Sweden in the 1600s. "Vasa" was a very expensive ship and was one of the largest in the world. She had hundreds of sculptures, and they were painted in many colors. She was a symbol of how powerful Sweden wanted to look and how good the Swedish king was.

</doc>
<doc id="202696" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202696" title="Tropical Storm Bilis">
Tropical Storm Bilis

Tropical Storm Bilis was a tropical storm that killed 500 plus people in Fujian, Guangdong and Hunan provinces in China. This happened on July 14, 2006.

</doc>
<doc id="202697" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202697" title="Liebeck v. McDonald's Restaurants">
Liebeck v. McDonald's Restaurants

Liebeck v. McDonald's Restaurants, also known as the "McDonald's coffee case," is a 1994 product liability lawsuit that became a flashpoint in the debate in the U.S. over tort reform after a jury awarded $2.86 million to a woman who burned herself with hot coffee she purchased from fast food restaurant McDonald's. The trial judge reduced the total award to $640,000, and the parties settled for a confidential amount before an appeal was decided. The case entered popular understanding as an example of frivolous litigation

</doc>
<doc id="202715" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202715" title="Tamarind">
Tamarind

Tamarind is a kind of tree in the Fabaceae family. It is found in Africa primarily the Sudan.

</doc>
<doc id="202729" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202729" title="Federico Balzaretti">
Federico Balzaretti

Federico Balzaretti (born 6 December 1981) is an Italian football player. He plays for Città di Palermo.
266||4||24||0||7||0||297||4
266||4||24||0||7||0||297||4

</doc>
<doc id="202730" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202730" title="Marek Mintál">
Marek Mintál

Marek Mintál (born 2 September 1977) is a Slovak football player. He played for Nürnberg and Slovakia national team.
186||76
180||66
366||142
!Total||45||14

</doc>
<doc id="202731" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202731" title="Takuro Yajima">
Takuro Yajima

Takuro Yajima (born 28 March 1984) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Kawasaki Frontale.
84||17||11||6||17||2||1||0||113||25
84||17||11||6||17||2||1||0||113||25

</doc>
<doc id="202745" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202745" title="White Cliffs of Dover">
White Cliffs of Dover

The White Cliffs of Dover are cliffs in Dover, England. The cliffs are a part of the North Downs cliff formation. The cliffs are white because they are made out of chalk. These cliffs are a major tourist destination for thousands of people every year. The cliffs are also the biggest cliffs in Britain. 
Dover is a huge seaport. It is the easiest way to get to France except for the Channel Tunnel. This is because between Dover and Calais is the shortest distance between France and Britain. These cliffs have great symbolic value because this was often the last thing people saw of Britain before travelling to Continental Europe. This is also the site of famous historic battles. In a clear day, the cliffs can be seen from France.

</doc>
<doc id="202759" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202759" title="Yuki onna">
Yuki onna

Yuki Onna means 'Snow woman' in Japanese. It is a kind of frost spirit or yokai in Japanese mythology that usually appears as a beautiful woman in a white robe with long black hair. In some stories the Yuki Onna is good and helps people in the mountains. In other stories she is evil and freezes people.

</doc>
<doc id="202760" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202760" title="One-inch boy">
One-inch boy

The one-inch boy, or Issun-bōshi, is a character in a Japanese fairy tale.
The story begins with an old, childless couple who live alone. The old woman wishes for a child, even though she's old. Eventually, a son was born to them, but their son was only an inch (2.5 centimetres) tall. They named the miniature child Issun-bōshi. The old couple takes good care of him even though he is small. One day, Issun finds out he will never grow, so he goes on a trip to seek his place in the world. He thinks he might become a good warrior, so Issun-bōshi is given a sewing needle for a sword, a soup bowl for a boat, and chopsticks for oars.
He sails down river to the city, where he asks for a job with the government and goes to the home of a rich "daimyo" (lord), whose daughter is an attractive princess. They say no because he is so tiny, but give him a job entertaining the princess. While they travel together, they are attacked by a big monster that swallows Issun-boshi. The boy defeats the monster by pricking him from within with his needle/sword. The monster spits out Issun-boshi and drops a magical Uchide's Mallet as he runs away. As a reward for his bravery, the princess uses the power of the mallet to make him grow. Issun-bōshi and the princess stay friends and get married later.

</doc>
<doc id="202765" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202765" title="Pollen tube">
Pollen tube

The pollen tube is the tube through which sperm from the pollen reaches the egg cell, and fertilises the plant to form seeds.
The pollen tube of most seed plants acts as a passageway. It transports sperm cells from the pollen grain, from the stigma (in flowering plants) to the ovules at the base of the pistil. Like ferns, other basal land plants, and many algae, some gymnosperms have flagellate sperm, which swim through a watery fluid to fertilize the egg cells.
In angiosperms the pollen tube germinates from the pollen grain and grows the entire length through the stigma, style, ovary and ovules to reach the eggs. In maize, this single cell can grow longer than 12 inches to traverse the length of the pistil. The sperm cells by themselves are not motile and are carried within the tube. As the tip of the tube reaches an egg it bursts and releases two sperm cells leading to a "double fertilization". One sperm unites with the egg cell to produce the embryo of a new plant, while a second sperm unites with the central cell (polar nuclei) to produce the endosperm of the seed. The endosperm is rich in starch, proteins and oils and is a major source of human food (e.g., wheat, barley, rye, oats, corn)

</doc>
<doc id="202766" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202766" title="Kuchisake onna">
Kuchisake onna

The Kuchisake Onna, or split mouthed woman, is a popular figure in Japanese folklore. She even shows up in many modern day urban legends. She often appears wearing a surgical mask to cover her mouth, which has been ripped open from ear to ear. She will ask unknowing passers-by whether or not they think she is beautiful. Often they will say yes, and she will remove the mask, showing them her torn face and ask again. If the person says no, then she will rip their face so it resembles hers.
There are different rumors about how to avoid her killing you. One is to say she is average, and another is to ask her if you are beautiful, in hopes of confusing her so one could escape while she has to think about what to do next.
The stories of Kuchisake Onna came from the Heian period Japan, where there lived a very beautiful but very vain woman. Her husband thought she was being unfaithful to her, and cut her face out of jealousy.

</doc>
<doc id="202793" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202793" title="Murderdolls">
Murderdolls

The Murderdolls is an American horror punk band founded during 2002 in Hollywood, California.

</doc>
<doc id="202794" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202794" title="Filey">
Filey

Filey is a small town and civil parish in North Yorkshire, England.

</doc>
<doc id="202797" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202797" title="Faizabad">
Faizabad

Faizabad is city in Uttar Pradesh of India. The population of Faizabad city is 144,924 as per 2001 census. Faizabad is especially known for being nearest city from Ayodhya. Faizabad is around 7 km from Ayodhya. Faizabad is on the road to Ayodhya. Hence every person from south region going to Ayodhya must go through Faizabad.

</doc>
<doc id="202810" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202810" title="Alex Wright">
Alex Wright

Alex Wright (born May 17, 1975) is a German former professional wrestler. He is probably best known for wrestling for the now defunct WCW where he was a one time WCW Cruiserweight Champion, one time WCW World Tag Team Champion with Disco Inferno, and one time WCW World Television Champion.

</doc>
<doc id="202813" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202813" title="Ricky Steamboat">
Ricky Steamboat

Richard Henry Blood (born February 28, 1953), better known by his ring name Ricky "The Dragon" Steamboat, is an American professional wrestler who became one of the most well-known professional wrestlers of the late 1980s and early 1990s and was inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame in 2009.

</doc>
<doc id="202814" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202814" title="NHL 2K10">
NHL 2K10

NHL 2K10 is an ice hockey simulation developed by Visual Concepts and published by 2K Sports, part of the "NHL 2K" series.
Alexander Ovechkin of the Washington Capitals is on the cover of the North American Release.

</doc>
<doc id="202818" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202818" title="George Acosta">
George Acosta

George Acosta is an American DJ. "A State of Mind" is one of his albums.
He was nominated for America's Best DJ in 2013. 

</doc>
<doc id="202824" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202824" title="Delfín Quishpe">
Delfín Quishpe

Delfín Quishpe (born December 4, 1977 in Guamote, Ecuador) is an Ecuadorean singer. Delfín Quishpe is the sings a kind of music called "Andean techno-folklore". His music can be found easily on YouTube.
Delfín was born in a small town named San Antonio in Guamote in Ecuador. During his early years in school, he began performing in front of his classmates and teachers.
Later on, he started working his voice and exploiting his artistic skills. Delfín entered different bands and attended dancing classes. He participated in many singing contests, showing himself and his judges that singing was his greatest passion. Delfin’s boom came in 1997.
In 1999, he began singing. Two years later, he created his first album named "El Faraón del Ritmo". It became very famous, and many radio stations broadcasted Delfín’s songs.
In 2003, he recorded his second album "El Gallito". It contained songs such as: "El Gallito Bandido", "El Delfincito", "Cuando me vaya", and "Cuaya huay". A year later he created his first video, the same that was posted on the Internet, giving Delfín global fame. 
In 2004, "Torres Gemelas" magnetized millions of fans. This controversial song reflected Delfín’s feeling and thoughts about the terrorist attacks of 9/11.
The video showed Delfín’s desperation and uncertainty of what was going to happen next. He showed he was really concerned about foreign issues. During the whole song, he described the way he found out that the US was in the middle of a tremendous and incredible situation. He also talked about his lovely girlfriend, who seemed to die during the attack. 
On February 15, 2007, Delfín performed for the first time in Guayaquil. During the concert, as usual, he was wearing white clothing with his name printed on it. The most awaited song was his controversial "Torres Gemelas", whose video has gained popularity via the Internet.
Quishpe sang other songs such as "Rosas Rojas" and "La Media Naranaja".

</doc>
<doc id="202854" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202854" title="Rook">
Rook

The Rook is a member of the Crow family. The crows are a family in the Passerine order. 
The rook is similar in size to the crow. It has black feathers, which show a blue or bluish-purple sheen (glint) in bright sunlight. The feathers on the head, neck and shoulders are dense and silky. The legs and feet are generally black, and the bill (beak) is grey-black. 
Rooks differs from the crow by the bare grey-white skin around the base of the adult's bill, in front of the eyes. The feathering around the legs look shaggier and laxer than the Carrion Crow. The young bird looks just like a crow because it lacks the bare patch at the base of the bill.
Its food is mostly earthworms and insect larvae, which the bird finds by probing the ground with its strong bill. It also eats cultivated cereal grain, smaller amounts of fruit, small mammals, acorns, small birds, their eggs and young and carrion. 
Rooks "always nest together", usually in the very tops of the trees. Branches and twigs are broken off trees for the nests. There may be any number of nests together in a group of trees: twenty or thirty are often seen in the "rookery". This is why rooks are sometimes described as colonial birds.

</doc>
<doc id="202860" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202860" title="Blackpool Transport">
Blackpool Transport

Blackpool Transport Services (BTS) is a bus and tram operator running within the boroughs of Blackpool and Fylde and into the surrounding area. This includes Fleetwood, Lytham St Annes, Poulton le Fylde and Kirkham. BTS is wholly owned by Blackpool Borough Council. It makes it one of the few remaining municipal bus companies in the United Kingdom today.

</doc>
<doc id="202862" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202862" title="Starr Gate">
Starr Gate

Starr Gate is at the south-western end of Blackpool on the Fylde coast in the county of Lancashire, England. The southern terminal loop of the Blackpool Tramway is present at Starr Gate. The district of South Shore is near Squires Gate and close to Blackpool International Airport.

</doc>
<doc id="202865" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202865" title="Ernst Werner von Siemens">
Ernst Werner von Siemens

Ernst Werner von Siemens (known as Werner von Siemens) (13 December 1816 – 6 December 1892) was a German inventor and scientist. Siemens' name is used as the SI unit of electrical conductivity. This is the siemens.

</doc>
<doc id="202866" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202866" title="Lee Chun-Soo">
Lee Chun-Soo

Lee Chun-Soo (born 9 July 1981) is a South Korean professional athlete. He is best known as an association football player. He was a member of the Korean national team.
94||36||3||0||18||5||6||3||121||44
28||0||3||0||colspan="2"|-||6||0||37||0
12||0||2||0||colspan="2"|-||colspan="2"|-||14||0
0||0||0||0||0||0||0||0||0||0
134||36||8||0||18||5||12||3||172||44
!Total||76||10

</doc>
<doc id="202867" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202867" title="Silvio Piola">
Silvio Piola

Silvio Piola (29 September 1913 – 4 October 1996) was a former Italian football player. He had played for Italy national team.
589||318
589||318
!Total||34||30

</doc>
<doc id="202868" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202868" title="Roberto Soldado">
Roberto Soldado

Roberto Soldado (born 27 May 1985) is a Spanish football player. He plays for Valencia.
!Total||2||0

</doc>
<doc id="202869" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202869" title="South Shore, Blackpool">
South Shore, Blackpool

South Shore is the southern coastal area of Blackpool on the Fylde coast in the county of Lancashire, England. It has many people and a number of tourist spots.

</doc>
<doc id="202870" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202870" title="Montevideo Wanderers F.C.">
Montevideo Wanderers F.C.

Montevideo Wanderers F.C. is a football club which plays in Uruguay.

</doc>
<doc id="202874" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202874" title="South Pier, Blackpool">
South Pier, Blackpool

South Pier (first known as Victoria Pier) is one of three piers in Blackpool, England. It is located on South Promenade in the South Shore area of the town. The pier has many amusement and adrenalin rides. It opens each year from March to November and is owned by Six Piers Limited.

</doc>
<doc id="202876" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202876" title="Rafael Sóbis">
Rafael Sóbis

Rafael Sóbis (born 17 June 1985) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Al-Jazira.
80||28
57||8
21||7
158||43
!Total||7||0

</doc>
<doc id="202877" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202877" title="Takahiro Masukawa">
Takahiro Masukawa

Takahiro Masukawa (born 8 November 1979) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Nagoya Grampus Eight.
168||8||13||2||23||2||8||0||212||12
168||8||13||2||23||2||8||0||212||12

</doc>
<doc id="202879" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202879" title="Sergio Agüero">
Sergio Agüero

Sergio Agüero (born 2 June 1988) is an Argentine football player. He plays for Manchester City and Argentina national team.
54||23||colspan="2"|-||colspan="2"|-||54||23
112||43||7||2||16||9||135||54
166||66||7||2||16||9||189||77
!Total||52||21

</doc>
<doc id="202880" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202880" title="Layton, Lancashire">
Layton, Lancashire

Layton is a district of the town of Blackpool on the Fylde coast in the county of Lancashire, England. 

</doc>
<doc id="202884" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202884" title="Pleasure Beach Blackpool">
Pleasure Beach Blackpool

Pleasure Beach Blackpool is an amusement park present along the Fylde coast in Blackpool, England. It is the most visited theme park in the United Kingdom. It has more than six million visitors a year. The park is a privately funded business and is owned, managed and directed by the Thompson family. It was earlier known as Blackpool Pleasure Beach. It has many rides including bling, avalanche and many more.It holds the tallest and fastest ride called pepsi max.

</doc>
<doc id="202885" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202885" title="Hideaki Ozawa">
Hideaki Ozawa

42||0||4||0||17||0||63||0
4||0||||||||||4||0
46||0||4||0||17||0||67||0

</doc>
<doc id="202886" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202886" title="Masaru Kurotsu">
Masaru Kurotsu

Masaru Kurotsu (born 20 August 1982) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Kawasaki Frontale.
137||22||15||3||23||10||7||1||182||36
137||22||15||3||23||10||7||1||182||36

</doc>
<doc id="202887" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202887" title="Hirokazu Ninomiya">
Hirokazu Ninomiya

!Total||6||1

</doc>
<doc id="202892" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202892" title="Esplanade">
Esplanade

An esplanade is a long, open, level area. It is usually next to a river or large body of water for people to walk on. This allows people to promenade along the sea, usually for recreational purposes. They can ignore the state of the tide and do not have to walk on the beach. Esplanades became popular in Victorian times when it was fashionable to visit seaside resorts.

</doc>
<doc id="202893" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202893" title="Tatsunori Hisanaga">
Tatsunori Hisanaga

Tatsunori Hisanaga (born 23 December 1977) is a Japanese football player.
325||21||19||1||33||1||380||23
325||21||19||1||33||1||380||23

</doc>
<doc id="202894" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202894" title="River Plate F.C.">
River Plate F.C.

River Plate F.C. is a former football club which has played in Uruguay.

</doc>
<doc id="202920" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202920" title="Process">
Process

A process is a series of stages in time where the last stage is the product, result or goal. 
Processes may be "planned" or "unplanned".
A process planned by humans has a purpose. It is a course of action, or a procedure, to achieve a result, or an end-product. The sequence from start to finish is the plan. A plan may be written, or programmed, or just held in the mind. Examples include building a house, fighting a battle. sowing crops; organising a wedding.
Natural processes are not planned by humans. They are investigated and described. Examples: volcanic eruption, the evolution of the solar system; biological evolution; the melting of ice and other phase changes; the process of development from egg to adult.
Processes often repeat whenever certain conditions hold. Example: car low on petrol/gas, visit garage and refill. Most computer programs are of this type. Processes may be circular: planets revolve around sun; eggs produce chickens, and chickens produce eggs. Rain water flows into rivers, evaporates, and returns as rain.
Processes, especially those which are cyclical, may be subject to feedback. A simple case is a central heating system.

</doc>
<doc id="202932" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202932" title="Günzburg (district)">
Günzburg (district)

Günzburg is a rural district in Swabia in southwest Bavaria, Germany. Neighbor districts are: Dillingen (district), Augsburg (district), Unterallgäu, Neu-Ulm (district), and in Baden-Württemberg: Alb-Donau and Heidenheim (district);
The nature is formed by some rivers, which flow from the south to the Danube, which runs in the north of the district: Biber (Danube), Günz, Kammel, Mindel and Zusam; The Nau flows from the north to the Danube. The hills between the rivers are covered with wood in parts. The eastern third of the district is part of the "Augsburg Western Forests Nature Park".

</doc>
<doc id="202940" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202940" title="Martin Keown">
Martin Keown

Martin Raymond Keown (born 24 July 1966) is an English football player.

</doc>
<doc id="202952" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202952" title="Krumbach, Bavaria">
Krumbach, Bavaria

Krumbach, Bavaria (Krumbach (Swabia), German: Krumbach (Schwaben)) is a town with about 12.500 persons in Günzburg (district) in the Bavarian government region Swabia (Government Region), Germany. In Günzburg (district) only Günzburg with about 19.689 persons has more persons than Krumbach.
Krumbach (Elevation 512 m (1680 ft)) is in the valley of the little river Kammel in the natural region Lower Iller-Lech Gravel Plateau . The hills between the valleys of Kammel and the neighboring valleys of Günz and Mindel are covered with wood in parts.
Cities near Krumbach are Ulm (40 kilometres northwest from Krumbach), Augsburg (48 kilometres east from Krumbach) and Munich (120 kilometres east from Krumbach).Towns near Krumbach are Günzburg (27 kilometres north from Krumbach), Mindelheim (30 kilometres south from Krumbach) and Memmingen (40 kilometres southwest from Krumbach).
Krumbach has a station at the Mittelschwaben Railway and it is at two Bundesstraßen (short: “B“): B16 and B300;
1156: Krumbach was founded
1370: the village got the right to hold a market
1305-1805: Krumbach was part of the Margraviate of Burgau, a part of Austria (the colours of the coat of arms (red and white) show the colours of Austria until today)
1805: Krumbach became Bavarian
1895: Krumbach became a town
1902: the neighboring village "Hürben", a village with many Jewish persons became part of the town Krumbach
until 1972: Krumbach was the capital of Krumbach, Swabia (district)
The villages Attenhausen, Edenhausen, Billenhausen, Hirschfelden, Hohenraunau and Niederraunau became in the years between 1972 and 1978 part of the municipality Krumbach.

</doc>
<doc id="202955" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202955" title="Krumbach, Swabia (district)">
Krumbach, Swabia (district)

Krumbach, Swabia (district) was until 1972/07/01 a district in Swabia in the southwest of Bavaria, Germany. Krumbach was the capital of this district. The carsign was KRU.
The district had 49 municipalities. The largest of them were the towns Krumbach, Bavaria and Thannhausen and the municipalities Ziemetshausen, Neuburg an der Kammel and Ursberg.
In 1972 the district became together with Günzburg (district) and the urban district Günzburg, the Günzburg district in today's form.

</doc>
<doc id="202966" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202966" title="Neiba">
Neiba

The Dominican city of Neiba, also written as Neyba, is the head municipality of the Baoruco province, on the southwestern part of the country.
Neiba, or Naiva, was the original Taíno name of the "Yaque del Sur" river.
The municipality had, in 2002, a total population of 36,511: 19,023 men and 17,488 women. The urban population was 66.93% of the total population. In this numbers are included the population of El Palmar municipal district, that is part of the municipality.The population of the city of Neiba without the municipal district was 27,105.
The city of Neiba was founded in 1735; before that date, there were some people living here, raising cattle.
After the Dominican independence from Haiti, in 1844, Neiba became a municipality of the old Azua province. Several battles were fought near Neiba during the Dominican-Haitian War, including the first fight of that war: "La Fuente del Rodeo".
In 1881, with the creation of the old Barahona province, Neiba was made part of these new province.
When the Baoruco province was created in 1943, Neiba became the head municipality of the province.
Neiba is in the "Hoya de Enriquillo" or Neiba Valley, near the eastern end of the "Lake Enriquillo". The "Sierra de Neiba" mountain range is just to the north of the city, and covers the northern half of the municipality.
The southwestern part of the municipality, close to the lake Enriquillo, is below sea level.
Neiba is at to the west of Santo Domingo. The average temperature in the city is 27.9°C and the average rainfall is 655.5 mm but it rains in only 45.4 days.
Neiba has the municipality of Galván to the east, the Independencia province to the south, the municipality of Villa Jaragua to the west and the San Juan province to the north.
There are few small rivers, like Las Marías, Panzo, Don Juan and El Manguito.
Neiba has a total area of ; without its municipal district, its area is . It has only one municipal district (a subdivision of a municipality): "El Palmar".
Neiba has a subtropical steppe/semi-arid hot climate (Köppen climate classification : BSh). The climate on the mountains of the Sierra de Neiba, where there are some rainforests, is cooler and more wet.
The average amount of rainfall for the year in the city is . Most rains fall during the end of summer. The month with the most precipitation on average is May with of rainfall, followed by October with .
The driest season is winter. The month with the least rainfall on average is January with an average of and the second is February with .
Neiba is in a hot region; the average temperature for the year is . The warmest months, on average, are July and August with an average temperature of . The coolest month on average is January, with an average temperature of .
Farming is the only economic activity in the municipality, except for some very small industries; some important products are grapes, plantain, sugar cane (mostly in the El Palmar municipal district) and coffee (on the Sierra de Neiba). 

</doc>
<doc id="202967" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202967" title="Lindau (district)">
Lindau (district)

Lindau (district) is a rural district in Swabia in southwest Bavaria, Germany. Neighbor districts are: Oberallgäu and in Baden-Württemberg: Ravensburg (district) and the Bodensee (district); In the south of the district are the Austrian state Vorarlberg and Lake Constance. Lindau is the capital of Lindau (district).

</doc>
<doc id="202968" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202968" title="Donau-Ries">
Donau-Ries

Donau-Ries ("Danube-Ries") is a rural district in Swabia in southwest Bavaria, Germany. Neighbor districts are:Ansbach (district), Weißenburg-Gunzenhausen, Eichstätt (district), Neuburg-Schrobenhausen, Aichach-Friedberg, Augsburg (district), Dillingen (district) and in Baden-Württemberg: Heidenheim (district) and Ostalbkreis); Donauwörth is the capital of the Donau-Ries.

</doc>
<doc id="202969" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202969" title="Dillingen (district)">
Dillingen (district)

Dillingen (district) is a rural district in Swabia in southwest Bavaria, Germany. Neighbor districts are: Donau-Ries, Augsburg (district), Günzburg (district) and in Baden-Württemberg: Heidenheim (district); Dillingen is the capital of Dillingen (district).

</doc>
<doc id="202970" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202970" title="Aichach-Friedberg">
Aichach-Friedberg

Aichach-Friedberg is a rural district in Swabia in southwest Bavaria, Germany. Neighbor districts are: Augsburg (district), Donau-Ries, Neuburg-Schrobenhausen, Pfaffenhofen (district), Dachau (district), Fürstenfeldbruck (district), Landsberg (district) and the district-free city Augsburg. Aichach is the capital of Aichach-Friedberg.

</doc>
<doc id="202971" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202971" title="Augsburg (district)">
Augsburg (district)

Augsburg (district) is a rural district in Swabia in southwest Bavaria, Germany. Neighbor districts are: Aichach-Friedberg, Landsberg (district), Ostallgäu, Unterallgäu, Günzburg (district), Dillingen (district), Donau-Ries and the district-free city Augsburg, which is the capital of Augsburg (district).

</doc>
<doc id="202972" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202972" title="Neu-Ulm (district)">
Neu-Ulm (district)

Neu-Ulm (district) is a rural district in Swabia in southwest Bavaria, Germany. Neighbor districts are: Günzburg (district), Unterallgäu and in Baden-Württemberg: Biberach (district), Alb-Donau-district and the district-free city Ulm. Neu-Ulm is the capital of Neu-Ulm (district).

</doc>
<doc id="202973" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202973" title="Oberallgäu">
Oberallgäu

Oberallgäu is a rural district in Swabia in southwest Bavaria, Germany. Neighbor districts are: Unterallgäu, Ostallgäu, and Lindau (district) and in Baden-Württemberg: "Ravensburg" (district); The district-free city of Kempten, in the middle of the district, is not part of the it. In the south of the district are the Austrian states "Tyrol" and Vorarlberg. Sonthofen is the capital of the "Oberallgäu".

</doc>
<doc id="202974" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202974" title="Ostallgäu">
Ostallgäu

Ostallgäu is a rural district in Swabia in southwest Bavaria, Germany. Neighbor districts are: Oberallgäu, Unterallgäu, Augsburg (district), Landsberg (district), Weilheim-Schongau and Garmisch-Partenkirchen (district); The district-free city of Kaufbeuren, in the middle of the district, is not part of the it. In the south of the district is the Austrian state of Tyrol. Marktoberdorf is the capital of the Ostallgäu.

</doc>
<doc id="202975" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202975" title="Unterallgäu">
Unterallgäu

Unterallgäu is a rural district in Swabia in southwest Bavaria, Germany. Neighbor districts are: Neu-Ulm (district), Günzburg (district), Augsburg (district), Ostallgäu and Oberallgäu and in Baden-Württemberg: Ravensburg (district) and Biberach (district); West of the district is the Bavarian district-free city Memmingen. Mindelheim is the capital of the Unterallgäu.

</doc>
<doc id="202991" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202991" title="Swabia (Government Region)">
Swabia (Government Region)

Swabia (Government Region) () is one of the seven Regierungsbezirke of Bavaria, Germany. It is in southwest Bavaria.
There are 3 regions ("Planungsregionen") in Swabia with the following rural districts and district-free towns/cities:<br>
Allgäu: rural districts: Lindau, Oberallgäu and Ostallgäu; district-free towns: Kaufbeuren and Kempten;<br>
Augsburg: rural districts: Aichach-Friedberg, Augsburg, Dillingen and Donau-Ries and the district-free city Augsburg;<br>
Donau-Iller: in Bavaria: rural districts: Günzburg, Neu-Ulm and Unterallgäu and the district-free town Memmingen; in Baden-Württemberg: rural districts: Alb-Donau and Biberach and the district-free city Ulm;
Historical Population of Swabia:

</doc>
<doc id="202996" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202996" title="Carapachibey, Cuba">
Carapachibey, Cuba

Carapachibey, Cuba is a town in the region of Municipio Especial Isla de la Juventud, Cuba. There are around 1,681 people living there.

</doc>
<doc id="202998" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202998" title="Caleta Grande, Cuba">
Caleta Grande, Cuba

Caleta Grande, Cuba is a town in the region of Municipio Especial Isla de la Juventud, Cuba. Living there are around 2,328 people.

</doc>
<doc id="203030" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203030" title="Crowheart, Wyoming">
Crowheart, Wyoming

Crowheart is a very small census-designated place in the U.S. state of Wyoming. About 167 people live there.

</doc>
<doc id="203056" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203056" title="Run-on sentence">
Run-on sentence

A run-on sentence is two or more sentences put together into one sentence without anything to join them together. It is not just any sentence that runs on and on. Run-on sentences can be short. And not all long sentences are run-on sentences. Here is a run-on sentence: "I looked over the hill, and I saw the bear I ran as fast as I could." It is a run-on sentence because "I looked over the hill, and I saw the bear." is a complete sentence, and "I ran as fast as I could." is another complete sentence. English teachers say run-on sentences are wrong. There are three ways to correct a run-on sentence:

</doc>
<doc id="203060" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203060" title="Oscar (fish)">
Oscar (fish)

Oscar ("Astronotus ocellatus") is a species of fish from the cichlid family known under a variety of common names including oscar, tiger oscar, velvet cichlid, or marble cichlid. The scientific name for these species is the "A. ocellatus" and these grow up to 16" in length (40cm) and weigh over 3 pounds (1.5kg). The Oscar fish is also an intelligent species of fish and is very popular as aquarium fish as well. These are also very aggressive and you need to look after them with great care if you plan to have them in your aquarium. 
The Oscar is a large predatory fish at grows to a reasonable size, their bodies are colorful and dark colors mixed with bright colors. 
The Oscar is an aggressive predator from the Amazon River, they create territories and attack other fish that comes into their territory.
Captive oscars may be fed prepared fish food designed for large carnivorous fish, crayfish, worms, and insects.

</doc>
<doc id="203071" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203071" title="Mount Abram">
Mount Abram

Mount Abram is a mountain in northern Maine. It has 10 easy, 21 intermediate, and 13 expert trails. It also has five lifts which service of vertical drop.

</doc>
<doc id="203072" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203072" title="Swan Lake">
Swan Lake

Swan Lake is a romantic ballet in four acts. Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky wrote the music. In 1871 he wrote a little ballet about swans for his nieces and nephews. He used some of the music from this ballet for "Swan Lake". The story of the ballet is based on a German fairy tale. This tale was probably tweaked by Tchaikovsky and his friends during the ballet's early discussion stages.
"Swan Lake" is about a prince named Siegfried. He falls in love with the Swan princess, Odette. She is a swan by day, but a young woman at night. She is under a magic spell that can only be broken by a man who will make a promise to love her for all time. Siegfried makes the promise. He is tricked though by the magician who cast the spell. The ballet ends with the deaths of Siegfried and Odette.
The ballet was first performed on 4 March 1877 at the Bolshoi Theatre in Moscow, Russia. Critics looked upon it as a failure for many reasons. In 1895 some changes were made to the ballet. It was then performed at the Mariinsky Theatre in St. Petersburg, Russia. This time the critics thought "Swan Lake" a great success. Most performances today are based on this 1895 version.
Act 1: "1. Scène"The curtain rises on Prince Siegfried's birthday party. He is 21. On the next evening a grand ball will be held. He is to select a bride from six visiting princesses. Wolfgang, his tutor, introduces a band of peasants to the merrymakers. "2. Valse. 3. Scène." The Queen Mother enters. She thinks Siegfried is frivolous. The Queen Mother leaves. Benno encourages the Prince to continue the fun. "4. Pas de trois."Dances for the peasants. "5. Pas de deux."Dances for the merrymakers. "6. Pas d'action."Wolfgang is drunk and collapses. "7. Sujet."The sun sets. Siegfried suggests a final dance. "8. Danses des couppes."The merrymakers dance a "polonaise" holding their goblets. "9. Finale."A flock of swans flies overhead. Benno suggests a hunt. The Prince agrees. They set off.
Act 2: "10. Scène."A lake shimmering in the moonlight is seen. Siegfried and his friends watch a flock of swans glide across the lake's surface. "11. Scène."The hunters take aim. The birds are transformed into maidens. Their leader asks Siegfried why he troubles them. She says that she is the Princess Odette. She and her companions have all been changed into swans by her wicked stepmother. They are watched by her stepmother's companion Von Rothbart in the guise of an owl. Only a marriage vow can break the spell that keeps her a swan by day and a maiden by night. "12. Scène."Siegfried says he loves Odette. She promises to attend tomorrow's ball. She warns him that her stepmother is very dangerous. "13. Danses des cygnes." "14 Scène." Dawn breaks. Odette and her friends return to the lake as swans.
Act 3: Guests arrive in Siegfried's castle for the selection of the Prince's bride. "16. Danse du corps de ballet and des nains."All dance, including a group of dwarves. "17. Scène."La sortie des invités et la Valse. The six princesses arrive. "18. Scène." Siegfried does not choose a bride from among the six princesses. Von Rothbart enters with his daughter Odile. She is disguised as Odette. "19. Pas de six." The princesses dance. "20. Danse hongroise." "21. Danse espangnole." "22. Danse napolitaine." "23. Danse Mazurka." "24. Scène."Siegfried chooses Odile as his bride, believing she is Odette. Von Rothbart flees the hall as an owl. Siegfried rushes into the night to find Odette.
Act 4: "25. Entr'acte. 26. Scène."Odette's friends await her return to the lake. "27. Danse des petits cygnes. 28. Scène." Odette collapses into her companions' arms. She tells them what has happened. A storm rises. Siegfried reaches Odette. "29. Scène finale."He begs her to forgive him. She dies of grief in his arms. He throws her crown upon the waters. The waves overwhelm him. The swans are seen gliding away across the lake.
In 1871 Tchaikovsky was passing the summer in the Ukraine with his sister Alexandra Davydova. It was in her home at Kamenka that he wrote a short ballet about swans for her children to perform. The story of the ballet was based on "The Lake of Swans", a German fairy tale. Tchaikovsky used a musical theme from this children's ballet in the mature "Swan Lake". Little else is known of this ballet for children. 
In 1875 Vladimir Begitchev asked Tchaikovsky to write a ballet about swans. Begitchev was the official in charge of the repertory of the Imperial Theatres. Tchaikovsky accepted his invitation to write the ballet. He told Rimsky-Korsakov, "I accepted the work, partly because I want the money, but also because I have long had the wish to try my hand at this kind of music." In August he had completed sketches for two acts. He finished the ballet on 10 April 1876.
It is uncertain who wrote the libretto of the ballet. Both Begitchev and the dancer Vasily Geltzer were credited in the programme. They likely based it upon discussions with the artists who met at Begitchev's salon. They also used tales from Johann Musäus's "Volksmärchen der Deutschen" (178286), a collection of German fairy and folk tales.
Tchaikovsky had no experience writing ballet music for the professional theatre when he accepted Begitchev's invitation. In 1875 he began work on "Swan Lake". It was his first ballet. He studied the ballet music of other writers. He liked the music and ballets of Leo Delibes. Tchaikovsky thought Delibes's music was pretty and tuneful. Tchaikovsky however would base "Swan Lake" on a symphonic scale. Writing the music for "Swan Lake" was a way for Tchaikovsky to avoid the reality of being a homosexual in czarist Russia. Russia was a repressive state. Homosexuals were sent to prison, exiled, or banished. Symphonies did not ease the stress in the way ballet music did; he had to put too much of his inner life into symphonies. He was hired to write "Swan Lake" in May 1875. He completed the music in April 1876. The official responsible for the music at the Bolshoi Theatre thought Tchaikovsky's music impossible to understand. A "leitmotif" in Tchaikovsky's little ballet music for his nieces and nephews came to be called the "Song of the Swans". Tchaikovsky used this "leitmotif" in "Swan Lake".
John Warrack points out that Tchaikovsky put the drama in the story into music: "By making B the key of the tragedy, he initiates a musical "plot" with the dark forces of Rothbart tending to drag the tonality down into flatter keys. The main action, on the other hand, lies on the key area of A." Tchaikovsky balanced all the musical components of the work. "The divertissements are in his lightest, most appealing musical manner", Warrack writes, "The dances that further the plot have rather greater musical substance, while the scenes of narrative and action are in what was found his "symphonic" manner." Critics said Tchaikovsky's music was "too noisy, too 'Wagnerian' and too symphonic". 
Rehearsals for "Swan Lake" began before Tchaikovsky finished the score, and took place over 11 months. Everyone involved in the production had never heard such a complex score for a ballet. They described the music as "undanceable". Even the conductor threw his hands up in despair over the music.
The choreographer Julius Reisinger was incompetent, and the sets lacked a cohesiveness because they were designed by three different men. In addition, the Bolshoi Theatre was suffering at the time from problems including the lack of a ballet master who could develop a production based on the score. The role of Odette was not given to a first rate dancer but instead to a second rate talent. The reason may have been political.
"Swan Lake" was first performed on 4 March 1877 at the Bolshoi Theatre in Moscow. Julius Reisinger designed the dances. Pauline Karpakova danced Odette. She put some numbers she liked from other ballets into "Swan Lake". The ballet was a failure. In 1883 the Bolshoi dropped the ballet from its repertory. At that time, the sets were falling apart. It was not until 1901 that Alexander Gorsky staged a new production of "Swan Lake" for the Bolshoi.
The first performance of "Swan Lake" was a disaster. Herman Laroche wrote, "I must say that I had never seen a poorer presentation on the Bolshoi stage. The costumes, decor, and machines did not hide in the least the emptiness of the dances. Not a single balletomane got out of it even five minutes of pleasure." He praised the music. He wrote that Tchaikovsky was "in excellent humour ... he was fully at the height of his genius." Tchaikovsky's brother Modest wrote, "The poverty of the production, meaning the décor and costumes, the absence of outstanding performers, the Ballet Master's weakness of imagination, and, finally, the orchestra ... all of this together permitted [Tchaikovsky] with good reason to cast the blame for the failure on others." The ballet was a moderate success with theatre-goers however. It was presented 33 times between its première at the Bolshoi in 1877 and its final performance in 1883.
Tchaikovsky died on 6 November 1893. People started to take more interest in his music after his death. Lev Ivanov was the assistant Ballet Master at the Mariinsky Theatre in St. Petersburg. He designed new dances for Act 2. This act was presented on 1 March 1894 in a concert at the Mariinsky in memory of Tchaikovsky. Pierina Legnani danced Odette. The revised act was a great success. It was presented again with even greater success. Marius Petipa was the Ballet Master at the Mariinsky. He was impressed with the success of these two presentations. He made the decision to stage the complete ballet at the Mariinsky. He designed the dances for Acts 1 and 3 while Ivanov designed the dances for Acts 2 and 4.
Riccardo Drigo was the conductor of the Mariinsky orchestra. He dropped some numbers from the ballet. He orchestrated three piano numbers from Tchaikovsky's Op. 72. He then put them in the ballet. These three numbers were "L'Espiègle", "Valse Bluette", and "Un poco di Chopin". He then put a number into Act 3 which he may have written himself.
Tchaikovsky's brother Modest changed the ballet's story a little for the revision. He gave the ballet a happy ending. The new "Swan Lake" was presented on 27 January 1895 at the Mariinsky. Pierina Legnani danced both Odette and Odile. The ballet was a great success. This version of the ballet is the one generally seen today.
"Swan Lake" is famous for the 32 "fouettés en tournant" in Act 3. These "fouettés" are danced at the end of the "Black Swan" "pas de deux" by the ballerina playing Odile. The "pas" was an afterthought of Tchaikovsky's. It was not included in the original production. It consists of the opening adagio followed by a variation for the male dancer. This is followed by a variation for the ballerina. The whole concludes with a brisk movement for both dancers that includes the "fouettés". Pierina Legnani first danced the "fouettés" in the Mariinsky production of 1895. Ballet-goers were uncertain about the 32 "fouettés". Some thought they were just a stunt. Others found them exciting. These ballet-goers went to every performance to count the number of turns.
"Swan Lake" became known in Europe and the United States not long after the revised version was presented at the Mariinsky Theatre in 1895. It was first presented in Europe at Prague in June 1907. It was first presented in the United States at the Metropolitan Opera House in December 1911. Diaghilev's Ballets Russes presented a two-act "Swan Lake" in London in 1911. The Ballets Russes presented a one-act version in London in 1925. The complete "Swan Lake" was first presented in England by the Sadler's Wells Ballet in November 1934. Ballerinas portraying Odette include Mathilde Kchessinska, Anna Pavlova, and Margot Fonteyn. Pavel Gerdt was the Prince Siegfried of the 1895 St. Petersburg production. Nijinsky and Rudolph Nureyev have also performed Prince Siegfried.
The score used in this comparison is Tchaikovsky's score. It may be different from Riccardo Drigo's score which is usually performed today. The titles for each number are taken from the original published score. Some of the numbers are titled simply as musical indications, those that are not are translated from their original French titles.
Moderato assai — Allegro non troppo — Tempo I
"Pas de deux for Mme. Anna Sobeshchanskaya" fashioned from the original music by Léon Minkus (AKA the "Tchaikovsky Pas de Deux")

</doc>
<doc id="203073" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203073" title="Knock-knock joke">
Knock-knock joke

A Knock-knock joke is a joke told by saying "knock-knock who's there?"
The basic setup is as follows:
"Joke-Teller:" "Knock-knock!"
"Joke-Hearer:" "Who's there?"
"Teller:" "[some phrase, typically a single word]"
"Hearer:" "[repeats Teller's phrase] who?"
"Teller:" "[finishes the joke, typically a pun]"
Example:
"Joke-Teller:" "Knock-knock!"
"Joke-Hearer:" "Who's there?"
"Teller:" "Police"
"Hearer:" "Police who?"
"Teller:" "Po-lice (please) stop telling these awful knock-knock jokes!"

</doc>
<doc id="203076" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203076" title="Landsberg (district)">
Landsberg (district)

Landsberg (district) is a rural district in Oberbayern in the south of Bavaria, Germany. Neighbor districts are: Aichach-Friedberg, Fürstenfeldbruck Rural District, Starnberg Rural District, Weilheim-Schongau, Ostallgäu and Augsburg (district); Landsberg am Lech is the capital of Landsberg (district).

</doc>
<doc id="203079" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203079" title="Adriaen Coorte">
Adriaen Coorte

Adriaen Coorte (about 1665 – 1707) was a Dutch painter. He mainly painted 'still life'. He signed works between 1683 and 1707. Most of his paintings are small. His style is typical of Dutch 17th century still life painting. Other Dutch painters who lived at the same time had a different style of painting. Coorte was "one of the last practitioners of this intimate category".
Very little is known about his life. He was probably born in Middelburg and also died there. He became a pupil of Melchior d'Hondecoeter around 1680 in Amsterdam. From 1683 he seems to have returned to Middelburg, where he set up a workshop and signed his small, carefully balanced minimalist still lifes. He often painted on paper that was glued to a wooden panel. About 80 signed works by him have been catalogued, and nearly all of them follow the same pattern; small arrangements of fruits, vegetables, or shells on a stone slab, lit from above, with the dark background typical of still lifes earlier in the century. Instead of the Chinese or silver vessels favoured by his contemporaries, his tableware is very basic pottery. "Objects and light are studied intensely, and are painted with a wondrous tenderness". Neither his birth nor death date is certain, and archival evidence only exists in Middelburg for his membership in the Guild of St. Luke there from 1695 onwards, when he was fined for selling a painting without being a member of the guild. His works appear frequently in contemporary Middelburg taxation inventories
Coorte was probably not well known to the people who lived at the same time, outside the city of Middelburg. Much like Vermeer, he was almost entirely forgotten. In the 1950s, the Dutch art historian Laurens J. Bol revived his reputation, beginning with an article in 1952, and finally publishing the first monograph and catalogue raissone on Coorte in 1977 ("Adriaen Coorte", Amsterdam). Bol arranged an exhibition of 35 examples of Coorte's work in 1958 at the Dordrechts Museum. This became a sensation in the Netherlands; the poets Hans Faverey and Ed Leeflang were both inspired by the paintings. In 2003 there was an exhibition at the National Gallery of Art, Washington. In 2008 a new travelling exhibition was set up; "Ode to Coorte", that was nearly as successful, making Coorte the most celebrated "rediscovered" Dutch Baroque painter of recent decades.
His paintings have been compared to Spanish Bodegones, but he may also have been influenced by older painters:

</doc>
<doc id="203087" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203087" title="Weilheim in Oberbayern">
Weilheim in Oberbayern

Weilheim is a town in the rural district Weilheim-Schongau in Upper Bavaria, Germany. It is the capital of the district Weilheim-Schongau.

</doc>
<doc id="203089" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203089" title="Still life">
Still life

A still life is a work of art, most often a painting. In a still life, objects like flowers, fruit, or glasses are arranged in a certain way, and then painted. Still life painting has been popular since the 17th century, when Dutch painters like Adriaen Coorte raised it to a fine art. However, the idea is old: examples can be found in antiquity. With a still life, the artist can focus more on composition and arrangement than with other forms of painting, such as landscape painting or portraiture.

</doc>
<doc id="203090" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203090" title="Computing platform">
Computing platform

A computing platform is a well defined set of hardware or software that allows application programs to run. Typical platforms include the hardware architecture, the operating system, as well as runtime libraries. The programming language Java is an example of Software Platform. An example for a hardware platform is SPARC.

</doc>
<doc id="203094" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203094" title="Iller-Lech Plateau">
Iller-Lech Plateau

The Iller-Lech Plateau () or Upper Swabian Plateau ("Oberschwäbische Hochebene"), is one of the natural regions of Germany.
In the northwest: the Swabian Jura (D60 on the map); The river Danube is roughly the border between the two natural regions.
In the extreme northeast: the Franconian Jura (D61 on the map); The river Danube is roughly the border between the two natural regions.
In the east: the Lower Bavarian Uplands and the Isar-Inn Gravel Plateaus (D65 on the map); The river Lech is roughly the border between the two natural regions in parts.
In the south: the Southern Alpine Foreland (D66 on the map); The terminal moraines of the Würm glaciation are roughly the border between the two natural regions.
1: Danube-Ablach Plateaus: Old Drift landscape (in Baden-Württemberg)<br>
2: Danube Valley between Mengen and Ulm, Lower Riß Valley: valleys (in Baden-Württemberg)<br>
3: Federsee Ried: (in Baden-Württemberg)<br>
4: Western Plain of the Lower Riß: Tertiary hills and ice age gravel deposits (in Baden-Württemberg)<br>
5: Eastern Plain of the Lower Riß: Tertiary hills and Old Drift ice age gravel deposits (in Baden-Württemberg)<br>
6: Holzstöcke: Tertiary hills (in Baden-Württemberg)<br>
7 and 8: Western and Eastern Riß-Aitrach Plateaus: Old Drift landscape (in Baden-Württemberg)<br>
9 and 10: Higher Plains of the Lower Iller Valley (south of Memmingen) and Lower Plains of the Lower Iller Valley (north of Memmingen): large valley, filled by gravel during and after the ice ages (in Baden-Württemberg and Bavaria)<br>
11 and 12: Upper and Lower Iller-Lech Gravel Plateaus: Tertiary hills with valleys formed by river systems flowing from south to north (in Bavaria)<br>
13: Donauried: Large fen plain by the Danube; Würm Ice Age formed (in Baden-Württemberg and Bavaria)<br>
14 / 15: Zusam Plateau and Stauffenberg Region / Stauden Plateau (Stauden) (together: Augsburg-Westliche Wälder Nature Park): Tertiary hills with valleys formed by river systems flowing from south to north (in Bavaria)<br>
16: Lech Valley: large valley, filled by gravel during and after the ice ages (in Bavaria)<br>
17: Aindlingen Terrace: Tertiary hills and High gravel plateau (in Bavaria)<br>
18 and 20: Lower and Upper Lech-Wertach Plain: Divided into lower terrace landscape by the Wertach and Gennach rivers (in Bavaria)<br>
19: Landsberg Plateau: High gravel plateau rising from north to south (in Bavaria)<br>
21: Sachsenried and Denklingen Rotwald: pure forest landscape; in the north: high terrace gravels of the Lech; in the south: Old Drift landscape (in Bavaria)<br>

</doc>
<doc id="203095" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203095" title="Natural regions of Germany">
Natural regions of Germany


</doc>
<doc id="203103" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203103" title="Masato Saito">
Masato Saito

Masato Saito (born 1 December 1975) is a former Japanese football player. He has played for Omiya Ardija.
304||14||23||0||21||0||348||14
304||14||23||0||21||0||348||14

</doc>
<doc id="203104" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203104" title="Yasuhiro Hato">
Yasuhiro Hato

317||2||23||0||55||1||1||0||396||3
317||2||23||0||55||1||1||0||396||3
!Total||15||0

</doc>
<doc id="203105" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203105" title="Takuro Nishimura">
Takuro Nishimura

Takuro Nishimura (born 15 August 1977) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Crystal Palace Baltimore.
90||1||12||0||18||1||120||2
13||0||0||0||colspan="2"|-||13||0
103||1||12||0||18||1||133||2

</doc>
<doc id="203109" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203109" title="Hiroshi Morita">
Hiroshi Morita

Hiroshi Morita (born 18 May 1978) is a Japanese football player.
228||53||22||9||23||5||273||67
228||53||22||9||23||5||273||67

</doc>
<doc id="203110" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203110" title="Daisuke Tomita">
Daisuke Tomita

Daisuke Tomita (born 24 April 1977) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Vissel Kobe.
336||19||21||4||29||2||386||25
336||19||21||4||29||2||386||25

</doc>
<doc id="203111" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203111" title="Seiichiro Okuno">
Seiichiro Okuno

Seiichiro Okuno (born 26 July 1974) is a former Japanese football player.
300||7||26||1||11||0||337||8
300||7||26||1||11||0||337||8

</doc>
<doc id="203112" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203112" title="Central Español F.C.">
Central Español F.C.

Central Español F.C. is a football club which plays in Uruguay.

</doc>
<doc id="203219" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203219" title="Jan Zweyer">
Jan Zweyer

Jan Zweyer, born 12 December 1953 in Frankfurt am Main, is a German writer. Jan Zweyer is only his name for writing, his real name is Rüdiger Richartz.
First he studied architecture and finished it with an exam. Then he studied social sciences and got an exam in it, too. and worked as a clerk for science. After that he worked as a journalist who is only paid when he can sell his stories. He has been working for an international industrial company for some years and only writes in his free time. Zweyer writes detective stories which deal in the Ruhr Area and are very popular in Northrhine-Westphalia because he describes it very naturalistically.
He lives in Herne in the Ruhr Area with his wife and his dog.

</doc>
<doc id="203492" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203492" title="Portland Police Bureau (Oregon)">
Portland Police Bureau (Oregon)

The Portland Police Bureau is the law enforcement agency of the City of Portland, the biggest city in the U.S. state of Oregon.
The Bureau, first named the Portland Metropolitan Police Force, was created in 1870 by the Portland City Council. The Council chose Phillip Saunders as its first chief of police. He was in charge of a force with six patrolmen and one lieutenant, at a time when the population of Portland was 9,000. The first member of the force to die in the line of duty was Officer Charles F. Schoppe, who was shot to death in 1874 while trying to disarm a drunken saloon customer. On April 1, 1908, the Bureau became the first in the United States to hire a female police officer, Lola Baldwin, who became the Superintendent of its newly created Women’s Protective Division. In 1915, the "Metropolitan Police Force" changes its name to the Bureau of Police. Four years later, the Bureau becomes the first in the USA to use police radio. In 1985, Penny Harrington becomes Portland’s first woman Chief of Police, and the first to head a major U.S. police department.

</doc>
<doc id="203512" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203512" title="Mitterteich">
Mitterteich

Mitterteich is a town in the district of Tirschenreuth, in Bavaria, Germany. It is situated 10 km northwest of Tirschenreuth, and 17 km southwest of Cheb.

</doc>
<doc id="203518" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203518" title="List of retired Pacific hurricane names">
List of retired Pacific hurricane names

This is a list of retired Pacific hurricane names. Pacific hurricane names only get retired if and when they are notable enough by causing a lot of damage or killing many people. They can also be retired if and when a government or country requests the name to be retired.
Below is a list of Pacific hurricane names retired;
1960s: Hazel
1970s: Fico
1980s: Iwa
1990s: Fefa, Iniki, Ismael, Pauline, Paka 
2000s: Adolph, Kenna, Ioke, Alma
2010s: Manuel, Odile

</doc>
<doc id="203519" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203519" title="Homo rhodesiensis">
Homo rhodesiensis

Homo rhodesiensis is a hominin species described from a single fossil skull. It was found in the colony of Northern Rhodesia, (now Zambia) at a mine called Broken Hill (now Kabwe) in 1921. The skull lacks the lower jaw, but otherwise is almost complete. In addition to the cranium, an upper jaw from another individual, a sacrum (bone of the pelvis), a tibia, and two femur fragments were also found. 
Rhodesian Man is dated to be between 125,000 and 300,000 years old. Cranial capacity of the Broken Hill skull has been estimated at 1,100 cm³. Bada & al (1974) published a direct date of 110 ka for this specimen. The brain size is rather small for such a late date. The destruction of the paleoanthropological site has made layered dating impossible.
The skull is from an extremely robust (= strong) individual, and has the comparatively largest brow-ridges of any known hominid remains. It was described as having a broad face similar to "Homo neanderthalensis" (i.e. large nose and thick protruding brow ridges), and has been interpreted as an "African Neanderthal". There are several features intermediate between modern "Homo sapiens" and Neanderthals. Most current experts believe Rhodesian Man to be within the group of "Homo heidelbergensis". Other names, such as Archaic "Homo sapiens" and "Homo sapiens rhodesiensis", have also been suggested.

</doc>
<doc id="203521" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203521" title="Homo georgicus">
Homo georgicus

Homo georgicus is a species of "Homo" that was proposed in 2002. It is based on fossil skulls and jaws found in Dmanisi, Georgia in 1999 and 2001, which seem intermediate between "Homo habilis" and "H. erectus". 
A partial skeleton was discovered in 2001. The fossils are about 1.8 million years old. The remains were first discovered in 1991 by Georgian scientist, David Lordkipanidze, accompanied by an international team which unearthed the remains. Implements and animal bones were found alongside the ancient human remains.
At first, scientists thought they had found mandibles and skulls belonging to "Homo ergaster", but size differences led them to name a new species.
At around 600 cm³ brain volume, the skull D2700 is dated to 1.77 million years old and it is in good condition. The cranium was the smallest and most primitive Hominin skull ever discovered outside of Africa.
In Africa, the "Australopithecines" and early "Homo" represent two distinctive evolutionary paths sharing a common ancestor. In Georgia the specimens, with a brain half the size of anatomically modern humans, were the smallest found until the discovery of "Homo floresiensis" on the island of Flores in 2003.
There is a strong sexual dimorphism present, with males being significantly larger than females. This is a primitive trait, less obvious in more recent human species in Europe (i.e. "Homo antecessor", "Homo heidelbergensis" and "Homo neanderthalensis").
The small size of this species contrasts with the much larger size of "Homo erectus". "H. georgicus" was the first species of "Homo" to settle in Europe, some 800,000 years before "H. erectus".
Later, four fossil skeletons were found, showing a species primitive in its skull and upper body but with relatively advanced spines and lower limbs, providing greater mobility. They are now thought to represent a stage soon after the transition between "Australopithecus" and "Homo erectus", and have been dated at 1.8 million years before the present. The assemblage includes one of the largest Pleistocene Homo mandibles (D2600), one of the smallest Lower Pleistocene mandibles (D211), a nearly complete sub-adult (D2735), and a specimen without teeth (D3900).
"H. georgicus" is often classified as Homo erectus georgicus. The classical textbook definition of "H. erectus" included a brain size range of between 9001150 ccs. If the "georgicus" specimens and the Flores specimens ("Homo floresiensis") are included in "H. erectus", then the range of brain capacities is two-fold, from 600 ccs to 1150 ccs. Also, "Homo ergaster" is also considered by some to be a subspecies of "H. erectus". Size has something to do with it: both the "georgicus" and "floriensis" were much smaller than the classic "erectus", which was as tall as modern man. The classification of all these species or subspecies is provisional at present, and still being debated.

</doc>
<doc id="203529" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203529" title="Chicxulub crater">
Chicxulub crater

The Chicxulub crater is a very big crater. Some scientists believe that the Chicxulub crater was made by the meteor that caused the extinction of the dinosaurs, and many other animals. It is near the Yucatán Peninsula in Mexico. 
The Chicxulub crater is more than 180 km (110 mi) in diameter, making it the third largest confirmed impact crater. The bolide which formed the crater was at least 10 km (6 mi) in diameter.
Evidence for the impact origin of the crater includes shocked quartz, a gravity anomaly, and tektites in surrounding areas. The age of the rocks and isotope analysis show that this impact structure dates from the end of the Cretaceous period, roughly 65 million years ago. The impact associated with the crater is implicated in causing the extinction of the dinosaurs. 
A 2007 study suggests that the impactor may have been a piece of a much larger asteroid that broke up in a collision and also produced 298 Baptistina, 160 million years ago.
In March 2010, following analysis of the available evidence covering 20 years' worth of data in the fields of palaeontology, geochemistry, climate modelling, geophysics and sedimentology, 41 international experts from 33 institutions reviewed available evidence and concluded that the impact at Chicxulub triggered the mass extinctions during K-T boundary including those of dinosaurs.

</doc>
<doc id="203532" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203532" title="Ruslan Ponomariov">
Ruslan Ponomariov

Ruslan Ponomariov (, born 11 October 1983) is a Ukrainian chess player and former FIDE world champion.
In 2002 he beat his fellow countryman Vassily Ivanchuk in the final of the FIDE World Championship 2002 by a score of 4½–2½. This made him FIDE world champion at the age of 18, the first teenager and youngest person to win this form of the title. However, he is not the youngest undisputed world champion because the traditional World Chess Championship was still held by Vladimir Kramnik. 
In the same year he finished second in the very strong Linares tournament, behind Garry Kasparov. His result in the strong 2003 Corus tournament at Wijk aan Zee was not as good – despite having the third highest rating, he finished only joint eleventh out of fourteen players with 6/13, and at Linares the same year he finished only fifth out of seven with 5½/12.
There were plans for him to play a fourteen-game match against Kasparov in Yalta in September 2003, the winner of which would go on to play the winner of a match between Kramnik and Péter Lékó as part of the so-called "Prague Agreement" to reunify the World Chess Championship (from 1993 until 2006 there were two world chess championships). However, this was called off after Ponomariov refused to sign his contract without reservation. 
Ponomariov remained FIDE champion until Rustam Kasimdzhanov won the FIDE World Chess Championship 2004.

</doc>
<doc id="203533" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203533" title="WWE Bad Blood">
WWE Bad Blood

WWE Bad Blood, (originally called "Badd Blood") was a professional wrestling Pay-Per-View that was produced by WWE that was produced in 1997, 2003 and 2004. It included only the Raw brand for the 2003 and 2004 editions. The 1997 edition was an In Your House pay-per-view called "Badd Blood: In Your House", this event held the first ever Hell in a Cell match, which was won by Shawn Michaels defeating The Undertaker, and also featured the debut of Kane.
Badd Blood: In Your House took place on October 5, 1997 at the Kiel Center in St. Louis, Missouri. On the afternoon preceding this event, Brian Pillman, who was scheduled to face Dude Love on the show, was found dead in his hotel room. The announcement was made to fans during the half-hour "pregame show" prior to the PPV broadcast itself.
The tournament was held between September 8 and October 5, 1997. The tournament brackets were:
Notes:

</doc>
<doc id="203535" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203535" title="Hideaki Kitajima">
Hideaki Kitajima

226||56||16||3||39||6||2||1||283||66
226||56||16||3||39||6||2||1||283||66
!Total||3||1

</doc>
<doc id="203536" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203536" title="Shigemaru Takenokoshi">
Shigemaru Takenokoshi

!Total||5||1

</doc>
<doc id="203537" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203537" title="Paulo Ferreira">
Paulo Ferreira

Paulo Ferreira (born 18 January 1979) is a Portuguese football player. He plays for Chelsea and the Portuguese national team.
167||4||||||||||||||||
99||0||13||1||12||0||26||0||150||1
266||4||13||1||12||0||26||0||317||5
!Total||57||0

</doc>
<doc id="203540" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203540" title="Dumbarton F.C.">
Dumbarton F.C.

Dumbarton F.C. is a football club which plays in Scotland.

</doc>
<doc id="203541" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203541" title="Third Lanark A.C.">
Third Lanark A.C.

Third Lanark A.C. is a former football club which has played in Scotland.

</doc>
<doc id="203542" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203542" title="Abercorn F.C.">
Abercorn F.C.

Abercorn F.C. is a former football club. They were based in Paisley, Scotland. They played in the Scottish Football League from 1890 until 1915. The club's colours were blue and white stripes. 

</doc>
<doc id="203543" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203543" title="Vale of Leven F.C.">
Vale of Leven F.C.

Vale of Leven F.C. is a football club which plays in Scotland.

</doc>
<doc id="203544" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203544" title="Cowlairs F.C.">
Cowlairs F.C.

Cowlairs F.C. is a former football club which has played in Scotland.

</doc>
<doc id="203548" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203548" title="Allsvenskan">
Allsvenskan

Allsvenskan (; ; also known as Fotbollsallsvenskan) is a men's football league. It is the top division in Sweden.

</doc>
<doc id="203557" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203557" title="Kolangal">
Kolangal

Kolangal is a Tamil television series. It has been shown on SUN TV for more than five years. There have been more than 1000 episodes made. It is directed by V. Thiruselvam, who comes from Nadiyam, a village in Thanjavur District, Tamil Nadu.
The story is about a woman, Abhi, and her business rival and half brother, Aditya. The serial is popular because Abhi is a hard working, ambitious woman with strong beliefs.

</doc>
<doc id="203588" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203588" title="French lavender">
French lavender

The topped lavender, also known as French lavender, is a perennial shrub, that usually grows up to 30-100 centimetres. The leafs are 1-4 centimetres long, in a greyish tomentose tone. The flowers are pinkish, produced on spikes 2-3 centimetres long; each flower is subtended by a bract that is 4-8 milimetres long. At the top of the spike there are many other white or lavender bracts. Many subspecies exist in Spain and other countries nearby.

</doc>
<doc id="203596" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203596" title="Andreas Herzog">
Andreas Herzog

Andreas Herzog (born 10 September 1968) is a former Austrian football player. He has played for Austria national team.
Andreas Herzog started his career with SK Rapid Wien. 1987 and 1988 he won the championship with this team and 1987 the Cup, but he played only few matches. Regularly he played since 1988. 1992 he went on to Werder Bremen in the German Bundesliga, where he reached the championship 1994. Bayern München became interested and so he went, together with his mentor and coach Otto Rehagel to Muinich. But this year was not successful so he went back to Bremen. There he won the German Cup the second time. In Germany he played 264 matches for Bremen and Muinich and shot 59 goals(15 penalties).
In winter 2001/02 he went back to Vienna where he played two seasons for Rapid again. There he was teamcaptain. In Austria he scored in 174 league-, 17 cup- and 10 European matches 51 goals. His last team was Los Angeles Galaxy, where he played 27 matches and scored four goals.
With 103 international matches Andreas Herzog is record holder in Austria. He played his first match on April 6th, 1988 against Greece(2:2). With the team he played in the FIFA World Cup 1990 in Italy and 1998 in France. He played his last match on April 30th, 2003 in Glasgow against Scotland.
2005 he was ambassador for the UEFA Euro 2008. After Hans Krankl resinged he became coach of the national team for the last two 
qualifying matches for the FIFA World Cup 2006. Afterwards he became assistant coach under Josef Hickersberger and Karel Brückner. Since 2009 he is coach of the Austrian U21-team. On 17 December 2011 he went to the USA where he became assistance coach of Jürgen Klinsmann for the USA national football team.
In TV he was match analyst for the pay TV group Sky.
177||40
264||60
27||4
468||104
!Total||103||26

</doc>
<doc id="203597" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203597" title="Takayoshi Yamano">
Takayoshi Yamano

!Total||2||0

</doc>
<doc id="203598" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203598" title="Zoigl">
Zoigl

Zoigl is a beer which is brewed in brewhouses owned by the town. Its made only in then northeastern region of bavaria. This right to brew exists since the Middle Ages.

</doc>
<doc id="203604" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203604" title="Leith Athletic F.C.">
Leith Athletic F.C.

Leith Athletic F.C. is a football club which plays in Scotland.

</doc>
<doc id="203611" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203611" title="Osteoporosis">
Osteoporosis

Osteoporosis is the weakening of bones in the body. It is caused by lack of calcium deposited in the bones. This lack of calcium causes the bones to become brittle. They break easily. Side effects include limping. Some symptoms late in the disease include pain in the bones, living in a wheelchair, and lower back pain due to spinal bone fractures. It is more likely for a woman to get osteoporosis than a man. Elderly people are more likely to develop osteoporosis than younger people. The amount of calcium in the bones decreases as a person gets older. There are three kinds of osteoporosis.
There is no cure for osteoporosis. A person can keep it from happening by exercising and taking the right amount of calcium each day. 75 million people in the United States, Japan, and Europe have osteoporosis. 30 million people in the US have poor bone density. Vitamin D, calcium, and exercise are the three main things for healthy bones. Consuming too much alcohol and caffeine can cause an increase in the risk of weak bones. Too much salt increases the amount of calcium lost in urine. This is bad because calcium makes bones strong. People should not take iron and calcium supplements at the same time. This is because calcium competes with the absorption of minerals such as iron.

</doc>
<doc id="203613" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203613" title="Taizo Kawamoto">
Taizo Kawamoto

!Total||9||4

</doc>
<doc id="203615" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203615" title="Steve Corica">
Steve Corica

Steve Corica (born 24 March 1973) is a former Australian football player. He has played for Australia national team.
208||37||16||7||colspan="2"|-||11||9||235||53
189||16||10||0||11||0||colspan="2"|-||210||16
43||14||4||3||3||1||colspan="2"|-||50||18
440||67||30||10||14||1||11||9||485||87
!Total||32||5

</doc>
<doc id="203616" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203616" title="Miguel Simão">
Miguel Simão

Miguel Simão (born 26 February 1973) is a former Portuguese football player.
3||0||0||0||3||1||6||1
3||0||0||0||3||1||6||1

</doc>
<doc id="203625" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203625" title="Taketo Shiokawa">
Taketo Shiokawa

Taketo Shiokawa (born 17 December 1977) is a former Japanese football player.
241||31||31||5||14||3||286||39
241||31||31||5||14||3||286||39

</doc>
<doc id="203626" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203626" title="Hedwiges Maduro">
Hedwiges Maduro

Hedwiges Maduro (born 13 February 1985) is a Dutch football player. He plays for Valencia.
70||9||3||1||19||0||92||10
33||1||9||0||6||0||48||1
103||10||12||1||25||0||140||11
!Total||12||0

</doc>
<doc id="203627" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203627" title="Mitsuhisa Taguchi">
Mitsuhisa Taguchi

161||0
161||0
!Total||59||0

</doc>
<doc id="203632" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203632" title="St. Bernard's F.C.">
St. Bernard's F.C.

St. Bernard's F.C. is a former football club which has played in Scotland.

</doc>
<doc id="203633" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203633" title="Port Glasgow Athletic F.C.">
Port Glasgow Athletic F.C.

Port Glasgow Athletic F.C. is a former football club which has played in Scotland.

</doc>
<doc id="203673" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203673" title="Red Stripe">
Red Stripe

Red Stripe is a Jamaican beer that comes in a can and a bottle.

</doc>
<doc id="203676" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203676" title="Molson">
Molson

Molson is a Canadian brewery that was created in 1786 by the founder John Molson. It is the fifth largest brewery in the world.

</doc>
<doc id="203680" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203680" title="Foster's Lager">
Foster's Lager

Foster's is a full strength Australian beer. It was first brewed by the brothers, W.M. Foster and R.R. Foster, in 1887. It is a European style lager, with 4.9% alcohol. More than 100 million cases of Foster's Lager are sold around the world each year, which makes it Australia's biggest selling beer. It is brewed in nine countries using 20 breweries.

</doc>
<doc id="203751" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203751" title="Issler's Orchestra">
Issler's Orchestra

Issler's Orchestra was probably the first band that became famous because of the records they made.
In or shortly before 1888, music teacher and pianist Edward Issler (1855 - ?) started a four-piece band. The instruments were piano, cornet, flute, and violin. Their first recordings were made in 1888 for Thomas Alva Edison, the inventor of the phonograph, the first device that could record and play back sound.
Soon, more instruments were added, including the trombone and clarinet, but the band started losing popularity to larger groups. After a client (Columbia) of the company Issler recorded most for (the United States Phonograph Co. of Newark, NJ) started its own studio orchestra, the band faded away. They made their last recordings in 1900, although they may have continued performing into the early 1900s.
The band's four core members were:
All of Issler's records were recorded on fragile hollow cylinders made of a waxy blend of materials that usually became brown-colored during the making of the blank cylinders, so they are called "brown wax cylinders" because of their shape and usual color. Their actual color can be anywhere from nearly white to a very dark brown. They are about 4¼ inches long and 2¼ inches in diameter. Not many cylinder records made in the 1890s have survived and the survivors are almost never in like-new condition, so the sound recorded on them is now less clear than what people heard when they were new and there is much more noise mixed in with it.

</doc>
<doc id="203872" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203872" title="WWE New Year's Revolution">
WWE New Year's Revolution

New Year's Revolution was a professional wrestling pay-per-view (PPV) event, that was shown every January by the American professional wrestling promotion, World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). The event was created in 2005, with its first event shown in January of that year. To go with the brand extension, only wrestlers from the Raw brand were on it during the event's history.
Since its creation in 2005, the event has been held in one country: the United States. It has been held in two U.S. states and once in Puerto Rico, where every event has been held in an indoor arena. Each event showed professional wrestlers from WWE competing in various professional wrestling match types. Since the first event, three championship matches have taken place in the main event.
New Year's Revolution was removed from the WWE schedule when they removed more PPVs per year. Currently, the only PPV run by the WWE in January is the Royal Rumble.

</doc>
<doc id="203886" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203886" title="Bash at the Beach">
Bash at the Beach

Bash at the Beach was a yearly professional wrestling pay-per-view event produced by World Championship Wrestling (WCW). It was the company's PPV for the month of July, held from 1994 to 2000.

</doc>
<doc id="203888" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203888" title="Sea eagle">
Sea eagle

The sea eagle is any bird of prey in the genus Haliaeetus. Obviously, they eat fish. They are also called ernes or erns.

</doc>
<doc id="203953" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203953" title="Bank of Korea Museum">
Bank of Korea Museum

Bank of Korea Museum is an economics and numismatics museum in Seoul opened by the Bank of Korea in 2001. The building was built in 1912. 

</doc>
<doc id="203993" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203993" title="Megatherium">
Megatherium

Megatherium was a huge, bulky, slow-moving mammal that lived during the Pleistocene epoch in South America. It went extinct about 11,000 years ago. This ice-age mammal was the largest of the ground sloths; Megatherium's name means "great beast." Megatherium was named by paleontologist Richard Owen in 1856; the first Megatherium fossil was found in Brazil in 1789.

</doc>
<doc id="204168" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204168" title="Éclair">
Éclair

An éclair is a long, thin pastry that is filled with a cream and topped with icing. The icing is often of chocolate, but it can also be caramel or taste like Turkish coffee.
Its name comes from the French word for "lightning", but nobody knows why.

</doc>
<doc id="204169" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204169" title="Eggs Benedict">
Eggs Benedict

Eggs Benedict is a dish usually served at breakfast. It starts with a lightly toasted English muffin. The muffin is topped with cooked bacon or Canadian bacon, and poached eggs. The dish is completed with a small amount of hollandaise sauce. Many variations on the dish exist. There are several stories about the origin of Eggs Benedict.
There are several stories about how Eggs Benedict started.
In an interview in "The New Yorker" magazine in 1942, Lemuel Benedict, a retired Wall Street stock broker, said that he had wandered into the Waldorf Hotel in 1894 and, hoping to find a cure for his morning hangover, ordered "buttered toast, poached eggs, crisp bacon and a hooker of hollandaise." Oscar Tschirky, the "maître d'hôtel", was so impressed with the dish that he put it on the breakfast and luncheon menus but substituted ham and a toasted English muffin for the bacon and toast.
Craig Claiborne, in September 1967, wrote a column in "The New York Times Magazine" about a letter he had received from Edward P. Montgomery, an American living in France. In it, Montgomery related that the dish was created by Commodore E.C. Benedict, a banker and yachtsman, who died in 1920 at the age of 86. Montgomery also included a recipe for eggs Benedict, stating that the recipe had been given to him by his mother, who had received it from her brother, who was a friend of the Commodore.
Mabel C. Butler of Vineyard Haven, Massachusetts in a November 1967 letter printed in "The New York Times Magazine" responded to Montgomery's claim by correcting that the "true story, well known to the relations of Mrs. Le Grand Benedict", of whom she was one, was:
Dates given refer to date of publication.
1898 — In "Eggs, and how to use them", a recipe for eggs Benedict is given as "split and toast some small muffins; put on each a nice round slice of broiled ham, and on the ham the poached egg; pour over some Hollandaise sauce"
1900 — In "The Connecticut Magazine: an Illustrated Monthly, Volume VI", a recipe for eggs Benedict is given as "A third variety is called Eggs Benedict. Broil a thin slice of cold-boiled ham cut the size of a small baker's loaf; toast a slice of bread, butter it and moisten with a little water; lay the ham on it and on that a poached egg. Serve individually."
1907 — In "Many Ways for Cooking Eggs", a recipe for eggs Benedict is given that starts with the muffins. Unlike yeast leavened English muffins, the recipe muffins use baking powder and beaten egg whites for leavening; however, they are still baked on a griddle in muffin rings. The remainder of the recipe reads "Broil thin slices of ham. Make a sauce Hollandaise. Chop a truffle. Poach the required number of eggs. Dish the muffins, put a square of ham on each, then a poached egg and cover each egg nicely with sauce Hollandaise. Dust with truffle and serve at once."
1914 — In the 1914 printing of the "The Neighborhood Cook Book", a recipe for eggs Benedict is given as "Place a slightly fried piece of ham on a piece of toast, place poached egg on ham, and pour over all a Hollandaise sauce."
1918 — In the 1918 printing of the "Boston Cooking-School Cook Book", a recipe for Eggs à la Benedict is given as "Split and toast English muffins. Sauté circular pieces of cold boiled ham, place these over the halves of muffins, arrange on each a dropped egg, and pour around Hollandaise Sauce II, diluted with cream to make of such consistency to pour easily."
1919 — In "The Hotel St. Francis Cook Book", a recipe for eggs Benedict is given as "Cut an English muffin in two, toast, and put on platter. Put a slice of broiled ham on top of each half, a poached egg on top of the ham, cover all with Hollandaise, and lay a slice of truffle on top of the sauce."
1938 — An advertisement for "Haill Hayden's Hollandaise" — a bottled hollandaise sold in a 6 ounce jar for 50¢ — runs in "The New York Times". "Here is a sauce such as no man has had before. On tasting it, great chefs have broken their egg-beaters over their knees and wept in jealousy! It is made of butter fragrant from timothy and alfalfa, eggs to which their mothers are still clucking at this hour, lemon and pungent spices! It is not profaned with a drop of oil or any substitutes. Serve it over cauliflower, artichokes, lettuce, eggs Benedict, fish, singing 'Broccoli, Broccoli,' as you eat".
1942 — In an interview in "The New Yorker", Lemuel Benedict claims to have originated the dish with an order at the Waldorf Hotel, hoping for a hangover cure.
1967 — Craig Claiborne writes in "The New York Times Magazine" that Edward P. Montgomery wrote him a letter to say that eggs Benedict originated with Commodore E.C. Benedict.
1967 — In a letter printed in "The New York Times Magazine", Mabel C. Butler responds to Montgomery's claim by stating that Mrs. Le Grand Benedict originated the dish with an order at Delmonico's.
1978In the Neil Simon comedy film California Suite, Maggie Smith, who won best supporting actress award, laments that she cant get Eggs Benedict late at night, staying in the exclusive 5 star hotel she is in, playng in fact, an academy award losing actress as a part.
Later editions of Charles Ranhofer’s cookbook "The Epicurean" contain a recipe for “Eggs à la Benedick”; however, the recipe is not present in the original 1894 edition. Save for a hiatus from 1876 to 1879, Charles Ranhofer was the chef at Delmonico's from 1862 till his retirement in 1896.

</doc>
<doc id="204171" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204171" title="Hideki Sahara">
Hideki Sahara

Hideki Sahara (born 15 May 1978) is a Japanse football player. He plays for Kawasaki Frontale.
168||5||15||1||23||0||2||0||208||6
168||5||15||1||23||0||2||0||208||6

</doc>
<doc id="204172" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204172" title="Takahisa Nishiyama">
Takahisa Nishiyama

Takahisa Nishiyama (born 11 July 1985) is a Japanese football player.
24||0||1||0||2||0||1||1||28||1
24||0||1||0||2||0||1||1||28||1

</doc>
<doc id="204173" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204173" title="Takeshi Urakami">
Takeshi Urakami

Takeshi Urakami (born 7 February 1969) is a former Japanese football player.
182||0||15||0||21||0||218||0
182||0||15||0||21||0||218||0

</doc>
<doc id="204175" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204175" title="Airdrieonians F.C.">
Airdrieonians F.C.

Airdrieonians F.C. was a football club which played in Scotland.

</doc>
<doc id="204178" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204178" title="Hulk (footballer)">
Hulk (footballer)

Hulk (full name Givanildo Vieira de Souza; born 25 July 1986) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Zenit Saint Petersburg and Brazil national team.
2||0||||||||||||||2||0
102||70||5||3||4||1||colspan="2"|-||111||74
25||8||||||||||||||25||8
129||78||5||3||4||1||0||0||138||82
!Total||2||0

</doc>
<doc id="204179" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204179" title="Hiroyuki Kobayashi">
Hiroyuki Kobayashi

Hiroyuki Kobayashi (born 18 April 1980) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Oita Trinita.
68||1||8||0||13||1||89||2
68||1||8||0||13||1||89||2

</doc>
<doc id="204180" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204180" title="Yoshiro Moriyama">
Yoshiro Moriyama

168||5||11||0||33||2||212||7
168||5||11||0||33||2||212||7
!Total||7||0

</doc>
<doc id="204181" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204181" title="Defensor Sporting Club">
Defensor Sporting Club

Defensor Sporting Club is a football club which plays in Uruguay.
The club formed from a merger of two football clubs ; Club Atlético Defensor and Sporting Club Uruguay in 1989.

</doc>
<doc id="204186" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204186" title="Kazuyori Mochizuki">
Kazuyori Mochizuki

Kazuyori Mochizuki (born 20 November 1961) is a former Japanese football player.
0||0||0||0||0||0||0||0
0||0||0||0||0||0||0||0

</doc>
<doc id="204190" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204190" title="Kota Aoki">
Kota Aoki

Kota Aoki (born 27 April 1987) is a Japanese football player. He plays for JEF United Ichihara Chiba.
66||10||2||0||5||0||73||10
66||10||2||0||5||0||73||10

</doc>
<doc id="204194" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204194" title="Ayr United F.C.">
Ayr United F.C.

Ayr United F.C. is a football club which plays in Scotland.
The club formed from a merger of two football clubs ; Ayr FC and Ayr Parkhouse FC in 1910.

</doc>
<doc id="204209" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204209" title="Encyclopaedia Hebraica">
Encyclopaedia Hebraica

The Encyclopaedia Hebraica () is an encyclopedia in Hebrew. It was started in 1948.
The encyclopedia was published by Bracha Peli who had already created another encyclopedia. The man in charge was her son who was named Alexander.
A committee decided the aims of the encyclopedia in 1944. Printing of the first part began in 1948. This was the year that Israel became a country. The president of the encyclopedia project was also the President of Israel, Professor Chaim Weizmann. The first photograph in the encyclopaedia was of Israel's Declaration of Independence.
The first volume covered the entries for the letter "Aleph" (א) to Australia.
The introduction said:
... we will finish publishing all 16 volumes within five or six years...
The writing took more than thirty years. The encyclopedia had thirty-two volumes when it was finished. An Index (publishing)|index was not printed until 1985. In 1995 there were large updates of entries dealing with the State of Israel.
The supervisor was always Alexander Plai. Its editors were Joseph Klausner, Benzion Netanyahu, Yeshayahu Leibowitz, Nathan Rotenstreich, Yehoshua Gutman, and Joshua Prawer. More than 2500 people wrote the encyclopedia.
Some people felt it was very important to be included in the encyclopedia. They would ask the editors to make sure they had an article about them. Other articles caused arguments e.g. Adolf Hitler.
The Schocken Publishing House has been working on a new edition of the encyclopedia.
The "Encyclopaedia Hebraica" said it was about "General, Jewish, and Israeli" ideas. The encyclopaedia covers all the general topics, but the articles were larger on Judaism, Jews, and Israel. The encyclopaedia includes the Jewishness of the person, even when it is not important.
Articles on countries and cities include their history and then a Jewish history. For places which were under Nazi rule an account is given of the Jewish people during the Holocaust.
Writers of the encyclopaedia did not hide their Jewish views. The Kingdom of Jordan was not in the first edition. Instead Jordan was included in the article "Land of Israel,".
The letter Aleph contains the largest number of articles. The longest article is "Land of Israel" which takes all of volume 6.
Next in size is "United States of America". The large size of the aleph articles reflects the enthusiasm of the early editors. It became clear that the encyclopaedia would never come to an end. The plan was changed. The final size of the encyclopaedia was smaller than planned.
The woman who owned it was Bracha Peli. She died in 1986. In 1997 the encyclopedia was sold to another company.

</doc>
<doc id="204211" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204211" title="Milkweed">
Milkweed

The milkweeds, Asclepias (L. 1753), are a genus of herbaceous perennial, dicotyledonous plants that contains over 140 known species.
Milkweeds are an important nectar source for bees and other nectar eaters, and a food source for caterpillars. The weeds are eaten by caterpillars of the monarch butterfly and its relatives, and by other herbivorous insects (such as beetles, and true bugs). These insects are able to feed on the plants despite their chemical defences. Milkweed is named after its milky sap, which contains alkaloids, latex, and several other complex compounds. Some species are toxic.
Pollination in this genus is accomplished in an unusual manner, as the pollen is grouped into pollen sacs. The feet or mouthparts of flower visiting insects such as bees, wasps and butterflies, slip into one of the five slits in each flower formed by adjacent anthers. The bases of the pollinia then mechanically attach to the insect, pulling a pair of pollen sacs free when the pollinator flies off. Pollination is effected by the reverse procedure in which one of the pollinia becomes trapped within the anther slit.
Milkweeds have three defenses to limit damage by caterpillars and other insects: hairs on the leaves, toxins, and latex fluids. Some more recent milkweed species grow faster than older species. They have the potential to grow faster than caterpillars can eat them. Caterpillars which eat milkweeds, and their adult butterflies, may be protected by the foul taste of the milkweed chemicals. Such butterflies and caterpillars usually show warning colors (see mimicry#warning coloration).

</doc>
<doc id="204232" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204232" title="Chaim Weizmann">
Chaim Weizmann

Chaim Azriel Weizmann, (Russia, November 1874 – Israel, 9 November 1952) was the first President of Israel. 
Weizmann came to the University of Manchester in 1904, where he lectured on chemistry. During World War I, the British forces needed to increase the production of artillery shells. The production was limited by a shortage of acetone, needed to produce cordite. Cordite was used to propel (fire) shells and bullets to their targets. Weizmann developed a production of acetone from the anaerobic fermentation of maize and horse chestnuts by bacteria. As a result, the production of shells rose from 500,000 in the first five months of the war to 16.4 million in 1915.
Weizmann was President of Israel from 1948, and he died in 1952. He had worked for years to get agreement for the Israel. 

</doc>
<doc id="204251" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204251" title="Natural History Museum">
Natural History Museum

The Natural History Museum (NHM) is a museum in London. It is the largest natural history museum in Britain. It includes the nation's main collections of specimens of life, rocks and minerals. The museum employs scientific staff, conducts research, stores specimens, and manages the public galleries.
The NHM is one of the four large institutions on Exhibition Road in South Kensington, London. The others are the Science Museum, the Victoria and Albert Museum and Imperial College London.
The NHM was at first a department of the famous British Museum. When the present NHM building was opened in 1881, it was then called the "British Museum (Natural History)" or BMNH. Its head reported to the Director of the British Museum. Not until 1963 did the NHM become fully independent, with its own Board of Trustees, and not until 1992 was it permitted to use its present name.
In 1986, the museum absorbed the adjacent Geological Museum of the British Geological Survey, which is to just to the north of the NHM. The museum's galleries were completely rebuilt and relaunched in 1996 as "The Earth Galleries", with the exhibitions in the Waterhouse building retitled "The Life Galleries". The Natural History Museum's own Mineralogy displays remain largely unchanged as an example of the 19th-century display techniques of the Waterhouse building.
The newly-developed "Darwin Centre" (named after Charles Darwin) is designed as a new home for the museum's collection of tens of millions of preserved specimens, and new work spaces for the museum's scientific staff. Built in two phases, with two new buildings adjacent to the main Waterhouse building, it is the most important new project in the museum's history. 
The museum employs 300 scientific staff, and has huge collections of fossils, rocks and minerals, as well as the preserved specimens of present-day plants and animals. There are over 70 million specimens in the collections. Data bases of the collections are being developed.

</doc>
<doc id="204298" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204298" title="Bracha Peli">
Bracha Peli

Bracha Peli (1892-1986) was the owner of the "Massada Publishing house" in Israel. Massada or Massadah published the six volumes of "The General Encyclopedia" in Israel. She and her son then started the "Encyclopaedia Hebraica". She starting the Annual "Hebrew Book Week" in 1926.
Bronya Kutzenok was born in what is now the Ukraine in a small village called Starovitzky. Her family were Hasidic Jews. She changed her surname when she married a man called Meir. They changed their surname again in Israel to Peli. In the Ukraine she started a school that had 400 children in one year. Bronya and Meir left the Ukraine and went to Tel Aviv in Palestine.
In Tel Aviv, Peli was the owner of the "Massada Publishing house". She published the six volumes of "The General Encyclopedia" in Israel. She and her son then started the "Encyclopaedia Hebraica". The new books were written in the Hebrew language. She starting the Annual "Hebrew Book Week" in 1926. The new encyclopedia was not finished until 1980.

</doc>
<doc id="204301" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204301" title="San Francisco de Macorís">
San Francisco de Macorís

The Dominican city of San Francisco de Macorís is the head municipality of the Duarte province, on the northeast of the country.
It is located on the eastern part of the Cibao Valley; it is the largest city of the Dominican northeast and it is the centre of the region.
The municipality has a total area of 763.77 km². It has four municipal districts (a municipal district is a subdivision of a municipality). These are Cenoví, Jaya, La Peña and Presidente Don Antonio Guzmán Fernández.
San Francisco de Macorís is at 135 km to the northwest of Santo Domingo, in the "Cibao Oriental" (in English, "Eastern Cibao"), the eastern part of the Cibao Valley. Most of the municipality is in the valley but the northern part of it is on the "Cordillera Septentrional" (in English, "Northern mountain range"); the mountains here are not very high.
The municipality has the María Trinidad Sánchez province to the north and east, the municipality of Las Guáranas to the south, the La Vega province to the southwest, the Hermanas Mirabal province to the west and the Espaillat province to the northwest.
Rivers here are short with their sources in the Cordillera Septentrional; they are tributaries of the River Camú, a tributary of the River Yuna that flows to the Samaná Bay. The most important river in the municipality is the River Jaya, that flows to the west of the city; San Francisco de Macorís is also known as "The City of the Jaya" because of this small river.
The city of San Francisco de Macorís is at an elevation of 110 m with an average temperature in the city of 25.7°C and the average rainfall of 1,427.9 mm.
The municipality had, in 2010, a total population of 188,118: 94,141 men and 93,977 women. The urban population was 74.34% of the total population. In this numbers are included the population of its municipal districts. The population of San Francisco de Macoríswithout its municipal districts was 149,508.
When the country was a Spanish colony, the region where the city is now was known as the "Partido de Macorís" ("partido" was an old Spanish subdivision like a municipality). It had the name of "Macorís" because on the mountains to the north of the area lived native people named "Macorís" or "Macorix", different from the Taínos.
Those people that were living here founded, on 20 September 1778, the town in a place called "El Rincón de San Francisco" and, for that reason, they gave to the new town the name that it has now: San Francisco de Macorís, that in English would be "St. Francis of Macoris".
San Francisco de Macorís was part of La Vega province until 1885 when it became a municipality of the Espaillat province. With the creation of the Duarte province, San Francisco de Macorís became its head municipality, like the capital city, of the new province.
Even if there are some industries in the city, the most important economic activity is farming. Coffee, cacao, rice and plantain are the most important crops.
Cattle raising is also very important. with an important production of milk.

</doc>
<doc id="204321" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204321" title="2008 Pacific hurricane season">
2008 Pacific hurricane season

The 2008 Pacific hurricane season started on May 15, 2008, and ended November 30, 2008. 2008 was close to average with 17 storms, and 7 of those became hurricanes.
On April 22, 2009, the name Alma was retired. In 2016 the name Amanda will be used instead of Alma.

</doc>
<doc id="204324" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204324" title="Hurricane Juan">
Hurricane Juan

Hurricane Juan was the sixth hurricane in the 2003 Atlantic hurricane season. Hurricane Juan was one of the costliest hurricanes in Nova Scotia (which is in Canada which is on Earth, which is in Canada). Hurricane Juan left 8 killed and about $200 million in damage. The hurricane only affected Canada.
The name Juan was retired. The name Joaquin is on the list instead for 2009. 

</doc>
<doc id="204326" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204326" title="Edaphosaurus">
Edaphosaurus

Edaphosaurus was a pelycosaur (early Synapsida) that lived during the later Carboniferous and early Permian. It was a herbivorous relative of the well-known "Dimetrodon". Both had a large, thermal regulating sail on the back. Fossils of
"Edaphosaurus" have been found in Europe and North America. 
"Edaphosaurus" species measured from to almost in length and weighed over 300 kilograms (660 lb). It was slightly taller and stockier than "Dimetrodon", but like its pelycosaur relatives had a small head and a long tail.
The head of "Edaphosaurus" was rather small for its body size. The deep lower jaw likely had powerful muscles and the teeth along the front and sides of its jaws could crop bite-sized pieces from tough plants. 
The roof of the mouth and the inside of the lower jaw had batteries of peglike teeth. They were a crushing and grinding surface. Early descriptions suggested that "Edaphosaurus" fed on molluscs, which it crushed with its teeth plates. However, paleontologists now think that "Edaphosaurus" ate plants. Lack of wear on the teeth suggests "limited processing of food". Earlier members of the Edaphosauridae lacked tooth plates, and ate insects.

</doc>
<doc id="204328" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204328" title="Declan Galbraith">
Declan Galbraith

Declan John Galbraith (born 19 December 1991, Hoo St Werburgh, Kent) is an English singer. He is best known for his 2002 hit single, "Tell Me Why". Some of his other songs include "An Angel" and "Ego You".

</doc>
<doc id="204344" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204344" title="Maximilian I">
Maximilian I

Maximilian I may refer to:

</doc>
<doc id="204345" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204345" title="Dettmar Cramer">
Dettmar Cramer

Dettmar Cramer (4 April 1925 – 17 September 2015) was a former German football manager. He coached Bayern Munich. He led them to the 1975 and 1976 European Cups. He was born in Dortmund.
Cramer died at the age of 90 at his home in Reit im Winkl, Germany.

</doc>
<doc id="204346" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204346" title="Atsushi Mio">
Atsushi Mio

Atsushi Mio (born 26 January 1983) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Gainare Tottori.
179||13||8||1||4||0||193||14
179||13||8||1||4||0||193||14

</doc>
<doc id="204347" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204347" title="Daisuke Hoshi">
Daisuke Hoshi

Daisuke Hoshi (born 10 December 1980) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Machida Zelvia.
160||20||10||1||7||0||177||21
160||20||10||1||7||0||177||21

</doc>
<doc id="204362" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204362" title="Havelian">
Havelian

Havelian is a city in Pakistan. It is in Abbottabad District in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province. The city is also part of a railway route.

</doc>
<doc id="204374" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204374" title="Dassu">
Dassu

Dassu, also spelt Dusso, is a town in the Northern Areas of Pakistan. It is at 35°43'0N 75°31'0E' and has a height of 2440 metres (8008 feet) above sea level. The area has many gemstones.

</doc>
<doc id="204388" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204388" title="Takayoshi Amma">
Takayoshi Amma


</doc>
<doc id="204389" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204389" title="Brian Labone">
Brian Labone

Brian Labone (23 January 1940 – 24 April 2006) is a former English football player. He has played for England national team.
451||2
451||2
!Total||26||0

</doc>
<doc id="204393" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204393" title="Keiji Yoshimura">
Keiji Yoshimura

Keiji Yoshimura (born 8 August 1979) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Nagoya Grampus Eight.
165||4||20||5||32||2||9||0||226||11
165||4||20||5||32||2||9||0||226||11

</doc>
<doc id="204394" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204394" title="Rodrigo Gral">
Rodrigo Gral

Rodrigo Gral (born 21 February 1977) is a Brazilian football player.
90||45||10||7||26||9||7||5||133||66
90||45||10||7||26||9||7||5||133||66

</doc>
<doc id="204395" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204395" title="Andradina">
Andradina

Edi Carlo Dias Marçal (born 13 September 1974) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Korona Kielce.
118||42||8||10||5||2||131||54
118||42||8||10||5||2||131||54

</doc>
<doc id="204398" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204398" title="East Stirlingshire F.C.">
East Stirlingshire F.C.

East Stirlingshire F.C. is a football club which plays in Scotland. They played in the Scottish Football League until 2016.

</doc>
<doc id="204401" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204401" title="Claudio Luiz Assuncao de Freitas">
Claudio Luiz Assuncao de Freitas

Cláudio Luís Assunção de Freitas (born 31 March 1972) is a former Brazilian football player.
67||13||4||2||10||1||81||16
67||13||4||2||10||1||81||16

</doc>
<doc id="204402" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204402" title="Naoya Kikuchi">
Naoya Kikuchi

104||7||15||0||20||1||6||0||145||8
20||0||2||0||colspan="2"|-||colspan="2"|-||22||0
124||7||17||0||20||1||6||0||167||8
!Total||1||0

</doc>
<doc id="204406" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204406" title="Arthurlie F.C.">
Arthurlie F.C.

Arthurlie F.C. is a football club which plays in Scotland.

</doc>
<doc id="204409" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204409" title="Seiji Koga">
Seiji Koga

Seiji Koga (born 7 August 1979) is a Japanese football player.
164||26||10||2||10||0||184||28
164||26||10||2||10||0||184||28

</doc>
<doc id="204410" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204410" title="Takayuki Yoshida">
Takayuki Yoshida

Takayuki Yoshida (born 14 March 1977) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Vissel Kobe.
359||64||35||17||57||7||451||88
359||64||35||17||57||7||451||88

</doc>
<doc id="204412" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204412" title="Rampla Juniors F.C.">
Rampla Juniors F.C.

Rampla Juniors F.C. is a football club which plays in Uruguay.

</doc>
<doc id="204414" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204414" title="Raith Rovers F.C.">
Raith Rovers F.C.

Raith Rovers F.C. is a football club which plays in Scotland.

</doc>
<doc id="204417" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204417" title="Jorge Campos">
Jorge Campos

Jorge Campos (born 15 October 1966) is a former Mexican football player. He has played for Mexico national team.
382||34
51||0
433||34
!Total||130||0

</doc>
<doc id="204418" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204418" title="Emmanuel Adebayor">
Emmanuel Adebayor

Emmanuel Adebayor (born 26 February 1984) is a Togolese football player. He plays for Tottenham Hotspur F.C. and Togo national team.
122||33
104||46
226||79
!Total||42||18

</doc>
<doc id="204419" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204419" title="Jan Wouters">
Jan Wouters

Jan Wouters (born 17 July 1960) is a former Dutch football player. He has played for Netherlands national team.
370||45
68||6
438||51
!Total||70||4

</doc>
<doc id="204421" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204421" title="C.A. Bella Vista">
C.A. Bella Vista

C.A. Bella Vista is a football club which plays in Uruguay.

</doc>
<doc id="204423" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204423" title="Albion Rovers F.C.">
Albion Rovers F.C.

Albion Rovers F.C. is a football club which plays in Scotland.

</doc>
<doc id="204427" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204427" title="Bispham, Blackpool">
Bispham, Blackpool

Bispham is a village roughly one-and-a-half miles north of Blackpool town centre on the Fylde coast in the county of Lancashire, England. 

</doc>
<doc id="204451" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204451" title="Xevious">
Xevious

Xevious is a video game from Namco. It was first made available in 1982, and was available in arcades.
The game was released on many other video game systems, including:

</doc>
<doc id="204460" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204460" title="Niederraunau">
Niederraunau

Niederraunau is a quarter of the town Krumbach in Günzburg (district), Swabia, Bavaria, Germany.
Niederraunau (Elevation 518 m) is in the valley of the little river Kammel two kilometres south of Krumbach in the natural region Lower Iller-Lech Gravel Plateau. The hills between the valleys of Kammel and the neighboring valleys of Günz and Mindel are covered with wood in parts. Niederraunau has a station at the Mittelschwaben Railway and it is at the Bundesstraße 16.
between 1100 and 1200: Niederraunau was founded<br>
1494-95:the village got the right to hold a market<br>
1613: the place got a coat of arms<br>
1978: since this year Niederraunau is a quarter of the town Krumbach; before this time the village was an own municipality;

</doc>
<doc id="204478" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204478" title="Buffon">
Buffon

Buffon could mean:

</doc>
<doc id="204531" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204531" title="Transverse wave">
Transverse wave

A transverse wave is a moving wave that is made up of oscillations happening perpendicular to the direction of energy transfer. 
It can also mean that it is a wave that causes the medium to vibrate at right angles to the direction in which the wave travels.
 

</doc>
<doc id="204532" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204532" title="Serbian Wikipedia">
Serbian Wikipedia

The Serbian Wikipedia is the Serbian-language edition of Wikipedia. This version was started on February 16, 2003. 
It is the 28th largest edition.
It has over 325,000 articles.

</doc>
<doc id="204582" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204582" title="Mesonychid">
Mesonychid

Mesonychids were the first mammalian carnivores after the extinction of the dinosaurs.
These "wolves on hooves" are an extinct order of carnivorous mammals, closely related to artiodactyls.
Mesonychids first appeared in the early Palaeocene with the genus "Dissacus". They went in decline at the end of the Eocene, and became extinct in the early Oligocene.
At the start of the Palaeocene, there were (so far as we know) no large carnivores on land. The surviving mammals and birds evolved into many of the ecological niches previously occupied by dinosaurs and pterosaurs. This process is called adaptive radiation. The mesonychids were the first group to become larger carnivores.
They soon had competition. By the later Palaeocene there were several other groups of land carnivores. The giant flightless bird "Gastornis" appeared in the Upper Palaeocene, and the Creodonts had also evolved. The Creodonts became an important order, and would certainly have been serious competitors of the mesonychids.
Most important of all, the modern order Carnivora became significant in the Eocene. They were a sister group to the mesonychids, and started as small forms in the Palaeocene. Once they increased in size they would have been direct competitors of the mesonychids.
The broken-up Gondwana gave rise to southern continents which the early placental mammals could not get to. Africa and India eventually bumped into Eurasia, and South America sometimes had land connection to North America. All this lead to 'faunal interchange'. Australasia developed its own carnivores, which became extinct only in modern times.
Large size was common. The famous "Andrewsarchus" had a skull a metre long, which is much larger than that of the modern Kodiak bear.
Mesonychid teeth consisted of molars which were laterally compressed and often blunt and were probably used for shearing meat or crushing bones. Many species are suspected of being fish-eaters, and the largest species may have been scavengers.

</doc>
<doc id="204602" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204602" title="Andrewsarchus">
Andrewsarchus

Andrewsarchus mongoliensis (Andrews + Greek ἀρχός, "ruler"), was a mammalian Mesonychid predator.
This large heavily-built, wolf-like, mammal lived during the Eocene, about 45 to 36 million years ago. It walked on four short legs and had a long body, a long tail, and feet with hoofed toes. It had a long snout with large, sharp teeth and flat cheek teeth that may have been used to crush bones. 
Because "Andrewsarchus" is only known from a skull and a few other bones, whether it was an active predator or merely a large scavenger is open to debate, as is its exact time range.

</doc>
<doc id="204681" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204681" title="Eurolang">
Eurolang

Eurolang is an international planned language created by Philip Hunt between 1995 and 1998 in order to be a language for the European Union. The author stated as a principle of the design that the language should be very easy to learn for Europeans. In contrast with other languages like Esperanto, Eurolang includes a large number of words directly borrowed from English.
At present there's no known community of active speakers of Eurolang. The website of the author in which he described the language has disappeared from the net.
"Eurolang est actifacta lang, qui me creatab estar comuna 2a lang per la Europa Unized (EU). Its word-list est baseda super England-lang, Deutsh-lang, France-lang, Italia-lang, Espanja-lang et Latin. Me desinab it estar facila lernar et usar."
"Detail est, que lernabera Europa person, qui deja sav un or plus un de da langs, probablae pos lectar Eurolang (no tropa usation de dictionary), si ge est lernabera it per 2 days. Evidentae, facation it est plus unfacila rel lection it."

</doc>
<doc id="204793" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204793" title="Molar conductivity">
Molar conductivity

Molar conductivity is a scientific term. The molar conductivity of an electrolyte is a measure of how well it conducts electricity in solution. It is calculated by dividing the conductivity (how well the electrolyte conducts electricity) by the molar concentration (how much the electrolyte is diluted: a solution means that it has been dissolved in something else: see solution). It is measured in siemens per metre per molarity. The symbol for molar conductivity is Λ, or Λm.

</doc>
<doc id="204798" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204798" title="Mingora">
Mingora

Mingora is the largest city in Swat District, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan. It lies on the banks of River Swat about 2 km from Saidu Sharif, the capital of Swat.
In 1998 the population of Mingora was about 175,000. The city was once a major tourist destination and was described by Queen Elizabeth as the "Switzerland" of the former British Empire. 
However because of the Taliban, tourism has suffered due to fighting between the Taliban and the government. In March 2009 the city came under Taliban rule due to a peace agreement with the government. But the agreement was soon broken and in May 2009 the government were fighting with the Taliban to end their occupation of the city.

</doc>
<doc id="204814" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204814" title="Katsuyoshi Shinto">
Katsuyoshi Shinto

101||3||3||0||5||1||109||4
101||3||3||0||5||1||109||4
!Total||15||1

</doc>
<doc id="204815" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204815" title="Gaël Clichy">
Gaël Clichy

Gaël Clichy (born 26 July 1985) is a French football player. He plays for Arsenal and France national team.
15||0||||||||||||||15||0
130||1||15||0||8||0||37||0||190||1
145||1||15||0||8||0||37||0||205||1
!Total||3||0

</doc>
<doc id="204816" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204816" title="George Yonashiro">
George Yonashiro

!Total||2||0

</doc>
<doc id="204833" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204833" title="Brain cell">
Brain cell

Brain cells are a group of cells that includes neurons and glial cells. The neurons perform the tasks, and the glial cells look after the neurons. Current research suggests that glia have a more complex function than just supporting neurons, some new functions have been identified. A child over 3 years old has over 1,000 trillion synapses.

</doc>
<doc id="204847" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204847" title="Texas Blind Snake">
Texas Blind Snake

The Texas Blind Snake is a snake most commonly found in the state of Texas. It is a worm like snake. They are 5-8 inches long.

</doc>
<doc id="204849" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204849" title="Snake worship">
Snake worship

Snake Worship is the worshipping of snakes. The worshipping of snakes occurs in many ancient cultures. In religion and mythology, snakes were often seen as images of strength, or of renewal.
In Hindu mythology, the snake (or Naga) represents rebirth, death and mortality, as the snake sheds its skin and becomes (symbolically) re-born.
There are many snakes in Greek mythology - some myths feature a snake called "ophion" as one of the original rulers of the world.
The snake is to be considered "the god of good" by the Gnostics.

</doc>
<doc id="204850" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204850" title="Glass lizard">
Glass lizard

Glass lizards, or glass snakes, are a genus of reptiles that look like snakes. Although most species have no legs, their head shapes, movable eyelids, and external ear openings show they are lizards. A few species have very small, stub-like legs near their rear vent (cloaca). These are vestigial organs. 
Most described species are native to Asia, a few occur in North America, and at least one can be found in North Africa.
Like many lizards, they have the ability to drop off part of the tail when attacked. It can break into several pieces, like glass. The tail stays mobile, distracting the predator, while the lizard keeps still. 

</doc>
<doc id="204863" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204863" title="Tequesta, Florida">
Tequesta, Florida

Tequesta is a city of Palm Beach County, Florida in the United States. In 2000 5,273 people lived in Tequesta. Tequesta is the northern most city in Palm Beach County, Florida.

</doc>
<doc id="204865" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204865" title="Jupiter Inlet Colony, Florida">
Jupiter Inlet Colony, Florida

Jupiter Inlet Colony is a town in Palm Beach County, Florida, United States. As of 2004, 388 people lived there.

</doc>
<doc id="204866" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204866" title="Juno Beach, Florida">
Juno Beach, Florida

Juno Beach is a town in Palm Beach County, Florida, United States. As of 2004, 3,391 people lived there. Juno Beach is home to the headquarters of Florida Power & Light.

</doc>
<doc id="204867" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204867" title="North Palm Beach, Florida">
North Palm Beach, Florida

North Palm Beach is an incorporated village in Palm Beach County, Florida, United States. As of 2004, 12,645 people lived there.

</doc>
<doc id="204868" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204868" title="Lake Park, Florida">
Lake Park, Florida

Lake Park is a town in Palm Beach County, Florida, United States. As of 2004, 9,080 people lived there.

</doc>
<doc id="204869" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204869" title="Palm Beach Shores, Florida">
Palm Beach Shores, Florida

Palm Beach Shores is a town in Palm Beach County, Florida, United States. As of 2004, 1,511 people lived there.

</doc>
<doc id="204870" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204870" title="Mangonia Park, Florida">
Mangonia Park, Florida

Mangonia Park is a town in Palm Beach County, Florida, United States. It is a part of Uptown West Palm, which also includes Riviera Beach & West Palm Beach. As of 2004, 1,289 lived there.

</doc>
<doc id="204871" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204871" title="Palm Beach, Florida">
Palm Beach, Florida

The Town of Palm Beach is an incorporated town in Palm Beach County, Florida, United States. The Intracoastal Waterway separates it from the cities of West Palm Beach and Lake Worth. As of 2004, 9,860 people lived there. 
Palm Beach began as a resort town when Henry Morrison Flagler, a founder of Standard Oil, built the Florida East Coast Railway down the coast of Florida. In the center of the community, Flagler built two luxury resort hotels, the Royal Poinciana Hotel and The Breakers Hotel. West Palm Beach was built across Lake Worth as a service town, and is now a major city.
Flagler's land for houses was bought by people active in the Gilded Age, and in 1902 Flagler himself built a Beaux-Arts mansion named Whitehall, designed by the New York–based firm Carrère and Hastings and helped start the Palm Beach winter "season" by entertaining visitors. The town was incorporated on April 17, 1911.
An area known as the Styx housed many of the servants, most of whom were black. The workers rented their small houses from the landowners. In the early 1900s the land owners agreed to evict all of the residents of the Styx (who moved to West Palm Beach) and Edward R. Bradley bought up much of this land.

</doc>
<doc id="204872" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204872" title="Haverhill, Florida">
Haverhill, Florida

Haverhill is a town in Palm Beach County, Florida, United States. As of 2004, 1,620 people lived there.

</doc>
<doc id="204873" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204873" title="Glen Ridge, Florida">
Glen Ridge, Florida

Glen Ridge is a town in Palm Beach County, Florida, United States. As of 2004, 276 people lived there.

</doc>
<doc id="204874" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204874" title="Cloud Lake, Florida">
Cloud Lake, Florida

Cloud Lake is a town in Palm Beach County, Florida, United States. 167 people lived there in 2000.

</doc>
<doc id="204875" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204875" title="Palm Springs, Florida">
Palm Springs, Florida

Palm Springs is a city of Florida in the United States. As of 2004, 14,690 people lived there.

</doc>
<doc id="204876" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204876" title="Homosociality">
Homosociality

Homosociality is a term used in sociology, which describes a same-sex relationship which is not romantic or sexual in nature. These relationships might be called friendships, mentorships, or other. Heterosociality is the opposite. It means that one prefers socializing with members of the opposite sex without bringing romance or sex into the relationship. Eve Sedgwick made the term popular in her discussion of male homosocial desire, but Jean Lipman-Blumen had defined homosociality in 1976 as a preference for members of one's own sex.
For example, a close relationship between two men (such as George and Lennie in "Of Mice and Men" (and indeed most of the characters in that book) would be a homosocial relationship. It can apply to single sex schools, prisons, monasteries, but also to simple friendships.
The relationship "can" be a sexual one, but a homosocial relationship can occur between homosexuals, heterosexuals or both.
It is often used to describe the all-male world of medieval knights, or sailors. While it can apply to both men or women, it is most commonly used to refer to men.
Rose surveyed males and females between the ages of 20 and 28. Rose asked men and women about how they felt about same and cross-sex friendships. Both men and women preferred same sex friendships. Both men and women said that cross-sex relationships were less helpful, and less loyal than same-sex friendships. Friendship formation was found to be different between cross-sex and same-sex relationships as well. 
Depending on the culture, and family and social stuctures, same-sex preferences have been found to develop between 3 and 9 years old. (LaFreniere, Strayer,& Gauthier, 1984; Jacklin& Maccoby, 1978; Harkness & Super, 1985) LaFreniere, Strayer, and Gauthier (1984) conducted a three year long study observing fifteen peer groups between the ages of 1 to 6 years old, with 98 boys and 93 girls. As they looked into sex-segregation in childhood, the researchers found that segregation rose with age and that most Western children exihibit these preferences around 3–4 years old. However, in a study by Harkenss and Super, Kenyan children do not have sex-preference in playmates until the ages of 6 to 9 years old. Researchers observed 152 Kenyan children in rural settings and found that this change didn’t occur until parental expectations and customary duties increased. “Just when and how such gender segration appears, is the joint product of the individual and the culturally constructed niche” (Harkness & Super, 1985).
The social bias towards members of one’s own sex can develop early in children. Specifically, studies have found that by the early age of 3 or 4, children prefer members of their own sex to members of the opposite sex (Bussey & Bandura, 1992). That is, young girls favor other females (girls and women) over males (boys and men). The findings are identical for young boys. Also, Carol Martin (1989) found that boys 4.5 years of age expressed significantly more dislike for a girl depicted as a “tomboy” than a boy depicted as a “sissy”; whereas boys 8.5 years of age express more dislike for a boy depicted as a “sissy”. This age difference suggests that children as young as 4 prefer their own sex regardless of gender-incongruent behavior. Around the age of 8 however, boys begin to show males—devaluing feminine behavior. It has also been shown that children ages 10–12 prefer same-sex socializing. That is, girls favored girls who socialized with other girls and boys liked boys who socialized with other boys.
Homosociality, by definition, implies neither heterosexuality nor homosexuality. For example, a heterosexual male who prefers to socialize with men may be considered a homosocial heterosexual. The term is often used by feminists to emphasize aspects of solidarity between males. Feminists also identify a close link between female homosociality, feminism and lesbian desire, with Audre Lorde stating "the true feminist deals out of a lesbian consciousness whether or not she ever sleeps with women."

</doc>
<doc id="204877" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204877" title="1971 Atlantic hurricane season">
1971 Atlantic hurricane season

The 1971 Atlantic hurricane season was from June 1, 1971 to November 30, 1971. The strongest storm of the season was Hurricane Edith which was a storm to remember from 1971.
This list is names set aside for 1971. Names that were not used are marked in . 
No names were retired in 1971.

</doc>
<doc id="204879" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204879" title="Argument from nonbelief">
Argument from nonbelief

The Argument from nonbelief is a philosophical argument that says that God probably does not exist. If God did exist, and wanted humans to know it, he would show himself, or make it otherwise clear to all that he existed. Since he has not yet done so, he probably does not exist.
A formal argument is as follows:

</doc>
<doc id="204882" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204882" title="Nociceptive trigeminal inhibition tension suppression system">
Nociceptive trigeminal inhibition tension suppression system

The nociceptive trigeminal inhibition tension suppression system (NTI-TSS or NTI-split) is a small splint placed in the front part of the mouth on the upper or lower front teeth in order to protect teeth. It reduces wear on the teeth caused by someone clenching and grinding their teeth. By reducing this, it is claimed to prevent headaches.

</doc>
<doc id="204886" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204886" title="Ministry of National Defense (Romania)">
Ministry of National Defense (Romania)

The Ministry of National Defense () is one of the 19 of the Government of Romania. The current Minister of Defense is Mihai Stănişoară, who is a member of the Democratic Liberal Party.

</doc>
<doc id="204910" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204910" title="United States Secretary of Veterans Affairs">
United States Secretary of Veterans Affairs

The United States Secretary of Veterans' Affairs is the head of the United States Department of Veterans Affairs, the department in charge of taking care of the affairs of war veterans. The Secretary is a member of the Cabinet and second to last at 17th in the line of succession to the presidency (the position was last until the United States Department of Homeland Security was added in 2006). To date, all appointees and acting appointees to the post have been United States military veterans, but that is not a requirement to fill the position. 
When the position of Secretary is vacant, the United States Deputy Secretary of Veterans Affairs or another person picked by the President serves as Acting Secretary until the President picks and the United States Senate confirms a new Secretary.
On December 8, 2008, President Barack Obama announced that he would pick retired army General Eric Shinseki to be the Secretary of Veterans Affairs. He was unanimously confirmed by the United States Senate on January 20, 2009. General Shinseki resigned as Secretary of Veterans Affairs on May 30, 2014, making deputy secretary Sloan Gibson the acting secretary. On June 29, 2014, former Procter & Gamble CEO Robert A. McDonald was nominated by Barack Obama as the next secretary.
 West served as acting Secretary from January 2, 1998 to May 5, 1998.

</doc>
<doc id="204913" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204913" title="Girls' Generation">
Girls' Generation

Girls' Generation (Hangul: 소녀시대; Hanja: 少女時代) is a pop group made up of nine members that was formed by SM Entertainment in 2007. Girls' Generation members are Yoona, Tiffany, Yuri, Hyoyeon, Sooyoung, Seohyun, Taeyeon (who is the group's leader), and Sunny. Jessica was a member, but in 2014, she left the group. Fans usually call the group SNSD, which is a short-form of the group's Korean name, So Nyeo Shi Dae (or So Nyuh Shi Dae). Their fans are called "S♡NE" (소원), and is pronounced as "So-won", which means "wish" in Korean.
Each member of the group was trained in singing and dancing before their debut, while some others were trained in acting and modelling. Some girls had already appeared in television advertisements, music videos of other music groups and acted in dramas as well, before Girls' Generation started.
Girls' Generation first performed on M.net "M! Countdown" in July 2007. Even though their performances were never played on television, videos of their performances were posted on the Internet. The girls performed "Into the New World"(), which became their single. "M.Net's Girls Go To School" was filmed during this time, to show how the girls made their debut. The show ended after 9 episodes, when they finally appeared on another show, "School of Rock".
In August 2007, the single "Into the New World" was released. This single included two other songs, "Beginning" and "Perfect for You" (), later renamed as Honey for their debut album "Girls' Generation". An instrumental of "Into the New World" was also put in the album.
After the single was released, the group started to promote it. Girls' Generation performed their single on SBS's "Inkigayo", MBC's "Show! Music Core", and on KBS's "Music Bank".
After a short break, the group's first full album was released in late autumn 2007, with the lead single "Girls' Generation" (), a cover of Lee Seung-Chul ()'s hit song in the 1980s. Promotion for the single started in early November. "Girls' Generation" was became popular, and the album has sold 121,143 copies to date, placing 8th in the year-end charts. In early 2008, Girls' Generation began promoting their third single, "Kissing You". The music video featured Donghae from Super Junior. This song achieved the #1 spot in the three main TV music rankings—SBS "Inkigayo", M.net "M.Countdown!" and KBS "Music Bank".
In March 2008, the album was re-released and re-titled "Baby Baby". A third single, "Baby Baby", was used to promote the album. A digital EP featuring Jessica, Tiffany, and Seohyun was released on April 2008, titled "Roommate". The single from the mini-album is "Oppa Nappa" (, literally "Bad Brother", although contextually it refers to an older male friend).
Girls' Generation, along with fellow artists such as BoA, TVXQ, Super Junior, CSJH the Grace, Zhang Liyin, SHINee and other SM artists participated in SM Town Live '08. The tour went on to South Korea, Thailand, and China.
In 2008, M.net announced that the group would be starring in a reality TV show called "Factory Girl", in which the girls work as interns at fashion megazine ""Elle"", writing articles for the magazine.
During their break from music, they appeared in many television advertisements for MapleStory and Mabinogi.
Later, it was announced that the group's first mini-album, "Gee", would be released in January 2009.
A teaser video was released in January 2009 and the first single "Gee" was released soon after. People became interested in the song rose after the digital release, and the song became #1 Cyworld's hourly music chart on the release day. The song also went #1 on all major digital music charts within two days.
The group began to promote the album in January 2009 on MBC "Show! Music Core". They sang their new single, "Gee", and "Him Nae/Way To Go", another track from the Gee mini-album. This song is a remake of the song "Haptic Motion" that was used in cellphone advertisements and is a mix of bubblegum pop and punk rock. However, the group did not appear on KBS's "Music Bank" with "Gee", even after winning #1 on the music chart show.
"Gee" is the record holder for the longest-running #1 on music portal M.net (for 8 weeks), surpassing the previous record of 6 weeks set by the Wonder Girls' "Nobody".
They also broke the record on KBS's music show "Music Bank" by being #1 for 9 consecutive weeks, previously set by Jewelry's "One More Time, which had 7 wins. They won the award for best-selling song for the first half of 2009 for "Gee". The group stopped promoting the song at the end of March 2009.
After a short break, SM Entertainment announced that the girls would be back with a new single and showing a "Marine Girl" concept; the song, titled "Sowoneul Malhaebwa (Genie)" (, literally "Tell Me Your Wish"), the mini album was released digitally on June 22, 2009. The mini-album includes a duet between Jessica and Shinee member Onew called "One Year Later". During the group's promotion, the girls would be seen wearing marine uniforms as part of the album's concept.
On May 3, 2009. Girls Generation was starred in their new reality show "SNSD Horror Movie factory", with the premier episode receiving a viewership rating of 3.3%. The show was then cancelled after 6 episodes due to low ratings from the public.
From June 23 to November 17, 2009, Girls' Generation are starring Cable TV program called "Girls' Generation's Hello Baby" of KBS Joy, where they are taking care of a child and somewhat experience how motherhood is like. In that show, they take care of a boy name "Cho Kyungsan" (), and each week they (or fathers, male guests who come out time to time) select "The Best Mom" and "the Worst Mom" among the members according to their work for the day. The show ended after 22 episodes.
On June 26, 2009, Girls' Generation's comeback performance was recorded on KBS's "Music Bank". The group then had their return performances on MBC's "Music Core" and SBS's "Inkigayo" on June 27 and 28, 2009. Girls' Generation's 2nd mini-album "Genie" was released on June 29, 2009.
"Sowoneul Malhaebwa (Genie)" won its first #1 spot at the July 10, 2009 episode of KBS "Music Bank". Their second award was claimed at the July 12, 2009 episode of SBS "Inkigayo". The group finished promotions for "Sowoneul Malhaebwa (Genie)" in August 2009.
On January 23, 2010, the group released a teaser of their new single "Oh!". This was a precursor to their upcoming album "Oh!", a full album to be released on 28 January, 2010. The concept of the new album channels cheerleading.
On March 17, 2010, a re-packaged version of the album was released, featuring a "Dark" concept for the girls. The lead single, entitled Run Devil Run, was released one day before its music video.
On August 25, the group held their first showcase in Tokyo Ariake Colliseum and on September 7th, Girls' Generation released their debut Japanese single, "GENIE", followed by "GEE" later on October 20th.
On October 27, 2010, the girls released their third mini album, "Hoot" (훗). The music video for "Hoot" was released the next day, and on the 29th, they had their comeback on Music Bank.
By the end of the year, Girls' Generation had won various awards, including the prestigious "Disk Daesang Award" at the Golden Disk Awards. They became the first female group to win both the Daesang and Digital Daesang (which they won in 2009). At the "Melon Music Awards", Girls' Generation won Best Dressed Singer award, Hot Trend Song award for their latest song, "Hoot", as well as the Artist of the Year award. This was the 2nd year in a row that they won the Artist of the Year award. They also got first in the Hanteo annual Singer Award chart for 2010. Girls' Generation was also named "Artist of the Year" by Dosirak, Soribada, Korea Gallup, Hanteo and Sport Korea.
In January, Girls' Generation released a song for Intel, called "Visual Dreams".
On January 20, at the 20th Seoul Music Awards, the group received an Artist of the Year award, a Bonsang prize, a Popularity award and a Hallyu award. By winning all of these, Girls' Generation became one of four artists in Korean music history (the others being Seo Taiji, Jo Sungmo and H.O.T.) to win two consecutive Artist of the Year awards at the Seoul Music Awards, they are the only girl group to receive Artist of the Year awards for Seoul Music Awards, Melon Music Awards and Golden Disk Awards for two years in a row.
On April 9, the Japanese music video of Run Devil Run was released. Girls' Generation fully released their third Japanese single, "Mr. Taxi/Run Devil Run", on April 27.
On June 1st, 2011, they released their first Japanese studio album Girls' Generation. This album has 12 songs including the singles "Genie", “Gee”, "Run Devil Run", "Mr. Taxi" and a Japanese version of "Hoot". The album's sales surpassed 100,000 within only two days after release, breaking fellow Korean girl group Kara's record, Kara having surpassed sales of 100,000 in Japan in 2010 after a week with their first original Japanese studio album Girl's Talk. [82]
In September 30, 2014, Jessica said that she left the group. She wanted to start her own sunglasses and clothing company.
In August 18 and 19, Girls' Generation released their fifth album. The album is called "Lion Heart".

</doc>
<doc id="204915" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204915" title="Basilosaurus">
Basilosaurus

Basilosaurus is a genus of cetacean that lived from 40 to 34 million years ago in the Late Eocene. The first "Basilosaurus" fossils were found in Louisiana, USA, but another species was soon discovered preserved in large numbers in the Fayum deposits of Egypt.
The first fossil of "B. cetoides" was discovered in the United States and was initially believed to be some sort of reptile, hence the suffix -"saurus", but it was later found to be a marine mammal. Richard Owen wanted to rename the creature Zeuglodon ("yoked tooth"), but by taxonomic rules the creature's first name remained permanent. Fossils of "B. isis" have been found in Egypt and Jordan. "B. drazindai" was described based on a single vertebra found in Pakistan.
Far from being a marine reptile, "Basilosaurus" is a stage in the evolution of whales. At 40–65 ft (12–20 m), "Basilosaurus cetoides" was one of the largest oceanic animals of its time.

</doc>
<doc id="204921" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204921" title="Eric Shinseki">
Eric Shinseki

Eric Ken Shinseki (born November 28, 1942) is a retired United States Army four-star general who was serving as the 7th United States Secretary of Veterans Affairs. His last U.S. Army position was as the 34th Chief of Staff of the Army (1999-2003). 

</doc>
<doc id="204923" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204923" title="Pakicetus">
Pakicetus

Pakicetus is a genus of extinct cetaceans found in the early Eocene (55.8 ± 0.2 - 33.9 ± 0.1 Ma) of Pakistan, hence their name. The strata where the fossils were found was then part of the coast of the Tethys Sea.
The first fossil, a lone skull, was thought to be a mesonychid, but Gingerich and Russell recognized it as an early cetacean from characteristic features of the inner ear, found only in cetaceans: the large auditory bulla is formed from the ectotympanic bone only. This suggests that it is a transitional species between extinct land mammals and modern cetaceans.
Complete skeletons were discovered in 2001, revealing that "Pakicetus" was primarily a land animal, about the size of a wolf, and very similar in form to the related mesonychids.

</doc>
<doc id="204929" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204929" title="Ed Derwinski">
Ed Derwinski

Edward Joseph Derwinski (born September 15, 1926; died January 15, 2012) was an American politician who served as the first Cabinet-level United States Secretary of Veterans Affairs, serving under President George H. W. Bush from March 15, 1989, to September 26, 1992. Before that, he was a member of the United States House of Representatives from 1959 to 1983, representing the south and southwest suburbs of Chicago.
Derwinski served in the United States Army in the Pacific Theater during World War II and in the postwar U.S. occupation of Japan. He graduated from Loyola University Chicago in 1951. He was a member of the Alpha Delta Gamma Fraternity. In 1957 he was elected to the Illinois House of Representatives, where he served one term before winning election to the U.S. House of Representatives in 1958. He served 12 terms as a Republican representative from the 4th District of Illinois, a suburban region south and west of Chicago, eventually becoming the ranking member of the House Foreign Relations Committee. He also served as a delegate to the United Nations General Assembly from 1971-1972 and as chairman of the U.S. delegation to the Interparliamentary Union from 1970-1972 and 1978-1980.
A Democratic redistricting plan after the 1980 Census split up the 4th District, with only about 15% of its area remaining and added to various areas from other districts; Derwinski and Republican congressman George M. O'Brien were placed in the same district, and O'Brien won the 1982 primary on the strength of having more of his previous district included in the new change. After Derwinski's loss, President Ronald Reagan picked him to be Counselor to the State Department. In 1987, Reagan picked him to be Under Secretary of State for Security Assistance, Science and Technology, where he served until the end of Reagan's term. Not long after that, he was picked by George H.W. Bush to head the VA.
Derwinski lived in Glen Ellyn, Illinois with his wife, the former Bonita Hickey. He had two adult children from his first marriage to Patricia Derwinski, Maureen and Michael.

</doc>
<doc id="204944" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204944" title="Metamorphism">
Metamorphism

Metamorphism, in geology, is the change of the structure, texture, or composition of rocks. (an aggregation of solid matter composed of one or more of the minerals forming the earth's crust).
The scientific study of rocks is called petrology.
Rocks are commonly divided, according to their origin, into three major classes—Igneous, sedimentary, and metamorphic. They are caused by the effects of heat, deforming pressure, shearing stress, hot/chemically active fluids, or a combination of these. All of these changes occur while the rock remains essentially in the solid state. In theory, rocks are formed when the things surrounding them are in equilibrium with ambient physical conditions. If the conditions are changed by movements in the earth's crust or by igneous activity, metamorphism occurs to reestablish equilibrium and changes the physical character of the rock mass.

</doc>
<doc id="204957" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204957" title="National Museum of Korea">
National Museum of Korea

National Museum of Korea(국립중앙박물관, 國立中央博物館) is a national museum in Yongsan District, Seoul. It was opened in Changgyeong Palace in 1909 and reopened in Yongsan District in 2005. It is not opened in January 1st and every Monday.

</doc>
<doc id="204964" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204964" title="Embassy of Russia in Copenhagen">
Embassy of Russia in Copenhagen

The Embassy of Russia in Copenhagen is the embassy of Russia to Denmark. The embassy building is located at Kristianiagade 5 in Indre Østerbro, Copenhagen. The building is heritage listed.
In 1897, Otto Mønsted, a Danish businessman and margarine magnate, purchased three pieces of land in Østerbro, Copenhagen and hired architect Vilhelm Dahlerup to design a villa. Dahlerup, who specialised in Italian Renaissance style design had previously designed the Hotel D’Angleterre, Jesus Church in Valby, National Gallery, Ny Carlsberg Glyptotek, amongst others. Completed in 1899, the building of the mansion cost Mønsted half a million krone.
The entrance was decorated with a monogram with the initials AOM (for Anna-Otto-Mønsted). The Mønsteds kept a large staff in their mansion. Gardeners creating a large garden. In the garage Mønsted kept Copenhagen's most expensive car. The Mønsteds also bred Scottish hunting dogs and kept race horses in the barn.
In 1934 Anna Mønsted sold the mansion for 265,000 krone to Countess Musse Scheel. Scheel was a Danish actress and became the last private owner of the mansion. Scheel was an animal lover and was regarded as being eccentric. Scheel kept a hen house in the yard and sold eggs to her neighbours.
During the occupation of Denmark by Nazi Germany the mansion was the headquarters of the "Northern Society". The Northern Society promoted cultural co-operation between Nazi Germany and the Nordic countries.
In 1950, the Soviet Union signed a contract leasing the mansion for 20,000 krone per year. In 1982, the mansion, as well as Kristianiagade 3 (consulate) and Bergensgade 11 (embassy school), were granted to the Soviets, on the basis of reciprocity, free of charge for the purpose of embassy requirements for a period of 70 years, until 31 December 2051.
The building and garage are heritage listed buildings. The both were placed on the register of the Heritage Agency of Denmark on 3 December 1991.

</doc>
<doc id="204965" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204965" title="Parthenogenesis">
Parthenogenesis

Parthenogenesis is a term in biology. It means "virgin birth". It is an asexual form of reproduction. Females lay eggs without fertilization by a male. Growth and development of embryos occurs with all genes inherited from the mother. 
It occurs in both plants and animals and is much less common than sexual reproduction. It even occurs in vertebrates:there are over 80 species of unisex reptiles, amphibians and fishes in nature for which males are no longer a part of the reproductive process.
Some plants and animals can reproduce either sexually or asexually. A good example are the aphids, (e.g. greenfly) which multiply parthenogenetically during the height of summer, but turn to sexual reproduction as the weather gets worse. At different times of the year, they can be viviparous (live birth) or oviparous (eggs). During spring and summer, aphids usually produce live young (nymphs) parthenogenetically. These female aphids may or may not have wings. Males only appear in any number at the close of the season. Females then give birth sexually during autumn, laying eggs. Therefore aphids are said to undergo 'cyclical parthenogenesis'. 
Another interesting fact is that there is a whole order of rotifers (the Bdelloid rotifers) where males have never been found. This is the largest taxonomic category to reproduce entirely by parthenogenesis. 
Other types of asexual reproduction exist. Clones are produced by many Hydrozoa (for example, many corals). Colonies grow, not by laying eggs, but by budding off new individuals. Very similar is reproduction by splitting, common in several phyla such as echinoderms and sponges. These methods are not called parthenogenesis, because they do not work by females laying eggs.

</doc>
<doc id="204984" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204984" title="Lawrence Durrell">
Lawrence Durrell

Lawrence George Durrell (27 February 1912 – 7 November 1990) was an expatriate British novelist, poet, dramatist, and travel writer, though he resisted affiliation with Britain and preferred to be considered cosmopolitan.

</doc>
<doc id="204985" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204985" title="Georges Clemenceau">
Georges Clemenceau

Georges Benjamin Clemenceau (September 28, 1841 – November 24, 1929) was a French statesman, physician, and journalist. He also helped Émile Zola defending Alfred Dreyfus against Dreyfus Affair.

</doc>
<doc id="204988" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204988" title="Rikarudo Higa">
Rikarudo Higa

Rikarudo Higa (born 4 May 1973) is a former Brazilian-Japanese football player.
34||6
34||6

</doc>
<doc id="204989" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204989" title="Marcelo Mattos">
Marcelo Mattos

Marcelo Mattos (born 10 February 1984) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Corinthians Paulista.
2||0
143||13
41||1
186||14

</doc>
<doc id="204990" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204990" title="Hans Gillhaus">
Hans Gillhaus

Hans Gillhaus (born 5 November 1963) is a former Dutch football player. He has played for Netherlands national team.
245||99||||||||||245||99
64||19||||||||||64||19
60||28||8||6||13||4||81||38
7||2||||||||||7||2
376||148||8||6||13||4||397||158
!Total||9||2

</doc>
<doc id="204995" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204995" title="Ricardo Aparecido Tavares">
Ricardo Aparecido Tavares

Ricardo Aparecido Tavares (born 23 April 1987) is a Brazilian football player.
3||0||0||0||3||0
3||0||0||0||3||0

</doc>
<doc id="204996" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204996" title="Emmanuel Eboué">
Emmanuel Eboué

Emmanuel Eboué (born 4 June 1983) is a Côte d'Ivoire football player. He plays for Arsenal and Côte d'Ivoire national team.
25||3||||||||||||||25||3
70||4||||||||||||||70||4
94||3||12||1||7||1||38||1||151||6
189||10||12||1||7||1||38||1||246||13
!Total||47||1

</doc>
<doc id="204997" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204997" title="Sebastian Larsson">
Sebastian Larsson

Sebastian Larsson (born 6 June 1985) is a Swedish football player. He plays for Birmingham City and Sweden national team.
119||11||5||3||13||2||1||0||138||16
119||11||5||3||13||2||1||0||138||16
!Total||19||0

</doc>
<doc id="204999" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204999" title="Cowdenbeath F.C.">
Cowdenbeath F.C.

Cowdenbeath F.C. is a football club which plays in Scotland.

</doc>
<doc id="205008" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205008" title="Adrian Năstase">
Adrian Năstase

Adrian Năstase (born June 22, 1950) is a Romanian politician who was the Prime Minister of Romania from December 2000 to December 2004.

</doc>
<doc id="205009" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205009" title="Kingsnake">
Kingsnake

Kingsnakes are colubrid snakes. They are members of the genus "Lampropeltis", which include milk snakes and four other species. There are many subspecies, and experts differ on their classification. These snakes are mostly found in the United States and Central America.
They use constriction to kill their prey. They prey on other snakes, including venomous snakes. They are immune to the venom. They also eat lizards, rodents, birds, and eggs.
Their colouration is an example of Batesian mimicry, because it is very similar to poisonous coral snakes living in the same areas. This gives the kingsnakes protection from the birds which prey on them.

</doc>
<doc id="205010" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205010" title="Mikhail Vasilyevich Alekseyev">
Mikhail Vasilyevich Alekseyev

Mikhail Vasiliyevich Alekseyev () (November 3, 1857 — September 25, 1918) was a Russian military leader before and during World War I, and one of the leaders of anti-Bolshevik forces in 1917-1918.

</doc>
<doc id="205017" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205017" title="Nenad Maslovar">
Nenad Maslovar

Nenad Maslovar (born 20 February 1967) is a former Montenegrin football player. He has played for Serbia national team.
84||8||||||||||84||8
60||19||||||||||60||19
150||45||7||1||24||12||181||58
294||72||7||1||24||12||345||85
!Total||3||0

</doc>
<doc id="205018" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205018" title="Ha Seok-Ju">
Ha Seok-Ju

Ha Seok-Ju (born 20 February 1968) is a South Korean professional athlete. He is best known as an association football player. He was a member of the Korean national team.
215||37||||||29||8||244||45
82||13||6||1||2||0||90||14
297||50||6||1||31||8||334||59
!Total||95||23

</doc>
<doc id="205019" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205019" title="Alexandre Torres">
Alexandre Torres

Carlos Alexandre Torres (born 22 August 1966) is a former Brazilian football player. He has played for Brazil national team.
140||3||||||||||140||3
142||11||14||1||31||3||187||15
282||14||14||1||31||3||327||18
!Total||1||0

</doc>
<doc id="205027" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205027" title="Luiz Carlos Guarnieri">
Luiz Carlos Guarnieri

Luiz Carlos Guarnieri (born 4 December 1971) is a former Brazilian football player.
72||9||4||1||18||1||94||11
72||9||4||1||18||1||94||11

</doc>
<doc id="205032" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205032" title="Richard Witschge">
Richard Witschge

Richard Witschge (born 20 September 1969) is a former Dutch football player. He has played for Netherlands national team.
226||15
66||3
77||9
1||0
9||0
379||27
!Total||31||1

</doc>
<doc id="205033" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205033" title="Carlos Alberto Souza dos Santos">
Carlos Alberto Souza dos Santos

Carlos Alberto Souza dos Santos (born December 9, 1960) is a former Brazilian football player.
271||33||29||8||55||10||355||51
271||33||29||8||55||10||355||51

</doc>
<doc id="205034" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205034" title="Philippe Senderos">
Philippe Senderos

Philippe Senderos (born 14 February 1985) is a Swiss football player. He plays for Everton and the Swiss national team.
26||3||||||||||||||26||3
64||4||15||0||18||0||19||0||116||4
14||0||1||0||colspan="2"|-||5||0||20||0
104||7||16||0||18||0||24||0||162||7
!Total||38||5

</doc>
<doc id="205048" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205048" title="Stanisław Wojciechowski">
Stanisław Wojciechowski

Stanislaw Wojciechowski was born on March 15, 1869 in Kalisz, and died near Warsaw on April 9, 1953 at the age of 84.

</doc>
<doc id="205050" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205050" title="Aleksey Alekseyevich Brusilov">
Aleksey Alekseyevich Brusilov

Aleksey Alekseyevich Brusilov (1853-1926) was a Russian general. He was a commander in World War I. He is most well known for his tactics used in what was later called the Brsilov Offensive of 1916. This is said to be one of the best military feats for the Russians during the war.

</doc>
<doc id="205070" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205070" title="Jesse Brown">
Jesse Brown

Jesse Brown (March 27, 1944 – August 15, 2002) was the United States Secretary of Veterans Affairs under President Bill Clinton from 1993 to 1997.
Jesse Brown was born on March 27, 1944, in Detroit, Michigan, but grew up in Chicago. He attended The Catholic University of America in Washington, D.C. and Roosevelt University in Chicago, and graduated from the City Colleges of Chicago.
He joined in the United States Marine Corps in 1963, and served as a Marine in the Vietnam War, where he was seriously injured in 1965 near Da Nang – his right arm shattered and partially paralyzed. 
In 1967, Brown joined the staff of Disabled American Veterans (DAV), a service and advocacy organization. He served in many different supervisory roles with the DAV in the 1970s and 1980s:
In 1989, Brown became the DAV's first African-American director, serving until 1993.
In January 1993, Brown was picked by President Bill Clinton to the position of Secretary of Veterans Affairs,
serving until 1997. He was the first African American to hold that post. During his time as Secretary, Brown offered more services to female veterans, homeless veterans and veterans who were sick because of chemical exposures in Vietnam or the Gulf War. After he resigned as Secretary, Brown founded a consulting firm, Brown and Associates.
Brown died in Warrenton, Virginia on August 15, 2002 of lower motor neuron syndrome – being diagnosed with Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, commonly known as "Lou Gehrig's Disease", since 1999. He is buried in Arlington National Cemetery.

</doc>
<doc id="205076" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205076" title="Dryfe Water">
Dryfe Water

The Dryfe Water is a river in Scotland about 18 miles in length which flows into the River Annan at , near Lockerbie. It starts at on the southern slopes of Loch Fell, near Moffat, and then flows along a narrow valley to the Annan.
Dryfe Water gives its name to the parish, Dryfesdale, and the common Scottish surname, Drysdale. A second name is the much less common surname Dryfe (or Drife). The meaning of the word Dryfe is unknown. It may be from the Norse, Anglo-Saxon or Brythonic languages which were all used at different times in Dumfriesshire.

</doc>
<doc id="205077" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205077" title="Togo D. West, Jr.">
Togo D. West, Jr.

Togo Dennis West, Jr. (born June 21, 1942) is an attorney and public official who was the third United States Secretary of Veterans Affairs. He was picked by President Bill Clinton on January 27, 1998, during Clinton's second term, and was confirmed by the United States Senate on May 5, 1998. Before that, he had served as United States Secretary of the Army under Clinton, from 1993 to 1997. He was the second African American to be Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
West was born in Winston-Salem, North Carolina; there, he became an Eagle Scout with Bronze Palms, and attended Atkins High School (where his parents were teachers), graduating as valedictorian in 1959. After that, he entered Howard University, getting a Bachelor of Science degree in engineering in 1965, and a Juris Doctor in 1968, receiving "cum laude" honors and graduating first in his class. While a freshman at Howard University, he became a member of Alpha Phi Omega fraternity. West is also a member of the Kappa Psi chapter of Omega Psi Phi fraternity. While a student at the Howard University School of Law, West became the managing editor for the "Howard Law Journal"; he also met Gail Berry, who became his wife. The Wests later had two daughters.
A member of St. John's Episcopal Church, Lafayette Square, he served as a vestryman and Senior Warden.
He has been named a Distinguished Eagle Scout by the Boy Scouts of America and was awarded the Silver Buffalo Award for his national contributions to America’s youth. He is the President of the National Capital Area Council of the Boy Scouts of America.
After completing law school and clerking for a federal judge, West entered the United States Army and served in the Judge Advocate General's Corps. From his military service, he earned the Legion of Merit and the Meritorious Service Medal. He subsequently practiced law at the firm of Covington & Burling before being appointed an associate deputy attorney general in the administration of President Gerald Ford. Then, West held several posts in the administration of Jimmy Carter: general counsel to the Navy (1977-1979), special assistant to the secretary and to the deputy secretary of defense (1979), and general counsel to the Department of Defense (1980-1981). As the Secretary of the Army, West commented on the Aberdeen scandal, which prompted stricter enforcement and investigation into the Army's sexual harassment policies.
West returned to private practice in 1981 with the firm of Patterson Belknap Webb & Tyler and later worked as senior vice president for government relations of the Northrop Corporation until he became a member of the Clinton administration.
Since leaving the government, West has worked as a lawyer and has served as president of the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, a Washington-based think tank that works on issues that are important to minorities. He is also a strong supporter of and past board member of the Mount Vernon preservation society.

</doc>
<doc id="205082" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205082" title="Anton Ivanovich Denikin">
Anton Ivanovich Denikin

Anton Ivanovich Denikin (Анто́н Ива́нович Дени́кин; December 16, 1872 – August 8, 1947) was Lieutenant General of the Imperial Russian Army (1916) and one of the foremost generals of the White Russians in the civil war.

</doc>
<doc id="205084" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205084" title="Sea of Azov">
Sea of Azov

The Sea of Azov ( - "Azovskoye more"; - "Ozivs'ke "or" Azovs'ke more") is the world's shallowest sea, linked by the Strait of Kerch to the Black Sea to the south. It is bounded on the north by Ukraine, on the east by Russia and on the west by the Crimean peninsula. The Don River flows into it.

</doc>
<doc id="205085" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205085" title="Bellingshausen Sea">
Bellingshausen Sea

The Bellingshausen Sea is an area along the west side of the Antarctic Peninsula, between Alexander Island and Thurston Island. It takes its name from Admiral Thaddeus Bellingshausen, who explored in the area in 1821.

</doc>
<doc id="205087" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205087" title="Flathead Lake">
Flathead Lake

Flathead Lake is a lake in Montana. It covers .

</doc>
<doc id="205088" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205088" title="James Peake">
James Peake

James Benjamin Peake (born June 18, 1944) was United States Secretary of Veterans Affairs from 2007 to 2009. In 2004, he retired after 42 years in the United States Army. He also served as the 40th Surgeon General of the United States Army. 
Peake was born in Saint Louis, Missouri. Peake grew up in a US military family. His father joined the Army as an enlisted man, and became an officer who spent most of his 30-year career in the Medical Service Corps. Dr. Peake's mother was an Army nurse, and his brother was a naval aviator.
At the age of 18, he joined the Army when he was accepted to West Point. Peake received his Bachelor of Science degree from U.S. Military Academy at West Point in 1966 and was commissioned a second lieutenant in the U.S. Army Infantry. Following service in Vietnam with the 101st Airborne Division where he was awarded the Silver Star, a Bronze Star with “V” device and the Purple Heart with oak leaf cluster, Peake entered medical school at Cornell University in New York. He was awarded a medical doctorate in 1972. He retired from the Army in 2004, as a Lieutenant General.
Peake served for four years as the United States Army Surgeon General. He also served as commander of several Army medical units. Key assignments include Commander, U.S. Army Medical Department Center and School and Installation Commander, Fort Sam Houston, Texas; Deputy Commander, U.S. Army Medical Command, Fort Sam Houston, Texas; Commanding General, Madigan Army Medical Center/Northwest Health Service Support Activity, Tacoma, Washington; Commanding General, 44th Medical Brigade/Corps Surgeon, XVIII Airborne Corps, Fort Bragg, North Carolina; Deputy Director, Professional Services/Chief, Consultant, Office of the Surgeon General, Falls Church, Virginia; Commander, 18th Medical Command and 121st Evacuation Hospital/Command Surgeon, Seoul, Korea; Deputy Commander for Clinical Services, Tripler Army Medical Center, Honolulu, Hawaii; Assistant Chief, Cardiothoracic Surgery, Brooke Army Medical Center, Fort Sam Houston, Texas; Staff General Surgeon/Chief, General Surgery Clinic, DeWitt Army Hospital, Fort Belvoir, Va.; and General Surgery Resident, Brooke Army Medical Center, Fort Sam Houston, Texas.
Awards and decorations that Lt. Gen. Peake has received include the Distinguished Service Medal, Silver Star, Defense Superior Service Medal, Legion of Merit (with three oak leaf clusters), Bronze Star with "V" device (with one oak leaf cluster), Purple Heart (with one oak leaf cluster), Meritorious Service Medal (with two oak leaf clusters), Air Medal, Joint Services Commendation Medal, Army Commendation Medal with "V" device (with one oak leaf cluster), Humanitarian Service Medal, the Armed Forces Expeditionary Medal, Combat Infantryman Badge, Navy Meritorious Unit Commendation, Joint Meritorious Unit Award (with one oak leaf cluster), Senior Parachutist Badge, Pathfinder Badge, Ranger Tab, Combat Medic Badge and Army Staff Identification Badge. After Vietnam, he attended Cornell University's Weill Cornell Medical College. He is also a graduate of the United States Army War College, in 1988.
After retiring from the Army, Dr. Peake served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Project Hope, a non-profit international health foundation operating in more than 30 countries. While at Project HOPE he helped to supervise the use of civilian volunteers aboard the Navy Hospital Ship Mercy as it responded to the Tsunami disaster in Indonesia and also as part of the Hurricane Katrina response aboard the Hospital Ship Comfort.
Just before to his nomination as Secretary of Veterans Affairs, Peake served as a member of the Board of Directors for QTC, one of the largest private providers of government-outsourced occupational health and disability examination services in the United States.
Peake's selection as VA secretary was announced on October 30, 2007. He was confirmed by the United States Senate on December 14, 2007 and sworn in at VA headquarters by Vice President Dick Cheney on December 20.

</doc>
<doc id="205089" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205089" title="Neva River">
Neva River

The Neva River is a river in northwestern Russia. It is long. It flows into the Gulf of Finland. The city of Saint Petersburg is on its delta.

</doc>
<doc id="205090" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205090" title="Kariba Dam">
Kariba Dam

The Kariba Dam is a hydroelectric dam in the Kariba Gorge of the Zambezi river basin between Zambia and Zimbabwe. It is one of the largest dams in the world at 128 m high and 579 m long. 

</doc>
<doc id="205102" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205102" title="Antonio Villaraigosa">
Antonio Villaraigosa

Antonio Ramon Villaraigosa (born Antonio Ramon Villar, Jr. on January 23, 1953) was the mayor of Los Angeles, California from 2005 to 2013. He was elected on May 17, 2005, defeating the mayor in office, James Hahn. He was then re-elected for a second term in 2009. Before his mayoral experience, Villaraigosa was the California State Assembly man for the 45th District, the Speaker of the California State Assembly, and the Los Angeles City Councilman for the 14th District.
Before being elected to public office, Villaraigosa was a labor organizer. Villaraigosa served as a national co-chairman of Hillary Rodham Clinton's 2008 Presidential campaign, and as a member of President Barack Obama's Transition Economic Advisory Board. In 2013, he could not run for a third term because of term limits under California law. Eric Garcetti succeeded him on July 1, 2013.

</doc>
<doc id="205108" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205108" title="Santa Monica Mountains">
Santa Monica Mountains

The Santa Monica Mountains are a group of mountains in southern California in the United States.
The range extends about 40 mi (64 km) east–west from the Hollywood Hills in Los Angeles to Point Mugu in Ventura County. The mountains form a line between the San Fernando Valley and the Los Angeles Basin, separating "the Valley" on the north and west-central Los Angeles on the south. The Santa Monica Mountains are parallel to Santa Susana Mountains, on the north side the San Fernando Valley. Beginning at the eastern end of the San Fernando Valley, the mountains are bordered to the north by the Los Angeles River. The river flows south after Elysian Park, defining the easternmost edge of the mountains. Mt. Washington, on the other side of the river, has almost the same native plants and weather.
Scientists who study rocks say that the northern Channel Islands are a westward extension of the Santa Monicas into the Pacific Ocean. The range was created by the Raymond Fault which made the rocks push up and sink down over time. This has made old volcano rock come to the surface. Malibu Creek cuts the mountain range in two.
The Santa Monica Mountains have dry, warm to humid summers and wet, mild to cool winters. In the summer, the weather is quite dry, which makes the range prone to wildfires. Snow is unusual in the Santa Monica Mountains, since they are not as high as the nearby San Gabriel Mountains. 
On January 17, 2007, an unusually cold storm brought snow in the Santa Monica Mountains. Malibu picked up three inches (eight centimeters) of snow – the first measurable snow in five decades (50 years). Snow was reported on Boney Peak, in the winter of 2005; and in March 2006, snow also fell on the summit of the mountain.
The mountains have more than 1,000 places where people lived a long time ago, including many places where Tongva and Chumash people lived. 
Cahuenga Pass, present-day site of U.S. Route 101, is the easiest pass through the range connecting the Los Angeles Basin to the San Fernando Valley. In the 1800s, two battles were fought there, and the Treaty of Cahuenga was signed nearby. In the heyday of Hollywood movie studios clustered on both sides of it. Sepulveda Pass is the main north–south pass to the west, connecting the Westside to Sherman Oaks via the San Diego Freeway (I-405). Farther west are Topanga Canyon Boulevard (SR 27), Malibu Canyon Road, and Kanan Dume Road. Mulholland Drive runs much of the length of the Santa Monica Mountains, from Cahuenga Pass to Woodland Hills while the Mulholland Highway runs from Woodland Hills to Sequit Point. The eastern end of the range, located in the City of Los Angeles, is more intensively developed than the western end of the range. The city of Malibu runs between the coast and the leading mountain ridge, from Topanga Canyon in the east to Leo Carrillo State Park in the west. The term Malibu Ozarks is sometimes used derogatorily (or ironically) for the unincorporated part of Malibu beyond the leading mountain ridge and lacking an ocean view; the term is often used synonymously with "818 Malibu" (referring to the less desirable San Fernando Valley telephone area code prefix).
Much of the mountains are located within the Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area. Preservation of lands within the region are managed in part by the Santa Monica Mountains Conservancy. Over twenty individual state and municipal parks are in the Santa Monica Mountains, including: Topanga State Park, Leo Carrillo State Park, Malibu Creek State Park, Point Mugu State Park, Will Rogers State Historic Park, Point Dume State Beach, Griffith Park, Marvin Braude Mulholland Gateway Park, Charmlee Wilderness Park, Runyon Canyon Park, and the Paramount Ranch.
Places along the north slope of the mountains include (from east to west):
Places along the south slope of the mountains include (from east to west):
The southwestern headwaters of the Los Angeles River are in the Santa Monica Mountains. The Los Angeles River also forms the northern boundary of the mountains from the easternmost part of the San Fernando Valley to Elysian Park, where the river turns south, thereby defining the easternmost part of the mountain range.
Griffith Park and finally Elysian Park are the eastern end of the Santa Monica Mountains. Griffith Park is separated from the rest of the Santa Monica Mountains to the west by the Cahuenga Pass, over which the 101 Freeway passes from the San Fernando Valley into Hollywood. Elysian Park is the easternmost part of the mountains and is bordered by the Los Angeles River to the east.
The Santa Monica Mountains are in the California chaparral and woodlands ecoregion and are covered by hundreds of local plant species, some of which are very rare, and others of which have become popular ornamentals. The range is host to an immense variety of wildlife, from mountain lions to the endangered steelhead. The mountain lion population within the Santa Monica Mountains (which includes the Simi Hills & Santa Susana Pass) is severely depleted with only seven known living adult individuals. The primary cause of the decline is due to a combination of traffic related mortality (three from the area were killed within a matter of months), anti-coagulants ingested from human-poisoned prey (two individuals within the Simi Hills) and attacks by other, more dominant mountain lions (an elder male, known as P1, killed both his son and his mate. This is thought to be due to a lack of space available.) Snakes are common but only occasionally seen – the Southern Pacific Rattlesnake (the only venomous species), Mountain Kingsnake, California Kingsnake, Gopher snake, and Garter snake.

</doc>
<doc id="205112" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205112" title="Juan Crespi">
Juan Crespi

Father Juan Crespí (March 1, 1721–January 1, 1782) was a Spanish priest who explored what is now the state of California. He entered the Franciscan order at the age of seventeen. He came to America in 1749, and joined Francisco Palóu and Junípero Serra in exploring. In 1767 he went to the Baja Peninsula and was placed in charge of the Misión La Purísima Concepción de Cadegomó. In 1769 he joined the Portola expedition of Gaspar de Portolà and traveled by land, while Father Serra went by boat and got there 8 days later to occupy Monterey; he was the first to write about Franciscan friars meeting with people who already lived there. Later, he went through the area known today as Ventura County, in January and Orange County on July 22 of that year. He was priest of the expedition to the North Pacific led by Juan José Pérez Hernández in 1774. His diaries, first published in H. E. Bolton's "Fray Juan Crespi" (1927, repr. 1971), and published in the original Spanish with facing page translations as "A Description of Distant Roads: Original Journals of the First Expedition into California, 1796-1770" (2001) provided valuable records of these expeditions. One chapel he built, at the Misión San Francisco del Valle de Tilaco in Landa, is reported as still standing.

</doc>
<doc id="205113" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205113" title="Find a Grave">
Find a Grave

Find A Grave is a website that has a database of cemetery records.
It was started by Jim Tipton, in 1995 to help people who wanted to visit the graves of famous people. After some time, an online forum was created on the site. The site claims to have over 121 million burial records from all over the world.
The site's FAQ says they hope to list all the burial places of everyone in the world.
The website has lists of cemeteries and graves from all around the world. The American cemeteries are organized by state and county, and many records contain Google Maps and photographs of the cemeteries. Each grave record can contain: dates and places of birth and death, information about the person, cemetery and plot information, photographs (grave marker, the person, etc.), and information about who added it to Find A Grave.
Members can place on-line memorials for family and friends for no cost. Users can edit the memorials. Members may also request photos of graves which Find A Grave volunteers can add.

</doc>
<doc id="205121" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205121" title="Jim Nicholson (U.S. politician)">
Jim Nicholson (U.S. politician)

Robert James "Jim" Nicholson (born February 4, 1938) is an attorney, real estate developer, and a former Republican Party chairman. He was the United States Secretary of Veterans Affairs from January 26, 2005 until October 1, 2007.
Nicholson has never held elected office, but has long been active in the Republican Party. In January 1986, he was elected committeeman from Colorado for the Republican National Committee (RNC). In 1993, he was elected Vice-Chairman of the RNC, and was the "surprise pick" for GOP national chairman in January 1997. He served in that position through the 2000 presidential election.
Between 2001 and his appointment to the position of Secretary of Veterans Affairs, he served as United States Ambassador to the Holy See (the Vatican).
Before becoming active in civilian government service, he worked as a lawyer in Denver, Colorado, specializing in real estate, municipal finance and zoning law. In 1978 he founded Nicholson Enterprises, Inc., a developer of planned residential communities, and in 1987 he bought Renaissance Homes, a custom-house builder. He now works in the Washington, D.C. office of Brownstein Hyatt Farber & Schreck LLP.
He is a 1961 graduate of the United States Military Academy at West Point, New York and served eight years in active duty. He was a paratrooper and Ranger-qualified Army officer. He fought in the Vietnam War, where he earned the Bronze Star, Combat Infantryman Badge, the Meritorious Service Medal, Republic of Vietnam Cross of Gallantry and two Air Medals. 
After thirty years of working in the Army, he retired in 1991 with the rank of Colonel.
Nicholson was born on a farm near Struble, Iowa. Nicholson has described his childhood as "growing up dirt poor in a tenant house without plumbing and sometimes without food".
Nicholson has a Master's degree in Public Policy from Columbia University. He received a law degree from the University of Denver in 1972. In May 2005, he was given the Distinguished Graduate of the U.S. Military Academy Award.
Nicholson is married to the former Suzanne Marie Ferrell of Highland Falls, New York, who is an artist. They are the parents of three adult children.

</doc>
<doc id="205128" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205128" title="Anthony Principi">
Anthony Principi

Anthony Joseph Principi (born April 16, 1944) was the 4th United States Secretary of Veterans Affairs. He was picked by President George W. Bush on January 23, 2001, and resigned on January 26, 2005. He is a lobbyist for Pfizer and chairman of QTC Management, a company that works on contracts for the Veterans Affairs Department.
Principi is a 1967 graduate of the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland, and first saw active duty aboard the destroyer "USS Joseph P. Kennedy". He later served in the Vietnam War, commanding a River Patrol Unit in the Mekong Delta. 
Principi earned his Juris Doctor degree from Seton Hall in 1975 and was assigned to the United States Navy's Judge Advocate General Corps in San Diego, California. In 1980, he was transferred to Washington as a legislative counsel for the Department of the Navy.
Principi has worked on national policy issues and has held several executive-level positions in federal government throughout his career. He chaired the Federal Quality Institute in 1991, and was chairman of the Commission on Servicemembers and Veterans Transition Assistance established by Congress in 1996.
Principi served as Deputy Secretary of Veterans Affairs, VA's second-highest executive position, from March 17, 1989, to September 26, 1992, when he was picked Acting Secretary of Veterans Affairs by President George H. W. Bush. He served in that position until January 1993. After that, he served as Republican chief counsel and staff director of the United States Senate Committee on Armed Services. 
From 1984 to 1988, he served as Republican chief counsel and staff director of the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs. He was the Veterans Administration's assistant deputy administrator for congressional and public affairs from 1983 to 1984, following three years as counsel to the chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee. 

</doc>
<doc id="205138" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205138" title="Entelodont">
Entelodont

Entelodonts were a family family of pig-like omnivores widespread in forests of North America, Europe, and Asia.
They flourished for about 20+ million years from the middle Eocene to the early Miocene epochs. 
It is thought that they included omnivores, carnivores and scavengers.

</doc>
<doc id="205147" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205147" title="Abou Diaby">
Abou Diaby

Abou Diaby (born 11 May 1986) is a French football player. He plays for Arsenal.
10||1||colspan="2"|-||colspan="2"|-||4||0||14||1
63||6||9||0||10||1||16||3||98||10
73||7||9||0||10||1||20||3||112||11
!Total||2||0

</doc>
<doc id="205148" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205148" title="Tranquillo Barnetta">
Tranquillo Barnetta

Tranquillo Barnetta (born 22 May 1985) is a Swiss football player. He plays for Bayer Leverkusen and Switzerland national team.
60||12
124||17
184||29
!Total||49||6

</doc>
<doc id="205158" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205158" title="Cha-cha-cha">
Cha-cha-cha

Cha-cha-cha is the name of a Latin American music and dance, of Cuban origin. It is dance music introduced by Cuban composer and violinist Enrique Jorrín in 1953. The rhythm was developed from a previous dance, the danzón, by a split fourth beat. The name is derived from the shuffling of the dancers' feet.
Many consider the "Orquesta Aragón" and the orchestra of José Fajardo to have been particularly influential in the development of the cha-cha-cha. Outside Cuba, the big bands of Tito Puente (in New York), and Pérez Prado (in Mexico City and California) introduced the Cha-cha-cha to a much wider audience.
Musically, the Cha-cha-cha was perhaps not a great innovation. However, it became hugely popular because people found it easy to dance to. Monsieur Pierre and his colleagues went to Cuba in the early 1950s to study it. They came back to London and codified the dance (sorted it out and wrote it down). It became a standard dance in Latin American ballroom dancing. It is one of the five Latin dances in international competitions governed by the World Dance Council. Today it is still popular as a dance, and is still danced in Cuba.

</doc>
<doc id="205171" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205171" title="Parlour">
Parlour

Parlour (or parlor), comes from the French word "parloir", from "parler", which means "to speak". The parlour is a room in a house where people could meet. In Turkey it is called a kiosk. The Bible (Judges 3:20), talks about the "summer parlour", a small room built on the roof of the house, with open windows to catch the breeze. It has a door to the outside by which visitors can enter.
In parts of Great Britain and the United States, parlour is a common name for certain types of restaurants such as "ice cream parlour" and "pizza parlour". There are also "Beer parlors", wine parlors, or, in at least one case, a "spaghetti parlor." The word "parlour" has even been used to describe a coffee shop as the "coffee parlor." It can also mean a special service business, such as a tattoo parlour.
The "inner parlours" in 1 Chronicles 28:11 in the Bible were the small rooms or chambers which Solomon built all round two sides and one end of the Temple (1 Kings 6:5). Some people think the inner parlours may have been the porch and the holy place.
In medieval Christian usage, the parlour was one of two rooms in a monastery. The 'outer parlour' was the room where the monks or nuns could meet a visitor and do business with people from outside the monastery. It was generally in the west range of the buildings of the cloister, close to the main entrance. The 'inner parlour' was found off the cloister, next to the chapter house in the east range of the monastery. Most religious orders wanted silence in the cloister, which was the place where the monks studied. The inner parlour was a place where the monks could talk without disturbing the others in the cloister.
In modern use, the parlour is a formal "sitting room" in a large house or mansion. In the late 19th century, it was often a formal room used only on Sundays or special occasions, and closed during the week. The family kept their best furniture, works of art and other things on display in the parlour. The body of someone who died would be put on show in the parlour while funeral was being organized. During the 20th century, architects and decorators have changed the use of the room. In most homes the parlour has been replaced by the living room.

</doc>
<doc id="205174" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205174" title="Celluloid">
Celluloid

Celluloid is the name of a group of compounds made from nitrocellulose and camphor, plus dyes and other agents. It was the first thermoplastic. It was first called Parkesine in 1856, then Xylonite in 1869 and then "Celluloid" in 1870. Celluloid is easily molded and shaped. It was first widely used as an ivory replacement, in billiard balls for example. Celluloid catches fire very easily and also easily breaks down, and is no longer widely used. Its most common uses today are for making table tennis balls and guitar picks.

</doc>
<doc id="205183" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205183" title="Kingdom Hearts">
Kingdom Hearts

Kingdom Hearts is a series of console role-playing games made by Square Enix. Several characters, including the main character, Sora, and his friends Riku and Kairi, were created solely for the game, but many of his friends and enemies are existing characters from Disney movies and other Square Enix titles, mainly the "Final Fantasy" series. However, several characters from Square Enix's "The World Ends With You "also appear in "Kingdom Hearts 3D: Dream Drop Distance."
As of 2011, there are six main games in the series, and five reissues. The main games, in order of release, are "Kingdom Hearts", "", "Kingdom Hearts II", "Kingdom Hearts coded", "Kingdom Hearts 358/2 Days", "Kingdom Hearts Birth by Sleep, and """. The reissues, in order of release, are "Kingdom Hearts Final Mix", "Kingdom Hearts II Final Mix +", "", "", "Kingdom Hearts Birth by Sleep Final Mix, Kingdom Hearts HD1.5 Remix, and Kingdom Hearts HD 2.5 Remix". Of the reissues, only "Re:Chain of Memories," "Re:Coded, "and both "Kingdom Hearts HD 1.5 Remix" and "2.5 Remix" have been released outside of Japan.
There is one game planned for future release at a currently unknown time, "Kingdom Hearts III", which will be for consoles.
"Kingdom Hearts" is the first game of the series, and was released in Japan on March 28, 2002 and in North America on September 17, 2002. It is made for the PlayStation 2. In it, the player controls Sora, a 14-year-old boy who lives on a small chain of islands called Destiny Islands. He and his best friends, Riku and Kairi, plan on leaving the islands and exploring, but their plans are interrupted when their world is attacked by the Heartless; monsters who steal people's hearts. During the attack, Sora becomes able to use a weapon called a Keyblade. Their world is destroyed, and Sora, Riku and Kairi end up on different worlds. Sora teams up with Disney characters Donald Duck and Goofy to find his lost friends, and they travel to worlds based on different Disney movies, including "Alice in Wonderland", "The Little Mermaid", and "The Nightmare Before Christmas".
Sora learns later that Riku has sided with Darkness and kidnapped Kairi. Riku is being controlled by a Heartless called Ansem, who wants to capture women and girls who are Princesses of Heart so he can open Kingdom Hearts, the heart of all worlds. Sora rescues Kairi and Riku and defeats Ansem. Kairi goes home to Destiny Islands, but Riku stays in Kingdom Hearts with King Mickey to defend it. Kingdom Hearts then disappears. Sora tells Kairi he will not come home until he finds Riku, and leaves with Donald and Goofy to start a new adventure.
"Kingdom Hearts Final Mix" is a reissue of the game that was released only in Japan on December 26, 2002. It has more features than "Kingdom Hearts", including a battle with the Unknown Man, who is the main enemy in "Kingdom Hearts II". It is also for the PlayStation 2.
"" is the second game in the series, and was released in Japan on November 11, 2004 and in North America on December 7, 2004. It was made for the Game Boy Advance. It starts immediately after the end of "Kingdom Hearts". Sora, Donald and Goofy go to a castle called Castle Oblivion where they visit recreations of the worlds they visited before. Each world is on a different floor, and as they move to higher floors, they lose more and more memories. Their lost memories are replaced by new ones. Sora eventually forgets Kairi, and she is replaced in his memory by a girl named Naminé. Sora also meets and fights members of a group called Organization XIII. The group built Castle Oblivion to erase Sora's memories and trick him into joining them. In the end, Naminé tells Sora she erased his memories, and gives him the choice to keep his new memories or have his old ones restored. If his memory is fixed, he will forget everything that happened in Castle Oblivion. He chooses to get his old memories back and tells Naminé he could never forget her. His story ends with him being put to sleep, because it will take Naminé one year to restore his memories.
After completing Sora's story, the player can play as Riku, who travels through Castle Oblivion's basement levels. Riku meets different members of Organization XIII than Sora did, and fights them. He also recalls what he did during "Kingdom Hearts" and struggles with Ansem's influence on him.
"" is a reissue of the game made for the PlayStation 2. It has added cutscenes and battles that were not in the Game Boy version of "Chain of Memories". It was released together with "Kingdom Hearts II Final Mix +" in Japan on March 29, 2007, and was released as a standalone title in North America on December 2, 2008.
"Kingdom Hearts II" starts one year after the end of "Chain of Memories". It was made for the PlayStation 2 and was released in Japan on December 22, 2005, in North America on March 28, 2006, and in Europe on September 29, 2006. The player starts the game controlling Roxas, a 15-year-old boy living in a town called Twilight Town. He is on summer vacation with his three best friends, Hayner, Pence, and Olette. As a week goes by, strange things begin to happen. A man named Axel, a member of Organization XIII who was in "Chain of Memories", shows up and is surprised and upset that Roxas does not remember him. They fight, and Roxas discovers that he can use a Keyblade. Roxas also meets Naminé and a man named DiZ who was in Riku's side of "Chain of Memories". Naminé tells Roxas she has been changing his memories so he can become "whole" again. Axel tells Roxas they used to be friends and that he must either take Roxas back to the Organization or destroy him. They battle, and Axel disappears. Roxas then finds Sora, and disappears himself.
After Roxas disappears, Sora wakes up and becomes the new player character. Donald and Goofy also wake up, and the three of them continue their mission to find Riku. As they search for him, they meet the rest of the members of Organization XIII and learn that they are beings called Nobodies. When a Heartless steals someone's heart, that person also becomes a Heartless, but if their heart is strong, their body becomes a Nobody. Nobodies have no emotions, but want to have hearts again. Xemnas, the leader of Organization XIII, is trying to summon Kingdom Hearts, which he claims will enable the Nobodies to get their hearts back. To summon Kingdom Hearts, Heartless must be killed with a Keyblade, which will release the hearts they hold and let them return to Kingdom Hearts. This is the reason the Organization wanted Sora to join them.
It is later revealed that Roxas is Sora's Nobody, and was a member of Organization XIII. Roxas was created when Sora briefly lost his heart in "Kingdom Hearts". Naminé is then revealed to be Kairi's Nobody, who was created when Kairi lost her heart at the beginning of "Kingdom Hearts". Xemnas is the Nobody of a man called Xehanort, who no longer exists. Ansem, the main enemy from the first game, was Xehanort's Heartless.
Near the end of the game, Sora, Kairi and Riku reunite and destroy Xemnas. With all members of Organization XIII destroyed and the worlds apparently safe, Sora, Riku and Kairi go home to Destiny Islands.
"Kingdom Hearts II Final Mix +" is a reissue of the game that was released only in Japan on March 29, 2007. It has more content than "Kingdom Hearts II", including new areas, new battles, and a new secret ending. It is also for the PlayStation 2.
"Kingdom Hearts coded" is the fourth game in the series and was released in episodes with the first being released only in Japan on November 18, 2008. It was made for mobile phones. The game picks up after "Kingdom Hearts II", focusing this time on King Mickey, Donald, Goofy and Jiminy Cricket, who discover a mysterious sentence in Jiminy's journal and then digitize the journal's contents to find the one responsible.
"" is a reissue of the game made for the Nintendo DS. It was released in Japan on October 7, 2010, January 11, 2011 in North America, and on January 14, 2011 in Europe. It has scenes that were not in "coded" and a new secret ending.
"Kingdom Hearts 358/2 Days" takes place in the year between "Chain of Memories" and "Kingdom Hearts II". It was made for the Nintendo DS and was released in Japan on May 30, 2009, and in North America on September 29, 2009. The game allows the player to play as Roxas and follows Roxas's time in Organization XIII, from his creation to his escape. It also focuses on Xion, a Nobody created by the Organization who can also use a Keyblade. By the end of the game, it is revealed that Xion, though a girl, was created from Sora. She wants to cease existing, and fights Roxas. Roxas destroys her and she becomes part of him, allowing him to use two Keyblades at once.
The game also uses the DS's wi-fi and lets multiple players battle each other. Each player can choose a different character from the game to play as during the battles.
"Kingdom Hearts Birth by Sleep" is the sixth game in the series, released in Japan on January 9, 2010, and in North America on September 7, 2010. It was made for the PlayStation Portable. The game is set ten years before the events of the original "Kingdom Hearts". The game has three scenarios, with each focusing on one of the three protagonists: Terra, Ventus and Aqua who are apprentices of Master Eraqus. They set out in search of the missing Master Xehanort and protect the worlds by defeating creatures called the Unversed, while each travel their separate ways and encounter their own agenda along the way with the origins of Xehanort revealed.
"Kingdom Hearts Birth by Sleep Final Mix" is a reissue of the game that was released only in Japan on January 20, 2011. It has content from the English version as well as new features, such as a playable Secret Episode and a hint at a possible "Kingdom Hearts Birth by Sleep -Volume Two-".

</doc>
<doc id="205203" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205203" title="Cuban music">
Cuban music

Cuban music comes from the Caribbean island of Cuba. Cuba has developed a wide range of musical styles, which draw on its cultural origins in Europe and Africa. Cuba's music has been hugely popular and influential throughout the world. It has been perhaps the most popular form of world music since the introduction of recording technology.
The music of Cuba, including the instruments and the dances, is mostly of European (Spanish) and African origin. Most forms of the present day are fusions and mixtures of these two great sources. The original inhabitants of Cuba died out, and little remains of their traditions.
Large numbers of African slaves and European (mostly Spanish) immigrants came to Cuba and brought their own forms of music to the island. European dances and folk musics included the zapateo, the fandango, the paso doble, the minuet, the gavotte, the contradanza, and the waltz appeared among the urban whites.
The African slaves and their descendants made many percussion instruments and preserved rhythms they had known in their homeland. The most important instruments were the drums. Also important are the claves, two short hardwood batons, and the cajón, a wooden box, originally made from crates. Claves are still used often, and cajons ("cajones") were used widely during periods when the drum was banned.
The great instrumental contribution of the Spanish was their guitar, but even more important was the tradition of European musical notation and techniques of musical composition.
Fernando Ortíz described Cuba's musical innovations as arising from the interplay between African slaves settled on large sugar plantations and Spanish or Canary Islanders who grew tobacco on small farms.
The African beliefs and practices certainly influenced Cuba's music. Polyrhythmic percussion is an inherent part of African life & music, as melody is part of European music. Also typical is syncopation, which is heard in the "cinquillo", a basic rhythm of the habanera, the danzón, the Argentine tango and other dances.
Also, in African tradition, percussion is joined to song and dance, and to a particular social setting. It is not simply entertainment added to life, it "is" life. The result of the meeting of European and African cultures is that most Cuban popular music is creolized (fused). This creolization of Cuban life has been happening for a long time, and by the 20th century, elements of African belief, music and dance were well integrated into popular and folk forms.
Cuban music has been immensely influential in other countries, contributing not only to the development of jazz and salsa, but also to Argentinian tango, Ghanaian highlife, West African afrobeat, and Spanish Nuevo flamenco.
The Cathedrals of the old capital, Santiago de Cuba, and Havana, both employed fine musicians and choir-masters. They composed, taught and directed. This helped the development of all kinds of music. In the 19th century, Manuel Saumell (1818–1870), was the father of Cuban criole musical development. He helped transform the European contradanza by adding African rhythmical elements, and had a hand in the habanera, and the danzon, two typically Cuban dance forms.
During the middle years of the 19th century, a young American musician came to Havana: Louis Moreau Gottschalk (1829–1869), whose father was a Jewish businessman from London, and his mother a white creole of French Catholic background. Gottschalk was brought up mostly by his black grandmother and nurse Sally, both from Dominique. He was a piano prodigy who had listened to the music and seen the dancing in Congo Square, New Orleans from childhood. His period in Cuba lasted from 1853 to 1862, with visits to Puerto Rico and Martinique squeezed in. He composed many famous pieces which were genuinely Cuban, as they drew on traditions of both whites and blacks.
In February 1860 Gottschalk produced a huge work "La nuit des tropiques" in Havana. The work used about 250 musicians and a choir of 200 singers plus a drum group from Santiago de Cuba. He produced another huge concert the following year, with new material. These shows probably dwarfed anything seen in the island before or since, and no doubt were unforgettable for those who attended.
It was Ignacio Cervantes (1847–1905), who was probably most influenced by Gottschalk. Trained in Paris, he did much to assert a sense of Cuban musical nationalism in his compositions. Aaron Copland once referred to him as a "Cuban Chopin" because of his Chopinesque piano compositions. Cervantes' reputation today rests almost solely upon his famous forty-one "Danzas Cubanas", of which Carpentier said "occupy the place that the "Norwegian Dances" of Grieg or the "Slavic Dances" of Dvořák occupy in the musics of their respective countries".
From the 18th century to modern times, popular theatrical formats used, and gave rise to, music and dance. In addition to staging some European operas and operettas, Cuban composers gradually developed ideas which better suited their creole audience. Recorded music was the way for Cuban music to reach the world. The most recorded artist in Cuba up to 1925 was a singer at the "Alhambra", Adolfo Colombo. Records show he recorded about 350 numbers between 1906 and 1917, of which very few survive today.
The first theatre in Havana opened in 1776. The first Cuban-composed opera appeared in 1807. Musical theater was hugely important in the nineteenth century and the first half of the twentieth century. Radio, which began in Cuba in 1922, helped the growth of popular music because it provided publicity and a new source of income for the artists.
Zarzuela is a small-scale light operetta format. Starting off with imported Spanish content, it developed into a running commentary on Cuba's social and political events and problems. A string of front-rank composers, such as Ernesto Lecuona, produced a series of hits for the theatres in Havana. Great stars like the "vedette" Rita Montaner, who could sing, play the piano, dance and act, were the Cuban equivalents of Mistinguett and Josephine Baker in Paris.
Cuban "Bufo" theatre is a form of comedy, ribald and satirical. It uses stock types that might be found anywhere in the country. Bufo had its origin around 1800–1815: Francisco Covarrubias 'the caricaturist' (1775–1850) was its creator. Gradually, the comic types threw off their European models and became more and more creolized and Cuban. Alongside, the music followed. Slang from slave barracks and poor barrios found its way into lyrics:
The guaracha is a genre of rapid tempo and with lyrics. It originated in Bufo comic theatre, and during the early 20th century was often played in the brothels of Havana. The lyrics were full of slang, and dwelt on events and people in the news.
The contradanza is an historically important dance. It arrived in Cuba in the late 18th century from Europe. The contradanza is a communal sequence dance, with the dance figures in a set pattern. The tempo and style of the music was bright and fairly fast. The earliest Cuban composition of a contradanza is "San Pascual bailon", published in 1803. The Cubans developed a number of creolized version, which is an early example of the influence of African tradition in the Caribbean. Most of the musicians were black or mulatto: even early in the 19th century there were many freed slaves and mixed race persons living in Cuban towns.
The contradanza supplanted the minuet as the most popular dance until from 1842 on, it gave way to the habanera, a quite different style.
This, the child of the contradanza, was also danced in lines or squares. It was also a brisk form of music and dance which could be in double or triple time. This type of dance was eventually replaced by the danzón, which was, like the habanera, much slower and more sedate.
The habanera developed out of the contradanza in the early 19th century. Its great novelty was that it was "sung", as well as played and danced. Its development was at least partly due to the influence of French-speaking immigrants. The Haitian revolution of 1791 led to many colonial French and their slaves fleeing to Oriente. The "cinquillo" is one important rhythmical pattern which made its first appearance at this time.
The dance style of the habanera is slower and more stately than the danza; by the 1840s there were habaneras written, sung and danced in Mexico, Venezuela, Puerto Rico and Spain. Since about 1900 the habanera has been a relic dance; but the music has a period charm, and there are some famous compositions, such as "Tu", versions of which have been recorded many times.
The waltz ("El vals") arrived in Cuba by 1814. It was the first dance in which couples were not linked by a communal sequence pattern. It was, and still is, danced in 3/4 time with the accent on the first beat. It was originally thought scandalous because couples faced each other, held each other in the 'closed' hold, and, so to speak, ignored the surrounding community. The waltz entered all countries in the Americas. The walz has another characteristic: it is a 'travelling' dance, with couples moving round the arena. In Latin dances, progressive movement of dancers is unusual, but does occur in some.
A typical dance of the Cuban "campesino" or "guajiro" A dance of pairs, involving tapping of the feet, mostly by the man. Illustrations exist from previous centuries, but the dance is now defunct.
In the 19th century here grew up in Santiago de Cuba a group of itinerant musicians, troubadors, who moved around earning their living by singing and playing the guitar. They were of great importance as composers, and their songs have been used in all types of Cuban music
Pepe Sánchez (1856–1918), was the father of the "trova" and the creator of the Cuban bolero. He had no formal training in music. With remarkable natural talent, he composed numbers in his head and never wrote them down. As a result, most of these numbers are now lost for ever, though some two dozen or so survive because friends and disciples transcribed them. He also created advertisement jingles before radio was born. He was the model and teacher for the great trovadores who followed him.
The first, and one of the longest-lived, was Sindo Garay (1867–1968). He was an outstanding composer of songs, and his best have been sung and recorded many times. Garay was also musically illiterate – in fact, he only taught himself the alphabet at 16 – but in his case not only were scores recorded by others, but there are recordings. He broadcast on radio, made recordings and survived into modern times. He used to say "Not many men have shaken hands with both José Martí and Fidel Castro!" 
Chicho Ibáñez (1875–1981) was even longer-lived than Garay. Ibáñez was the first trovador to specialize in the Cuban "son"; he also sung guaguancos and pieces from the abakuá (a black secret society).
Many of the early trovadores, such as Manuel Corona (who worked in a brothel area of Havana), composed and sung guarachas as a balance for the slower boleros.
This is a song and dance form quite different from its Spanish namesake. It originated in the last quarter of the 19th century with the founder of the traditional trova, Pepe Sánchez. He wrote the first bolero, "Tristezas", which is still sung today. The bolero has always been a staple part of the trova muusician's repertoire. The bolero proved to be exceptionally adaptable, and led to many variants. Typical was the introduction of syncopation. leading to the bolero-son, bolero-mambo and bolero-cha. The bolero-son became for several decades the most popular rhythm for dancing in Cuba, and it was this rhythm that the international dance community picked up and taught as the wrongly-named 'rumba'.
The European influence on Cuba's later musical development is represented by danzón, an elegant musical form that was once the most popular music in Cuba. It is a descendent of the creollized Cuban contradanza. The danzón marks the change which took place from the communal sequence dance style of the late eighteenth century to the couple dances of later times. The stimulus for this was the success of the once-scandalous walz, where couples danced facing each other and independently from other couples, not as part of a pre-set structure. The danzón was the first Cuban dance to adopt such methods, though there is a difference between the two dances. The walz is a progressive ballroom dance where couples move round the floor in an anti-clockwise direction; the danzón is a 'pocket-handkerchief' dance where a couple stays within a small area of the floor.
The danzón was exported to popular acclaim throughout Latin America, especially Mexico. It is now a relic, both in music and in dance, but its highly orchestrated descendents live on.
The "son", said Cristóbal Díaz, is the most important genre of Cuban music, and the least studied. It can fairly be said that "son" is to Cuba what the tango is to Argentina, or the samba to Brazil. In addition, it is perhaps the most flexible of all forms of Latin-American music. Its great strength is its fusion between European and African musical traditions. Its most characteristic instruments are the Cuban guitar known as the "tres", and the well-known double-headed "bongó"; these are present from the start to the present day. Also typical are the claves, the Spanish guitar, the double bass, and early on, the cornet or trumpet and finally the piano.
The "son" arose in Oriente, the eastern part of the island, merging the Spanish guitar and lyrical traditions with African percussion and rhythms. We now know that its history as a distinct form is relatively recent. There is no evidence that it goes back further than the end of the nineteenth century. It moved from Oriente to Havana in about 1909, carried by members of the "Permanente" (the Army), who were sent out of their areas of origin as a matter of policy. The first recordings were in 1918.
There are many types of "son". Odilio Urfé recognised these variants:
and one can certainly add
In addition, the son has again and again changed the older danzón to make it more syncopated and creole in style, starting in 1910 through the danzón-mambo and the cha-cha-cha to complex modern arrangements which are almost impossible to categorize.
The son varies widely today, with the defining characteristic a syncopated bass pulse that comes before the downbeat, giving son its distinctive rhythm; this is known as the "anticipated bass".
The history of jazz in Cuba was obscured for many years; however it has become clear that its history in Cuba is virtually as long as its history in the USA.
Much more is now known about early Cuban jazz bands, though a full assessment is plagued by the lack of recordings. Migrations and visits to and from the USA and the mutual exchange of recordings and sheet music kept musicians in the two countries in touch. In the first part of the 20th century there were close relations between musicians in Cuba and those in New Orleans. The orchestra leader in the famous Tropicana Club, Armando Romeu Jr, was a leading figure in the post-WWII development of Cuban jazz. The phenomenon of cubop, and jam sessions in Havana and New York, created genuine fusions which still influence musicians today.
World-wide interest in Cuban music was rekindled by a remarkable CD album entitled the "Buena Vista Social Club". An American guitarist, Ry Cooder, a British music producer, Nick Gold, and a Cuban musician, Juan Marcos Gonzáles, worked together on a new venture. They put together a group, mostly of older Cuban musicians, with the idea of recreating the Cuban music of the golden era of the 1950s. The first album, released in 1997, became a huge hit, selling over five million copies, and winning a Grammy in 1998. In 2003 it was listed by "Rolling Stone" magazine as #260 in their list of "The 500 Greatest Hits of All Time". A dozen more CDs have followed the first one, mostly issued by "Nonesuch Records" or "World Circuit".
A documentary movie, "Buena Vista Social Club", directed by Wim Wenders, was released in 1999. It grossed $23 million worldwide by 2007. A younger generation had discovered why Cuban music was so popular.

</doc>
<doc id="205205" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205205" title="Dune (novel)">
Dune (novel)

Dune is a fictional story set in a space empire far in the future. It is written by Frank Herbert. The book focuses on how politics, religion, technology and many other things interact.
In the world of the Dune series, computers are banned (they are not allowed anywhere). Some humans are taught how to think as fast as computers; they are known as 'Mentats'. The ruler of a planet is controlled by a House. The Houses must obey House Corrino, because the leader of House Corrino is also the Emperor.
"Dune" focuses on Paul Atreides, the 15-year-old heir to House Atreides. His family is forced by the Emperor who rules the Known Universe to leave the planet Caladan and to take control of the planet Arrakis. Arrakis is currently controlled by House Harkonnen, and is the only place that a spice called Melange is found. Melange is the most important thing in the universe. It lets you see the future and think much faster. If you take melange, you live much longer, sometimes even hundreds of years longer. It also lets you travel far distances at great speeds.
Arrakis is a planet that is almost covered in desert. This large desert is very dangerous because it does not have potable (drinkable) water, but mainly because giant worms live in the sand. There are many groups of native humans living there - they are called the Fremen. The Fremen have many rituals that keep water safe. This is important, or they would all die of dehydration (too little water to stay alive).
After his father is killed, Paul and his Mother escape and take refuge with the Fremen. They use their abilities to achieve power over the Fremen and eventually use them to attack the Harkonnen armies, who have taken back control of the planet.
In the books, there are the Bene Gesserit sisterhood, a religious group with only women as its members. This is because men do not have the right kind of mind to learn their ways correctly. They have much more control over their minds and bodies than normal people. Their goal is to protect the human race forever. They have a secret goal, which they want to achieve by their breeding program. It is to make a man that can be a Bene Gesserit. They call him the Kwisatz Haderach. They want to use the Kwisatz Haderach to control people more easily. Paui's mother, Lady Jessica, is a member of the sisterhood and trains her son to use mental and physical powers. 
Multiple films and tv series have been based on the "Dune" series, such as the 1984 film version directed by David Lynch.

</doc>
<doc id="205208" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205208" title="Jim Crow laws">
Jim Crow laws

The Jim Crow laws were a number of laws requiring racial segregation in the United States. These laws were enforced in different states between 1876 and 1965. "Jim Crow" laws provided a systematic legal basis for segregating and discriminating against African Americans. The laws first appeared after the Civil War and the Reconstruction Era and were enforced through the mid-twentieth century. They were about segregating black and white people in all public buildings. "Jim Crow" was a racist term for a black person. Black people were usually treated worse than white people. This segregation was also done in the armed forces, schools, restaurants, on buses and in what jobs blacks got. In 1954, the US Supreme Court ruled that such segregation in state-run schools was against the US Constitution. The decision is known as "Brown v. Board of Education". The other Jim Crow laws were abolished by the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Voting Rights Act of 1965. The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) fought against the Jim Crow laws. 
After the Civil War, the U.S. government tried to enforce the rights of ex-slaves in the South through a process called Reconstruction. However, in 1876, Reconstruction ended. By the 1890s, the Southern states' legislatures were all-white again. Southern Democrats, who did not support civil rights for blacks, completely ruled the South. This gave them a lot of power in the United States Congress. For example, Southern Democrats were able to make sure that laws against lynching did not pass.
Starting in 1890, Southern Democrats began to pass state laws that took away the rights African Americans had gained. These racist laws became known as Jim Crow laws. For example, they included:
In 1896, the United States Supreme Court ruled in a case called "Plessy v. Ferguson" that these laws were legal. They said that having things be "separate but equal" was fine. In the South, everything was separate. However, places like black schools and libraries got much less money and were not as good as places for whites. Things were separate, but not equal.

</doc>
<doc id="205214" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205214" title="Cavalier King Charles spaniel">
Cavalier King Charles spaniel

The Cavalier King Charles Spaniel is a small dog breed in the group called "toy dogs". They were bred earlier than the 16th century. 
They were kept as pets and hunting dogs by many members of the royal family in England during the 16th century. King Charles II of England liked the breed, so this is how the dog was named. This dog can stand up to 36 cm or 16 inches in height. They average about 9 kilograms in weight. The breed can live for up to 10-14 years.They are still popular in England and are becoming popular in the United States. There are four types of Cavaliers each with their own coat markings and colours: Ruby - golden coloured, Tri-colour - black body and Dipped white, with a white muzzle and brown marking scattered around.

</doc>
<doc id="205216" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205216" title="Sturm und Drang">
Sturm und Drang

Sturm und Drang (also called "Storm and Stress") was a time in German literature that was popular from 1770 to 1784. It is named after a play by Friedrich Maximilian Klinger.

</doc>
<doc id="205232" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205232" title="Flag of Angola">
Flag of Angola

The national flag of Angola came into use at independence on November 11, 1975. It is split horizontally into an upper red half and a lower black half.

</doc>
<doc id="205233" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205233" title="Joe Thornton">
Joe Thornton

Joseph Eric Thornton (born July 2, 1979) is a Canadian professional ice hockey centre and alternate captain for the San Jose Sharks of the National Hockey League (NHL).

</doc>
<doc id="205236" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205236" title="Oleg Kononenko">
Oleg Kononenko

Oleg Dmitriyevich Kononenko () is a Russian cosmonaut.

</doc>
<doc id="205239" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205239" title="Ville Peltonen">
Ville Peltonen

Ville Peltonen (born May 24, 1973 in Vantaa, Finland) is a Finnish professional ice hockey forward. He plays for the HC Dynamo Minsk of the Kontinental Hockey League (KHL).

</doc>
<doc id="205243" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205243" title="Alexei Yashin">
Alexei Yashin

Alexei Valeryevich Yashin (; born November 5, 1973) is a Russian professional ice hockey player. He is currently on the roster for SKA Saint Petersburg of the Kontinental Hockey League (KHL). Yashin played in the NHL for the Ottawa Senators and the New York Islanders.

</doc>
<doc id="205244" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205244" title="Tochigi Prefecture">
Tochigi Prefecture

Tochigi was made from the lands of Shimotsuke Province.
There is a World Heritage Site in Nikkō. It is called "Nikko Toshogu".
Tochigi shares borders with Ibaraki Prefecture, Gunma Prefecture, Saitama Prefecture, and Fukushima Prefecture.
National Parks are in about 21% of the total land area of the prefecture.
"Futarasan jinja" and "Futarayama jinja" are the chief Shinto shrines ("ichinomiya") in the prefecture.

</doc>
<doc id="205250" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205250" title="Hato Mayor del Rey">
Hato Mayor del Rey

The Dominican city of Hato Mayor del Rey, or usually just Hato Mayor, is the head municipality of the Hato Mayor province.
In English, Hato Mayor del Rey means the "largest cattle ranch of the King".
Hato Mayor del Rey is located in the eastern part of the country, just to the south of the "Cordillera Oriental" (in English, "Eastern mountain range") in the region known as "Llano Costero del Caribe" (in English, "Caribbean Coastal Plain").
Hato Mayor del Rey has the municipality of El Valle to the north, the El Seibo province to the northeast and east, the San Pedro de Macorís province to the south and the Monte Plata province to the west.
The city is at 110 km from Santo Domingo and 25 km to the west of El Seibo. It is at an elevation of 102 m with an average temperature in the city of 26.7 °C and the average rainfall of 1,542.0 mm.
The municipality has a total area of 647.08 km². It has three municipal districts (a subdivision of a municipality): Guayabo Dulce, Mata Palacio and Yerba Buena.
The municipality had, in 2010, a total population of 61,517: 31,285 men and 30,232 women. The urban population was 70.76% of the total population. In this numbers are included the populations of its municipal districts. Without the municipal districts, Hato Mayor del Rey had a total population of 44,900.
The town grew around a small church built in 1520 in lands given by the Dávila family; for that reason, in old times the town was called "Hato Mayor de Dávila".
It was made a municipality by the Haitian government in 1843. After the Dominican independence in 1844, Hato Mayor was not a municipality until 1848 when it was made one in the El Seibo province.
In 1984, when the Hato Mayor province was made, the city of Hato Mayor del Rey became its head municipality (something like its capital city.
Farming is the only economic activity in the municipality, except for some small industries. Cattle raising is very important in the region because there are many savannas with grasses around the city and to the south of it; the dairy industry is important, with an important production of different types of cheese.

</doc>
<doc id="205251" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205251" title="175 Greenwich Street">
175 Greenwich Street

175 Greenwich Street is the address for a new skyscraper, as part of the World Trade Center reconstruction in New York City. The official name of the building will be Three World Trade Center. 175 Greenwich Street's pinnacle height will be taller than the Empire State Building's roof and it will become the fourth tallest building in New York City as measured to its pinnacle.

</doc>
<doc id="205252" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205252" title="150 Greenwich Street">
150 Greenwich Street

150 Greenwich Street is the address for a new skyscraper being constructed as part of the World Trade Center reconstruction in New York City. The office building's official name will be Four World Trade Center.

</doc>
<doc id="205254" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205254" title="130 Liberty Street">
130 Liberty Street

Five World Trade Center, also referred to as 130 Liberty Street, is a canceled building to be located in New York City. If constructed, it will follow the demolition of the Deutsche Bank Building which was destroyed on September 11. In June 2007, it was announced that financial service JPMorgan Chase planned to develop the building as a new J.P. Morgan Investment Bank world headquarters.

</doc>
<doc id="205255" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205255" title="John Tavares">
John Tavares

John Tavares (born September 20, 1990) is a Canadian professional ice hockey centre. He currently plays for the New York Islanders of the National Hockey League (NHL). He is the current captain of the Islanders. 

</doc>
<doc id="205257" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205257" title="Ralph Fletcher">
Ralph Fletcher

Ralph Fletcher (born March 17, 1953) is a writer of children's picture books, young-adult fiction and poetry as well as books for both children and teachers on the art of writing.
Ralph Fletcher grew up in Marshfield, Massachusetts. He is the oldest of nine children. Each of his parents were one of eight children. He got his B.A. degree from Dartmouth College in 1975 and his M.F.A degree in writing from Columbia University in 1983. In college he studied in Tonga in the South Pacific and Sierra Leone, South Africa. After getting his masters degree, Ralph worked in New York City classrooms as part of the Teacher College writing project. Fletcher now lives in Lee, New Hampshire. He is married to JoAnn Portalupi, with her he has written several books for teachers. Together they have four sons.
His young adult novel "Uncle Daddy" won a Christopher Medal in the Books for Young People, ages 10-12 category in 2002. "Fig Pudding", a young adult book by Fletcher, was recommended as one of the ten best books of 1995 by the American Library Association. Fletcher's poetry book "I Am Wings" was chosen by School Library Journal as one of their best books of 1994.

</doc>
<doc id="205260" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205260" title="Werner Naumann">
Werner Naumann

Werner Naumann (16 June 1909 - 25 October 1982) was a German State Secretary in the Propaganda Ministry during the Third Reich. He was appointed head of the Propaganda Ministry by Hitler in his political testament. This was because Dr. Goebbels was promoted to be the Chancellor of Germany.

</doc>
<doc id="205263" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205263" title="Gauleiter">
Gauleiter

A Gauleiter was the party leader of a regional branch of the NSDAP. This persons were the head of a "Gau" or of a "Reichsgau". The German word "Leiter" means leader. A "Gau" is the old German word for a region in Germany.

</doc>
<doc id="205268" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205268" title="Hedingen">
Hedingen

Hedingen is a municipality of the district Affoltern in the canton of Zürich in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="205271" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205271" title="Typhus">
Typhus

Typhus is the name for a number of diseases, caused by bacteria called Rickettsiae. These bacteria are parasites that cannot survive outside their host organism. Depending on the species the host organisms are, fleas (on rats), harvest mites (on several rodents and humans), or lice (on humans). When the term is commonly used, it usually means "endemic typhus", which is spread by lice. The name "typhus" comes from Greek, where it means "smoky" or "hazy". This was the word used to describe the state of mind the patients are in. 
Typhus can be treated with antibiotics.

</doc>
<doc id="205275" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205275" title="Troglodytae">
Troglodytae

The Troglodytae () or Troglodyti (meaning "cave goers"), used to be a group of people talked about by many old Greek and Roman historians and map makers. The early references call them Trogodytes, which looks like it was changed from the Greek "trōglē" meaning "cave". They were either placed in the desert along the African side of the Red Sea coast or North of Greece in what they called Getae.

</doc>
<doc id="205278" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205278" title="Hershel W. Gober">
Hershel W. Gober

Hershel Wayne Gober (born December 21, 1936) is a former government official and Vietnam War veteran. He served as acting United States Secretary of Veterans Affairs (VA) two times during the Clinton administration. The first time was from July 1, 1997 until January 2, 1998 between the resignation of Secretary Jesse Brown and the appointment of Togo D. West, Jr. as Acting Secretary. The second time came on July 25, 2000 and lasted until January 20, 2001 after the resignation of Secretary West; this time Gober served in the post until the end of the Clinton presidency.
He started out in the VA as Deputy Secretary, serving from February 4, 1993 until August 10, 2000. Gober was also Secretary-designate, when Clinton named him on July 31, 1997 to replace Jesse Brown. However, the nomination was withdrawn before Senate action began. That happened on October 27 the same year. 
During his time as Secretary, Gober headed a delegation that traveled to Vietnam to try to find information about missing veterans there. He also worked to improve health care and create more clinics for veterans. 
Before serving in the VA, Gober was Director of the Arkansas Department of Veterans Affairs from January 4, 1988 to February 4, 1993 during President Clinton's time as Governor.
Gober served two tours in Vietnam. He also worked with an American/Vietnamese team that made Vietnamese songs. Later, in 1969, he was hurt while serving as a company commander.

</doc>
<doc id="205287" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205287" title="Hazel R. O'Leary">
Hazel R. O'Leary

Hazel Reid O'Leary (born May 17, 1937) was the seventh United States Secretary of Energy, from 1993 to 1997. She is the first and only woman and first and only African American to hold the position.
Born Hazel Reid in Newport News, Virginia, she was the daughter of doctors Russell E. and Hazel Reid. She has two sisters, Edna Reid and Marina Morse; and two brothers, Louis and William Morse.
After earning a bachelor's degree at Fisk University in Nashville, O'Leary earned her law degree from Rutgers School of Law—Newark.
Reid married John F. O'Leary on April 24, 1980. He was a former deputy energy secretary and died in 1987. They have a son named Carl. 
O'Leary worked as a prosecutor in New Jersey and later worked for the consulting/accounting firm of Coopers & Lybrand. During the Carter Administration, O'Leary was made assistant administrator of the Federal Energy Administration, general counsel of the Community Services Administration, and administrator of the Economic Regulatory Administration at the Department of Energy. 
In 1981, O'Leary and her husband established the consulting firm of O'Leary & Associates, where she served as vice president and general counsel. From 1989 to 1993, she worked as an executive vice president of the Northern States Power Company. 
In 1993 President Bill Clinton picked O'Leary as Secretary of Energy. 
In 2004, O'Leary was selected as President of her undergraduate "alma mater", Fisk University in Nashville, Tennessee.

</doc>
<doc id="205290" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205290" title="Mount Whitney">
Mount Whitney

Mount Whitney or Tumanguya is a mountain in eastern California. The mountain is about 14,505 feet (4,421 m). This makes Mount Whitney the tallest mountain in the contiguous United States. Mount Whitney is only 76 miles from Badwater in Death Valley National Park, which is the lowest point in the United States. Mount Whitney is in the Sierra Nevada. Mount Whitney was named by the California Geological Survey in 1864, they named it after Josiah Whitney.

</doc>
<doc id="205294" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205294" title="Federico Peña">
Federico Peña

Federico Fabian Peña (born March 15, 1947) was United States Secretary of Transportation from 1993 to 1997 and United States Secretary of Energy from 1997 to 1998, during the presidency of Bill Clinton.
Born in Laredo, Texas, Peña earned a B.A. (1969) and a J.D. (1972) from the University of Texas at Austin and The University of Texas School of Law. Moving to Colorado, where he became an attorney, Peña was elected to the Colorado House of Representatives as a Democrat in 1979, where he became the Minority Leader. In 1983, Peña became the first Hispanic Mayor of Denver, and he was re-elected in 1987.
Peña advised Arkansas Governor Bill Clinton on transportation issues during Clinton's successful 1992 presidential campaign, and Clinton chose Peña to head the United States Department of Transportation. Although he was going to leave Clinton's cabinet after Clinton's first term, Peña also served as Secretary of Energy for one year, from 1997 to 1998. In 1995 the Justice Department began a preliminary investigation into a California transit agency's awarding of a pension management contract to Peña's former investment management firm. However, Peña had cut all connections to his former company both before the contract and before becoming Transportation Secretary. On March 17, 1995 Janet Reno ended the investigation.
When Peña left the Clinton administration, he returned to Denver and joined investment firm Vestar Capital Partners in August 1998, as Senior Advisor. On January 18, 2000, Vestar announced that Peña had become one of the firm's Managing Directors.
Peña is the father of three children: Nelia, Cristina, and Ryan Peña. The divorce of Federico Peña and his first wife, Ellen Hart Peña, became final on September 10, 2001. Federico Peña married Cindy Velasquez on September 2, 2006. Cindy Velasquez is a former broadcast executive for Channel 7, KMGH-TV, and Channel 9, KUSA-TV, in Denver, Colorado.
On September 7, 2007, Peña announced that he would support Sen. Barack Obama in the 2008 presidential election, and also serve as Obama's National Campaign Co-chair. The move was important in that Peña did not support Sen. Hillary Clinton, the wife of the president under whom he served. On November 5, 2008, he was named to the advisory board of the Obama-Biden Transition Project.
Peña Boulevard, a freeway in Denver connecting Denver International Airport to Interstate 70, is named for him. As mayor of Denver, Peña led the effort to build the airport.

</doc>
<doc id="205298" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205298" title="Cynognathus">
Cynognathus

Cynognathus was a cynodont (a mammal-like reptile, not a dinosaur) that was the size of a wolf. This therapsid lived on open plains during the early to middle Triassic period, roughly 230-245 million years ago. It was probably warm-blooded and may have given birth to live young. Fossils have been found in South Africa and Argentina.

</doc>
<doc id="205303" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205303" title="Natural units">
Natural units

Natural units are ways of measuring things that depend on some basic characteristics of nature that do not change. Which of these basic quantities to choose can depend on the physics problems being investigated, and sometimes choosing one thing as a natural unit means that the size of something else does not become used as a natural unit in that system.
The old system of English measurements such as the pound are based on convenient objects in the natural world. The "grain" is the smallest of these objects, and originally it meant the weight of a grain of wheat or barley. Each individual grain might be slightly larger or smaller than the next, but the more grains were added together to make a larger measure, the more these little differences would even out. Even so, these measures were not entirely precise and did not relate to other measures such as the inch or the foot.
In order to make calculations simpler and units more precise, it turned out that the mass of an electron or the mass of a proton were more useful standards to use for weight. All electrons are believed to have the same mass, and all protons are believed to have their own standard mass. But there is no simple mathematical relationship between the two masses.
The speed of light, c, is a constant. So c is a very natural choice to use as a standard for measuring velocity.
One choice for a standard of length is the Bohr radius. The simplest atom, hydrogen, only has one electron, and its smallest possible orbit, that with the lowest energy, is at a distance from the nucleus called the Bohr radius.
With a standard for measuring distances and a standard for velocity, it would be possible to derive one standard unit of time. In practice, there are several ways of defining units of time. One of the most widely known ways to measure time by natural cycles is by using atomic clocks.

</doc>
<doc id="205336" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205336" title="Fulacunda">
Fulacunda

Fulacunda is a town in center of Guinea-Bissau.

</doc>
<doc id="205337" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205337" title="Fur seal">
Fur seal

Fur seals are any of nine species of pinnipeds in the "Otariidae" family. One species, the northern fur seal ("Callorhinus ursinus") inhabits the North Pacific, while eight species in the "Arctocephalus" genus are found primarily in the Southern hemisphere.
Therefore they are not a single taxonomic unit.

</doc>
<doc id="205344" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205344" title="Hugh A. Robertson">
Hugh A. Robertson

Hugh A. Robertson (May 28, 1932 – January 10, 1988) was an African-American movie director and editor.

</doc>
<doc id="205345" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205345" title="Mike Rodríguez">
Mike Rodríguez

Mike Rodriguez (born April 20, 1989) is an Ecuadorian football playmaker who plays for Ecuadorian giants Barcelona SC.

</doc>
<doc id="205346" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205346" title="Morlaix">
Morlaix

Morlaix is a commune in Finistère department in Brittany in north-western France. It is a sub-prefecture of the department.

</doc>
<doc id="205348" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205348" title="Bristol Filton Airport">
Bristol Filton Airport

Bristol Filton Airport or Filton Aerodrome lies on the border between Filton and Patchway, within South Gloucestershire, north of Bristol, England.

</doc>
<doc id="205349" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205349" title="22171 Choi">
22171 Choi

22171 Choi (2000 WK179) is a Main-belt Asteroid discovered on November 26, 2000 by the Lincoln Laboratory Near-Earth Asteroid Research Team at Socorro.

</doc>
<doc id="205350" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205350" title="Hólmar Örn Eyjólfsson">
Hólmar Örn Eyjólfsson

Hólmar Örn Eyjólfsson (born August 6, 1990) is an Icelandic footballer who plays as a defender for Rosenborg.

</doc>
<doc id="205351" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205351" title="Žigmund Pálffy">
Žigmund Pálffy

Žigmund "Ziggy" Pálffy (born May 5, 1972) is an ethnic Hungarian Slovak professional ice hockey player currently playing for HK 36 Skalica of the Slovak Extraliga.

</doc>
<doc id="205352" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205352" title="Greg Egan">
Greg Egan

Greg Egan (born 20 August 1961) is an Australian science fiction author. His first novel was published in 1983.

</doc>
<doc id="205359" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205359" title="Billy Abercromby">
Billy Abercromby

William "Billy" Abercromby (born 14 September 1958 in Ruchill) is a retired Scottish football player.
He and Fraser Kirkwood wrote "Aber's Gonnae Get Ye: The Billy Abercromby Story". It was published in 2009.

</doc>
<doc id="205360" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205360" title="Jürgen Seeberger">
Jürgen Seeberger

Jürgen Seeberger (born 25 March 1965 in Konstanz) is a German football manager currently managing V.f.B. Stuttgart II.

</doc>
<doc id="205361" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205361" title="Caroline van Dommelen">
Caroline van Dommelen

Caroline van Dommelen (9 November 1874 – 4 March 1957) was a Dutch movie actress of the silent era. She appeared in eleven movies between 1911 and 1918.

</doc>
<doc id="205363" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205363" title="Sam Shepard">
Sam Shepard

Sam Shepard (born November 5, 1943) is an American playwright, actor, and television and movie director. He is the author of several books. He received the Pulitzer Prize for Drama in 1979 for his play "Buried Child". Shepard was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for his portrayal of pilot Chuck Yeager in "The Right Stuff" (1983).
Born Samuel Shepard Rogers IV in Fort Sheridan, Illinois, he worked on a ranch as a teenager. His father, Samuel Shepard Rogers, Jr., was a teacher and farmer. His father was in the United States Army Air Forces as a bomber pilot during World War II. His mother, Jane Elaine (née Schook), was a teacher and from Chicago, Illinois. After high school, Shepard went to college for a little while. He quit to join a travelling theater group. He was also a drummer for the different late-1960s rock band The Holy Modal Rounders. The band was in the movie "Easy Rider" (1969).

</doc>
<doc id="205364" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205364" title="Terry Ellis">
Terry Ellis

Terry Ellis (born September 5, 1963 in Houston, Texas, U.S.) is an African-American R&B singer best known for her work with the quartet En Vogue.

</doc>
<doc id="205365" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205365" title="Jan Åge Fjørtoft">
Jan Åge Fjørtoft

Jan Aage Fjörtoft (born 10 January 1967 in Ålesund) is a former Norwegian footballer.

</doc>
<doc id="205366" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205366" title="Bob's Full House">
Bob's Full House

Bob's Full House is a British quiz programme hosted by Bob Monkhouse which was based on the popular game 'Bingo' and aired on BBC One from 1 September 1984 until 27 January 1990.

</doc>
<doc id="205385" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205385" title="Mathieu Flamini">
Mathieu Flamini

Mathieu Flamini (born 7 March 1984) is a French football player. He plays for Milan.
14||0||colspan="2"|-||colspan="2"|-||9||0||23||0
102||7||11||0||9||0||30||1||152||8
29||0||1||0||colspan="2"|-||7||0||37||0
145||7||12||0||9||0||46||1||212||8
!Total||3||0

</doc>
<doc id="205386" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205386" title="Theo Walcott">
Theo Walcott

Theo Walcott (born 16 March 1989) is a English football player. He was born in Stanmore, northwest London and grew up in Compton, Berkshire. He plays for Arsenal and England national team.
84||10||9||2||11||2||25||5||129||19
84||10||9||2||11||2||25||5||129||19
!Total||8||3

</doc>
<doc id="205387" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205387" title="Eriz">
Eriz

Eriz is a municipality in the administrative district of Thun in the canton of Bern in Switzerland.

</doc>
<doc id="205390" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205390" title="GAIS">
GAIS

GAIS is an association football club in the town of Gothenburg in Sweden. The club won the Swedish national championship in 1919, 1922, 1931 and 1954.

</doc>
<doc id="205392" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205392" title="IFK Göteborg">
IFK Göteborg

IFK Göteborg is an association football club which plays in Sweden for Gothenburg. The club won the UEFA Cup in 1982 and 1987. The club also won the Swedish national championship in 1908, 1910, 1918, 1934–35, 1941–42, 1957–58, 1969, 1982, 1983, 1984, 1987, 1990, 1991, 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996 and 2007.

</doc>
<doc id="205393" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205393" title="Örgryte IS">
Örgryte IS

Örgryte IS is an association football club which in the town of Gothenburg in Sweden. The club won the first Swedish national championship in 1896, and was one of the stronger teams in Swedish association football of the late 19th century and early 20th century.
The club also won the Swedish national championship in 1896, 1897, 1898, 1899, 1902, 1904, 1905, 1906, 1907, 1909, 1913 and 1985

</doc>
<doc id="205394" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205394" title="Helsingborgs IF">
Helsingborgs IF

Helsingborgs IF is an association football club in the town of Helsingborg in Sweden. The club won the Swedish national championship in the years of 1929, 1930, 1933, 1934, 1941, 1942, 1999 and 2011.

</doc>
<doc id="205395" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205395" title="AIK Solna">
AIK Solna

AIK is a football club from Solna, Stockholm, Sweden. The club also won the Swedish national championship in 1900, 1901, 1911, 1914, 1916, 1923, 1932, 1937, 1992, 1998. and 2009.

</doc>
<doc id="205397" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205397" title="IFK Norrköping">
IFK Norrköping

IFK Norrköping is an association football club in the town of Norrköping in Sweden. The team has played several Allsvenskan seasons. The club has won the Swedish national championship in 1942–43, 1944–45, 1945–46, 1946–47, 1947–48, 1951–52, 1955–56, 1956–57, 1960, 1962, 1963, 1989 and 2015.

</doc>
<doc id="205398" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205398" title="IFK Eskilstuna">
IFK Eskilstuna

IFK Eskilstuna is an association football club in the town of Eskilstuna in Sweden. The club won the Swedish national championship in 1921, and played several Allsvenskan seasons.

</doc>
<doc id="205399" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205399" title="Hammarby IF">
Hammarby IF

Hammarby IF is an association football club in the town of Stockholm in Sweden. The club won Allsvenskan, becoming Swedish national champions, in 2001.

</doc>
<doc id="205401" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205401" title="Jungo Fujimoto">
Jungo Fujimoto

107||18||11||3||25||5||143||26
107||18||11||3||25||5||143||26
!Total||10||0

</doc>
<doc id="205402" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205402" title="Akihiro Hyodo">
Akihiro Hyodo

Akihiro Hyodo (born 12 May 1982) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Shimizu S-Pulse.
119||11||16||2||29||2||164||15
119||11||16||2||29||2||164||15

</doc>
<doc id="205403" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205403" title="Naoaki Aoyama">
Naoaki Aoyama

Naoaki Aoyama (born 18 July 1986) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Shimizu S-Pulse.
121||5||12||2||24||1||157||8
121||5||12||2||24||1||157||8

</doc>
<doc id="205429" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205429" title="Sarayu">
Sarayu

Sarayu is a river which flows in Uttar Pradesh of India. Sarayu river originates in Himalaya. It flows across 350 km and merges into the Ganga river. Sarayu river is mentioned in Ramayana. Ramayana mention that city of Ayodhya was on the bank of Sarayu river.

</doc>
<doc id="205431" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205431" title="Nashik">
Nashik

Nashik, also spelled as Nasik is a city in the northwest of Maharashtra State, India. It has 1,620,000 people. Nashik is about from Mumbai.
Nashik is a district on Maharashtra State. Nashik has 15 Talukas. Following are talukas of nashik.
Following are important cities in Nashik District
Nashik was previously just a holy place but now it has turned into industrial,educational centre.Due its close location to Mumbai it is devoloping fast.

</doc>
<doc id="205432" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205432" title="Alexis Herman">
Alexis Herman

Alexis Margaret Herman (born July 16, 1947 in Mobile, Alabama) was the 23rd U.S. Secretary of Labor, serving under President Bill Clinton. Before that, she was Assistant to the President and Director of the White House Office of Public Liaison.
The daughter of politician Alex Herman and schoolteacher Gloria Caponis, Alexis grew up a Catholic home in Mobile and earned her high school diploma in 1965 from the Heart of Mary High School. For a short time, she went to Edgewood College in Madison, Wisconsin, and Spring Hill College in Mobile, but then switched to Xavier University of Louisiana in New Orleans, where she became a member of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority and graduated with a Bachelor of Arts in Sociology in 1969.
After college, Herman worked for Catholic Charities and other agencies advocating minority women employment. Jimmy Carter met Herman while campaigning in Atlanta, Georgia, and after becoming President in 1977, picked her to be Director of the Labor Department's Women's Bureau. At age 29, she was the youngest person to ever serve in that position.
In 1981, Herman founded her own consulting firm - A.M. Herman & Associates. She served as president of the company while remaining active in Democratic politics. During her time as chief of staff and later vice chair of the Democratic National Committee, she was in charge of organizing the 1992 Democratic National Convention.
After Bill Clinton's win in the 1992 Presidential election, Herman became deputy director of the Presidential Transition Office. She was later picked to head the White House Office of Public Liaison, where she was responsible for the administration's relations with interest groups. 
During Clinton's second term, Herman was named Secretary of Labor, the first African American to be picked for that position and the fifth woman to be picked. Congressional Republicans and labor unions initially opposed giving her the job. But she earned praise from her peers for her handling of the 1997 UPS workers strike. An independent counsel investigated her for taking cash bribes and/or illegal campaign donations as an assistant to Clinton from 1994 to 1996. She was the 5th cabinet officer be investigated by independent counsel. Bill Clinton testified on her side. In 2000 the investigation ended with no indictment. 
During the 2000 Florida election recount, Herman was part of team planning a transition to a Gore Administration, and she was mentioned as a likely pick for White House Chief of Staff. She was replaced as Secretary of Labor in the George W. Bush administration by Elaine Chao.
Herman now serves as the co-chairperson (with James Roosevelt, Jr.) of the Democratic National Committee's Rules and Bylaws Committee.
Herman also serves on the boards of several big companies, including Coca Cola Corporation's Human Resources Task Force, Toyota's Diversity Advisory Board, Cummins, Metro Goldwyn Mayer, and Prudential and is the chairman and CEO of New Ventures, Inc.

</doc>
<doc id="205434" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205434" title="Conjugate variables">
Conjugate variables

Conjugate variables are special pairs of variables (e.g., x, y, z) that do not commute, If two variables, let us call them m and n, commute, then mn = nm. If two variables, let us call them p and q, do not commute, then pq ≠ qp. 
One of the best known pairs of conjugate variables was found in 1925 by Werner Heisenberg and his co-workers. Heisenberg changed equations from classical physics to describe and predict quantum events. That way he produced an equation that could be used to figure out the product of momentum (mass × velocity) and position (x, y, z, t): 
In the following equations, n, n-a, n-b, etc. name energy levels of an electron in a hydrogen atom. So in the diagram that shows an electron falling from a higher to a lower orbit, a pair of values such as n and n-a would belong to the beginning orbit and the ending orbit.
The first kind of equation could be used to calculate the product of momentum and position:
The same kind of equation could be used to calculate the product of position and momentum:
Heisenberg understood right away that these two results were going to be different, and it bothered him. He was very tired after making his work, which he wrote up as a paper for . So after he gave the paper to Max Born for editing and then to send off to the publisher, Heisenberg went on vacation. Born realized that these strange equations were blueprints for making a matrix for momentum and a matrix for position and then multiplying the two. He also saw that not only would multiplying the matrix p by the matrix q give a different answer matrix than multiplying the matrix q by the matrix p, but that the difference between the two could be computed from the other equations that were involved in Heisenberg's paper, and "Immediately there stood before me the strange :
[The symbol Q is the matrix for position, P is the matrix for momentum, i stands for the square root of negative one (√-1), and h is Planck's constant.]
This equation is an important hint to Heisenberg's uncertainty principle.

</doc>
<doc id="205436" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205436" title="Rail yard">
Rail yard

A rail yard is a system of railway tracks used for the storage, loading and unloading, of railroad cars and/or locomotives.

</doc>
<doc id="205448" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205448" title="Salcedo, Hermanas Mirabal">
Salcedo, Hermanas Mirabal

The Dominican city of Salcedo is the head municipality of the Hermanas Mirabal province, on the central part of the country.
The city is named after "Francisco Antonio Salcedo" who fought in the northwestern part of the country against the Haitian army during the Dominican-Haitian War after the Dominican independence from Haiti in 1844.
Salcedo is located in the Cibao Valley, south of the "Cordillera Septentrional" (in English, "Northern mountain range"). It has a total area of 432.95 km². It has only one municipal district (a subdivision of a municipality): Jamao Afuera.
The municipality had, in 2010, a total population of 39,557: 20,040 men and 19,517 women. The urban population was 35.22% of the total population. In this numbers are included the population of Jamao Afuera municipal district. The population of the city of Salcedo without those municipal districts was 35,306.
In the place where is now the city of Salcedo there was a very small town with the name of "Juana Núñez". It was made a "Puesto cantonal" (an old category that now is called Municipal District) in 1880 as part of the old La Vega province.
With the creation of the Espaillat province in 1885, Juana Núñez was made part of this new province. In 1891, its name was changed from Juana Núñez to the present one, Salcedo.
Salcedo was made a municipality in 1905 and, when the Salcedo Province (now Hermanas Mirabal Province) was created in 1952, the city became the head municipality of the new province.
Farming is the only economic activity in the municipality, except for some very small industries; the main products are plantain, cassava and cacao. 

</doc>
<doc id="205463" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205463" title="Andrew of Cornwall">
Andrew of Cornwall

Andrew of Cornwall (Andreas Cornubiensis, Andreas de Cornubia, André de Cornouailles) (fl. 1290s) was a philosopher at Oxford during the 1290s. It is thought that he brought Parisian Modism to England, and that he helped to shape Duns Scotus with his ideas. 

</doc>
<doc id="205470" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205470" title="Landry Bonnefoi">
Landry Bonnefoi

Landry Bonnefoi (born 20 September 1983) is a French football player. He plays for Amiens.
1||0
1||0
2||0

</doc>
<doc id="205471" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205471" title="Hossein Kaebi">
Hossein Kaebi

Hossein Kaebi (born 23 September 1985) is an Iranian football player. He plays for Steel Azin and Iran national team.
86||7
0||0
7||1
3||0
96||8
!Total||83||1

</doc>
<doc id="205475" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205475" title="IF Elfsborg">
IF Elfsborg

IF Elfsborg is an association football club in the town of Borås in Sweden, established on 26 June 1904. IF Elfsborg won the Swedish national championship six times: in 1936, 1939, 1940, 1961., 2006 and 2012.
IF Elfsborg's home ground is the Borås Arena, which has a seating capacity for 16,894 people. IF Elfsborg's supporter group is called "Guliganerna".
In the national league system started the season 1924/25 played Elfsborg in western Swedish season in Division 2. Already in the following season, in 1925/26, Elfsborg won the series and went on to qualifying for ”Allsvenskan”. In the qualifying they had to meet Halmstads BK and after the team won respective game, there was a third deciding game in Gothenburg. The game was won by Elfsborg 4-1 and Nils Hedin made all Elfsborg four goals in the second half. That meant Elfsborg went up to the Allsvenskan for the first time.
The club debuted in Allsvenskan on 2 August 1926 in a game against Örgryte IS. It played in the top league continuously until 1954. During the club's early years from the mid 1930s until 1947, the team had several in the Swedish national team.

</doc>
<doc id="205477" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205477" title="Daisuke Fujii">
Daisuke Fujii

Daisuke Fujii (born 15 October 1986) is a Japanese football player. He plays for V-Varen Nagasaki.
76||2||4||0||4||0||84||2
76||2||4||0||4||0||84||2

</doc>
<doc id="205479" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205479" title="Yoshiki Takahashi">
Yoshiki Takahashi

Yoshiki Takahashi (born 14 May 1985) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Vegalta Sendai.
242||20||14||2||0||0||256||22
242||20||14||2||0||0||256||22

</doc>
<doc id="205480" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205480" title="Valon Behrami">
Valon Behrami

Valon Behrami (born 19 April 1985) is a Swiss football player. He plays for West Ham United and Switzerland national team.
2||0
122||7
24||1
148||8
!Total||25||2

</doc>
<doc id="205483" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205483" title="Djurgårdens I.F.">
Djurgårdens I.F.

Djurgårdens IF is a association football club in the town of Stockholm in Sweden.
The club has won the highest Swedish division Allsvenskan 11 times, 3 of those during the 21th centuary, making them the most successful club in Sweden during this period. The club also won the Swedish national championship in 1912, 1915, 1917, 1920, 1954–1955, 1959, 1964, 1966, 2002, 2003 and 2005.
The club, which was founded in 1891, started it's association football section in 1899. The team plays in darkblue and lightblue stripes. Since 1936 Stockholms Stadion has been the home stadium, but they have big plans to build a new arena with around 18000 seats. The current captain is Pa Dembo Touray and the deputy captain is Mattias Jonson.
The manager of Djurgårdens IF is Lennart Wass and Carlos Banda.
During the 2013 season of the elite and professional Swedish league (Allsvenskan), Djurgården’s kit featured the logo of Djurgårdsandan.

</doc>
<doc id="205497" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205497" title="Zlatko Kranjčar">
Zlatko Kranjčar

Zlatko Kranjčar (born 15 November 1956) is a former Croatian football player. He has played for Yugoslavia national team and Croatia national team.
261||98
213||108
474||206
!Total||11||3
!Total||2||1

</doc>
<doc id="205498" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205498" title="Raúl Vicente Amarilla">
Raúl Vicente Amarilla

Raúl Vicente Amarilla (born July 19, 1960) is a former Paraguayan football player.
26||15||5||3||4||0||35||18
26||15||5||3||4||0||35||18

</doc>
<doc id="205499" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205499" title="Ariel Ibagaza">
Ariel Ibagaza

Ariel Ibagaza (born 27 October 1976) is an Argentine football player. He plays for Villarreal.
98||10
318||30
416||40
!Total||1||0

</doc>
<doc id="205503" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205503" title="Luis Amaranto Perea">
Luis Amaranto Perea

Luis Amaranto Perea (born 30 January 1979) is a Colombian football player. He plays for Atlético Madrid and Colombia national team.
118||0
16||0
149||0
283||0
!Total||49||0

</doc>
<doc id="205504" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205504" title="Igor Lediakhov">
Igor Lediakhov

Igor Lediakhov (born 22 May 1968) is a former Russian football player. He has played for Soviet Union national team and Russia national team.
107||4
100||26
228||44
23||15
458||89
!Total||7||1
!Total||8||0

</doc>
<doc id="205505" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205505" title="Yosuke Nishi">
Yosuke Nishi

Yosuke Nishi (born 12 May 1983) is a Japanse football player. He plays for Grulla Morioka.
73||17||6||2||0||0||79||19
73||17||6||2||0||0||79||19

</doc>
<doc id="205521" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205521" title="Twilight Comes Twice">
Twilight Comes Twice

Twilight Comes Twice is a children's book of free verse written by Ralph Fletcher with pictures drawn by Kate Kiesler. It was first published in 1997, and describes the changes from night to day and from day to night.

</doc>
<doc id="205525" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205525" title="Free verse">
Free verse

Free verse is a term for different styles of poetry that do not rhyme. Poets who have written in free verse include Rainer Maria Rilke, Saint-John Perse, T. S. Eliot, Ezra Pound, Carl Sandburg, and William Carlos Williams.

</doc>
<doc id="205537" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205537" title="Salva Ballesta">
Salva Ballesta

Salva Ballesta (born 22 May 1975) is a Spanish football player. He plays for Albacete Balompié.
340||133
6||0
346||133
!Total||4||0

</doc>
<doc id="205538" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205538" title="Toshihiro Yahata">
Toshihiro Yahata

Toshihiro Yahata (born 29 May 1980) is a former Japanese football player.
46||3||6||0||3||0||55||3
46||3||6||0||3||0||55||3

</doc>
<doc id="205539" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205539" title="Javier Chevantón">
Javier Chevantón

Javier Chevantón (born 12 August 1980) is an Uruguayan football player. He plays for Atalanta.
57||49
87||46
50||20
34||8
228||123
!Total||22||7

</doc>
<doc id="205543" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205543" title="Takashi Hirano">
Takashi Hirano

352||54||29||6||63||12||444||72
50||1||||||||||50||1
402||55||29||6||63||12||494||73
!Total||15||4

</doc>
<doc id="205544" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205544" title="Tadatoshi Masuda">
Tadatoshi Masuda

235||32||23||5||55||10||313||47
235||32||23||5||55||10||313||47
!Total||1||0

</doc>
<doc id="205545" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205545" title="Hiroshige Yanagimoto">
Hiroshige Yanagimoto

320||4||32||1||48||0||400||5
320||4||32||1||48||0||400||5
!Total||30||0

</doc>
<doc id="205550" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205550" title="Miroslav Mentel">
Miroslav Mentel

Miroslav Mentel (born December 2, 1962) is a former Slovak football player.
10||0||2||0||2||0||14||0
10||0||2||0||2||0||14||0

</doc>
<doc id="205551" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205551" title="Keiji Kaimoto">
Keiji Kaimoto

213||8||11||1||31||1||255||10
213||8||11||1||31||1||255||10
!Total||1||0

</doc>
<doc id="205552" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205552" title="Norihiro Nishi">
Norihiro Nishi

214||33||27||8||38||2||8||2||287||45
214||33||27||8||38||2||8||2||287||45
!Total||5||0

</doc>
<doc id="205557" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205557" title="Theory">
Theory

A theory is a group of linked ideas intended to explain something. A theory provides a framework for explaining observations. The explanations are based on assumptions. From the assumptions follows a number of possible hypotheses. They can be tested to provide support for, or challenge, the theory.
The word 'theory' has several meanings:
These meanings can "shade into each other". Another source offers: 
A theory in science (in contrast to a theory in layman's terms) is "a logical, systematic set of principles or explanation that has been verified—has stood up against attempts to prove it false". For example, Darwin's theory of Evolution is a system of ideas that points to humans and apes having evolved from a common ancestor. This conclusion is based on evidence that supports it.
One basic thing needed by a theory is not to defeat itself. If someone argued that every action a human being takes in life is predetermined before that person is even born, and also argued that a human being will determine his or her future according to the acts that he or she freely wills, there is a contradiction. 
This idea is called "the principle of non-contradiction", not saying the opposite of what you just said. If we consider any statement, A (perhaps A stands for "The Apple has a worm in it."), then A and the contradiction of A is always false. (In logical symbolism, the single statement "A ∧ ¬A" has a truth value of 0 or false.)
A theory that can produce a statement that is not true, a theory that can predict something that does not in fact happen, or that predicts that something will happen but it does not happen, is not a correct theory. This idea has a big hole to fall into. Scientists can look at experiment after experiment, and they may always find that what theory says is true. Years may pass, and then somebody looks at one more experiment. That experiment shows that the theory is false, and every time they do that experiment it shows that the first time was not some kind of accident. The philosopher Karl Popper gave the example of people in Europe before 1492 who wanted to give scientific descriptions of birds. One bird they worked on was the swan. Somebody proposed the idea, "All swans are white." All of the swans that were checked in their century were white. When Europeans first sailed to Australia, the first swan that they saw was black. Suddenly the old scientific description of swans had to be changed.
So it is never possible to prove conclusively that some theory is correct. A "black swan" may come with the next experiment. It is possible to prove some theories are incorrect. Science makes progress by using one theory until it fails, trying to understand why that theory failed, and then making a better theory. Some theories are very well confirmed, that means that they have been tried over and over again and have never yet failed. When a theory is well confirmed people trust its predictions.
It is possible to prove conclusively that some theory is incorrect. Proving a theory is incorrect makes it possible to find a better theory and thus to make progress.

</doc>
<doc id="205571" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205571" title="Fingering (sexual act)">
Fingering (sexual act)

Fingering is the act of touching of the clitoris, vagina, vulva or anus for the purpose of sexual arousal and stimulation with the fingers. It is like the handjob (manual stimulation of the penis). It is a common form of foreplay or mutual masturbation. To "finger oneself" is to masturbate in this way.
Digital penetration is penetration (for example sexual penetration), with one or more fingers.
Vaginal fingering can end in orgasm. It also may or may not include the entire sexual encounter. It may be part of foreplay or part of a start to other sexual activities. These activities can provide sexual pleasure to a partner when penetrative intercourse is not possible or desirable for whatever reason.
Fingering of the butt and rectum is commonly enjoyed in preparation for further anal sex. Anal fingering can arouse a person, allowing them to relax their anus and prepare them for the insertion of a penis or a dildo.
The practice is generally considered safe sex as long as the hands are protected with a latex gloves.

</doc>
<doc id="205577" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205577" title="Bogon filtering">
Bogon filtering

"Bogon" is an informal name for an IP packet on the public Internet that claims to be from an area of the IP address space that is not used. The space not yet assigned by the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) or a delegated Regional Internet Registry (RIR). The areas of unallocated address space are called "bogon space".
For example, addresses from 100.x.x.x - 107.x.x.x have not yet been allocated (set aside) (as of September 2009, see for a complete current list)
Bogons are not the same as reserved private address ranges:

</doc>
<doc id="205586" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205586" title="John Rolfe">
John Rolfe

John Rolfe (c. 1585 – 1622) was one of the early English settlers of North America. He is known for the first successful making of tobacco as an export crop in the Colony of Virginia. He is also known as the husband of Pocahontas, daughter of the chief of the Powhatan Confederacy. 

</doc>
<doc id="205588" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205588" title="Watts Riots">
Watts Riots

The Watts riots was a race riot which lasted 6 days in August 1965 in Watts part of Los Angeles, California. 34 people died, 1,032 were hurt, and 3,438 went to jail. It was the worst riot in Los Angeles history until the 1992 Los Angeles riots.

</doc>
<doc id="205590" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205590" title="Dodger Stadium">
Dodger Stadium

Dodger Stadium is a baseball park and the home of the Los Angeles Dodgers. It was built in 1962, making it one of the oldest ball parks. (Fenway Park in Boston, Massachusetts and Wrigley Field in Chicago, Illinois are older.) It is also one of the largest baseball park in seating capacity.
Dodger Stadium was constructed from 1959 to 1962 at a cost of $23 million dollars. A neighborhood called Chavez Ravine had to be torn down to build the stadium. The Los Angeles Angels rented from the Dodgers from 1962 through 1965, before moving to Anaheim Stadium. The Angels called the ballpark Chavez Ravine Stadium.
Over five million people have seen a game in Dodger Stadium. The Dodgers have won four World Series while playing in the stadium, in 1963, 1965, 1981 and 1988.
There was talk of tearing down the stadium to build a football stadium, but that did not happen.

</doc>
<doc id="205592" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205592" title="Venice, Los Angeles">
Venice, Los Angeles

Venice is a place in western Los Angeles, California, United States. It is known for its canals, beaches and circus-like Ocean Front Walk, which features performers, fortune-tellers and vendors.
In summer, the boardwalk is busy. Many tourists visit. It was home to early Beat poets and artists in Los Angeles. Its area codes are 310 and a 424 overlay. Its ZIP Code is 90291. 
The borders are the Pacific Ocean on the southwest, Marina Del Rey on the southeast, Culver City on the east, Mar Vista on the northeast, and Santa Monica on the north.

</doc>
<doc id="205595" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205595" title="Hollywood Walk of Fame">
Hollywood Walk of Fame

The Hollywood Walk of Fame is a sidewalk along Hollywood Boulevard and Vine Street in Hollywood, Los Angeles, California, USA, that is like an entertainment museum. There are over 2500 stars on the sidewalk. The names of famous entertainers and famous fictional characters are written on the stars.

</doc>
<doc id="205596" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205596" title="Playboy Mansion">
Playboy Mansion

The Playboy Mansion (also known as the Playboy Mansion West), is in Holmby Hills in Los Angeles, California, and is the home of "Playboy" magazine creator Hugh Hefner.

</doc>
<doc id="205598" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205598" title="University of Southern California">
University of Southern California

The University of Southern California (also called USC, SC, and Southern California) is a private, research university in the Exposition Park neighborhood in Los Angeles, California, USA. USC was founded in 1880, and it is California's oldest private research university. 
USC has 16,384 undergraduate and 17,024 graduate students and gave 4,676 bachelor's and 5,380 advanced degrees in 2007. USC students come from all 50 states in the United States as well as over 115 countries.
USC employed 3,127 full-time faculty, 1,363 part-time faculty, and about 8,200 staff members in 2007. The university has a "very high" level of research activity, and it got $484.6 million in sponsored research in 2007. The Integrated Media Systems Center and the Center for Biomimetic Microelectronic Systems are at USC.
USC has 19 sports teams that compete in the National Collegiate Athletic Association's Division I-A Pacific-10 Conference. Their nickname is the Trojans. The Trojans have won 89 NCAA team championships, third in the nation (behind UCLA and Stanford), and 347 Individual NCAA Championships, second in the nation. 362 Trojan athletes have been in the Olympic games winning 112 gold, 66 silver, and 58 bronze medals. Their basketball team plays in the Galen Center and is coached by Kevin O'Neill. Their football team plays in the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum and is coached by Lane Kiffin. The football team has won several national championships and 23 Rose Bowls, a game played between two of the top football teams in the country. In sports, USC has a strong rivalry with UCLA, the other big school in Los Angeles, in all sports and a strong rivalry with Notre Dame in football.

</doc>
<doc id="205600" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205600" title="Endoplasmic reticulum">
Endoplasmic reticulum

Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is a cellular organelle. It is the transport network for molecules going to specific places, as compared to molecules that float freely in the cytoplasm. The endoplasmic reticulum is in cells that have a nucleus: in eukaryote cells but not in prokaryote cells. It takes these forms:
Similar to the ER is the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) found only in muscle cells. The SR stores and pumps calcium ions. The SR contains large stores of calcium, which it releases when the muscle cell is stimulated. Another type of cytoplasmic network is the plate-like Golgi apparatus.
The lacey membranes of the endoplasmic reticulum were first seen in 1945 by scientists using an electron microscope.

</doc>
<doc id="205601" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205601" title="Jimaní">
Jimaní

The Dominican city of Jimaní is the head municipality of the Independencia province, on the southwestern part of the country. The city is near the border with Haiti, on the main road that goes from the Dominican Republic to Port-au-Prince, capital city of Haiti.
For most of its history, Jimaní was part of Neiba but in 1938 it was made part of La Descubierta and in 1943 was elevated to the category of municipal districts (a municipal district is an administrative part of a municipality) of La Descubierta, in the Baoruco province.
With the creation of the Independencia province in 1948, Jimaní was made the head municipality of that new province.
Jimaní is located in the "Hoya de Enriquillo" valley, in the southwest of the country, close to Haiti. The municipality has a total area of 237.73 km². It has two municipal districts (subdivisions of a municipality): Boca de Cachón and El Limón.
It is between the two main lakes of the Hispaniola: Lake Enriquillo (Dominican Republic) and Étang Saumâtre (Haiti).
The municipality had, in 2010, a total population of 16,510: 8,150 men and 8,360 women. The urban population was 92.4% of the total population.In this numbers are included the population of its municipal districts: Boca de Cachón and El Limón. The population of the city of Jimaní without those municipal districts was 10,034.
The main economic activity is commerce with Haiti. Farming is not well developed because the region is very dry and hot. Most people that lives here work for the government or in the commerce between the two countries.

</doc>
<doc id="205602" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205602" title="MouseHunt">
MouseHunt

MouseHunt is a popular game on Facebook. The game is about you catching different kinds of mice using different traps and bases and different kinds of cheeses. To move up levels, you must get more points by catching more unique mice.
There is a total of 15 ranks (14 using points and 1 by donating). They are:

</doc>
<doc id="205603" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205603" title="Zhoukoudian">
Zhoukoudian

Zhoukoudian or Choukoutien () is a cave system in Beijing, China. Many archaeological discoveries were found here, including one of the first specimens of "Homo erectus", dubbed Peking Man, and bones of the large hyena "Pachycrocuta brevirostris". The Peking Man lived in this cave about 200,000 to 750,000 years ago. 
The Peking Man Site was discovered by Johan Gunnar Andersson in 1921 and was first excavated by Otto Zdansky in 1921 and 1923 unearthing two human teeth.

</doc>
<doc id="205606" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205606" title="Morant Bay rebellion">
Morant Bay rebellion

The Morant Bay rebellion began on October 11, 1865, when Paul Bogle led 200 to 300 black men and women into the town of Morant Bay, parish of St. Thomas in the East, Jamaica. The rebellion and its aftermath were a major turning point in Jamaica's history, and also generated a significant political debate in Britain. Today, the rebellion remains controversial, and is frequently mentioned by specialists in black and in colonial studies.
Slavery ended in Jamaica on August 1, 1834, with the passing of the British Emancipation Act, which led to emancipation on 1 August 1838 – the date on which former slaves became free to choose their employment and employer. 

</doc>
<doc id="205607" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205607" title="Herta Müller">
Herta Müller

Herta Müller (born 17 August 1953) is a Romanian-born German novelist, poet and essayist noted for her works depicting the harsh conditions of life in Communist Romania under the repressive Nicolae Ceauşescu regime, the history of the Germans in the Banat (and more broadly, Transylvania), and the persecution of Romanian ethnic Germans by Stalinist Soviet occupying forces in Romania. Müller has been an internationally well-known author since the early 1990s, and her works have been translated into more than 20 languages. She has received over 20 awards, including the 1998 International IMPAC Dublin Literary Award. On 8 October 2009, it was announced she would be awarded the 2009 Nobel Prize in Literature.

</doc>
<doc id="205608" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205608" title="1138 Aleppo earthquake">
1138 Aleppo earthquake

The 1138 Aleppo earthquake happened near the town of Aleppo in northern Syria on 11 October 1138. The United States Geological Survey lists it as the third deadliest earthquake in history with 230,000 people killed. However, the number of dead comes from a combination of this earthquake with earthquakes in November 1137 on the Jazira plain and 30 September 1139 in Ganja, Azerbaijan in historical records. Ibn Taghribirdi first wrote about the large number of dead in the fifteenth century.

</doc>
<doc id="205609" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205609" title="Filippa Reinfeldt">
Filippa Reinfeldt

Filippa Desiree Amanda Cay Reinfeldt (née Holmberg, born June 14, 1967 in Stockholm) is a Swedish Moderate Party politician. She has been Municipal Commissioner () of Täby, Uppland, since 2002 and Mayor and Chairperson of the Täby Municipal Executive since 2005. Previously Reinfeldt was an appointed to various posts ("förtroendevald") in the Stockholm City Council from 1991 to 1994 and councillor in the Stockholm County Council from 1994.
Filippa is married since 1992 to Moderate Party leader and Prime Minister of Sweden Fredrik Reinfeldt, with whom she has three children.

</doc>
<doc id="205611" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205611" title="Karl Wilhelm Scheibler">
Karl Wilhelm Scheibler

Karl Wilhelm Scheibler (1 September 1820 – 13 April 1881) was a German - Polish industrialist.

</doc>
<doc id="205612" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205612" title="Sarah Silverman">
Sarah Silverman

Sarah Kate Silverman (born December 1, 1970) is an American stand-up comedienne, writer, actress, singer, voice actress, and musician. Although usually credited as "Sarah Silverman," she is sometimes credited by her nickname, "Big S." Her satirical comedy addresses social taboos and controversial topics such as racism, sexism, and religion.

</doc>
<doc id="205616" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205616" title="Coat of Arms of Australia">
Coat of Arms of Australia

The Australian coat of arms has two animals; the emu and kangaroo. The animals are each on one side separated by a shield. The shield shows the badge of each six states. The current version was granted by King George V on 19 September 1912

</doc>
<doc id="205629" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205629" title="Dinnerladies">
Dinnerladies

Dinnerladies was a British sitcom. It was written by, co-produced by and starred Victoria Wood. The series had 16 episodes. It was broadcast on the BBC from 1998 to 2000.
The setting is the canteen of HWD Components, a fictional Manchester factory. During its two years, "Dinnerladies" follows the lives of the people working in the canteen. 
Canteen staff:
Factory staff:
Other characters:

</doc>
<doc id="205635" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205635" title="Jeroen Boere">
Jeroen Boere

Jeroen Boere (18 November 1967 – 16 August 2007) is a former Dutch football player.
181||74
116||32
26||18
323||124

</doc>
<doc id="205636" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205636" title="Jorge Luiz de Amorim Silva">
Jorge Luiz de Amorim Silva

Jorge Luiz de Amorim Silva (born 5 September 1979) is a Brazilian football player.
73||27||6||5||4||1||83||33
73||27||6||5||4||1||83||33

</doc>
<doc id="205637" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205637" title="Ryang Kyu-Sa">
Ryang Kyu-Sa

Ryang Kyu-Sa (born 3 June 1978) is a former North Korean football player. He has played for Korea DPR national team.
0||0||0||0||0||0||0||0
0||0||0||0||0||0||0||0
!Total||2||2

</doc>
<doc id="205640" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205640" title="Halmstads BK">
Halmstads BK

Halmstads BK is an association football club in the town of Halmstad in Sweden. The club won Allsvenskan, becoming Swedish national champions, in the years of 1976, 1979, 1997 and 2000. They also won the Swedish Cup in 1995.

</doc>
<doc id="205642" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205642" title="Diego de Souza Gama Silva">
Diego de Souza Gama Silva

Diego de Souza Gama Silva (born 22 March 1984) is a Brazilisn football player. He plays for Kyoto Sanga.
152||54||3||1||10||0||165||55
152||54||3||1||10||0||165||55

</doc>
<doc id="205643" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205643" title="Marcelinho Carioca">
Marcelinho Carioca

Marcelinho Carioca (born 31 December 1971) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Santo André.
315||96
5||0
21||3
12||6
10||2
363||107
!Total||3||2

</doc>
<doc id="205644" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205644" title="Johan Djourou">
Johan Djourou

Johan Djourou (born 18 January 1987) is a Swiss football player. He plays for Arsenal and Switzerland national team.
10||1||||||||||||||10||1
58||0||7||0||12||0||13||0||90||0
68||1||7||0||12||0||13||0||100||1
!Total||24||1

</doc>
<doc id="205666" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205666" title="Korea DPR national football team">
Korea DPR national football team

Korea DPR national football team is the national football team of North Korea.

</doc>
<doc id="205668" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205668" title="Cape Verde national football team">
Cape Verde national football team

Cape Verde national football team is the national football team of Cape Verde.

</doc>
<doc id="205670" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205670" title="Cook Islands national football team">
Cook Islands national football team

Cook Islands national football team is the national football team of Cook Islands.

</doc>
<doc id="205671" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205671" title="Fiji national football team">
Fiji national football team

Fiji national football team is the national football team of Fiji.

</doc>
<doc id="205672" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205672" title="Kiribati national football team">
Kiribati national football team

Kiribati national football team is the national football team of Kiribati.

</doc>
<doc id="205673" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205673" title="Federated States of Micronesia national football team">
Federated States of Micronesia national football team

Federated States of Micronesia national football team is the national football team of Federated States of Micronesia.

</doc>
<doc id="205676" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205676" title="Niue national football team">
Niue national football team

Niue national football team is the national football team of Niue.

</doc>
<doc id="205677" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205677" title="Northern Mariana Islands national football team">
Northern Mariana Islands national football team

Northern Mariana Islands national football team is the national football team of Northern Mariana Islands.

</doc>
<doc id="205678" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205678" title="Palau national football team">
Palau national football team

Palau national football team is the national football team of Palau.

</doc>
<doc id="205679" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205679" title="Papua New Guinea national football team">
Papua New Guinea national football team

Papua New Guinea national football team is the national football team of Papua New Guinea.

</doc>
<doc id="205680" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205680" title="Samoa national football team">
Samoa national football team

Samoa national football team is the national football team of Samoa.

</doc>
<doc id="205681" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205681" title="Solomon Islands national football team">
Solomon Islands national football team

Solomon Islands national football team is the national football team of Solomon Islands.

</doc>
<doc id="205682" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205682" title="Tahiti national football team">
Tahiti national football team

Tahiti national football team is the national football team of Tahiti.

</doc>
<doc id="205683" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205683" title="Tonga national football team">
Tonga national football team

Tonga national football team is the national football team of Tonga.

</doc>
<doc id="205684" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205684" title="Tuvalu national football team">
Tuvalu national football team

Tuvalu national football team is the national football team of Tuvalu.

</doc>
<doc id="205685" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205685" title="Vanuatu national football team">
Vanuatu national football team

Vanuatu national football team is the national football team of Vanuatu.

</doc>
<doc id="205686" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205686" title="Yuji Sakakura">
Yuji Sakakura

135||1||5||0||22||0||162||1
135||1||5||0||22||0||162||1
!Total||6||0

</doc>
<doc id="205687" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205687" title="Shingi Ono">
Shingi Ono

Shingi Ono (born 9 April 1974) is a former Japanese football player.
315||49||20||4||5||1||340||54
315||49||20||4||5||1||340||54

</doc>
<doc id="205688" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205688" title="Sergei Aleinikov">
Sergei Aleinikov

Sergei Aleinikov (born 7 November 1961) is a former Belarusian football player. He has played for Soviet Union national team and Belarus national team.
220||31||||||||||220||31
98||6||||||||||98||6
83||14||6||2||8||2||97||18
5||0||||||||||5||0
406||51||6||2||8||2||420||55
!Total||77||6
!Total||4||0

</doc>
<doc id="205690" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205690" title="Alloa Athletic F.C.">
Alloa Athletic F.C.

Alloa Athletic F.C. is a football club which plays in Scotland.

</doc>
<doc id="205691" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205691" title="Bo'ness F.C.">
Bo'ness F.C.

Bo'ness F.C. is a former football club which has played in Scotland.

</doc>
<doc id="205692" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205692" title="East Fife F.C.">
East Fife F.C.

East Fife F.C. is a football club which plays in Scotland.

</doc>
<doc id="205693" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205693" title="Forfar Athletic F.C.">
Forfar Athletic F.C.

Forfar Athletic F.C. is a football club which plays in Scotland.

</doc>
<doc id="205694" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205694" title="Arbroath F.C.">
Arbroath F.C.

Arbroath F.C. is a football club which plays in Scotland.

</doc>
<doc id="205697" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205697" title="Arturo Lupoli">
Arturo Lupoli

Arturo Lupoli (born 24 June 1987) is an Italian football player. He plays for Ascoli.

</doc>
<doc id="205698" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205698" title="Lauren Etame Mayer">
Lauren Etame Mayer

Lauren Etame Mayer (born 19 January 1977) is a Cameroonian football player. He has played for Cameroon national team.
143||18
184||7
327||25
!Total||24||1

</doc>
<doc id="205699" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205699" title="Tomoya Uchida">
Tomoya Uchida

Tomoya Uchida (born 10 July 1983) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Omiya Ardija.
223||16||11||4||7||0||241||20
223||16||11||4||7||0||241||20

</doc>
<doc id="205703" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205703" title="Kenichi Shimokawa">
Kenichi Shimokawa

277||0||12||0||34||0||323||0
277||0||12||0||34||0||323||0
!Total||9||0

</doc>
<doc id="205704" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205704" title="Kunie Kitamoto">
Kunie Kitamoto

Kunie Kitamoto (born 18 September 1981) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Vissel Kobe.
248||13||14||0||33||0||295||13
248||13||14||0||33||0||295||13

</doc>
<doc id="205705" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205705" title="Tadahiro Akiba">
Tadahiro Akiba

404||5||19||0||24||0||447||5
404||5||19||0||24||0||447||5

</doc>
<doc id="205707" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205707" title="Montrose F.C.">
Montrose F.C.

Montrose F.C. is a football club which plays in Scotland.

</doc>
<doc id="205708" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205708" title="Brechin City F.C.">
Brechin City F.C.

Brechin City F.C. is a football club which plays in Scotland.

</doc>
<doc id="205711" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205711" title="Yuji Hironaga">
Yuji Hironaga

175||12||11||1||26||1||212||14
175||12||11||1||26||1||212||14

</doc>
<doc id="205712" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205712" title="Kiyokazu Kudo">
Kiyokazu Kudo

Kiyokazu Kudo (born 21 June 1974) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Avispa Fukuoka.
369||19||29||3||35||2||433||24
369||19||29||3||35||2||433||24

</doc>
<doc id="205713" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205713" title="Karel Brückner">
Karel Brückner

Karel Brückner (born 13 November 1939) is a Czech football manager.

</doc>
<doc id="205715" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205715" title="Nithsdale Wanderers F.C.">
Nithsdale Wanderers F.C.

Nithsdale Wanderers F.C. is a football club which plays in Scotland. Their home ground is Lorimer Park.

</doc>
<doc id="205716" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205716" title="Helensburgh F.C.">
Helensburgh F.C.

Helensburgh F.C. is a football club which plays in Scotland.

</doc>
<doc id="205720" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205720" title="Ryuji Michiki">
Ryuji Michiki

173||8||16||0||31||1||220||9
173||8||16||0||31||1||220||9
!Total||4||0

</doc>
<doc id="205721" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205721" title="Norihiro Satsukawa">
Norihiro Satsukawa

Norihiro Satsukawa (born 18 April 1972) is a former Japanese football player.
323||2||27||0||59||2||409||4
323||2||27||0||59||2||409||4

</doc>
<doc id="205722" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205722" title="C.A. Progreso">
C.A. Progreso

C.A. Progreso is a football club which plays in Uruguay.

</doc>
<doc id="205726" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205726" title="Tetsuya Enomoto">
Tetsuya Enomoto

Tetsuya Enomoto (born 2 May 1983) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Yokohama F. Marinos.
132||0||11||0||35||0||5||0||183||0
132||0||11||0||35||0||5||0||183||0

</doc>
<doc id="205727" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205727" title="Makoto Kakegawa">
Makoto Kakegawa

Makoto Kakegawa (born 23 May 1973) is a former Japanese football player.
147||0||12||0||30||0||189||0
147||0||12||0||30||0||189||0

</doc>
<doc id="205728" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205728" title="Naoto Otake">
Naoto Otake

287||5||16||0||50||1||353||6
287||5||16||0||50||1||353||6
!Total||1||0

</doc>
<doc id="205747" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205747" title="Latino moderne">
Latino moderne

Latino Moderne (LM) is a language that was developed by David Th. Stark in the 1980s and first published on the internet in 1996. It represents a revision of the grammar of the IALA's language Interlingua, using the IALA's vocabulary with little modification. Applying the same principles that were used in developing the international vocabulary for Interlingua to developing a grammar, L.M. restores personal endings on its verbs and has gender and number agreement between its nouns and their adjectives and articles. The language also has an more clearly developed system for showing case distinctions in its pronouns. This, in effect, frees L.M. from a dependence on word order as is found in Interlingua. The changes in L.M. actually are very simple and easy to learn, providing a much more poetic and free use of it for international communication. Most of the changes that L.M. makes to the IALA language are actually suggestions that were set forth by the original deverlopers of the IALA project. Properly speaking, L.M. should be viewed as a continuation to the IALA project, not as something in competition with it. 
It is hoped that the spread and use of Latino Moderne may assist in solving some of the communication problems that exist in the European Union and throughout the modern world. In this respect it shares the same goals as Interlingua, Esperanto, etc.. The developer of the language hopes that L.M. will be received and used as a suggested model language to help promote better international communication and friendship among nations.
NO community is presently established for the Latino Moderne (L.M.) project. It's developer, David Th. Stark, welcomes any activity in this area by other interested parties. "The language, Latino Moderne, belongs to all those who desire to use it." 
LM21
Patre nostre, 
Qui es in celo,
Sia Sanctificate tue nomine!
Que adveni tue regno!
Sia facite tue voluntate, como in celo, assi sur la terra!
Le pan nostre necesse da nobis hodie,
E pardona nobis las debitas nostras,
Como anque nos pardonamus les debitores nostres.
E ne induce nes in a le tentation,
Ma libera nes ab le mal,
Proque tues son le regno e la potentia e la gloria 
Por tute las epochas. Amen.
And Modern Latin is also a simplified Interlingua, which same text as above is :
Nostre Patre qui es in le cielos, Que tu nome sia sanctificate ! Que tu reino veni ! Que tu voluntat sia facte sure terra como in cielo ! Dona nois este jorno nostre pan quotidian, E perdona nois nostre ofensas como nos perdona a nostre ofensores. E non somete nois al tentation, ma libera nois del mal, Porque son de te le reino, le pocentia e le gloria pro le sieclos de sieclos. Amen.

</doc>
<doc id="205749" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205749" title="Downtown São Paulo">
Downtown São Paulo

The Downtown São Paulo (or Central Zone São Paulo, or simply Center São Paulo) is a Commercial District and third major Central Business District of São Paulo. 
The region is administered by Subprefeitura da Sé Encompassing the neighborhoods and districts Bela Vista, Bom Retiro, Cambuci, Consolação, Aclimação, Bras, Liberdade, República, Sé and Santa Cecília. Not to be confused with the region known as Downtown Expanded, used eventually by the city government in actions urban planning, which also includes parts of the subdistricts of the Mooca, Lapa, Pinheiros and Vila Mariana or with Historic Center São Paulo Which includes only the oldest part of the central region.
The region in 1940s at 1970s was one of the largest Financial Districts of South America and Latin America.

</doc>
<doc id="205765" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205765" title="Grandpa Never Lies">
Grandpa Never Lies

Grandpa Never Lies is a children's book written by Ralph Fletcher with pictures drawn by Harvey Stevenson. It was first published in 2000.
A young girl describes her special bond with her grandfather over four seasons. The Grandfather tells creative stories in answer to her questions. Each story is followed by her saying "And Grandpa never lies, so I know it's so". Then Grandma suddenly dies and the little girl and her grandfather are sad and comfort each other.

</doc>
<doc id="205783" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205783" title="BookCrossing">
BookCrossing

BookCrossing (also: BC, BCing or BXing) is defined as "the practice of leaving a book in a public place to be picked up and read by others, who then do likewise." The term comes from bookcrossing.com, a free online book club which began in order to further the practice, with the goal to "make the whole world a library."
The 'crossing' or exchanging of books may take many different forms, including wild releasing books in public, direct swaps with other members of the website, or "book rings" in which books travel in a set order to people who want to read that book. The community aspect of BookCrossing.com has grown in ways that were not expected at the start, in the form of blog or forum discussions, mailing lists and yearly conventions all over the world.
Ron Hornbaker came up the idea for what is now known as BookCrossing in March 2001. About four weeks later, on April 17, he started the website, which has grown all over the world. By April 2003 the website had over 113,000 members, and in 2004 the "Concise Oxford Dictionary" included the word "bookcrossing". In the same year, BookCrossing was featured as a part of a storyline in the Australian soap opera "Neighbours". As of 30 September 2009, Bookcrossing.com had over 814,000 members, with over 5,800,000 registered books.
In July 2007 Singapore became the first official BookCrossing country in the world. 2,000 locations within the country were designated as 'hotspots', similar to Official BookCrossing Zones. In 2008, BookCrossing was introduced to Abu Dhabi as part of a joint venture with the Abu Dhabi Authority for Culture and Heritage.
In May 2005 BookCrossing.com won two People's Voice awards in the Webby Awards for best community website and best social/networking website. BookCrossing was also featured in a BBC Radio project broadcast as 84 Book Crossing Road, which involved releasing 84 copies of Helene Hanff's book "84 Charing Cross Road" around the world. The show was produced by Tim Heffer and Alan Hall of Falling Tree Productions, and was nominated for a Sony Radio Academy Award in 2006.
Anyone who wishes to "release" books, whether leaving it in a public place or passing it on to a friend, must register on the BookCrossing.com website, although there is the option to remain hidden when "catching" the find of a book. BookCrossing.com users can 'go hunting', where a member will go to the website to view a list of books that have just been "released", then go to the place it was left to "catch" it. Books may also be left at Official BookCrossing Zones" (OBCZs), which are located in certain coffee shops, cafes, restaurants and other public places. The purpose of these places is to get members in the area to leave books to share with the public. This also promotes BookCrossing and creates more members.

</doc>
<doc id="205786" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205786" title="Bukit Timah">
Bukit Timah

Bukit Timah is an area in Singapore and a hill in that area. Bukit Timah Hill stands at an altitude of and is the highest point in the city-state of Singapore. Bukit Timah is near the centre of Singapore island. Bukit Timah is 10 kilometres (6 miles) from Singapore's business district.
Bukit Timah, which means "tin-bearing hill" in Malay, was on the 1828 map by Frankin and Philip Jackson as "Bukit Timah". The hill was on the map as the eastern source of the Kranji River. 
In December 1843, a road was built up to the hill. The hill was an "excellent sanatorium", as the air was ""cooler and fresher than the plain, producing an agreeable exhilaration of spirits"".
For some, it is synonymous with the Singapore Turf Club, where members and paying visitors flock on race days. This course is closed to the public, unlike the former course (now Farrer Park) where the general public enjoyed watching the king's sport for free.
The 25-km long Bukit Timah Road, the longest road in Singapore, running north and south of the island, takes its name from this hill. The road to Kranji was completed in 1845. Apparently, the area was so infested with tigers that it constituted a serious threat to human life. In 1860, nearly 200 people were reported to have been killed by tigers in and about the gambier and pepper plantations. The first ride on horseback across the island was along Bukit Timah Road in 1840; it took four days and was made by Mr Thomson and Dr Little.
Bukit Timah Road is known as "tek kha kang a kinn" in Hokkien, which means "the side of the stream in the "tek kha" (or Selegie Road) district". This only refers to the lower end of the Bukit Timah Road. The Wayang Satu and Bukit Timah village parts are differently called. The Hokkiens also refer to Bukit Timah as "be chia lo bue", meaning "end of the horse carriage road".
During World War II, the British Army lost Bukit Timah to the Japanese on February 11th, they knew they had little chance of winning the war as most of their food and supplies were stored there. On 15 February 1942, the head of the Allied forces, Lieutenant General A.E. Percival surrendered to Lieutenant General Tomoyuki Yamashita at the Ford Factory in Bukit Timah.
During the Japanese Occupation, the Japanese troops built a Syonan-to Shinto shrine (Syonan-to was the Occupation name for Singapore), similar to the National Shinto in Japan but of a smaller size, at Bukit Timah Hill. Two war memorials dedicated to the Japanese war dead and surprisingly, to the deceased British troops who died defending Singapore, were built at the site. Students, Japanese commanders, British POWs' representatives would gather there regularly to commemorate the dead during the Occupation.
It was only shortly before the Japanese surrender, the Japanese forces hastily destroyed the Shinto Shrine, on fears that returning British forces will demolish it in an bad manner. The present site where the Shinto Shrine existed, lied at a grey area between the Nature Reserve and Singapore Armed Forces restricted area. Several historians have been down at the site, and an episode from then Television Corporation of Singapore (TCS) history documentary show, "Hey Singapore", was on the mysterious Shinto Shrine. Since then, the Singapore Government has erected the place as "Historical Site". No plans have been indicated to restore the site, on speculations of angry responses from the People Republic of China (PRC) and abroad. 
The Japanese war dead were brought back to the controversial Yasukuni Shrine, while the remains of the British troops were instituted at the British Commonwealth's Kranji War Memorial in Singapore. Nothing of the Syonan-to Shinto shrine remains, except for the Holy Cleansing Pond and several Japanese stone pavements left at the site.
After the Japanese Occupation, the farms and plantations in Bukit Timah gave way to industrial buildings and high-rise flats. In the 1960s and 1970s, Bukit Timah was a major industrial center. Today, these have been replaced with luxury bungalows, terraces and condominiums, making Bukit Timah Singapore's premier residential district.
The Bukit Timah area is a particularly prominent location with a high land value. The area of Bukit Timah has an extensive flora and forest compared to the parts of Singapore, and contains Bukit Timah Nature Reserve, which is partially responsible for its high land value. The nature reserve was established in 1883.
The Bukit Timah Race Course, a Thoroughbred horse racing facility, was opened in 1933 and operated until 1999.
The nearby area houses many bungalows, traditionally expensive in land-scarce Singapore, as well as high rise condominiums. Many expatriates and well heeled Singaporeans tend to stay in this region. The rise in land prices has led to development of new condominiums. For example, the Copthorne Orchid Hotel in Dunearn Road is being redeveloped into condominiums for sale.
This region was later extended and Upper Bukit Timah (District 21) was formed. The Keretapi Tanah Melayu from Malaysia has a passing loop station here along its rail network from Johor Bahru to Tanjong Pagar.

</doc>
<doc id="205800" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205800" title="Rossall">
Rossall

Rossall is a suburb of the town of Fleetwood on the Fylde coast in Lancashire, England. 

</doc>
<doc id="205801" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205801" title="Armenia-Turkey relations">
Armenia-Turkey relations

Armenia and Turkey's relations have been strained for a number of years mostly concerning the Nagorno-Karabakh area and Armenias claim of genocide by the Ottoman Empire. Turkey also has taken a stand for Azerbaijan in their conflict. However, on October 10, 2009 both Turkey and Armenia signed an accord that aimed to lead to a new relationship between the two countries and an opening of the borders. However, those diplomatic efforts to ease the relations have stopped, as Armenia suspended the process.

</doc>
<doc id="205804" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205804" title="Lytham St Annes">
Lytham St Annes

Lytham St Annes is a conurbation in Lancashire, England. It is on the coast of the Fylde district. It is next to Blackpool.

</doc>
<doc id="205805" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205805" title="Poulton-le-Fylde">
Poulton-le-Fylde

Poulton-le-Fylde is a town in the Wyre borough of Lancashire, England. As of 2001, 19,480 people lived there. 

</doc>
<doc id="205807" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205807" title="Coppa Italia">
Coppa Italia

Coppa Italia is an annual Italian football cup competition. The 2012 Coppa Italia was played between team Napoliand Fiorentina at the Stadio Olimpico in Rome, Italy. Which saw Napoli winning by 3-1.

</doc>
<doc id="205811" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205811" title="Anna Anka">
Anna Anka

Anna Anka born April 28, 1971 in Poland is an American model, actress and author and wife of singer Paul Anka. Anna Anka - earlier Anna Åberg - was born in Poland and was later adopted to a Swedish family in Bjuv, Skåne. In 1993 she left Sweden for the U.S and appeared in movies like "Dumb and Dumber" and "Drop Zone", she also appeared twice in the TV-series Baywatch. During late 2009 she appeared in the Swedish reality show ("Svenska Hollywoodfruar") which followed three Swedish women who had left Sweden for a life in Hollywood. Anka received American citizenship in 2009.

</doc>
<doc id="205845" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205845" title="Super Sweet 16: The Movie">
Super Sweet 16: The Movie

Super Sweet 16: The Movie is an MTV television movie, based on the series "My Super Sweet 16".

</doc>
<doc id="205865" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205865" title="Stacy Schiff">
Stacy Schiff

Stacy Madeleine Schiff (born October 26, 1960) is a Pulitzer Prize-winning American nonfiction author and guest columnist for "The New York Times".
Schiff is a graduate of Phillips Academy. She earned her degree from Williams College in 1982. She was a Senior Editor at Simon & Schuster until 1990. Her stories have been published in "The New Yorker", "The New York Times Book Review" and "The Times Literary Supplement".
Schiff has received fellowships from the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation and the National Endowment for the Humanities.
Schiff won the 2000 Pulitzer Prize for her biography of Vera Nabokov, wife and muse of "Lolita" and "Pale Fire" author Vladimir Nabokov. She was also a in the final running for the 1995 Pulitzer Prize for "Saint-Exupéry: A Biography" about Antoine de Saint Exupéry.
Schiff's A Great Improvisation: Franklin, France, and the Birth of America won the 2006 George Washington Book Prize, the Ambassador Award in American Studies, and the Institut Français’s Gilbert Chinard Prize. 
Schiff has received fellowships from the Guggenheim Foundation and the National Endowment of the Humanities, and was a Director’s Fellow at the Center for Scholars and Writers at the New York Public Library. She was awarded a 2006 Academy Award in Literature from the American Academy of Arts and Letters. 
Currently a guest writer at "The New York Times", Schiff resides in New York City and Edmonton, Alberta.
Schiff wrote a "New Yorker" profile of Wikipedia ("Know It All" column, July 31, 2006), the correction of which in February 2007 sparked the Essjay controversy.

</doc>
<doc id="205867" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205867" title="Tenure">
Tenure

Tenure is normally used for jobs, usually academic high-ranking jobs like professors. It is to protect professors who are teaching something that their employer, the university, might not agree with. Tenure means that these people cannot be fired without a very good reason- the job is for life. The reason for tenure is to help professors be bold about what they teach and research, so that new ideas will be developed. Or a teacher can also have a tenure. It depends how long their term has to be.
Sometimes judges also get tenure. This is so that they can make decisions based on the evidence, even if this means saying that the government, which is their employer, is wrong.

</doc>
<doc id="205893" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205893" title="Toshinobu Katsuya">
Toshinobu Katsuya

298||8||5||0||32||2||335||10
298||8||5||0||32||2||335||10
!Total||27||0

</doc>
<doc id="205894" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205894" title="Mitsunori Yoshida">
Mitsunori Yoshida

275||35||1||0||7||1||283||36
275||35||1||0||7||1||283||36
!Total||35||2

</doc>
<doc id="205895" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205895" title="Anthony Vanden Borre">
Anthony Vanden Borre

Anthony Vanden Borre (born 24 October 1987) is a Belgian football player. He plays for Portsmouth and Belgium national team.
69||3
33||0
0||0
102||3
!Total||22||1

</doc>
<doc id="205896" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205896" title="Danubio F.C.">
Danubio F.C.

Danubio F.C. is a football club which plays in Uruguay.

</doc>
<doc id="205907" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205907" title="Thornton, Lancashire">
Thornton, Lancashire

Thornton is a town on the Fylde, in Lancashire, England. It is about four miles north of Blackpool and two miles south of Fleetwood. It is in the borough of Wyre. It is linked to the town of Cleveleys by Victoria Road.

</doc>
<doc id="205908" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205908" title="Lancashire County Council">
Lancashire County Council

Lancashire County Council is the local authority for the county of Lancashire, England. They meet in the County Hall.
County website

</doc>
<doc id="205910" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205910" title="Central Pier, Blackpool">
Central Pier, Blackpool

Central Pier is one of three piers in the town of Blackpool, England. John Isaac Mawson designed the pier. It is long. The pier was opened 30 May 1868.
It was made mostly of cast iron with wooden decking. 

</doc>
<doc id="205919" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205919" title="Stefan Ishizaki">
Stefan Ishizaki

Stefan Ishizaki (born 15 May 1982) is a Swedish football player. He plays for Elfsborg and Sweden national team.
229||43
7||0
15||2
251||45
!Total||11||0

</doc>
<doc id="205920" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205920" title="Atsuhiro Iwai">
Atsuhiro Iwai

Atsuhiro Iwai (born 31 January 1967) is a former Japanese football player.
230||2||15||0||37||0||282||2
230||2||15||0||37||0||282||2

</doc>
<doc id="205921" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205921" title="Tatsuru Mukojima">
Tatsuru Mukojima

Tatsuru Mukojima (born 9 January 1966) is a former Japanese football player.
216||34||10||2||23||3||249||39
216||34||10||2||23||3||249||39

</doc>
<doc id="205925" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205925" title="Junji Nishizawa">
Junji Nishizawa

Junji Nishizawa (born 10 May 1974) is a former Japanese football player.
269||5||26||0||21||0||316||5
269||5||26||0||21||0||316||5

</doc>
<doc id="205926" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205926" title="Masanori Sanada">
Masanori Sanada

Masanori Sanada (born 6 March 1968) is a former Japanese football player.
279||0||29||0||59||0||1||0||368||0
279||0||29||0||59||0||1||0||368||0

</doc>
<doc id="205927" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205927" title="José Ignacio Zahínos">
José Ignacio Zahínos

José Ignacio Zahínos (born 1 December 1977) is a former Spanish football player.
77||5
77||5

</doc>
<doc id="205931" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205931" title="Hiromi Kojima">
Hiromi Kojima

251||56||28||8||29||6||308||70
251||56||28||8||29||6||308||70
!Total||1||0

</doc>
<doc id="205932" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205932" title="Makoto Kakuda">
Makoto Kakuda

214||7||14||1||26||2||254||10
214||7||14||1||26||2||254||10

</doc>
<doc id="205944" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205944" title="Ram Narayan">
Ram Narayan

Ram Narayan (born 25 December 1927 in Udaipur, British Raj) is an Indian musician. He plays the instrument sarangi and is well known for playing in Europe and the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="205952" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205952" title="Takuma Edamura">
Takuma Edamura

132||26||16||1||30||10||178||37
132||26||16||1||30||10||178||37

</doc>
<doc id="205953" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205953" title="Riki Takasaki">
Riki Takasaki

Riki Takasaki (born 11 July 1970) is a former Japanese football player.
158||0||16||0||17||0||3||0||194||0
158||0||16||0||17||0||3||0||194||0

</doc>
<doc id="205956" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205956" title="Euller">
Euller

Euller (born 15 March 1971) is a Brazilian football player. He has played for Brazil national team.
190||41||||||||||190||41
52||23||5||4||5||3||62||30
242||64||5||4||5||3||252||71
!Total||6||3

</doc>
<doc id="205960" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205960" title="Luiz Carlos Pereira">
Luiz Carlos Pereira

Luiz Carlos Pereira (born March 6, 1960) is a former Brazilian football player.
186||17||14||3||29||1||229||21
186||17||14||3||29||1||229||21

</doc>
<doc id="205961" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205961" title="Dan Calichman">
Dan Calichman

Dan Calichman (born February 21, 1968) is a former American soccer player. He has played for the United States national team.
50||1||0||0||10||2||60||3
143||1||||||||||143||1
193||2||0||0||10||2||203||4
!Total||2||0

</doc>
<doc id="205962" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205962" title="Kerrea Gilbert">
Kerrea Gilbert

Kerrea Gilbert (born 28 February 1987) is an English football player. He plays for Peterborough United.
65||1||6||0||9||0||2||0||82||1
65||1||6||0||9||0||2||0||82||1

</doc>
<doc id="205979" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205979" title="Vikings">
Vikings

The Vikings were peoples from Scandinavia (Denmark, Norway, and Sweden) from about 700 AD to about 1100. This period is called the Viking Age. Vikings travelled great distances in their longships, as traders, settlers and warriors. Many of the Vikings were tall and had red or blonde hair and beards. Villages on or near any coast in early medieval Europe lived in great fear of Viking attacks. Some of the countries most affected by Viking raids were Britain, Germany, France, Spain and Italy. The word viking seems to have two uses. The word "vikingr", taken from rune stones, meaning a man who has gone with other men on a military journey. "Viking" is a word for the journey itself. The word did not seem to include those who went on peaceful trading journeys.
The people of the far north, later called Vikings, were first noticed by the Romans around the year 100 BC. This is when the Cimbri and the Teutons moved into southern Gaul. The Romans believed these war-like tribes came from Jutland. But the Romans suspected they were only a part of a greater threat located further north. The Roman historians Jordanes described the destructive Ostrogoths and Visigoths as having come from Gotland. The northern menace survived the fall of the Western Roman Empire. 
The Frankish Empire that succeeded them in Gaul became more and more aware of the northern threat. As the later Carolingian Empire expanded into northern Germany they came into contact with the Danish people. This is when the Vikings first entered into written history. The first recorded raid in the west was at Lindisfarne in 793. Why the Vikings suddenly began raiding is not completely clear. But a popular theory is the populations had grown to the point there was not enough food to feed everyone. The earliest raiders did not seem to want to move out of Scandinavia. They turned to looting, then returning home. This seems to indicate there was space enough for everyone. Because they found raiding so easy, it became more and more popular among the Vikings.
Three different groups of Vikings can be identified. They took three different, sometimes overlapping, routes.
Europeans were scared of the Vikings because of their strong weapons, swift attacks, and cruel fighting tactics. They were known for their bad treatment of women, children and monks in the places where they fought. When the Vikings came to England, the English kings paid them to leave the country, but the Vikings took their money and sometimes fought them anyway. These payments were called Danegeld. From the 9th century to 1066, when the French Duke of Normandy, who became King William I of England, conquered it, Danish and Norwegian Vikings ruled large parts of England.
Because of their longships, which could float in 4 feet (1.3m) of water, the Vikings were able to make their way up rivers and land deep inside a country. For example they sailed up the River Shannon in Ireland and built a harbour 60 miles (100 km) from the coast.
There was a difference in who led Viking raids. In the 9th century Viking Age raids were led by men who may have been exiles in their own countries. The later Viking raids in the late 10th century and early 11th century and were led by Kings. Some of the early leaders tried to become kings with the riches they plundered from Europe and Russia. Some were successful but most were not.
The Vikings were called Rus' by the peoples east of the Baltic Sea. The Vikings who settled in Kiev and formed the first Russian state. The Vikings (Rus') who served the Byzantine Emperors were called Varangians. They became the personal bodyguards to the Emperor and were called the Varangian Guard.
The Vikings traveled through Russia, the Mediterranean Sea, southern Europe, northern Africa and south-western Asia. Some Vikings sailed across the Atlantic Ocean via Iceland and Greenland and may have explored places in North America. The ruins of a Viking settlement have been found at L'Anse-aux-Meadows, Newfoundland. Archaeologists used radiocarbon dating to find out how old the settlement was. Their tests gave them a range of dates from about AD 700 to about AD 1000.
Some English words, and many place names, came from the Scandinavian and Viking language (Norse). For example, the words "skirt" and "shirt" came from the word "skyrta", meaning a tunic. As English changed, the semantics altered to give us the separate words 'skirt' and 'shirt' we know today. "Skin" came from the Norse word "skinn" (which meant to strip the meat off something). Some place-names in the areas the Vikings conquered are still in use. For example in Yorkshire places ending with "-thwaite" meant a "clearing", and "dale" which meant a "valley". The word "thorpe" meant "new village", such as Scunthorpe.
The Anglo-Saxons called the Vikings pagans. They worshiped a great many gods. Viking gods belonged to two groups of gods in Norse mythology. They either belonged to the Aesir or the Vanir. The Aesir were gods of war. Aesir means "gods". They were the rulers of Asgard. Odin was the leader of the Aesir. He and the gods under him ruled mortal men. The vanir were wise gods skilled in magical arts. they live in Vanaheim, although nobody knows where it is. The Vanir can also predict the future. There was a war between the Aesir and the Vanir. When it ended the god Njord and his children Freya and Freyr came to live in Asgard.
The pagan Vikings were exposed to Christianity from the beginning of the Viking Age. They were surrounded by Christian countries. Early Christian missionaries were either enslaved or put to death. The Vikings came into contact with Christianity when they raided other areas around them. Viking raids produced many Christian slaves who were brought back to Scandinavia. They called Christians "Cross-men" because of the cross in their worship. In response many Vikings adopted Thors hammer as their religious symbol. When Vikings settled in Christian areas they converted to Christianity. There are still Headstones in England with both a cross and a hammer. Perhaps they thought it was better to be safe than sorry. That, or the more gods the better. As some Vikings turned from raiding to trading they found a nominal (in name only) profession of Christianity to be helpful. Scandinavia, their homeland, was slower to change to the Christian religion. But by the mid-11th century most of Norway and Denmark had converted. Sweden was converted by the mid-12th century. Overall Scandinavia and the peoples of the Baltic Sea were the last to accept Christianity. 
The Viking's religion affected Christianity as well. The pagan celebration of Yuletide became Christmas along with the custom of the Christmas tree. Priests blessing the fields took the place of pagan fertility rites of spring held to make sure there was a good harvest. Norse kept their "farm gods" well after Christianity just to make sure they were protected. Santa Claus owes much of his legend to the Norse god Odin. With his snow-white beard he traveled the midwinter sky on his eight-footed steed Sleipnir visiting his people with gifts. He became Father Christmas. Blended with the Christian Saint Nicholas he (they) became Santa Claus.

</doc>
<doc id="205982" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205982" title="Cleveleys">
Cleveleys

Cleveleys is a village on the Fylde Coast of Lancashire, England, about 4 miles north of Blackpool and 2 miles south of Fleetwood. It is part of the Borough of Wyre.

</doc>
<doc id="205983" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205983" title="Bank holiday">
Bank holiday

A bank holiday is the name used for a public holiday in both the United Kingdom, Ireland, and some other Commonwealth countries. The UK started using bank holidays in 1871.
The below is a list of such holidays in the United Kingdom and Ireland. An "X" underneath a country's name means that country uses that date as a bank holidy
India has 15 bank holidays
Hong Kong calls public holidays "bank holidays", even though they are not officially called that.

</doc>
<doc id="205985" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205985" title="Blackpool Illuminations">
Blackpool Illuminations

Blackpool Illuminations is an annual Lights Festival. It was founded in 1879 and first switched on 18 September that year. It is held each autumn in the English seaside resort of Blackpool on the Fylde Coast in Lancashire.
Also known locally as The Lights or The Illuminations, they run each year for sixty six days, from late August until early November at a time when most other English seaside resorts' seasons are coming to an end. Dubbed as The greatest free light show on earth, they are 6 miles (10 km) long and use over one million bulbs.

</doc>
<doc id="205986" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205986" title="Blackpool Gazette">
Blackpool Gazette

The Blackpool Gazette is an English evening newspaper based in Blackpool, Lancashire. It is published every day except Sunday. It covers the towns and communities of the Fylde coast. It was once named the "Evening Gazette" after initially being named "The West Lancashire Evening Gazette".

</doc>
<doc id="205988" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205988" title="Fleetwood Weekly News">
Fleetwood Weekly News

The Fleetwood Weekly News is a weekly newspaper based in Fleetwood, Lancashire, England. It is published every week, on a Wednesday, which covers Fleetwood and North Fylde.

</doc>
<doc id="205992" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205992" title="Standard gauge">
Standard gauge

The standard gauge (also called the Stephenson gauge after George Stephenson, or Normal gauge) is a popular rail gauge. About 60% of the world's current railway lines use this gauge. The distance between the inside edges of the rails of standard gauge track is .

</doc>
<doc id="206002" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206002" title="The Circus Surprise">
The Circus Surprise

The Circus Surprise is a children's picture book written by Ralph Fletcher with pictures drawn by Vladimir Vagin. It was first published in 2001.
Nick is taken to the circus as a surprise for his birthday. While at the circus he follows his nose looking for the cotton candy, and when he turns around his parents are gone. A clown on stilts comes to help him. The clown puts him on his shoulders and they locate his parents.

</doc>
<doc id="206025" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206025" title="Dark Floors">
Dark Floors

Dark Floors is a 2008 horror movie.

</doc>
<doc id="206028" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206028" title="Sonic Boom">
Sonic Boom

Sonic Boom is a album from the American hard rock/heavy metal band Kiss. 

</doc>
<doc id="206030" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206030" title="Hello, Harvest Moon">
Hello, Harvest Moon

Hello, Harvest Moon is a children's picture book written by Ralph Fletcher with drawings by Kate Kiesler. It was first published in 2003 by Clarion Books.
The moon rises and shines through a girl's bedroom window. It then shines on a silent street, corn and wheat fields and fall trees. A young girl and her cat play a game by its light, a pilot flies a plane using its light. The moon sets in the daylight as the young girl and her cat say goodnight.

</doc>
<doc id="206033" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206033" title="The Sandman (book)">
The Sandman (book)

The Sandman is a children's book written by Ralph Fletcher with drawings by Richard Cowdrey. It was first published in 2008 by Henry Holt and Company.
Tor is an man one inch tall who can not fall asleep no matter what he tries. He finds a dragon scale while walking in the woods. He learns that the powder made by grinding the scale help a person to sleep. He then travels the sand into the eyes of children who are having trouble sleeping.

</doc>
<doc id="206040" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206040" title="I Am Wings">
I Am Wings

I Am Wings: poems about love is a young adult book of poetry by Ralph Fletcher, it was first published in 1994. It was chosen by School Library Journal as one of their best books of 1994.
The book contains 31 free verse poems about love arranged into two sections, "Falling In" and "Falling Out". The poetic voice is that of a young man and the poems trace the development of a relationship from the start with the first poem "First Look" through its end with the last poem "Seeds".

</doc>
<doc id="206052" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206052" title="Ordinary Things">
Ordinary Things

Ordinary Things: Poems From a Walk in Early Spring is a young adult book of poetry by Ralph Fletcher, with drawings by Walter Lyon Krudop. It was first published in 1997. 
The book is a collection of 33 poems divided into three sections titled "Walking", "Into the Woods" and "Looping Back". The reader is taken on a walk along a road, through the woods, over a stream and back. 

</doc>
<doc id="206057" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206057" title="Buried Alive (book)">
Buried Alive (book)

Buried Alive: The Elements of Love is a young adult book of poetry by Ralph Fletcher, with pictures by Andrew Moore. It was first published in 1996.
This book is a collection of thirty six free verse poems about love divided into four elements: earth, water, air and fire.

</doc>
<doc id="206063" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206063" title="Relatively Speaking (book)">
Relatively Speaking (book)

Relatively Speaking: Poems About Family is a young adult book of poetry by Ralph Fletcher, with drawings by Walter Lyon Krudop. It was first published in 1999.
The youngest boy describes both his family and their life together through verse. Various scenes include how the family prepare corn on the cob, his other brothers accident, the family reunion, his seldom seen cousin and his uncle's funeral.
"Relatively Speaking: Poems About Family" has been described as a novel-in-verse.

</doc>
<doc id="206092" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206092" title="Salvaleón de Higüey">
Salvaleón de Higüey

The Dominican city of Salvaleón de Higüey, usually known as Higüey, is the head municipality of the La Altagracia province, on the eastern part of the country.
The "Basílica de Nuestra Señora de la Altagracia" (in English, "Our Lady of High Grace Church"), a cathedral, is in this city and many Catholic people come here to pray.
The city was founded by Juan de Esquivel in 1503. "Higüey" was the Taíno name of the eastern part of the island.
Higüey is located in the region known as "Llano Costero del Caribe" (in English, "Caribbean Coastal Plain"), in the eastern part of the country, a region with many savannas.
The municipality has a total area of 1,704.59 km². It has three municipal districts (subdivisions of a municipality): Las Lagunas de Nisibón, La Otra Banda and Verón-Punta Cana.
The municipality of Higüey has the Atlantic Ocean to the north and east, the municipality of San Rafael del Yuma to the south and the La Romana and El Seibo provinces to the west.
The municipality had, in 2010, a total population of 251,243: 130,916 men and 120,327 women. The urban population was 84.30% of the total population. In this numbers are included the population of the municipal districts that are part the municipality. The population of the city of Higüey without those municipal districts was 168,501.
The most important economic activity in the province is tourism, along the eastern coast, mainly in Bávaro and Punta Cana.
But farming is still an important activity in the rest of the province, mainly cattle raising. Also sugarcane is a very important crop in this province.

</doc>
<doc id="206093" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206093" title="Have You Been to the Beach Lately?">
Have You Been to the Beach Lately?

Have You Been to the Beach Lately? is a young adult book of poetry by Ralph Fletcher with photographs by Andrea Sperling. It was first published in 2001.
Thirty three first person poems that describe different times during an eleven year old boy's day at the beach. He builds sand walls, he plays in the water with his friends and teases his little brother.

</doc>
<doc id="206097" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206097" title="Piracy">
Piracy

Piracy is a crime that is committed on ships which are at sea. Pirate is the name given to those people. They usually have small and fast boats. They use these boats to attack other ships, which are usually large cargo ships. 
For as long as ships have sailed the sea, there have been pirates. From the Greeks, to the Romans, to the Middle Ages, to the British Empire, there have always been pirates. Sometimes fighting pirates has been one of the most important jobs of a navy.
A lot of piracy still happens nowadays in the Gulf of Aden, mostly by Somali pirates. Modern-day pirates usually climb onto ships to get money. In the process, they may kill the crew, or hold them for ransom. In a very few cases, they may also take over the ship and sell its cargo.
The cargo ships that travel the oceans are huge. They usually have very few crew members working on them. Since the ships are so big, they often carry a lot of money in the ship's safe. This money is used to pay the crew, and to pay for the taxes to stay at a port, or to pass through a channel.

</doc>
<doc id="206114" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206114" title="Langkawi">
Langkawi

Langkawi is an island in the Malaysian state of Kedah. This island received its duty-free status in 1987. 
Langkawi is one of the most important destination for tourists in Malaysia.

</doc>
<doc id="206118" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206118" title="Mawlid an-Nabi">
Mawlid an-Nabi

Mawlid an-Nabi is a special day in Islamic calendar to remember the birth of Prophet Muhammad. The day falls on the 12th day of Rabiul Awal of Islamic lunar calendar every year. Every year, Muslims around the world celebrate the day by large street processions, distributing food and charity and talks and sermons about the life of the prophet.
The day is recognised as a public holiday in most Muslim countries with the exception of Saudi Arabia.

</doc>
<doc id="206120" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206120" title="Kedah">
Kedah

Kedah is one of the 14 states that form Malaysia. The state is in the northwestern part of the Peninsular Malaysia. It has an area of 9,425 km2. The capital of Kedah is Alor Setar.

</doc>
<doc id="206132" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206132" title="Elizabeth Blackburn">
Elizabeth Blackburn

Elizabeth Blackburn (b. 1948) is an Australian molecular biologist who won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 2009. She won the award together with Americans Jack Szostak and Carol Greider for their work on chromosomes. They researched the way that telomeres protect the chromosomes in cells. It is believed that this will help prevent the spread of cancer. Blackburn is the first Australian woman to win a Nobel Prize.
Blackburn was born in Hobart, Tasmania and went to Broadford girls school in Launceston, and later Melbourne University High School. She studied at the University of Melbourne and completed her PhD at the University of Cambridge, Darwin College. She is now Professor of Biology and Physiology at the University of California, San Francisco.
On 26 January 2010, the Australian Government made Blackburn a Companion of the Order of Australia.

</doc>
<doc id="206135" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206135" title="IK Sleipner">
IK Sleipner

IK Sleipner is an association football club in the town of Norrköping in Sweden. In 1938 the club won Allsvenskan becoming Swedish national champions.

</doc>
<doc id="206165" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206165" title="Palm reading">
Palm reading

Palm reading is when a fortune teller tells you your future by looking at lines on your palm.

</doc>
<doc id="206185" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206185" title="Live Free or Die">
Live Free or Die

"Live Free or Die" is the official motto of the U.S. state of New Hampshire, adopted by the state in 1945. 
The phrase comes from a toast written by General John Stark on July 31, 1809. Stark was New Hampshire's most famous soldier of the American Revolutionary War. His poor health forced him to decline an invitation to a reunion of the Battle of Bennington. He sent his toast by letter: 
The motto was enacted at the same time as the state emblem, on which it appears.

</doc>
<doc id="206191" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206191" title="Chopped (TV series)">
Chopped (TV series)

Chopped is a reality-themed cooking competition series that airs on Food Network. Four chefs compete in three three rounds or segments on the show: appetizer, entree and dessert. After each round, a chef is then eliminated until there is one winner at the end. The winner receives $10,000. In each round the chefs are given three to five food items that must be part of their dish. There is a large pantry and refrigerator that the chefs can use in addition to the required items. In each round the chefs are given a limited time to complete their dish. The appetizer part lasts twenty minutes. The entree and dessert parts last thirty minutes. Three guest chefs judge each round.

</doc>
<doc id="206192" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206192" title="Food Network">
Food Network

Food Network is an American food-themed television network headquartered in New York City. It launched in November 1993.
The Food Network has many shows. Some of them are:

</doc>
<doc id="206193" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206193" title="Appetizer">
Appetizer

An appetizer is a small first course of an overall meal. Common examples include: shrimp cocktail, calamari, salad, potato skins, mussels, bruschetta or cheese and crackers. An appetizer may also be very elegant in some restaurants.

</doc>
<doc id="206198" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206198" title="Entrée">
Entrée

An entrée [prounced IPA:αn-tre or "on-tray" in American English] is food served before the main course in a multi-course meal. Most entrees typically include a meat or protein (chicken, veal, steak, beef, pork or ham), a vegetable (broccoli, carrots) and a starch (potato, yam or so).

</doc>
<doc id="206212" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206212" title="A Writing Kind of Day">
A Writing Kind of Day

A Writing Kind of Day: Poems for Young Poets is a young adult book of poetry by Ralph Fletcher, with drawings by April Ward. It was first published in 2005.
A young writer's experiences are described in twenty seven mostly free verse poems. Topics included are roadkill, Venus Flytraps, a grandmothers . Others discuss snow angels, little brothers and "Ma".

</doc>
<doc id="206214" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206214" title="Moving Day (book)">
Moving Day (book)

Moving Day is a young adult book of poetry by Ralph Fletcher, with drawings by Jennifer Emery. It was first published in 2006.
Thirty-four short free verse poems that express the feelings of a twelve year old boy moving from Massachusetts to Ohio. Some of the topics include packing, the discovery of long lost treasures, giving things away, and doing things one last time.

</doc>
<doc id="206217" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206217" title="Marshfield Dreams">
Marshfield Dreams

Marshfield Dreams: When I Was a Kid is a written by the American writer and poet Ralph Fletcher, it covers his life from birth to age thirteen when his family moved from Marshfield, Massachusetts to Chicago.
Each short chapter tells of an incident growing up in a large family on Acorn Street in Marshfield, Massachusetts. Ralph was the oldest of nine children. Some of the stories told were Ralph being informed of his mother's pregnancy by a nosy classmate. His mother's game called "snuck up the rug" where the whole family got down and pulled dirt from the carpets. Other stories include his father bringing home a pet chicken for each child and his great-grandmother who buried the kids' old teeth in the garden.

</doc>
<doc id="206244" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206244" title="La Romana, Dominican Republic">
La Romana, Dominican Republic

La Romana is a Dominican city along the Caribbean Sea, in the southeastern part of the country. It is the head municipality of the La Romana province.
The town was built on the right (western) side of the mouth of the river "Dulce" (now also called "Romana").
La Romana is located in the region known as "Llano Costero del Caribe" (in English, "Caribbean Coastal Plain"), with only few low hills and many savannas. The small islands of "Catalina" and "Saona" are part of this municipality but nobody lives in Catalina.
La Romana has the municipality of Guaymate to the north, the La Altagracia province to the east, the Caribbean Sea to the south and the Villa Hermosa municipality to the west.
The city is at 210 km to the east of Santo Domingo and at 35 km of Higüey.
The municipality has a total area of 276.36 km². It has only one municipal district (a subdivision of a municipality): La Caleta.
The municipality had, in 2010, a total population of 139,671: 67,866 men and 71,805 women. The urban population was 98% of the total population.In this numbers are included the population of the municipal district that is part the municipality. The population of the city of La Romana without that municipal district was 130,426.
The most important company in La Romana is the Central Romana that produces sugar. This factory was built in 1917 by the South Puerto Rico Sugar Company.
There is also here an important "Free Trade Zone", a place where there are different companies that made different products to send to other countries and do not pay taxes in the Dominican Republic.
The "La Romana International Airport" is very near the city and there are several important tourist places such as : "Casa de Campo" and "Alto de Chavón".
Sugarcane is an important crop in the municipality and also cattle raising.

</doc>
<doc id="206278" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206278" title="Thomas Keneally">
Thomas Keneally

Thomas Michael Keneally (October 7, 1935) is an Australian writer. He has won several major awards including the Miles Franklin Award and the Booker Prize.
Keneally was born in Sydney, Australia, in 1935. His early life was spent in northern New South Wales around the towns of Kemspey, Wauchope and Taree. He began training to become a Roman Catholic priest but left at the end of six years when he had a nervous breakdown. He wanted to be able to marry, which he did later and had two daughters. His first job was as a teacher, and during this time he began writing short stories. He began studying to become a lawyer and wrote his first book, a novel called "The Place at Whitton", in 1964.
His book, "Bring Larks and Heroes" (1967), was given the Miles Franklin Award. In 1982, his book "Schindler's Ark", won the Booker Prize. This was made into a movie, "Schindler's List", in 1993.
Keneally was the first chairman of the Australian Republican Movement.

</doc>
<doc id="206282" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206282" title="Digital media">
Digital media

Digital media (compared to analog media) is electronic media that works on digital codes. Today, computing is based on the binary numeral system, so the "digital" refers to the use of "0" and "1" to show data. Computers are machines that use binary digital data as information. Digital media ("Formats for presenting information" according to media) like digital audio, digital video and other digital "content" can be created, referred to and distributed by digital information processing machines. Digital media is a big change from (analog) media.
The transformation of an Analog signal to Digital information by an analog-to-digital converter is called sampling. According to information theory, sampling is a reduction of information. Most digital media are based on turning analog data into digital data and vice-versa (see digital recording, digital video, television versus digital television).
Compared to analog data, digital data is easier to control, and can be made into many copies without losing any quality. Mathematical operations can be made into digital information regardless of its meaning (you can add "2" to the data "65" and view the result either as the hexadecimal number "43" or the letter "C"). Thus, it is possible to use the same compression operation onto a text file or an image file or a sound file.

</doc>
<doc id="206299" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206299" title="Sitka, Alaska">
Sitka, Alaska

Sitka is a city in Alaska. 

</doc>
<doc id="206300" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206300" title="Wales national football team">
Wales national football team

Wales national football team is the national football team of Wales.
Prior to 1954 the Welsh team was chosen by a panel of selectors with the team captain fulfilling the role of coach.

</doc>
<doc id="206301" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206301" title="Loves Park, Illinois">
Loves Park, Illinois

Loves Park is a City in the State of Illinois in the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="206302" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206302" title="Montezuma, Iowa">
Montezuma, Iowa

Montezuma is a city of Iowa in the United States.

</doc>
<doc id="206303" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206303" title="Waverly, Kentucky">
Waverly, Kentucky

Waverly is a city in the U.S. state of Kentucky. At the 2000 census, 297 people lived there. It was founded in 1870 and the city was named for founder Hugh McElroy's nephew.
Waverly is at (37.709738, -87.815278).
The United States Census Bureau says that the city has an area of , and that all of it is land.

</doc>
<doc id="206304" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206304" title="Riverton, Iowa">
Riverton, Iowa

Riverton is a city of Iowa in the United States. It is built beside the East Nishnabotna River. In 2000, there were 304 people living in Riverton. The 1881 robbery of the Sexton Bank at Riverton was thought to be the work of Jesse James. It was later found out to be the work of the outlaw Polk Wells.
The first settler in the Riverton area was Coleman Smith who built his house there in 1859. He later brought his family to Riverton by boat.
On July 11th, 1881, the Nishna ValleyBank was robbed at gunpoint of $4000. One of the robbers, Polk Wells, was shot during the robbery by the owner of a nearby store.
Two miles north of Riverton is the Riverton Wildlife Management Area. This is of marsh and wetland which is the breeding area for many types of duck. During the spring there can be as many as 100,000 snow geese in the area. It is a popular place for hunting. It floods during the spring and then dries out during the summer. There are three boat ramps in the area.

</doc>
<doc id="206305" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206305" title="Mikel John Obi">
Mikel John Obi

Mikel John Obi (born 22 April 1987) is a Nigerian football player. He plays for Chelsea and Nigeria national team.
6||1||||||||||||||6||1
85||0||13||2||8||0||22||0||128||2
91||1||13||2||8||0||22||0||134||3
!Total||21||2

</doc>
<doc id="206306" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206306" title="Masaaki Furukawa">
Masaaki Furukawa

125||0||11||0||21||0||157||0
125||0||11||0||21||0||157||0

</doc>
<doc id="206307" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206307" title="Seigo Shimokawa">
Seigo Shimokawa

Seigo Shimokawa (born 17 November 1975) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Oita Trinita.
218||0||24||0||23||0||265||0
218||0||24||0||23||0||265||0

</doc>
<doc id="206337" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206337" title="Stab proof vest">
Stab proof vest

A stab-proof vest (or Stab vest) is a type of body armor that is used by police officers or prison guards to protect them from attacks using knives (or other sharp objects). 

</doc>
<doc id="206340" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206340" title="Young-adult fiction">
Young-adult fiction

Young-adult fiction (often abbreviated as YA) is fiction written for, made for, or sold to adolescents and young adults, around the ages of 14 to 21. 
Young-adult fiction in the form of novels or short stories, have special features that make it different from the other age groups of fiction: Adult fiction, Middle Grade Fiction, and Children's Fiction. Most YA stories show an adolescent as the lead character, rather than an adult or a child. The subject matter and storylines are usually in line with the age and knowledge of the main character. YA stories can span all types of fiction. The settings of YA stories are limited only by the skill of the author. YA stories often focus on the challenges of youth. The entire age category is sometimes referred to as problem novels or coming of age novel. YA novels are often as short as 16000 words. Despite its unique features, YA shares the basic parts of fiction with other stories: character, plot, setting, theme, and style.

</doc>
<doc id="206383" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206383" title="Jalal Dabagh">
Jalal Dabagh

Jalal Dabagh (born May 12, 1939 in the city of Silêmanî in Southern-Kurdistan), is a Kurdish politician and writer/journalist. He is the party leader for the Left Party of south Kurdistan.
Jalal Dabagh has continuously taken part in the Kurdish guerrilla movement, called the peshmerga, and has written and translated many books; among other the Kurdish translation of The Communist Manifesto.

</doc>
<doc id="206399" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206399" title="Crystal Cave, Bermuda">
Crystal Cave, Bermuda

Crystal Cave is the most famous of Bermuda's many underground caverns. It is in Hamilton Parish, close to Castle Harbor. A favorite of tourists since since 1907, it was found in 1905 by Carl Gibbons and Edgar Hollis. The two boys were looking for their lost cricket ball which fell into a hole in the ground. Soon after, the Wilkinson family (the owners of the property since 1884) learned of the discovery. Mr. Percy Wilkinson lowered his 14 year-old son Bernard into it with a bicycle lamp on 140 feet of rope tied to a tree to explore the cave.
The area around Harrington Sound (which is to the south of Crystal Cave) is made of and has many underground waterways, through which the waters of the sound empty into the Atlantic. Crystal Cave is one of these, and - as its name suggests - has many stalactites, stalagmites, and deep crystal-clear pools. 
Next to Crystal Cave is Fantasy Cave with Fantasy being deeper (88 steps down). Fantasy Cave was reopened in the summer of 2001 with all the walking paths having been rebuilt and additional lighting added. It was found and opened about the same time as Crystal Cave. It had been closed by the owners in the 1940s.
The two caves on 8 Crystal Caves Rd. at Wilkinson Ave. can be reached by bus, taxi and other private forms of transportation. Outside the two caves is a sub-tropical garden lined with palm trees where one will find many different trees and flowers. 
The caves are owned by the local Wilkinson Trust, and are open to the public.
Crystal Cave
Fantasy Cave

</doc>
<doc id="206403" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206403" title="Fig Pudding">
Fig Pudding

Fig Pudding is a young adult novel written by Ralph Fletcher. It was first published in 1995. The novel was recommended as one of the ten best books of 1995 by the American Library Association.
Cliff is eleven years old and the oldest of six children in his family who live in Ballingsford. As Christmas nears, Cliff's grandmother arrives for a visit. Cliff's baby brother is rushed to the hospital with a severe illness. While he is getting better in the hospital on Christmas Eve his family finally figure out that he has been asking Santa Claus for a little ladder like the one used to climb up to the top of a bunk bed. The whole family work together to build Josh a ladder and deliver it him on Christmas morning. Later, Cliff's first grade brother Brad, drives his bicycle into an ambulance and dies. The family spends the next Christmas at a resort trying to adjust to the loss of Brad but the trip does not seem to work. Their spirits rise during a New Year's party at Aunt Pat's house. When they arrive at the party Josh steps by mistake into Dad's special fig pudding. Dad removes the shoe, smooths down the pudding and swears the children to secrecy. They all keep a straight face until Uncle Eddie says that the fig pudding is the best ever and asks Dad if he has added some new ingredient. They all laugh when the real story of the shoe is told. 
"Fig Pudding" is written using an episodic plot style.
Chris Sherman in his review for "Booklist" said that "Fletcher captures perfectly the humor, irritations, and sadness of life in a large, close-knit family and makes Cliff a sympathetic and thoughtful narrator, occasionally bewildered by his siblings' antics but always a completely believable older brother. The comedy in the final chapter will leave readers recalling hilarious family disasters of their own." Elizabeth Devereaux in her review for "Publishers Weekly" said this novel "neatly blends the humor and frustrations of growing up in a large family."

</doc>
<doc id="206411" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206411" title="Rod Laver">
Rod Laver

Rodney George "Rod" Laver MBE (born 9 August 1938, in Rockhampton, Australia) is a former tennis player from Australia and a former world #1 in ATP tennis rankings.

</doc>
<doc id="206425" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206425" title="Ilta-Sanomat">
Ilta-Sanomat

Ilta-Sanomat is one of Finland's two afternoon newspapers. It is the second largest newspaper in Finland. The other Finnish afternoon newspaper is "Iltalehti".

</doc>
<doc id="206428" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206428" title="Domestic">
Domestic

Domestic (pronounced doe-mes'-tik) or domestique can mean:

</doc>
<doc id="206433" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206433" title="Canadian Women's Hockey League">
Canadian Women's Hockey League

The Canadian Women's Hockey League (CWHL) is an ice hockey league in Canada that was formed in 2007. Female players from around the world played in this league and in the Western Women's Hockey League. The CWHL replaced the National Women's Hockey League (NWHL) in 2007. Many teams (Toronto, Brampton and Montreal) from the NWHL moved to the CWHL.
The Clarkson Cup is an ice hockey trophy, which since 2009 has been awarded to the winner of the Canadian Women's Hockey Championship.

</doc>
<doc id="206434" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206434" title="Bread (band)">
Bread (band)

Bread are an American rock/pop band. They formed in Los Angeles, California in the late 1960s. ""Make It With You"" was a No. 1 hit in the Billboard chart. ""If"" was a 1971 worldwide hit. Bread disbanded in 1978. The band leader was David Gates. He composed all of Bread's hits. The 1996 reunion was a year-long world tour.

</doc>
<doc id="206439" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206439" title="Solar panel">
Solar panel

Solar panels get energy from the sun for people to use. There are two types of solar panels, those that collect heat (thermal), and those that produce electricity (photovoltaic). Heat from solar panels is often used for space heating and for hot water. 
Solar panels collect renewable energy. In the 20th century some used the heat of the sun to make steam for a steam engine to turn a generator. Nowadays producing electricity from the sun's light is cheaper. This is a solid state way of producing electricity, meaning that it has no moving parts. Solar panels are often mounted on rooftops. Commercial or industrial installations are often on trackers mounted on the ground. The trackers point the panel towards the sun as the sun moves across the sky. Solar panels are also commonly used in outer space, where they are one of the few power sources available.
Solar panels for heat are usually made from a box with a clear window on top. Pipes run through the box. The pipes and the box are usually painted black because black absorbs more heat than other colors. The pipes are filled with a heat transfer fluid such as water or oil. A pump circulates the fluid, which heats up as it is exposed to the sun. When the hot fluid leaves the panel, it goes into a heat exchanger, which transfers the heat into water or air. After the now cool fluid leaves the heat exchanger, it is pumped back up into the panel to collect heat again.
, or Solar Panels, are built to last about thirty years. So far, most of the solar panels, originally created in the 1980's have not yet reached the end of their estimated lifespans. Many of the solar panels which have expired, however, have been classified as hazardous waste. The used solar panels that haven't been considered dangerous can be recycled to create new solar panels. Over 90% of the solar panel is recyclable to create either new solar panels or scrap material. First, the panels are broken down by removing the metal frames and glass plate, leaving the group of solar cell sandwiched between an resin and back film. To actually get to the solar cells themselves, the resin and backing must be removed. 
The top ten uses for solar panels include,
Solar panels have become much cheaper to use, compared to oil, diesel and liquified natural gas in parts of Asia. Solar energy will soon become the main source of energy. Over the years many innovations have been made to improve solar panels. Solar panels have been used for space exploration and are being developed to be able to power cars. Along with this, scientists are developing solar cells in silicone to increase its convenience. 
Solar shingles are a new type of solar panel that look like ordinary asphalt roof shingles. They are used where the appearance of traditional solar panels might be undesirable, such as on residential rooftops. Solar shingles are more expensive and less durable than normal solar panels.

</doc>
<doc id="206440" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206440" title="Hiroki Aratani">
Hiroki Aratani

Hiroki Aratani (born 6 August 1975) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Ventforet Kofu.
148||0||6||0||17||0||171||0
148||0||6||0||17||0||171||0

</doc>
<doc id="206441" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206441" title="Shigetoshi Hasebe">
Shigetoshi Hasebe

Shigetoshi Hasebe (born 23 April 1971) is a former Japanese football player.
198||12||16||1||25||2||239||15
198||12||16||1||25||2||239||15

</doc>
<doc id="206442" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206442" title="Takahiro Yamanishi">
Takahiro Yamanishi

Takahiro Yamanishi (born 2 April 1976) is a former Japanese football player.
222||2||33||1||66||0||4||0||325||3
222||2||33||1||66||0||4||0||325||3

</doc>
<doc id="206446" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206446" title="René Higuita">
René Higuita

René Higuita (born 27 August 1966) is a former Colombian football player. He has played for Colombia national team.
15||0
127||9
30||2
35||0
10||0
217||11
!Total||68||3

</doc>
<doc id="206449" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206449" title="Masanori Kizawa">
Masanori Kizawa

378||8||20||1||28||0||426||9
378||8||20||1||28||0||426||9

</doc>
<doc id="206450" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206450" title="Takanori Sugeno">
Takanori Sugeno

Takanori Sugeno (born 3 May 1984) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Kashiwa Reysol.
244||1||14||0||13||0||271||1
244||1||14||0||13||0||271||1

</doc>
<doc id="206453" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206453" title="Kalmar FF">
Kalmar FF

Kalmar FF is an association football club in the town of Kalmar in Sweden. The club won the Swedish cup in 1981 and 1987. In 2008, the club won Allsvenskan, becoming Swedish national champions.

</doc>
<doc id="206470" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206470" title="Emperor's Cup">
Emperor's Cup

Emperor's Cup is a Japanese football competition.
It is one of the three major titles in Japan, along with J. League Division 1 and J. League Cup.

</doc>
<doc id="206471" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206471" title="J. League Cup">
J. League Cup

J. League Cup is a Japanese football competition.
It is one of the three major titles in Japan, along with J. League Division 1 and the Emperor's Cup.

</doc>
<doc id="206473" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206473" title="Sef Vergoossen">
Sef Vergoossen

Sef Vergoossen (born 8 May 1947) is a former Dutch football manager.

</doc>
<doc id="206474" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206474" title="Kazumichi Takagi">
Kazumichi Takagi

178||2||18||1||36||2||5||2||237||7
178||2||18||1||36||2||5||2||237||7
!Total||5||0

</doc>
<doc id="206475" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206475" title="Peter Luccin">
Peter Luccin

Peter Luccin (born 9 April 1979) is a French football player.
132||3
240||11
372||14

</doc>
<doc id="206484" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206484" title="Horim Museum">
Horim Museum

Horim Museum(호림박물관) is a museum in Sillim-dong Gwanak District, Seoul. It has many ceramics and pictures of Korea. It is closed every Sunday, in January 1st, Seollal, and Hangawi.

</doc>
<doc id="206485" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206485" title="Elinor Ostrom">
Elinor Ostrom

Elinor Ostrom (August 7, 1933 - June 12, 2012) was an American scientist. She was born in Los Angeles, California. She taught at both Indiana University and Arizona State University. She won the Nobel Prize 2009 in Economic Sciences which she had to share with Oliver Williamson. Ostrom became the first woman to win a Nobel Prize in this category. She was influenced by James M. Buchanan.
Ostrom was one of 20 Nobel Laureates who signed the "Stockholm memorandum" at the 3rd Nobel Laureate Symposium on Global Sustainability in Stockholm, Sweden on 18 May 2011.
She was married to political scientist Vincent Ostrom (born 1919) from 1963 until she died. She was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer in October 2011 and died of the disease in Bloomington, Indiana at age 78. 

</doc>
<doc id="206488" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206488" title="Spider Boy (novel)">
Spider Boy (novel)

Spider Boy is a young adult novel written by Ralph Fletcher, first published in 1997.
Bobby Ballenger is starting a new school far from his old home. He moved from Illinois to New Paltz, New York and his love of spiders has earned him the nickname of Spider Boy from Illinois. This was given to him by the class bully. His pet spider has not eaten since the family moved. Bobby keeps a journal where he records interesting facts about spiders. He then uses it to record his frustrations and thoughts about his new school.

</doc>
<doc id="206489" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206489" title="Sugababes">
Sugababes

Sugababes also known as "The Sugababes" were a British girl group which were formed in 1998 by Ron Tom when the members were still at school. The band has since had a string of hits both in the United Kingdom including six number ones, and in several other countries. The band has changed its line-up three times, because of reported differences between the members of the band. The original lineup was Siobhan, Mutya, and Keisha. Their first album," One Touch", was released in 2000. Siobhan left in 2001. Heidi Range, an original member of Atomic Kitten, replaced her. In 2002 their second album "Angels With Dirty Faces "was released on Island Records. It reached number 2 in the UK albums chart. Their third album "Three" was released in 2003. In 2004 they sung "Do They Know It's Christmas" as part of Band Aid 20. It reached No.1. In October 2005 their fourth album "Taller in More Ways" was released. It was their first UK number one album. It was also popular in other countries including Australia, Ireland, and Switzerland. In December 2005 it was announced that Mutya was no longer a member. Amelle Berrabah replaced her in the same month. "Follow Me Home" was rerecorded and released as the album's fourth single. In 2006 British Hit Singles & Albums named the band the most successful all-female group in the 21st century. They released Overloaded: The Singles Collection, which included two new songs, "Easy" and "Good to Be Gone". 
The band released their fifth album "Change" in 2007. It reached number one and sold over 300,000 copies in the UK. In 2008 "Catfights and Spotlights" was released. Their seventh studio album "Sweet 7" was released in March 2010. On 11 April 2011 the band released two albums, "The Best of the Bs" and "The Complete Bs". Both were collections of songs from other albums they had made. 
The band started a break in 2012 so that the members could do solo work. In 2013 Jade Ewen said that the band had officially split in 2011. The original members have formed a band called Mutya Keisha Siobhan who plan to release their first album in 2014.
In their career the band were nominated for forty-one awards, 14 of which they won.

</doc>
<doc id="206490" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206490" title="John Allen Muhammad">
John Allen Muhammad

John Allen Muhammad (December 31, 1960 – November 10, 2009) was a convicted American spree killer responsible for ten deaths in the Washington, D.C. area in 2002. He and Lee Boyd Malvo went on a murder spree, killing ten people by shooting them from a distance inside Muhammad's car. The last murders however were also done outside while hiding from view. Muhammad confessed to having committed seven more murders, making a total of 17 victims.
Muhammad was later sentenced to death by lethal injection and Malvo was sentenced to life imprisonment without the possibility of parole. Muhammad was executed by lethal injection in November 10, 2009 in the state of Virginia.

</doc>
<doc id="206497" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206497" title="Victor Silvester">
Victor Silvester

Victor Marlborough Silvester OBE (25 February 1900 – 14 August 1978) was a English dancer, author, musician and dance band leader whose records sold 75 million copies from the 1930s through to the 1980s. He was a significant figure in the development of ballroom dance during the first half of the 20th century. Victor married "Dorothy Newton" in 1922, a few days after winning the World Ballroom Dancing Championship. 
Silvester was born in Wembley, Middlesex. He died in France.
After World War II, his orchestra and his weekly television programme, "Victor Silvester's Dancing Club", kept him in the public eye. His 1927 textbook, "Modern Ballroom Dancing", was an immediate bestseller and has remained in print through many editions, the last issued in 2005. He wrote ten other books, including his autobiography.

</doc>
<doc id="206499" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206499" title="Vaginoplasty">
Vaginoplasty

Vaginoplasty is surgery to shape a vagina. Some babies are born with a problem where the vagina did not grow right. Doctors fix this with a vaginoplasty. Some women do not like how their vagina looks or feels. They can ask for a vaginoplasty. Some transsexual women ask for a vaginoplasty when they go from male to female.
There are many ways to do a vaginoplasty. Most use tissue from other parts of the body of the patient. They can use tissue from inside the mouth, skin tissue, the vaginal labia, or the intestines. For transsexual women, they can use the penis and scrotum to make a vagina, but they must continue to dilate the new vagina to keep it by a tool.

</doc>
<doc id="206500" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206500" title="World Dance Council">
World Dance Council

The World Dance Council Ltd (WDC), previously known as the International Council of Ballroom Dancing (ICBD) until 1996, was established at a meeting organised by P.J.S Richardson on September 22, 1950 in Edinburgh.
Initially consisting of nine European countries and three others, today the WDC has become the leading authority on competitive ballroom and Latin dance. It has members in many countries throughout the world. Each country is allowed one member. As of 2006, there are 59 members.
Its governing body, the Presidium, consists of a President and five Vice-Presidents. Professional World Championship ballroom dance is organised by the Dancesport Committee; Amateur championships are organised by the Amateur League, and social dancing by the and the Social Dance Committee.

</doc>
<doc id="206502" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206502" title="Luciano Galletti">
Luciano Galletti

Luciano Galletti (born 9 April 1980) is an Argentine football player. He plays for Olympiacos.
64||11
11||2
197||20
51||17
323||50
!Total||13||1

</doc>
<doc id="206503" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206503" title="Mastectomy">
Mastectomy

Mastectomy is a surgery to remove the breast. They may remove one breast or both breasts. They may remove some of the breast, or all of it.
Mastectomy is often done for people with breast cancer. Both men and women can get this cancer. Both men and women can need a mastectomy. Some people with a high risk of breast cancer have the operation before the cancer starts.
If they find a tumor in the breast, they may only remove part of the breast around the tumor. Then the person might also take drugs (chemotherapy) to stop the cancer. They might also have a machine send energy (radiation) into the breast. Sometimes this can stop the cancer.

</doc>
<doc id="206504" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206504" title="Keisuke Ota (born in 1979)">
Keisuke Ota (born in 1979)

Keisuke Ota (born 24 April 1979) is a former Japanese football player.
102||14||4||2||106||16
19||2||||||19||2
121||16||4||2||125||18

</doc>
<doc id="206505" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206505" title="Tomoji Eguchi">
Tomoji Eguchi

Tomoji Eguchi (born 22 April 1977) is a former Japanese football player.
107||20||7||3||8||1||122||24
107||20||7||3||8||1||122||24

</doc>
<doc id="206506" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206506" title="Blackpool Dance Festival">
Blackpool Dance Festival

The 8-day Blackpool Dance Festival is the world's first and most famous annual ballroom dance competition of international significance. It has been held in the Winter Gardens, Blackpool, England since 1920 (except for war-time). It is also the largest regular ballroom competition: in 2003, 1539 couples from 54 countries took part in the festival. 
As of the early 21 century the festival is held in May. It covers Ballroom dance, including Latin dances. The Festival includes the British Open Championships in categories of adult amateur and professional couples and formation teams. In 2005 two new categories were introduced: the British Rising Star Amateur Ballroom and Latin Competitions. Two invitation events, the Professional Team Match and the Exhibition Competition, create much interest.
The Junior Dance Festival, Blackpool Sequence Dance Festival, and British National Dance Festival are also held annually in Blackpool.
The annual World Professional Championship in either Ballroom or Latin dance is often held in Blackpool (4 times between 1989 and 2005), but is not connected with the Dance Festival. 

</doc>
<doc id="206509" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206509" title="Åtvidabergs FF">
Åtvidabergs FF

Åtvidabergs FF is an association football club in Åtvidaberg in Sweden. The club won Allsvenskan and became Swedish national champions in the years of 1972 and 1973.

</doc>
<doc id="206511" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206511" title="Raúl García">
Raúl García

Raúl García (born 11 July 1986) is a Spanish football player. He plays for Atlético Madrid.
139||15
139||15

</doc>
<doc id="206512" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206512" title="Yoshifumi Yamada">
Yoshifumi Yamada

Yoshifumi Yamada (born 4 November 1981) is a former Japanese football player.
19||1||1||0||0||0||20||1
19||1||1||0||0||0||20||1

</doc>
<doc id="206513" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206513" title="Michiaki Kakimoto">
Michiaki Kakimoto

Michiaki Kakimoto (born 6 October 1977) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Matsumoto Yamaga.
180||52||17||9||7||1||204||62
29||14||1||0||colspan="2"|-||30||14
209||66||18||9||7||1||234||76

</doc>
<doc id="206517" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206517" title="Hiroyuki Ishida (born in 1981)">
Hiroyuki Ishida (born in 1981)

Hiroyuki Ishida (born 11 December 1981) is a former Japanese football player.

</doc>
<doc id="206518" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206518" title="Yoon Jong-Hwan">
Yoon Jong-Hwan

Yoon Jong-Hwan (윤정환 尹晶煥, born February 16, 1973) is a South Korean professional athlete. He is best known as a football player. He was a member of the Korean national team.
140||12||7||0||63||8||210||20
148||12||13||9||4||0||165||21
288||24||20||9||67||8||375||41
!Total||37||4

</doc>
<doc id="206519" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206519" title="Oleh Protasov">
Oleh Protasov

Oleh Protasov (born February 4, 1964) is a former Ukrainian football player. He has played for the Soviet Union national team and the Ukrainian national team.
216||125||||||||||216||125
175||64||||||||||175||64
55||24||4||4||3||0||62||28
446||213||4||4||3||0||453||217
!Total||68||29
!Total||1||0

</doc>
<doc id="206521" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206521" title="Stirling Albion F.C.">
Stirling Albion F.C.

Stirling Albion F.C. is a football club which plays in Scotland.

</doc>
<doc id="206533" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206533" title="Bloody Mary (folklore)">
Bloody Mary (folklore)

Bloody Mary is a kind of ghost of a dead woman in Western folklore. This ghost is said to appear in a mirror after calling its name three times or more, depending on the version of the story. Like the Ouija board, this game is played by adolescents in parties or small meetings just to have fun. The ghost's name can vary according to the tales said by the people. Some similar names are: "Mary Worth", "Mary Worthington" and "Hell Mary", among others.

</doc>
<doc id="206538" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206538" title="Ludwig Beck">
Ludwig Beck

Ludwig Beck (29 June 1880 – 20 July 1944) was a German general officer. He worked for Adolf Hitler's resistance and was its leader. When the attempt to kill Hitler in his conference room failed, Hitler escaped and Beck was shot and arrested.

</doc>
<doc id="206540" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206540" title="Otto Liman von Sanders">
Otto Liman von Sanders

Otto Liman von Sanders (17 February 1855 – 22 August 1929) was a German general. He was a leader of the German military to help the Ottoman Empire in 1913. Allenby took power away from Sanders in 1918.

</doc>
<doc id="206541" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206541" title="Scissor Sisters">
Scissor Sisters

The Scissor Sisters are a music group. They are classified as being rock, pop, and dance. They did a remake of Pink Floyd's "Comfortably Numb". They formed their band in 2001 in New York. Paddy Boom is one of their band members along with Jake Shears. Scissor Sisters have released four albums. 
At first the Scissor Sisters were called Dead Lesbian. They then changed their name to the Fibrillating Scissor Sisters. In 2002 the band were signed to A Touch of Class. They released their first single "Electrobix" in 2003. 
In 2004 "Comfortably Numb" was released as a single. It reached number 14 in the UK Singles Chart. "Take Your Mama" was then released as a single. It reached number 17 in the UK Singles Chart.
They released their first album, "Scissor Sisters", in 2004. The album got good reviews from music critics. It sold more than any other album in the UK in 2004. It has sold over 2,100,000 copies in the United Kingdom. 
In 2005 the Scissor Sisters won three BRIT Awards. In September 2006 the Scissor Sisters released their second album, "Ta-Dah". The album's first single, "I Don't Feel Like Dancin'", reached number one in the UK. Elton John played piano on the song.
In June 2010 Scissor Sisters' fourth album "Night Work" was released. It entered the UK Albums Chart at number two. Three singles were released from the album.
In 2012 the band's fourth album "Magic Hour" was released. It entered the UK Albums Chart at number four. "Shady Love" was released as the album's first single. It was only released on vinyl to 200 of the band's fans on Twitter and Facebook. Azealia Banks rapped on the song. "Only the Horses" was released as the album's second single. It reached number twelve in the UK Singles Chart.

</doc>
<doc id="206543" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206543" title="Flying Solo">
Flying Solo

Flying Solo is a young adult novel written by Ralph Fletcher, first published in 1998.
Mr. Fabiano is a sixth-grade teacher that calls in sick on April 28th. When his class arrives they find that their substitute teacher has not shown up. The class decides that they will not report this to the principal and will run the classroom by themselves. The students follow the instructions left by their teacher. All goes well until Mr. Fabiano is called upon to join in a school assembly.
Some of topics in the novel include selective mutism, death and grief.

</doc>
<doc id="206562" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206562" title="Gothika">
Gothika

Gothika is an American horror thriller movie starring Halle Berry.

</doc>
<doc id="206567" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206567" title="SPIHT">
SPIHT

SPIHT (set partitioning in hierarchical trees) is a compression algorithm intended for compression of wavelet transform coefficients. It was introduced by Amir Said and William A. Pearlman in 1996. Its predecessor was EZW coding algorithm.
More practically, SPIHT progressively transforms these coefficients into a bit stream. This stream can be anywhere cut off. During decoding coefficients are increasingly refined.

</doc>
<doc id="206571" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206571" title="Korean barbecue">
Korean barbecue

Gogigui, Korean barbecue, or Korean short ribs, is marinated beef rib cross-sections cooked over direct heat. It comes from Korea originally but is now popular in many countries. Although Korean barbecue refers to a number of meat-based Korean entrées including "bulgogi" (beef) and spicy pork, the most common form of meat associated with the term is of the short rib variety. Korean BBQ comprise various spices including onion, soy sauce, and pepper to create a pleasant, unique blend of flavors.

</doc>
<doc id="206583" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206583" title="Stede Bonnet">
Stede Bonnet

Stede Bonnet (c. 1688 – December 10, 1718) was an early 18th-century Barbadian pirate, sometimes called "the gentleman pirate" because he was a moderately rich landowner before turning to a life of crime. Bonnet was captured and was executed by hanging at White Point Garden, in Charleston, South Carolina on 10 December 1718.

</doc>
<doc id="206587" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206587" title="Tommy Trouble and the Magic Marble">
Tommy Trouble and the Magic Marble

Tommy Trouble and the Magic Marble is a children's novel written by Ralph Fletcher with drawings by Ben Caldwell. It was first published in 2000.
Tommy who loves collecting needs ten dollars to buy a magic marble from another boy. He tries to pick flowers from his mother's rose garden to sell to a neighbor. He also tries to trade his little brothers snake. Tommy finally decides that the magic marble is not worth the trouble.

</doc>
<doc id="206590" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206590" title="Harlequin (color)">
Harlequin (color)

Harlequin is the name of the color that is halfway between green and chartreuse green on the color wheel. On color plate 17 in the 1930 book "A Dictionary of Color", the color "harlequin" is shown as being on the color wheel precisely halfway between "green" and "yellow-green" (the color which was formerly called "yellow-green" is now called "chartreuse green"). 
The first recorded use of "harlequin" as a color name in English was in 1923.

</doc>
<doc id="206614" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206614" title="Hwajeong Museum">
Hwajeong Museum

Hwajeong Museum (화정박물관) is a museum in Jongno District, Seoul. It was opened in 1999. It has many relics of Korea, China, and Tibet. People who want to go to the museum on New Year's Day, Seollal, or Hangawi, they would have to make a reservation. 

</doc>
<doc id="206616" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206616" title="National Palace Museum of Korea">
National Palace Museum of Korea

National Palace Museum of Korea () is a museum in Jongno District, Seoul. It was opened in 1908 and reopened in Gyeongbok Palace in 2005. It has royal relics of Joseon Dynasty. It also has 3 National Treasures of Korea. It is not opened every Monday.

</doc>
<doc id="206617" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206617" title="National Folk Museum of Korea">
National Folk Museum of Korea

National Folk Museum of Korea(국립민속박물관, 國立民俗博物館) is a museum in Jongno District, Seoul. It was opened in 1945, and reopened in Gyeongbok Palace in 1993. It is closed on Tuesdays.

</doc>
<doc id="206619" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206619" title="Rutherford College">
Rutherford College

Rutherford College is a public high school for 12-18 year old boys and girls in Te Atatu Peninsula, Auckland, New Zealand. Opened in 1961, it was named after the Nobel Prize winning nuclear physicist and chemist, Lord Ernest Rutherford, who was born in New Zealand.

</doc>
<doc id="206640" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206640" title="New Japan Pro Wrestling">
New Japan Pro Wrestling

, also known as NJPW, is Japanese professional wrestling promoter. 
NJPW is the largest wrestling promoter in Japan. NJPW has working agreements with other promoters, including: World Wrestling Entertainment, World Championship Wrestling, Total Nonstop Action Wrestling, and PRIDE Fighting Championships.
NJPW that was founded in 1972 by Kanji Inoki.
Since 1999, Tatsumi Fujinami has been president.
In 2012, Inoki continued to be known for innovation in the business.

</doc>
<doc id="206643" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206643" title="Patrick Kane">
Patrick Kane

Patrick Kane (born November 19, 1988 in Buffalo, New York) is an NHL ice hockey right winger/center for the Chicago Blackhawks. 
He was the first overall pick in the 2007 NHL Entry Draft. On June 12, 2008 he won the Calder Memorial Trophy awarded to the best rookie player in the NHL beating out his Blackhawks teammate Jonathan Toews and Washington Capitals forward Nicklas Backstrom. He was the cover athlete for the video game NHL 10. He has also competed in the 2009 NHL All-Star Game. Kane was selected to compete with Team USA in the 2010 Winter Olympic Games. On June 9, 2010 Patrick Kane scored the game-winning overtime goal which led the Blackhawks in winning their first Stanley Cup in 49 years which ended the longest Stanley Cup drought in the NHL.
Kane started his ice hockey career with the "Cazenovia Chiefs", A team in his hometown of Buffalo. He also played for the "West Seneca Wings", "Buffalo Regals", and "Depew Saints". When he was fourteen he played junior hockey for the USA Bobcats where he earned the title of MVP when he scored the most goals. He lived with former NHL player Pat Verbeek when he moved to Michigan at the age of fourteen while he played for the Honeybaked AAA hockey club of the Midwest Elite Hockey League. He stayed with the team for 3 years before the London Knights drafted him in the 5th round of the 2004 Ontario Hockey League Midget Draft.
Although he was drafted by the Knights in 2004, he did not play with them until the 2006–07 OHL season because he decided to play for the United States U-18 National Team Development Program. While he was part of the program, he led the team in scoring with 102 points during the 2005–06 season. During his OHL years, he played on a line along with future NHLers Sergei Kostitsyn and Sam Gagner. He passed 145 points to be awarded the OHL scoring title and also combined with Gagner and Kostitsyn for 394 points in the season. The Knights finished the post-season when they lost the OHL's Western Conference final to the Plymouth Whalers by a series best 4-1 in a 7 series loss. He finished his postseason with 10 goals and 21 assists which was a total of 31 points in 16 games. 
He won the Emms Family Award for the OHL rookie of the year on April 27, 2007 and was also a runner-up for the Red Tilson Trophy as league MVP behind John Tavares.
Kane scored the overtime game-winning goal against Michael Leighton of the Philadelphia Flyers during Game 6 of the 2010 Stanley Cup Finals to win the Blackhawks their first Stanley Cup in 49 years which ended the longest Stanley Cup drought in the NHL. 
He played with EHC Biel of the National League A during the 2012 NHL lockout. He also played for HC Davos during the 2012 Spengler Cup.
On June 24, 2013, Kane won his second Stanley Cup with the Blackhawks after they defeated the Boston Bruins 4 games to 2 in the 2013 Stanley Cup Finals. Kane was awarded the Conn Smythe Trophy for Stanley Cup Playoffs MVP.
On the night of August 9, 2009, Patrick Kane and his cousin were riding in a taxi and allegedly punched the taxi driver because he did not have the correct change. Kane and his cousin were charged with second-degree robbery, fourth-degree criminal mischief, and theft of services. He pleaded not guilty and apologized for the trouble he caused but pleaded guilty to noncriminal disorderly conduct charges.

</doc>
<doc id="206644" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206644" title="Ichthyophthirius multifiliis">
Ichthyophthirius multifiliis

Ichthyophthirius multifiliis, also called "white spot disease", "ick" or "ich" is a disease that causes little white spots on fresh water fish. It is one of the most common parasites of fish. It often affects pet fish in tanks and ponds, as well as farm-raised food fish species. Wild fish populations can also get the parasite.
The "I. multifiliis" life cycle from birth to death depends on the temperature of the water. In warm water, 25 °C (77 °F), the parasite's whole life cycle can take place in seven days. In cold water, 6 °C (43 °F), it can take up to eight weeks.
The disease starts when the parasite digs into the skin of the fish. This causes swelling and white spots to form. After a few days, the parasite turns into a trophozoite, a jelly-like substance. This falls off the fish and lives on the bottom of the tank. Inside the jelly are hundreds of baby parasites called tomites. These eventually can swim by themselves and go looking for another fish to live in.
Fish may have Ichthyophthirius multifiliis without there being anything to see. Fish owners need to be careful about where they get their fish from, as the disease can spread very easily. There are a number of different ways to try to get rid of the parasite. One method is to heat the water to kill the parasites in the water before they can infect the fish. Another method is to add salt to the water, or put the fish into a salt water bath. The water should be changed frequently to remove the parasites. Chemicals are also available which will kill "Ichthyophthirius multifiliis". All these treatments need to be carefully planned for the type of fish species.
Fish with the disease will:

</doc>
<doc id="206649" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206649" title="Kazuyoshi Matsunaga">
Kazuyoshi Matsunaga

Kazuyoshi Matsunaga (born 13 November 1977) is a Japanese football player.
110||26||6||3||3||1||119||30
110||26||6||3||3||1||119||30

</doc>
<doc id="206650" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206650" title="Adhemar Ferreira de Camargo Neto">
Adhemar Ferreira de Camargo Neto

Adhemar Ferreira de Camargo Neto (born 27 April 1972) is a former Brazilian football player.

</doc>
<doc id="206654" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206654" title="Arno van Zwam">
Arno van Zwam

Arno van Zwam (born 16 September 1969) is a former Dutch football player.
229||0||||||||||229||0
74||0||5||0||22||0||101||0
303||0||5||0||22||0||330||0

</doc>
<doc id="206659" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206659" title="José Antonio García Calvo">
José Antonio García Calvo

José Antonio García Calvo (born 1 April 1975) is a former Spanish football player. He has played for Spain national team.
317||12
317||12
!Total||3||0

</doc>
<doc id="206660" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206660" title="Juan Velasco Damas">
Juan Velasco Damas

Juan Velasco Damas (born 15 May 1977) is a Spanish football player. He plays for Larissas.
281||5
3||0
25||0
309||5
!Total||5||0

</doc>
<doc id="206708" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206708" title="Aflac">
Aflac

Aflac (also known as Aflac Incorporated) is an insurance company. Their mascot is a white, short-tempered duck called the Aflac Duck. Gilbert Gottfried used to do the voice for the Aflac Duck, but he's now replaced by Daniel McKeague after getting fired by the Aflac company for making bad online jokes about the Japan earthquake in 2011. 
Also, college football has the Aflac trivia question. Their headquarters is in Columbus, Georgia.

</doc>
<doc id="206710" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206710" title="State Farm Insurance">
State Farm Insurance

State Farm Insurance is an insurance agency with headquarters in Bloomington, Illinois. They serve both the U.S. and Canada. They sponsor the Lone Star Showdown.

</doc>
